@@486716

Among the problems that are constantly clamoring for attention , there is one which , while among the most important and the most difficult , presents a refreshing contrast to most of the others . In almost every field of remedial agitation , the dominant element is the moral crusading , the denunciation of selfishness or turpitude , the exposure of corruption or dishonesty . In one matter , however , the evil is discussed by responsible critics in an objective and impersonal way ; and for this , in these days of much muckraking , good and bad , there is reason to be grateful . Such an article , for example , as that by Mr. George W. Alger on " Treadmill Justice , " in the November Atlantic , is simply a presentation of facts and an analysis of causes , not an arraignment of individuals or a homily on national morality . It perceives that a certain state of things has grown up which is full of the gravest faults and fraught with most serious mischief ; but it brands nobody as a malefactor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This by no means implies that the article is wahting in emphasis or in moving quality . On the contrary , the examples it cites of the delays and perversions of justice bred by our methods and habits of judicial procedure are calculated not only to impress but to amaze the average reader . When we read of the case of Jarndyce vs . Jarndyce , few of us imagine that anything bearing a remote resemblance to the story of " Bleak House " can even now be going on in our own country ; and yet Mr. Alger gives in detail the history of a simple accident case , involving no difficult question of law , which came to an end in New York State only three years ago , after having been in the courts continually for twenty-two years ; of another case  --  a complex case against an insurance company  --  which was tried no less than nine distinct times and which the plaintiff abandoned in despair , refusing at last to go to his lawyers about it or to appear when the case was being tried ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protraction . Nor are these cases so exceptional as to furnish no indication of the ordinary operation of the system . The report made to the Governor of New York in 1904 by the Commission on the Law 's Delay not only exhibits the extent of the evil by a great mass of particulars , but voices also a general opinion : The ' condition of our own courts recalls that of the courts of the Roman Empire before the reforms instituted by Justinian , and of which Gibbon wrote , as if describing our own situation : " The expense of the pursuit sometimes exceeded the value of the prize , and the fairest rights were abandoned by the poverty or prudence of the claimants . Such costly justice might tend to abate the spirit of litigation , but the unequal pressure seems only to increase the influence of the rich , and to aggravate the misery of the poor . " By these dilatory and expensive proceedings the wealthy pleader obtains a more certain advantage than he could hope from the accidental corruption of a judge . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if there were no prospect of remedy . That they will not be mended in a day is certain ; but that improvement , and radical improvement , will come in a reasonably near future , there is ground for believing . In the first place , in the past few years there has been a remarkable growth of serious interest in the subject , of which the most notab'e manifestation , perhaps , has been the emphatic recognition of its urgency by President Taft . Secondly , it is always possible to point to the example of England , which in the course of a few decades advanced from a point of backwardness in judicial methods far behind our own to a condition in which she is a shining example of efficiency , promptness , and good sense . As Mr. Alger points out , it was possible , at the end of a half-century of Queen Victoria 's reign , for Lord Chief Justice Bowen to say , what we are very far from being able to say in America to-day : " It may be asserted without fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1887 for an honest litigant in Her Majesty 's Supreme Court to be defeated by any mere technicality , any slip , any mistaken step , in his litigation . . . . Law has ceased to be a scientific game that may be won or lost by playing some particular move . " And what England has done , America can do and must do . But there is a third reason for hopefulness . It lies in the practical unanimity of all who have considered the subject as to the main defect to be remedied . Two things are at the root of the evil : The absence of a reasonable limitation of the right of appeal , and the minimizing of the functions of the courts of first instance which goes naturally with absence . The ramifications of this pervading defect are shown in many ways in Mr. Alger 's article . Not only does it lead to intolerable delay , and not only does the usual practice of our higher courts produce unnecessary hardship in ordering a new trial even in cases where the law empowers them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ omnipresence of the idea of appeal operates to lower the tone and impair the effectiveness of the judges in the lower courts all along the line . The judge who must ever tread gingerly lest he slip into saying something that may be made a ground for reversal is unable either to confront the real problem with full vigor or to address the jury in , anguage adapted to the requirements of the case and to the limitations of their knowledge . And , as in all such matters there is a vicious circle of cause and effect : the judges of the lower courts , shorn of their rightful power and dignity , seem comparatively unimportant officers ; as a consequence , men of interior calibre are supposed good enough to fill these judgeships , and hence results a further decline in their importance . From every point of view , therefore , the centre of attack must be not only the law , but the habitual practices of appeal procedure ; and in this direction of reform the efforts of the leaders of the bar , throughout the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is attained . THE FOOTBALL DEATH 'S . For a long time past defenders of football , as it is played to-day , have been saying frankly : " If a player on a first-class football team is killed , it will be all up with the game . " Well , Cadet Byrne , the acting captain of West Point 's eleven , a first-class team , is dead , and the Annapolis quarterback is lingering with a broken spine , there being a bare possibility that an operation will restore - him-  to health . Yet we have the usual protestations that such accidents , deplorable as they may be , are inseparable from manly sports , and that the game is necessary to develop the right qualities in the future soldier or sailor . There is even a dispatch from a Chicago college president putting the blame on the short hours of practice of the West Point team , as if the cadets , with their rigid drills , were not always in the pink of physical condition . No , the myth that football is fatal only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the game knows that a player may be stretched out in the Harvard-Yale game precisely as was the poor fellow at West Point on Saturday . Surely ; the moving spectacle of that dying boy ought to be enough to bring about a final reform of the game cr , if the present rules are clung to , its abolition . For it is the mass play which is responsible . Throughout this season , the whole trend of the play has been towards the old massing of men against one spot in the opponents ' line . From Harvard particularly have come telegraphic reports of a resort to the " old-fashioned game . " At West Point before the tragedy Harvard 's team displayed little else besides brute ability to plough through the cadets ' defence . Its chief reliance is a 200-pound plunging halfback who is repeatedly hurled into the line . According to a trustworthy report , the forward pass , from which so much was expected two years ago , came into play only three times , and with indifferent success . In other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it was wholly a question of shoving the ball forward by mass-play , when the light , agile man was excluded , and skill and speed discounted . The make-up of the teams this year is in itself a confirmation of this reaction , for most of the-players are of the " beefy " type . All this can be stopped if those in control of the game wish to end it . When the Rules Committee last " opened up " the game , they made ten yards the distance to be gained by a team with the ball , in default of which the ball must be surrendered . Now , if ten yards are not enough to stop mass-play , let them make it twenty yards , so as to make necessary kicking , forward passing , and long end-runs . The difficulty is that the Rules Committee is in the hands , not of critics of the game , but of men who desire to make just as few changes as possible and are quite averse to reconstituting it in such a way that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which players are not allowed to run carrying the ball . The chief argument we have heard against this change is that the English game is not an exciting enough contest for the young American , precisely as cricket can make no headway against baseball , because it lacks sensational possibilities . We are not denying that the football of 1909 is a- great deal better than that of 1905 ? so high . an authority as Walter Camp brings that out in his article on College Football in the current Century  --  any more than we overlook the fact that there are fatalities in baseball as well as in football . But the killing of a man in mass-play is a different thing from an occasional death from a pitched or batted ball . Mass-play means injuries in every practice and every game ; any one who has followed the daily dispatches from the football field must admit this . Harvard , for instance , was without three of her first-string players on Saturday , all veterans of last year 's successful team . A baseball team deprived of three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is needed is the elimination of all unnecessary risk , if the game is to persist ; and when the danger disappears it will be an infinitely better and more interesting sport . One thing is certain , the deaths in this season 's football are not due to any features of the open game . In the hands of the supine college presidents lies the power to insist on the needed changes . Let them but notify the Rules Committee that Columbia 's example will be followed if the game is not reformed once for all , and that committee will become overnight the busiest set of inventors in the United States . Then , with the game ordinarily safe , the question of the desirability of continuing intercollegiate contests on their present scale can be discussed with greater calmness than is now possible . Meanwhile , we trust right-thinking men and women the country over will bring all pressure possible to bear upon college authorities for a radical change . Football is not merely a sport now ; 4 is a contrivance for injuring and maiming  --  for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battered shoulders , and broken tendons than the public has any idea of . And no one , we trust , will be misled by to-day 's West Point manifesto that football " fosters the manly virtues that are especially necessary in war . " The chief thing aimed at in war is to kill , and kill quickly , and  --  shades of Gettysburg ! ? there were manly West Point cadets and the bray est and most virtuous of American soldiers long before football was ever beard of . We have , indeed , such faith in Col. Scott and his West Point corps of teachers as to assert that , without football , the cadets they would turn out would be neither vicious , nor effeminate , nor cowardly . CLAUDE LOR.RADT : TEACHER . A book that has had its day in Germany describes Rembrandt as teacher ( " Rembrandt als Erzieher " ) , but we think an honest survey of the group of his paintings now at the Metropolitan Museum would only warn off the wise artist in whatever medium . Rembrandt seems so solitary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but shipwreck for us . Possibly our painters and men of letters would do better to take counsel of that more accessible genius , Claude Lorrain , a small but precious collection of whose Sketches is now being shown at one of the prominent print-sellers . It is hard to imagine anything more edifying than these little notes in ink and sepia . On a palm 's breadth of paper you see a river valley winding its way in to the roots of distant mountains . Or again you catch the sense of wind and rain and broken light over square miles of rolling champaign . Or , perhaps , a few spare objects  --  a tree , a castle , a mountain ridge  --  are set down so justly that one feels the vast stretches of intervening air . These , despite his detractors , are the well recognized merits of Claude in his slightest as in his monumental work . But the defects of these drawings seem even more instructive . Yes , Ruskin , brutally in error on the main issue , was right in minuter specifications of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indications generally ; any one of a score of League students could give these objects more character . The handling of the wash is slow , timid , and almost casual ; fifty contemporary illustrators could do the thing more crisply . In short , the magic of the hand is almost absent from these sketches . They are in a manner ill-done  --  and supremely , inapproachably lovely . The fact may well give pause to a generation of artificers that has sought salvation mainly in the cunning of the hand . The superlative detail has long been assiduously preached . It has almost been assumed that the law and gospel of the literary art were summed up in the commandment : Make unique and lovely phrases ; of painting in the formula : Let your touch be exquisite Perhaps this particularism is based on a rather stupid adherence to the talk  --  not the practice , mind you  --  of Flaubert in letters and of Monet in painting . There seem to be souls simple enough to imagine that " Madame Bovary " is a great book because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only its relentless movement and massiveness have kept it alive . The intolerable labor of the file with which Flaubert tortured himself is largely labor lost . Monet is , indeed , exquisite in every detail , ' but the merit lies always in the balanced impact of the whole composition . In other words , it is the intellectualized vision of the man , and that only , which gives worthy employment to the sensitive hand . Now , the dilemma of every artistic life is to strike the just balance between reflection and execution . Obviously , execution can not safely be neglected . Even Claude attained to a placid adequacy in this regard . And because he refused to do more , his case is peculiarly instructive . It is as if he felt so keenly the importance of the original constructive vision that he declined to blunt or complicate it through executive processes too painful or too prolonged . Ingres once said rather stupidly that to draw a picture was everything , and that the painting went of itself . Claude may be imagined as saying that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utmost clarity and fervor  --  and that the rest was largely a tedious superfluity . The doctrine is perilous , but , as a personal maxim at least , Claude 's practice fully justifies it . Yes , the constructive side of art is the important one , and , to-day , whether in criticism or in formal instruction , the most neglected . Let no one who has thought and felt a work clearly despair lest adequate means of expression be denied him . Let him merely beware of mistaking diffused ambition for clarified vision . History gives us no record of a truly creative soul denied adequate means of expression . We may amuse ourselves by wishing for a more athletic Claude or a Watts obedient to the I eachings of Couture , but it is folly . What painter who talks glibly to this endwould venture practically to alter or efface a single stroke of a Claude seaport or a Watts portrait ? No , we must take our geniuses as they come . The danger is quite the other way  --  that hundreds of aspirants with really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus impose their emptiness upon us And right here we advise every young person who is painting or writing to go and see the Claude drawings . You , sir , accomplished spinner of phrases ; you , sir , skilful combiner of planes and values , may test yourself against these little sheets of yellowed paper . If you loftily scorn these modest works for the phrases you fancy you could amend , there is no hope for you . Go on being just one more clever futile person , and pray merely that the abyss of your own emptiness may never be fully revealed to you . If , on the contrary , you can feel the large harmony of design , the fervid sanity of conception , in these little drawings , the visit may mark for you the beginning of artistic righteousness . Two new buildings , one in Boston , one here , are each the product of most intelligent and tasteful architects . These buildings are scholarly and refined in detail , even exquisite in the proportions of the order , adjustment of decoration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be covered by an inverted soap box . In other words , they have been conceived in paper , not in stone , in the parts and not in the whole . To regain the lost position of monumental design is the problem of modern art in whatever branch . Claude may well be a leader to take us from the levels of cheese-paring ideas to the upland of genial creation . From him , and partly , as we have seen , in virtue of his defects , we may learn that it is composition and mass that really count in picture , novel , or pediment . Withal  --  again by reason of his defects ? Claude is a most available guide . What heights he reached , although troubled by a certain weakness of heart ! Some such vantage point surely must be accessible to those of us who boast of our temperament , if only we can subordinate it to a fine and puiposeful We need , in short , to look inward towards the springs of vision , and concern ourselves less with doing . Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested in the words , " As ors , the international brotherhood of Berquins ! And yet perhaps they fancied him no real adversary ; only a misguided enthusiast , who had stepped out of the House of the Seven Gables by mistake . If so , time has proved them wrong . Hawthorne 's principle was to rise with his subject . Probably Anatole France knows Hawthorne only by reputation , and for his greater tales : it is not to be supposed that he ever read the sentences we have quoted from one of Hawthorne 's prefaces . And yet they agree so perfectly in this matter , the New Englander of yesterday and to-day 's French cosmopolitan , that the slave to the parallel-column method of criticism would be tempted to allege a borrowing . It is the simple truth that men 's feelings have changed on this subject of juveniles : a new kind of books pour la jeunesse is now demanded , in France as here at home . When the maker of " Le Livre de mon ami " wrote that children resent a writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call for admittance to the wider world of the adult , he was expressing his own thought . And this little piece of child-psychology explains why books like Mr. Kenneth Grahame 's , however exquisite , rarely appeal to children . Something of artifice repels them , though their elders accept it freely . Old-fashioned books of generous sentiment ? " Lord Fauntleroy " and other Victorian child-romances  --  they di. , not refuse . The ultimate requirement is the child in a grown-up world , not the adult in the children 's palace of youth . In nature-books and the like , the case is only slightly altered . If grownups count for little in Mr. Kipling 's " Jungle Books , " one has a world of other non-childish characters : Rikki-TikkiTaxi and the forest brotherhood . The writer of books for children must not condescend . His task is not to be thought of as a bit of relaxation . To have something to say , to say it without artifice , without complexity , is his problem . Nor is it a case of inventing a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delightfully of his own childhood , has set down all the really expressible specifications . " Think well , " he counsels ; " write well ; give life to everything you write , and let it be powerful , broad , big . " Most of the Looks published this autumn will doubtless fail to stand these tests ; but what of that ? Also , the fact remains that the best books for children are the books written for men and women ; not , of course , all the books written for them , but those neither over-written nor over-subtilized . Boys there are who have enjoyed their elders ' " Don Quixote " and Cooper . Boys have got as much pleasure as any one out of " Robinson Crusoe " ; yet that was a book composed for gravest merchants , and bearded sailor-men detained in port . The nucleus of the Child 's Own Library is a precious heritage that was his father 's before him . The books most unquestionably good for children are good for all the world . 