@@486873

To those who had hoped for a strong vote against Republican policies , and particularly against the Republican ' standpatters , " last week 's Congressional elections come as a distinct disappointment . The two most devout worshippers of the Dingley tariff , Messrs Cannon and Dalzell , have been triumphantly reelected ; and there is nothing in the result to make them abate adoration for their idol , or to induce the President to resurrect his long-buried tariff reform message So far as the voters have indicated their choice , the Republican party is still licensed to grant special privileges to those manufacturers v%lio are ready to pay for them . If the overthrow of this intolerable injustice is still postponed , the Democrats have themselves alone to blame . Hardly convalescent from the Bryan ill ness , the party fell a victim to an even more virulent disease , the staying of which in New York , Massachusetts , California , and Illinois became the duty of the hour . With what patriotic readiness independent Democrats have again stepped into the breach , the returns attest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitation to draw attention from the contest for the House of Representatives , the Democrats could ? hardly have obtained control . A nerveless , stupidly inefficient campaign was that of the Democratic Congressional Committee ; its literature was dull , its strategy infantile From the beginning it lacked vigor and sincerity ; it practically abandoned efforts weeks ago The leaders can not take much credit even for such successes as have occurred for they are largely due to factional strife among Republicans , or to local causes of small importance . But the defeat of Congressman J T McCleary of the Second Minnesota District , because of his " standpattism " and his record on the Philippine tariff , shows clearly that , with serious and intelligent direction , tariff reform might have been made a winning issue . It is this utter want of . Democratic leadership which is the chief lesson of the contest as a whole . The election of Democratic Governors in both Rhode Island and North Dakota , together with the recapture of Missouri and the reelection of a Democratic Governor in Minnesota , proves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the integrity and sanity of the Democracy . If any headway is to be made during the next two years , it can be only by rendering the Democracy a genuine Opposition in and out of Congress John Sharp Williams has done his best in the House , but the character of many of his Southern associates , such as Tillman , in the party councils , has handicapped him , to say nothing of the dubious nature of support from such a Northerner ' as Bourke Cockran . A party can grow stronger only by pounding away at the weak points in the enemy 's armor . Failure to adopt aggressive tactics will leave the Democracy in an equally helpless position two years hence . It is not as if there were no stirring issues upon which to appeal to the country . Republicans steadily furnish grounds for attack . But of these possible issues none is so important as the alliance between the party and the Trusts . President Roosevelt and his Attorney-General may tilt all they please at Standard Oil and dissolve a combination here and a Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned , their spectacular efforts are of no value save as object-lessons in the enforcement of the law . They constitute no remedy for the disease ; and no remedy will be proposed while the corrupt partnership between the Republican party and the tariff-made monopolies continues . To the Democratic party is more than ever granted the opportunity to come to the rescue It alone can undertake clean-handed the reform of conditions which rendered Hearst as a political captain possible , and has suddenly made of Socialism a live issue . Americans will be content with their politiCal conditions only when they are convinced that they are getting a " square deal . " As long as Congress legislates for a few , thousands will go on demanding a new form of government which will make such favoritism impossible ; and no one can deny that justice is on their side . Should the results of the elections deceive the Republicans into thinking that all is well with them , that , as Mr. Cannon maintains , their house does not need to be set in order , then are they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have maintained their party 's honor in this crisis , the path of duty is plain . If , with the fine energy and enthusiasm which has just spurned Hearst and Moran , they do not work day and night to regain control of their party machinery , they will find themselves without an organization to register their will . ABSORBING THE CONQUERED . More than a century after the partition of Poland the Prussian Government is busier than ever assimilating the Poles within its territory . Within the last few weeks there has been a fresh outbreak of racial disturst and hatred which has affected even the school-children . A cartoon in Mk represents their plight . The teacher whips the schoolboy for praying in Polish ; his father beats him for praying in German ; and the priest uses the birch if he does not pray at all . As a result , the boy 's hand is against all the constituted- authori-'ties . Recently , an unpopular teacher whO had threatened ' his 6cnolais with arrest for failure to answer questions in German , awoke to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of suffocation In the town of Baronowo there has almost been'bloodshed because Ger : clan children were not only prevented from taking a short-cut to the village school , but were repeatedly driven away with whips by the highly aroused Polish youths . This really serious state of affairs arouses in Germany mingled anger and astonishment . There was a time several centuries ago when Prussia absorbed Polish subjects without difficulty . Thu. - or forty years ago Germanization seemed to be progressing satisfactorily , if slowly Suddenly there ' came the change . The Prussians attribute - it to the Polish nationalist movement . They can see no difference in their own attitude or policy . To them this resistance is ingratitude , pure and simple . Yet what are the facts ? About 1870 many Polish workmen in upper Silesia , to cite one example , were wholly free from any antagonism to the Germans Indeed , they eagerly learned the language , realizing that its use widened their field of labor . To become a German at that time meant to be free ; to be a German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short , to become a Prussian citizen meant the ' right to rise socially . Unfortunately , a ' change was at hand . The Pan-Polish movement could never have become what it is had there not been a Pan-German movement to offset it , to stimulate it , and to fan the dying embers of race strife . - First came increased protective duties and the limiting of imports , which at once made the Poles feel that they were worse off than their cousins in Russia or in Galicia . The cost of living rose by leaps and bounds , furnishing precisely the acute grievance the nationalist agitation needed . Then came blundering on the part of the Prussian bureaucracy in religious. , matters ; the law unfortunately prescribed the teaching of religion in Prussian schools , and laid down the lines along which it must be taught . It made no allowance ? for differences in schools or in the , character of their attendance , hence the teaCher in Polish sections was inevitably-brought into conflict with the village priest . It would , as a writer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise and far-sighted policy to have abolished all religious instruction in Polish schools Instead , the bureaucracy made the incredible mistake of requiring that it must be given in German . If a prize had been offered , says the Nation writer , for the action which would giVe the Polish agitators the very best weapon for their propaganda , nothing , better than this could have been devised . Through it the school , which should be the best medium of friendly Germanization , is now the place above all others in which race hatred is created and intensified , Curiously enough , the very Prussians who insist upon Germanizing the Poles by force - are the same ones who bitterly resent efforts in Russia ; Hungary , and elsewhere to make loyal Russians , Magyars , and Czechs of those who speak German and retain their German customs . Side by side with associations for the creation of German communities in Polish Prussia , flourish societies to oppose the anti-German movement in Bohemia and Hungary  --  and no one seems to perceive the absurd contradiction . Only few have as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertake a new line of action , it provokes a similar move by the Poles . Thus when ? the Government began to buy up large estates and settle German emigrants upon them , the Poles founded banks whose ' special business it was to do likewise for their own people as a purely business affair , with the result that the number of Poles owning small land-holdings has increased faster than the number of small German land-own- , ers . ' In the general inference to be drawn from this German experience the United States has a special interest , because of our new oversee burdens . It is a fatal Policy to deprive a people of its language or its customs . To try to make Americans of Malays , Russians of Finns , and Germans of Poles or Magyars , is merely to intensify the earnestness with which they cling to ancient customs and mother tongiie . To attempt to strike down a people 's nationality by force is not a sign of enlightened patriotism , but of political and social decadence . Let him who doubts this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the success of the Hungarians against the Austrians , the failure of Russia in Finland , and elsewhere . Let hini then turn to Switzerland as the country in which people using three languages have for centuries lived side by side ' in peace and harmony . The lesson should be carefully conned , for the call for the Philippine Assembly is out , and-our proconsuls in Manila-need more than ever to be warned against ? any attempt to force Filipino development along other than their own racial and national lines . EXCAVATING HERCULANEUM . After long negotiations , Prof. Charles Waldstein 's plan for excavating Herculaneum under international auspices has been accepted in principle by the Italian Government . The delay has had to do with the control of the excavations , which is ' to be unconditionally Italian . One cannot- doubt , however , that the foreignscholars who have labored to make this great archaeological enterprise pos sible , will have a favored position as associates in the work For a layman , it is difficult to realize the importance of this project , so far have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the point of view of art , however , all that has been found at Pompeii is of slight importance compared with the results of casual excavation at Herculaneum . The remarkable Greek and Greco-Roman bronzes that are the pride of the Naples Museum came from a single villa at Herculaneum The few scraps of wall painting that give a hint of the dignity of Grecian painting have the same origin , but are relatively obscured by the showier examples of plasterers ' work from Pompeii . The ruins of the latter city have not furnished a single manuscript ; Herculaneum , practically unsearched , has already given up a large library  --  medical and scientific , to be sure ; further investigation may well bring us substantial additions to classical literature . In short , when we look at Greco-Roman antiquity through Pompeii , it is as if some thirtieth-century archologist should judge American civilization from the remains of Saratoga or Long Branch ; whereas Herculaneum will represent the polite tastes of early Imperial Rome as truly as , say , Newport or Manchester-by-theSea might represent those of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaged by earthquake , and flimsily rebuilt in the taste of the decadence , before it was overwhelmed by the falling cinders ; but Herculaneum , when the mud rolled over it , still kept intact the treasures of the most cultivated Romans ? Hellenizers of the generations of Lucretius and.Cicero . The value of these hidden treasures , the wildest imagination is not likely to exaggerate . Suffice it to say that here is an important classical site locked up in a perfect preservative  --  hardened volcanic mud  --  a site that has never been sacked by armies , rifled by pilferers , or drained by the insistent demand of wealthy amateurs . The history of archaeology hardly affords a parallel . The excavator of to-day breaks into an unknown Pharaoh tomb only to find that a sneak-thief had preceded him by a thousand years . The Greek marbles of ancient Rome are mostly in the mortar of the medieval city , but here are the summer homes of cultured Rome of the Augustan period and earlier , only awaiting the careful use of the pick and spade . - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed too cheaply , nature has sealed Herculaneum under about eighty feet of volcanic concrete , and fate has willed that some twenty thousand Neapolitans should swarm above the villas where Roman patricians dwelt in spacious ease . To uncover Herculaneum will be an expensive business , involv ing the condemnation of much land , - and then the most cautious methods of excavation . The nature of the work dictates patience all around . No one should expect quick results at the cost of irreparable damage to the beautiful objects imbedded in the stiffened mud . On the other hand , we can imagine no investment of capital by an art-lover that is more certain to bring handsome returns . The uncovering of a single villa like that which contained the large bronzes of the Naples Museum would amply justify any expenditure likely to be made . We discern a peculiar appropriateness , too , in the fact that this great project is to be international in its scope Many times in the history of Western civilization a quickening of national culture has been due to a sort of vision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first been the mediator- of the Hellenic tradition , and when the amateurs and archeologists - of Western Europe and America unite to reclaim Herculaneum for Italy and the world , they merely acknowledge in money and good will a greater if a more intangible debt that has been accumulating interest through the ages . THE LITERATURE OR BUSINESS . Not long ago it was the fashion of purists to complain of the bulk of advertising in the magazines . But discus- sion of the matter in the press brought out numerous champions of the advertising pages . It was warmly asserted that they constitute a most interesting addition to the reading matter , and could about as ill be spared as the so-called literary features Certain readers , who appeared sincere but may have been malicious , actually expressed a preference for , the literature of soups , underwear , real estate , correspondence schools , firearms , and motor cars  --  a passion which has recently obtained notableconfirmation through the confession of an editor . Edward W. Bok has declared that he will do his modest best to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the advertising section , though clearly he despairs of attaining so high an ideal . We hasten to add that the editorial policy of pretty nearly all the magazines we know is happily approximating the advertising policy . In a superb miscellaneousness , in timeliness , in direct and vociferous appeal to the reader , the editors are , after all , not lagging so much behind . They have recently taken up the evidently useful practice of commending their own wares  --  discreetly setting forth the merits of their best contributors , or more specifically declaring the current features , as they issue from the press , to be substantial additions to permanent English literature . When the editors are so alert in following a promising lead , no one should too rashly despair of the future of periodical journalism . In all seriousness , a very little study of the literature of advertising will show that the writers command a rhetoric remarkably well adapted to their purpose , and if persuasiveness is a chief merit in style , the nameless contributors to the flout and back pages must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pages Indeed , by maintaining an aloofness that a seasoned advertising writer - Would scorn , the literary fellows frequently fail to establish confidential relations With the reader The reason for the success of advertising rhetoric James H. Collins ( in an amusing article , " The American Grub Street , " unconscionably buried in the Middle portion of the Atlantic Monthly ) finds in the following fact : Advertising requires versatility of a high order ; . . . the writer of advertising must- combine human interest with strict accuracy , his subject is constantly changing . . . To-day he studies the methods of making cigars and the many kinds of tobacco that enter therein ; to-morrow he writes a monograph on enamelled tin cans , investigating the processes of making them in the factory ; and the day after that his topic may be breakfast foods , taking him into investigations of starch , gluten , digestive functions , diet , and health , and setting him upon a weary hunt for synonyms to describe the " rich nutty flavor . " A fair inference from this description is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater seriousness , which is not perhaps the " high seriousness " that Matthew Arnold advocated , but still a quality removed from and above the dilettanteism that inspires the ? mere author . In any case , such experience makes for worldly experience , and we can imagine a successful advertising writer , finding himself placed at dinner between , - say , - William II Howells and Dr. Henry van Dyke , . repeating Goethe 's phrase : Prophet to right , prophet to left . The World-Child between . Scoffers of the ultra-literary sort have affected to scorn the advertiser as a new and bumptious apparition . Bumptious he may or may not be , but new he emphatically is not . In the most technical sense the profession is very old , while on a narrower rhetorical basis the parallel between the modern advertising writer and the Meistersinger , the member of a Northern Puy , or of a Southern Floral Association , is worth recalling . Like these medieval predecessors , the modern advertiser writes to order , in competition frequently , and on set themes ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his style than by the pith of his argument . To be sure , the Meistersinger and the banded poets of the Rhone celebrated springtide , love , or ; more abstractly , - the ' Orelative merits of the rose and lily , or i of water and wine , whereas their modeln successors exalt bootblacking , scouring soap , baking powder , ready-to-wear clothes , grape juice , and influenza cures . But the change of subject matter should blind , no one to a stylistic unity which is all-important . It boots not that one write a Renieclion Anions or extol a corn cure ; the spirit in which the work Is done is what really counts . How effective the work of the adver- , . tising writer is , very little perusal of the magazines will show In all that makes'for persuasion his art is supreme . We know that an appealing and well-waistcoated youth can sell our real ' estate , however barren or remote ; we ' long for fences and sheds that another engaging gentleman may paint them with the ideally best . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ravages of coffee and the value of cereal beverages . Can one deny to writing of this force the name of art ? A poster , not in print , but prominently displayed , shows the stylistic refinements that may enter into this sort of composition ; we learn of a certain whiskey that it is " mellowed by eight years ' repose in the wood . " Only note the value of that word " repose " How bald and unconvincing any other asseveration of age would be , But so long as we preserve the Image of that brown and fragrant fluid peacefully reposing in its charred prison-house , pure food committees may expose the brand in vain . Who could doubt a stimulant that has not merely grown old , but grown old so gracefully ? REAL PREVENTION OF DISEASE . The gay young spark in Moliere who sought a cure for the ills of intemperance received from his physician a lecture on hygiene . In the midst of it , the , impatient youth broke in ? " Yes , yes , all that I know , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This attitude is very human . Our ' chosen path is pleasant , and if it-happen to lead into trouble , why , we 'll ask the doctor for " a pill . In our Western world , the habit is to seek medical advice only when we are sure we need it , but we might with profit copy the Chi  --  nese . They retain their physicians to keep them well , and demand the return of their fees if they fall sick . ' The great benefit'that medical science has brought to humanity in the last half-century has been chiefly through preventive medicine . The plagues that swept the Old World in the Middle Ages are no longer possible . An epidemic of typhoid fever is now a reproach to the infected community for having neglected the means which science has placed in its hands - But preventive medicine has concerned itself mainly with contagious diseases which threaten wholesale , and deals but slightly , in the popular conception , with individuals . The result is that there , has grown up in the public mind a feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect us . We are much concerned about the purity of our drinking water , but few stop to ponder the fact that a majority of us will die of some chronic disease which in its incipiency might be arrested . For protection from acute infection we may depend upon boards of health , but for safeguarding against chronic dise'ase we must trust to the physician . He , however , can do nothing to prolong our days unless we give him an opportunity to detect a malady in its early stage . Health is without price , yet how many periodically submit themselves to their doctors for thorough examination ? That such a periodic examination is the wisest of precautions , is shown by the rejected applications in every life insurance company : Thousands were boastfully proud of their robust health until some life insurance physician rated them ' Thad risks . " The conditions under which Americans live in large cities are particularly adapted prematurely to age the heart and arteries . In all probability , these conditions will not soon change , and the only way one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one 's organism . Medicine has grown rich in methods and instruments of precision for the detection of subtle changes indicating the onset of disease . A manufacturer with ' a fortune in machinery would not neglect to employ an expert engineer to scrutinize it , from time to time . Very likely , however , the same man has omitted to ascertain through a physician whether his manner of life has worked ravages with his heart or arteries . Almost every one goes to a dentist at least once a year ; why should one not go to a physician ? ' We constantly hear that nephritis is a menace , and cancer is becoming more common . Cancer is curable if a surgeon is called in time , and one may live his allotted days , despite nephritis , if he be told how to live Oliver Wendell Holmes once said that the way to live to - old age is to become the victim of a chronic disease and then take care of yourself The real danger in- the chronic type of disease is the insidious progress that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical aid avails is past . Preventive medicine - cannot be of use until men have learned to hunt out dangers before they appear . The White Plague is no longer captain of the men of death ; pneumonia has taken its place ; and  --  physicians tell us that the , really awful mortality in pneumonia is due in great part to - latent heart and . kidney disease . The-physician to aslarge hospital in this city has said that he could have saved half of . his pneumonia patients had they come to him five years earlier and been directed how to live in respect , to their kidney . trouble . Doubtless it is true that many men , would . rather " drop- in- their tracks " than live to an inYalid old age . But the possession of a pa chronic - disorder is not an unmitigated evil . It often means that a man who has worked like an I express locomotive will content himself with slower service. - He may be advised to play more golf and less market . He can find good excuses for longer- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old friendships that have been allowed to lapse . Well-known men in this city , having early found their danger , have so regulated their- lives that they appear as active as ever and enjoy life More than before It is not inconceivable that the prompt recognition of a bad heart , say , would be a real blessing to many a driven man of Affairs . 