@@486649

That the Hague tribunal has found for us in the case of the Pious Fund is gratifying , but the favorable decision is far less . welcome than the fact that-this long-standing issue has been duly presented to an international court , and that the United States and Mexico have the honor of first committing a case to this permanent tribunal . The court has decided that , since the Government of Mexico had undertaken the administration of a trust fund for the benefit of the Roman Catholic Church of California , it was bound to pay the interest to the beneficiaries , notwithstanding the cession of California to the United States . If the Republic of Mexico accepts the decision without appeal  --  and this may fairly be assumed  --  the principle will have been established that an eleemosynary or religious foundation is not rendered void by change of nationality on the part of thebeneficiaries . This principle is not new . Generally , conquering or cessionary powers have respected private foundations in newly-acquired territory . But the particular application of the principle in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the mere relinquishing of all civic and political control of a given territory does not of itself terminate special fiduciary duties of a private or benevolent nature . Since the old trust , called the Pious Fund , is judged to be in full vigor , we shall have the curious spectacle of the Roman Catholic Church in California receiving a handsome annual subvention ' from the Government of Mexico . The decision of the IIague court will tend to give confidence to all donors whose gifts lie in debatable territory , while it should tend to make all governments loath to assume extraordinary fidudiary functions . A " Pious Fund " would have been an unseemly object for embittered diplomacy , and much more for war . The new court could have had no subject which better lent itself to calm and dignified deliberation , and the successful conduct of this first case will greatly enhance the prestige of the Hague tribunal . When the coal operators requested the appointment of a " sociologist " on the Commission of Arbitration proposed by them , they seemed to show the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sociologist is , and the appointee might easily have been President Baer , Senator Platt , or Mr. J. P. Morgan . It remained for President Roosevelt , assuming for the nonce the functions of an academy Of letters , to determine authoritatively what a sociologist is . It means for the purpose in hand " a man who has thought and studied deeply en social questions . and has practically applied his knowledge , " or , in more concrete language , it means Grand Chief Clark of the Order of Railroad Conductors If the operators counted upon a pale , professor-like person , they reckoned without a President who makes not only appointments but definitions . A sociologist , then , is a leader of a labor organization , and preferably a railroad conductor . No one can Complain of this decision , for there is no scramble for the-appellation in academic circles . Prof. Walter A. Wyckoff , whose first-hand experiments as a wage-earner all will remember , writes to the Sun : " My subsequent work has not aquainted me with this , science of sociology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more definite field of the science of economics . " This disclaimer is characteristic of the academic feeling of today . It appears , then , that the word sociologist was going begging when the President took it up , restored it to honor , and gave it to the railroad conductors of the land , whose Opportunities for observation and thought on society and so- cial subjects are exceptional , as nobody can deny . This restitution should assure the President a place among humorists , at least . It is in keeping with the solid traditions of Massachusetts law-making that a bill for the incorporation of labor unions is to be discussed at the approaching session . There is an especial appropriateness , too , in the fact that the first serious attempt to fix legal responsibility upon these powerful but irresponsible organizations should be made in a State which strictly regulates the incorporation of capital . If the trade-union bill should become a law , it would simply show that the State of Massachusetts is determined to control all great combinations which affect the common weal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Naturally , the labor leaders see in the proposed incorporation " disadvantages without corresponding benefits , " but then , nobody likes to be deprived of power and saddled with responsibilities , while if the objection raised by a Boston labor leader , that " where you have law you have litigation , " were valid , we should be obliged to abolish all laws whatsoever . The discussion of this bill can not but ? be salutary , and we trust that many other legislatures will follow the example of Massachusetts in this matter . At first reading the press abstract of President Eliot 's notable address giv en on Friday before the Connecticut State Teachers ' Aisociation , conveys the impression of an unwonted pessimism He declares that our common schools have failed signally to cultivate general intelligence , as is evinced by the failure to deal adequately with the liquor problem , by the prevalence of gambling , of strikes accompanied with violence , and by the persistency of the spoils system : In fine , he believes that the schools have failed at nearly all points in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indictment from such a source will receive the most careful consideration , and yet many will feel that the apparent gloom of President Eliot 's survey is not without rhetorical intention  --  that he hopes to shake the country out of a too great satisfaction with itself , and to win a more liberal and Intelligent support for the schools . Certainly , the task which lies before the schools of educating immigrant children in Americanism is unprecedented and of appalling difficulty , and it may well be that some such extraordinary effort as that recommended by President Eliot may be necessary to meet a pressing emergency . " Yet it will not do to hope more from the schools than they can give , more than they ever gave when our forefathers held education in almost equal veneration with religion . A trained intelligence may indeed check the potential drunkard , wastrel , and rioter , but education readily bbcomes the tool of the unscrupulous boss , the professional gambler , and the corrupt labor leader . One " M. S. Quay , Chairman , " has been caught violating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haled into court and made to suffer the legal penalty of his misdemeanor , which , under the statute , is punishable by " a fine not exceeding $5,000 , or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years , or both , " - he has been let off with a sharp lecture and a warning from the President . The law in question is the one forbidding any Senator , or Representative , or any Federal officer whatever , to solicit campaign subscriptions , either directly or indirectly " from any officer , clerk , or employee of the United States . " Quay had Unblushingly set about assessing Federal employees in Pennsylvania . Having appointed them himself , he naturally considered them his own . What had the President-to do with the case except to act as the clerk of the Pennsylvania Senator ? As for a little thing like a law , that was , of course , only a joke to Quay . But his unlawful course was brought to the attention of the Civil Service Commissioners , and they asked the President to get the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the statute , and to issue an order . This Mr. Roosevelt did on Saturday , notifying all persons concerned that the provisions of law as construed by the Attorney-General must be " obeydd and enforced . " This is excellent , as far as it goes , and the President 's order is said to have spread joy among Federal employees in Washington and elsewhere . They feel that they have found protection against their oppressors . They can show the President 's signature to all " assessment " callers , and quote his words to prove that every employee of the Government may " contribute or not exactly as he pleases . " But we can not help feeling that a good way to make the country believe that the law is to be " enforced , " would be actually to enforce it in the case of a man taken red-handed , as Quay was . It is all very well to protect the clerks , but it would be better to punish the Senator . Quay in court , Quay fined $5,000 , Quay , better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the cause of civil-service reform than the most vigorous language in President Roosevelt 's vocabulary . Expectations that , after the wholesale disfranchisement of the colored voters in the South , the whites would divide politically one more rational issues than the legacies of slavery and the war , and that what was left of the negro electorate would be treated fairly , seem far from realization in North Carolina . Although the operation of the new registration law in that State will reduce the colored vote to a negligible qua ! ntity , the bogey of negro rule is still dangled before Democratic eyes . A negro balance of power between a divided white vote is the form it has taken now , and therefore tie ticket must be voted , as before , by the party label , and all agitation for needed reforms on which the Democratic party is not a unit must be tabooed , lest a growing white Republican organization should stimulate the negro to approach the ballot-box by way of the spelling-book . Meantime , extra-legal obstacles are being placed along that road . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State , the registrars are excluding practically all the negroes ; and one over-zealous board has earned the censure even of the ' Chairman of the Democratic State Committee by rejecting a negro preacher , who read and expounded the Constitution " beautifully , " but who , in the writing test , spelled the word " divided " with an " e " in the first syllable . With such machinery in their hands , Democratic fear of negro domination is pure invention . In the expressions of administrative disapproval of the " Lily-White " Republican movement in the South , there is evidently a deeper purpose than the holding of the negro vote in the North at the November election . Delegates to the Republican National Convention are to be chosen In less than two years , and Southern Republicans can be largely instrumental in nominating a President , if not in electing one . Hitherto the vote of the Southern delegations has been too often sought by the disthbution of patronage and the bald expenditure of cold cash . The present method , if our surmise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only two appointments of importance made by the President in Alabama ? the District Judge and the District Attorney  --  he has shown no disposition to buy political favor with public patronage . The Palmer and Buckner Democrats chosen for those positions were selected because of their recognized ability , and , as they are again within the regular Democratic organization , their appointment can not be charged to an attempt to . build up a white Republican party . With the other plan of increasing the number of white Republicans in the South the President has no sympathy , and his recent official announcement on that point , coupled with the further assurance of Surveyor Clarkson in a letter to the North Carolina negroes , ought to remove a false impression which has prevailed largely in the South . The white Republicans , in both Alabama and North Carolina , who thought they were pleasing the President by their course , should have known Mr. Roosevelt patter than to have supposed that he would desert the educated and property-owning negroes left in the electorate by the Democratic suffrage laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grosvenors and Crumpackers of the North might think about it . There is political acumen , too , as well as justice , in the President 's attitude . Despite the unfair franchise laws , the colored voters in the Republican party in the South outnumber the whites , and it would be a reckless Republican Convention which dared to disregard that strength of numbers . In spite of general reports of a dull political campaign , the Evening Post published on Monday striking evidence that at least one class in the community is taking a deep interest in it . As the questions at issue are chiefly economic , inquiries were addressed to the gentlemen connected with the department of political economy in our leading colleges and universities , and the volume and outspokenness of the replies obtained from them are of great significance . On the subject of the Constitutional power of Congress to legislate directly against the Trusts , the answers reveal a becoming modesty . The professors disclaim any title to speak as Constitutional lawyers . Nor is there entire agreement among them as to the advisability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it possesses them . But on one point there is almost complete unanimity . Immediate repeal of tariff duties behind which the Trusts take . refuge is pronounced to be the political duty of the hour . President Roosevelt 's , suggested plan of a tariff commission is treated with varying degrees of respect , . but is , on the whole , roughly handled . " The alleged scientific , non-partisan tariff commission of experts is a humbug , " writes Professor Daniels of Princeton .. Nay , adds Professor Sumner of Yale , it is. " an exploded humbug . " Other professors speak of the plan with almost as great contempt and aversion . It is only a trick to " befuddle the public " ; it is merely a way of " shelving the issue " ; it is a " cloak , " an " evasion , " and so on . In view of the fiasco and failure which all previous tariff commissions present , it .. is evident that college opinion as a whole ? is not going to be caught by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of discipline in the army is-well brought out in the annual report of Judge-Advocate General G. B. Davis .. With a considerably smaller force in service during the year ending June 30 , 1902 , than in the twelve months previous to June 30 , 1901 , there was a decrease of only 754 in the number of trials . One out of every twenty men in the service-was tried and convicted , and this in the face of the repeated assertions of Republican orators and newspapers as to the saintly character of the " boys in blue " - engaged in killing off the Filipinos . Gen Davis 's figures show that a pretty serious condition of affairs has existed .. There were , for instance , 760 convictions for drunkenness on duty , and 477 convictions for larceny , in addition to several hundred others involving robbery or larceny or attempts to commit them . Seventeen soldiers were convicted of rape-or attempted rape , nineteen of murder or manslaughter , and forty-six of intent to commit murder . No less than 1,081 , soldiers were punished for desertion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sleeping on post . A new crime added to the category is " disrespect to the memory of President McKinley , " for which four men are languishing in jail , . just as men are punished in Europe for-lese-majesty . Finally , 2,645 were dishonorably discharged . During most of the period under consideration the army has had an enlisted strength of about 70,000 , exclusive or Filipino troops . In this connection the statement of an officer now on duty in the Philippines is of interest . His regiment , a new one , proceeded to the archipelago within eight ' months of its formation . composed mostly of beardless-youths under twenty-one . The rainy season and the presence of cholera have-made anything like strict discipline impossible . " The history of other regiments out here is simply degeneration , and I do not hope for any improvement in drill and discipline while in these islands . " With officers talking this way , what will Secretary Root say ? We suggest that he court-martial Gen. Davis - for the publication of an outrageous libel on the army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is culpabIe . No anti-Imperialist ever said so cruel and cowardly a thing as that , particularly in the middle of a Congressional campaign . The proposed subsidy from the British Government to the Cunard Steamship Line has called out Sir Spencer Walpole in a strong argument in opposition to it . He shows , first , that it is not true that Great Britain has been losing her relative position in the ocean-carrying trade during recent years . Although she allows perfect freedom to foreign ships in her own coasting trade , as well as in her colonial and foreign commerce , her own tonnage entered and cleared at British ports has been , for a period of thirty years , almost exactly two and one-half times greater than that of all other nationalities together . If other countries had been outstripping her , it is probable that some signs of the fact would be exhibited in the returns of British commerce , which is free to the ships of all nations . But it is said that Germany is forging ahead at a great rate by reason of subsidies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geffen has taken the trouble to procure the correct figures . He shows that the profits of the unsubsidized portion of the North German Lloyd fleet , from 1895 to 1900 , increased from 1,900,000 to 21,700,000 marks , or elevenfold . The profits of the subsidized portion increased in the same period from 1,200,000 to 1,800,000 marks , or by only 50 per cent . The subsidized portion is composed of ships running to eastern Asia and western Australia . In the opinion of Sir Spencer Walpole , the very magnitude of British shipping makes a polidy of subsidies impossible . If it were applied impartially and uniformly it would bankrupt the nation , but if it were confined to particular ships it would put their competitors at a disadvantage . " If , for example , " says Sir Spencer , " a subsidy were given to exceptionally fast vessels sailing to New York , it would make it more difficult for other steamers , either with passengers or cargo , to hold their own on that route For the sake of encouraging a service of some convenience and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger and much more valuable industry . " Moreover , he thinks that if subsidies were granted to the Cunard Company , the owners would rely on the Government rather than on themselves for the success of their line . They would fall into the habit of the captains of fishing-boats at the time when bounties were paid to them , of whom it was said that they went to sea to catch the subsidy , not to catch the fish . There was reason enough for an Irish night at the opening of Parliament on Thursday . The Irish members can not relish the general application of the Crimes Act and the imprisonment thereunder of several of their members , and naturally they took the first opportunity of protesting . In the form of their protest they distinctly scored . Mr. O'Donnell , lately out of his patriot 's prison , succeeded in being suspended ; Mr. O'Brien , by demanding in a session which is to include the Education Bill , the London Water Bill , the Indian Budget , and the Uganda Railroad , at least one day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deny the request because it came from the Irish party . So the first day was made to yield a very colorable case of British oppression and Irish wrongs . " Tay Pay " O'Connor contrived to be silenced , if not suspended , and the climax of the evening was reached when the free lance Mr. Healy claimed his privilege " as a native of Uganda , " and so thoroughly scarified the Government for its Irish policy that his Ugandan seemed to reading members to be of the family of Montesquieu 's satirical Persian , or of Goldsmith 's Chinese " Citizen of the World . " Nobody , the dispatches report , enjoyed the performance more than Mr. Balfour , and yet he can have felt only a tempered joy , since Mr. William Redmond 's statement for the Irish Nationalists , that they must take the first opportunity of " hurling the Ministers from office , " should mean that the Irish members are going to withdraw their eighty-odd votes from the Education Bill , which , with 750 amendments ( nearly 600 of which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the Irish prefer the chance of upsetting Mr. Balfour to bringing the Catholic schools under state support , Mr. Balfour will find the margin of safety for the Education Bill distressingly small . Chancellor von Billow 's attitude before the German Reichstag , as he pleads for reasonable grain duties , is very different from the manner of Bismarck in demanding support for a Government measure . And the milder tactics seem to promise smaller success than the old method of dragooning a majority . To the Chancellor 's statement that prohibitive duties on grain and meat will prevent the negotiation of reciprocity treaties , paralyze trade , and discredit Germany before the world , the Agrarians reply iu effect that they must have the duties reported by their committee , and that the Squirearchy must be first considered and its demands granted . Von Bulow 's traditional allies have betrayed and flouted him , precisely as the ultra-protectionist Republicans humiliated President Roosevelt ; and it is to be feared that the Agrarians are even less amenable to public opinion than our own Republican Bourbons . The personal intervention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that should lie tried , and fail , the reciprocity treaties and the great canal scheme would go over indefinitely , and the Government would be forced to seek support elsewhere than among the Agrarians , to yield to whom , the Chancellor pointed out on Thursday , would be suicidal . It was hardly to be expected that the Chamber of Deputies which passed the Associations Act would fail to support Premier Combes for enforcing it . So Friday 's vote of confidence , which gained the handsome plurality of ninety-six , must be regarded merely as a formal expression of party loyalty . Later , when the question of authorizing and reopening the suppressed monastic schools arises , the concrete and difficult question will first be before the Deputies , who have so far voted only on the general principle . M. Combes , in demanding supplementary legislation against the religious orders , breaks out the signal of no compromise , and engages himself to pursue relentlessly his anti-clerical campaign . It may be doubted if he can long survive as the pronounced opponent of the Church in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is still profoundly Roman Catholic . The " rectification " of the Algerian-Moroccan frontier through the acceptance of the extreme French claims is precisely what might have been expected It has been understood that , to the west and south of Algeria , France might make her own terms with the wild desert tribes and with the Sultan of Morocco , and that no other European Power would object to such extension of the French sphere of influence . Furthermore , the cession of the Tuat oases by the new treaty is the relinquishing of territory that the Sultan has neither governed nor possessed , and if the French gain control of the great caravan route to central Africa , they merely assume a useful function which no one has previously exercised Accordingly , this accession of territory to the African domain of the French republic is without immediate significance It opens possibilities of African trade , but then the French have shown little capacity for this form of commerce ; and it brings somewhat nearer the time , still apparently distant , when the Moroccan question will become acute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            