@@485080

Rear-Admiral Schley 's objections to the verdict of the Court of Inquiry are disingenuous in many respects . He refers throughout to the report of the " majority of the Court , " even when touching on those points upon which Admiral Dewey was in full accord with Rear-Admirals Benham and Ramsay . In remarking upon the Hodgson matter , he calls attention merely to the question of the colloquy , when it was his treatment of the subsequent correspondence with Hodgson for which the Court censured him . As a whole , Rear-Admiral Schley 's exceptions are simply those which any man might make in any court where a case had gone against him . To his question why the Court did not take his word on certain points , there is but one answer which the Court can give  --  it found the evidence to the contrary from many credible witnesses entirely too strong to be overlooked . It would hardly be advisable , if it were possible , far the Rear-Admiral to force the Court to still greater frankness . However he may succeed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the officers of the navy have but one view , that he has got off remarkably well , and far better than he deserved . If this is a " conspiracy " on the part of his fellow-officers , it is the most complete , wholehearted , and generally remarkable conspiracy this country has ever seen . Secretary Long 's action in approving the finding of the Schley Court of Inquiry and mildly disapproving the dissenting opinion of Admiral Dewey can , of course , be attributed by the Schley press solely to the same conspiracy , which they know has so long " hounded " the hero . Even the evident fact that this was done with the consent of President Roosevelt will not , we are sure , save Secretary Long from more abuse at the hands of those who were quite ready to acknowledge and praise his able administration of the navy during the war with Spain , until they conceived the idea that he was wantonly planning to rob a gallant officer of his reputation and good name . As it is , we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all time . The review of the case by the civilian tribunal composed of three lawyers proposed by Schley 's adherents is not one to be entertained for an instant . So far as history is concerned , the facts are on record , and the nation and navy have been saved from having the Schley standard of efficiency and honor made that of the service , - which , fortunately for its good name , has had but one such unhappy incident in its history . The severity of the censure of Gen Miles for his indiscreet interview upon the Schley case is probably without parallel in the history of the army , in view of his rank and prominence , yet it would be hard to say that it is undeserved . The habit of talking too much seems to have fastened itself upon high officers in this country , as it has upon the Bullers and Whites and Colvilles in England and the Von Waldersees in Germany . Wherever it establishes itself , it makes against discipline and subordination , and it must be checked if a military service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civilian a hardship , the reply is that it is one of the conditions of the service which every officer accepts voluntarily  --  however irksome it may be to omit opportunities for rushing into print . In Gen. Miles 's case the length of his service and his knowledge of the regulations make his misdeed a far graver one than a similar indiscretion in the case of a younger of . fiver . The frequency of the fault in others , and the fact that this is not gen . Miles 's first offence , undoubtedly gave edge to Secretary Root 's - rebuke . The truth is , that Gen. Miles has lost touch with the present administration of the War Department , as he did with previous ones . In any other service an officer of his rank so reprimanded would resign or retire , and give the Administration an opportunity to select a commanding General in active sympathy with its endeavors to take the army out of politics , and to reform it from the bottom up . Another slip on the part of Gen. Miles might easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As it is , the feeling in favor of the abolition of his position and the substitution of a chief of staff , to be appointed for four years by each President , is steadily growing . It has unexpectedly transpired that Secretary Gage will shortly resign the portfolio of the Treasury and take up again the role of banker , which he abandoned five years ago at the instance of President McKinley . This change will be due wholly to his own volition , and not to any disagreement or friction with President Roosevelt . We have reason to believe that the latter would greatly prefer to retain the services of a financier so skilled , and an adviser so capable and many-sided , as Mr. Gage has shown himself to be . But Mr. Gage is not a rich man , and he probably considers that he has given as much of his time to the public service as he can afford to do . Mr. Gage was among the bankers of this city on Thursday evening , and made a speech to them which may , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the exalted position he has filled at Washington . He took this opportunity to repeat a suggestion which he made in his last report to Congress , in favor of a great financial institution to be formed by the voluntary action of the banks for mutual support and strength in times of trouble . He did not , however , indicate any means of bringing about such a union . He referred his hearers to his annual report , leaving the impression on their minds , perhaps , that they would there find a more definite exposition of his views . But the report itself does not supply the missing link . Mr. Gage there pronounces branch banking so opposed to the ideas and institutions of our people that it is not to be thought of . He does not now tell us whether the idea which he entertains depends for its realization upon the lawmaking power , but we infer from his general drift that it does not . The difference between his views and those of Mr. Stickney , on which we commented last week , is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gage does not . If we correctly apprehend Mr. Gage 's thought , there is no obstacle to the carrying out of his suggestion now . The means for doing so already exist . It is only for the bankers to put their heads together and establish the great central institution . Some people may indeed ask whether this movement has not already begun . There has been an observed tendency toward bank consolidation in this great banking centre for some time . There has been a nucleus growing in the nebula for several years , and more latterly a second one has appeared . The first one in the field was the City National Bank and its consolidations and outside belongings . The second And later one is the First National Bank and its affiliations . Now the idea of a great central institution is not consistent with the idea of two great central institutions , and if there are to be two , why not three or more ? The two already in progress , we may be sure , are not forming with any thought of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no proper place in the categories of finance . The two nuclei are forming to make money for their shareholders and managers . They want to bring large sums of money together in one place and under one control , in order to take advantage of circumstances that may arise which promise gain . They may prove to be of advantage to the public in times of panic , or they may be promoters and producers of panics , as the old Bank of the United States was , under its Pennsylvania charter . The bright hopes founded upon Gov . Taft 's report on the progress of civil government in the Philippines are dashed by a cablegram to the Associated Press , which says that Gen. George W. Davis recommends that the province of Misamis , Mindanao , be again placed under military control . He says that he has proof that the recently elected civil officers have been furnishing ammunition to the insurgents . Gen. Wade , who is in command on Cebu Island , concurs with Gen. Davis . Gen. Chaffee takes a more hopeful view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some months longer . " There , " says the dispatch , " the situation demands a policy of rigid starvation , and the giving of food only to those who surrender or who stay in the towns . " Reconcentration is the watchword in Samar and South Africa , and to this complexion have we , in common with our English cousins , come at last . Or , rather , we came to it long ago , and we are keeping it up because it is so beautifully adapted to the purpose of crushing out the " rebellion . " We have to admit now that Weyler understood his business , and that when he introduced the " policy of rigid starvation , " of which Senator Proctor drew such a moving picture , he was our master , our past-master , in the art of putting down rebellions . One of the most striking and significant facts in connection with the relations of the United States to the Philippines is the prompt return to this country of all soldiers who can get away from the islands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,000 a month , yet Gen. Chaffee has had to cable for a thousand more cavalry recruits . This is by no means due to the losses from disease , or sickness , or disability , but to the circumstance that men can not be got to reenlist when their terms have expired . Each returning transport brings several hundred discharged men to San Francisco , and a number of regiments in or near Manila which were reorganized and filled up with fresh recruits early in 1899 , just after the war with Spain , have been almost paralyzed by the refusal of these men to reenlist . Thus , of the 1,200 men in the Twentieth Infantry , 600 have taken their discharges , including the majority of the non-commissioned officers , so that , as Col. McCaskey puts it , " the regiment will be practically disorganized . " The First , Fifth , and Sixth Cavalry , and Third , Fourth , Eighth , Twelfth , Twenty-first , Twenty-second , and Twenty-ninth Infantry are similarly affected . The men have but one idea , namely , to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . wish to stay in the archipelago , and it is well that not many are so inclined . When the volunteer army was mustered out last spring , there was an immediate glut in the white labor market , and , to prevent disorder and destitution , some ex-soldiers who had elected to stay were sent home . Nothing could show more plainly how little the Philippines have to offer to Americans without considerable means , and how utterly unattractive the insular conditions are to men brought up in the United States . How different the history of the Louisiana Purchase , of Texas , of California ! Secretary Root 's refusal to postpone the Cuban election set for December 31 is extremely creditable both to himself and to the Administration . It will be unsatisfactory only to the Maso party , which had hoped to bring about a delay , and it will not confirm the General 's followers in their belief that there is to be governmental interference in the election . That there has been some partisanship displayed by Cuban office-holders is altogether probable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intentions of our Government to get out of Cuba at the earliest Possible moment , and to permit no delay in the programme except for the " most weighty and substantial reasons . " As to the specific charge brought by Mr. Fidel G. Pierra , the representative of the Maso interests , Mr. Root points out that the political bias of the Central Board of Scrutiny in favor of one candidate furnishes no ground for overturning the complicated election machinery erected by the Constitutional Convention . He believes that to be a false theory of official responsibility which assumes that men in places of public trust will be guilty of malfeasance because they prefer one candidate to another . Most effective of all is Secretary Root 's demonstration that a compliance with Mr Pierra 's request would be the very interference in the Cuban election against which the Masa party has all along protested . The Secretary 's admirable letter should go far towards reassuring the Cuban public and all others interested that the United States will withdraw from Cuba in the first half of 1902 , if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of their republic . The ship subsidy people will take small comfort from the recent visit of the great English shipmaster , Sir Christopher Furness . He came to this country in order to see how we do things in. the construction of seagoing vesselt and in means of transportation generally . It he had had the interests of the subsidy people at heart , he would have pointed out the great disadvantage ' un der which our infant shipping industry lies , and would have urged Congress to consider so pitiful a case . But , most inconsiderately , he had his own interests in mind , and left in American shipyards orders aggregating four million dollars for twelve steamers of an average carrying capacity of eight thousand tons . The insidiousness of such an act would in the good old times have aroused the suspicion that the treasury of the Cobden Club was somehow involved in the purchase . To-day " Britigh gold-has not the hateful look it had a score of years ago , and probably even the ship-subsidy people will soon admit that we build ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not for the struggling ship-builder , but for the oppressed ship-owner . Sir Christopher Furness 's untimely confirmation of the well-known fact that this is the best place in the world to buy ships , recalls vividly the aphorism that one should fear the Britishers even when they bring gifts . One of the main difficulties to be encountered by the arbitration committee of the National Civic Federation was well illustrated on Sunday . While clergymen were terming the arbitration plan a great victory for humanity , the less gentle-mannered spokesmen of Cigarmakers ' Union No. 144 pointedly suggested that the arbitrators could have no control over any labor bodies , and that therefore no attention should be paid the proposal by asking for a report concerning it . Aspersions were even cast upon the conduct of labor delegates to the Civic Federation conference . It is just this divergence in point of view between the clergymen and the cigarmakers that has always impeded the progress of arbitration . As soon as a plan which contains elements of fairness to both sides is prepared , and which consequently appeals to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be viewed with suspicion by one party or the other . When confidence in labor leaders is lost by the men they represent , efforts at pacific settlement of a controversy are always regarded as showing readiness to play into the hands of the enemy . Labor organizations have not the close military discipline that enables bodies of men to accept defeat or its prospect without demoralization , and victory without arrogance . Justice Jerome 's proposal that the Legislature pass an act opening all the saloons in New York city Sunday afternoon and evening without consulting the voters of the city , has met the reception which was anticipated by those who know the strength of the home-rule sentiment in this State . Not a single newspaper , either in this city or in any other part of the commonwealth , endorses the idea that so radical a step should be taken by the lawmakers at Albany without a reference to the people , and in this attitude the press undoubtedly reflects public opinion . It is obvious that the only policy which can possibly secure favorable consideration by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a bill giving the voters of New York city a chance to shqw at the polls whether they want open saloons on Sunday or not . The movement for this referendum secures considerable support from people who oppose such opening , because it is now the general belief -- shared by the shrewdest politicians in both parties  --  that the vote would show a large majority against Sunday saloons . For this very reason , however , those who favor Sunday opening are against applying the local-option idea  --  especially the liquor-dealers , who fear that , if the people should once vote against opening saloons on Sunday , there might be a movement for a similar vote by wards or election districts upon the question of having saloons open on week-days , which would result in making some sections of the city " dry " all the time . If Senator Platt is really going to sue Mr. William Allen White and make it a test of personal and political friendship to read and denounce that writer 's article on the boss , it can only be taken among the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has lost his grip . Mr. White gives , to be sure , no flattering portrait of the boss , but it is difficult to find anything in his criticism which a jury would consider libellous . If Mr. White recalls a forgotten incident in Mr. Platt 's career at Albany , and says that he recently dozed through an important Republican banquet , these are presumably matters of fact , not of opinion . It can not be pleasant for Senator Platt to read that " he has no sort of conception of that part of a man which is called the moral nature " ; but it would certainly be difficult for a more strenuous idealist than Senator Platt to prove to the satisfaction of a court of law that he had a conception of what is called the moral nature . These , in short , are matters of opinion , not of fact . Mr. William Allen White has been generally recognized as the eulogist , quite as much as the analyst , of those in high place , so that the very contemptuous tone of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But we believe that Senator Platt has no remedy except to appear so great and magnanimous to his fellow-citizens that the contemptible figure which Mr. White makes him out to be , will be generally execrated as a grotesquely false caricature . With this sword envy may be always slain . Reciprocity has long been a favorite theme for meaningless verbal gymnastics , but the report of the Pan-American Committee conceals thought on that subject more successfully than even a political platform . It comes out strong for reciprocity treaties between the several American republics , based on " mutual concessions " and involving " reciprocal advantages " What these may be , the report , with more than Roman firmness , refuses to tell It defies the world , however , to deny that reciprocity is ' a fundamental principle of Pan-American-ism , " and angrily resents the charge that it favors any kind of reciprocity treaties which would not be both - mutual " and " stable . " We congratulate our delegate , Mr. Buchanan , former Minister to Argentina , for having put his name to a report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the skill with which he refrained from so much as mentioning the Argentine treaty of reciprocity with the United States , so contemptuously done to death in the Senate . This helps-to make our national position clear We are , to the last man , enthusiastically in favor of reciprocity in general ; we are , to the last Senator , unalterably opposed to any given treaty of reciprocity . The speech of Seiler Casasus at Mexico ( on December 17 ) , on the proposal to establish a Pan-American bank , expressed the undoubted policy of the Mexican Government in declaring that such an institution is only a mirage Governments , he said , can not subsidize particular banks , since such a course would be unconstitutional , as well as unfair to other banks . It is good to find delegates at the Pan-American Congress perceiving the logic of the situation so clearly . In the first flush of enthusiasm at the Congress , a plan for aPan-American railroad was proposed , and a committee was appointed to secure subsidies and land grants in support of the road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assist . The bank plan is another scheme of the same sort , and it is evident that Mexico is not to be one of the states that are " economically able " to support institutions without any clientele Probably every one of the South American countries would say the same thing . The suggestions of the Congress will , therefore , amount to no more than mild hints that the United States supply banking and trade instrumentalities to her neighbors on the south . The fact is that there is no use in establishing banks and railways until there is business for them . Another occasion for Continental dread of American enterprise is afforded by the reported operations of the American Tobacco Trust in Germany . The ascendancy in the English market already acquired by the Trust makes this latest extension of its sphere all the more remarkable . President Duke of the American Tobacco Company is now said to have purchased four large German- concerns . His plan is to unite two of these establishments and , with the three factories then remaining , to begin a contest for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too early as yet to express any opinion upon the possibility of the Trust 's succeeding in its present effort to enter Russia as well as Germany . Both in France and in Russia the production of tobacco is a most profitable Government monopoly , and , unless the Trust could introduce very marked economies in production , it could scarcely afford to pay the heavy royalty that would be exacted . That this , however , is a possibility , the success of the Trust in acquiring the tobacco monopoly of Japan clearly proves . The significance of these foreign operations in tobacco lies in the fact that the Trust seems to be proceeding upon strictly commercial lines . In England , where it now has a firm foothold , it went only so far in its purchases of domestic firms as to gain a point of departure It depends for the future upon its superior methods of production rather than upon artificial attempts at monopoly . How severely it is pushing the independent English concerns may be seen from their frantic appeals to patriotic smokers to use only home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Italian Senate , when the question of the responsibility of the United States for the security of Italian citizens in America was raised . The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs reasserted the eminently just position of his Government , that the payment of an indemnity as an act of grace is not adequate satisfaction for the failure to protect Italians in this country . That the families of lynched Italians should individually receive such indemnity he could not prevent , but he protested against a condition of things by which the United States refuses to foreigners the ordinary guarantees of a civilized nation . Invariably the President has had to make the hu =Hating confession that he had no jurisdiction in the matter , and as often Congress has taken the shabby course of offering blood-money , without apologies or guarantees for the future , or , indeed , any of the formal reparations which civilized nations offer in such a case . A simple - act of Congress would remedy this discreditable state of affairs . Twice , in his annual messages of 1899 and 1900 , President McKinley urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts jurisdiction in all cases in which the responsibility of the Government is involved . Twice the matter was ignored by Congress . President Roosevelt certainly does not yield to his predecessor in the sentiment of national honor , and we hope to see him take up vigorously a matter in which national honor is deeply concerned .                     