@@430036

 |p545  TO one who for many years in the great central West has been a constant and at least a somewhat careful student , from what may be called a mediterranean standpoint , of the many and marked changes which have taken place in academic life and theory and in civic affairs , Mr. Low 's withdrawal from Columbia University , and his acceptance of a second nomination for the mayoralty , are peculiarly interesting events . The history of education in this country is certainly unique . Whatever else in the way of institutions , customs , or laws came to as from the old world , the public schools ; or our school system ( if that does not imply too much organization at the start ) , was essentially original . Really there was little or nothing of this which we could profitably transplant ; all conditions here were such that we were obliged to strike out for ourselves on what were practically new lines . Our ancestors in the then new world saw quite clearly ? though with by no means perfect vision ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in this wilderness of God across the sea was to succeed , and was to have staying power , wide-spread intelligence among the people must be secured and assured . This accounts for the immediate setting up of the public school , for the statute as early as 1G47 requiring that " when any town is increased to the number of one hundred families or householders they shall set up a grammar school , the master thereof being able to instruct the youth so that they may be fitted for the University , " and for the early founding of Harvard College . From that day to the present our educational movement has been a steady growth under and meeting a constant and intelligent demand . Since the close of the Civil War we have advanced in this matter , as in all else , by leaps and bounds . For the last fifteen years the educational ferment has been continuous and extreme , and at times the stress and strain have seemed almost unbearable . Indeed , many men have broken under this or have been broken by it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official death-rate has at times been almost alarming , and city and college authorities have found it no easy task to secure men competent to meet the emergency of the hour . Such a critical moment in the history of Columbia College was reached about twelve years ago . The institution , chartered in 1754 , was well into its second century , and held an honored position in the academic world . Its resources and revenues had been thought ample , it counted among its faculty and officers many men of high standing and of wide reputation , and its alumni had made excellent records in their various professions and callings . But the time had come when the college must determine whether it would meet the reasonable demands of the new education , would respond to the best influences of the educational renaissance , would cease building the tombs of the fathers and would move forward . To many of its most faithful friends and supporters it was entirely evident that the institution could not stand still ? in the manual of the educational army there is no such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even attempted to do this it would retrograde . More than ten years ago , in a gathering of prominent educators in the city of Washington , when the question of a national university was under discussion , a Western man had said , " If Columbia College ever awakens to its true position and power , and the city of New York has its civic pride in that institution stirred to commensurate and practical appreciation , there will be no need of planning for a national university ; it will be Columbia . " To his credit be it recorded that President Barnard had recognized all this , with almost prophetic vision , and had wrought mightily to effect a change and to meet the near future demand ; but the time was not then ripe , and the seed which he sowed had long lain dormant . Now the authorities and friends of the college came to a like belief and faith . But to lift Columbia College to the plane of a true university , to quicken and enlarge its life , to make that life at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along this career of great usefulness and renown , this were a task calling for the exercise of the very highest administrative qualities . Absolute unanimity and hearty cooperation are at least as rare among college people as in the world at large , but substantial unanimity and very general cooperation were necessary to the success of the  |p546  movement . There must be readjustment at many points and growth at all points ; but readjustment always means friction , and growing pains are hard to bear . Money , a great deal of money , is required by modern education ; and money does not grow upon bushes by the roadside , especially by the side of a road which borders an estate thought to be wealthy ? and for some years a few officers , with not the clearest foresight , had rather unwisely boasted of Columbia 's riches , though for such a movement it was absolutely poor . The aims and methods and purposes and life of the new university must become known to all men ; but the public at large knew very little about Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be extremely distasteful to all college men , and harmful , if not fatal , to the undertaking in hand . Approved business methods were demanded , and to many faithful and loyal officers these seemed burdensome and undesirable and unnecessary . Above all , during the initial years at least of this reorganization , there must necessarily be a very close approach to one-man power , if certainty of movement and even reasonable dispatch were to be assured ; and nowhere is autocracy more unwillingly accepted than by a college faculty and by college men . These characteristics , then , must be united in one man if success was to crown the effort : a scholarly appreciation of educational needs and resources combined with rare business ability , a reasonable and sufficient acceptance of the traditions and spirit of Columbia , thoughtful consideration of the rights and welfare of others , a strong hold upon the confidence of his associates and of the community at large , accurate observation , sound judgment , tact , loyalty , good faith , patience ? the best qualities of leadership . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was just forty years of age , in the very prime of his life . He was graduated at the head of his class in 1870 . A little more than ten years later his ability , his manliness , his absolute independence , his strong sense of civic duty , and his fearlessness had so commended him to his fellow-citizens in Brooklyn that he was chosen mayor under the new charter of that city . His administration is well known and need not be detailed here and now . It constituted an epoch in the history of municipal government . Men who watched his career most closely during those four years saw the most to praise and the least to blame . Adverse criticism was rare and constantly decreasing ; appreciation grew into warm approval . When he turned aside from this task Brooklyn was one of the best-governed cities in the Union , and every Brooklynite was proud of Low . He hesitated long and sincerely about accepting the presidency of Columbia . He made no pretensions to being an educator in the technical or professional sense ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great , the necessary sacrifices were unusual ; he felt that there would be more or less misunderstanding and friction from the start , and he knew full well that there were chances of failure . But he had been loyal to his alma mater , both as alumnus and trustee ; there was no immediate demand for his services in any other direction ; the path of duty seemed clear and plain , and he had never shrunk from any duty . He accepted the call . The results fully justified the choice . Columbia College , though increased in attendance , in reresources and in reputation , is but one of the several entities which serve to make Columbia University . Barnard College , Teachers ' College , the Horace Mann School , the College of Physicians and Surgeons , the School of Law , the Schools of Applied Science , the School of Graduate Instruction , the Summer School , and the Extension work ? these , with the old college , constitute a notable collection of educational organizations under one management . The sphere of university influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roster of the instructional corps carries more than four hundred names , the graduate students who have already secured their first degrees , the true graduate students , " come from a large number of most renowned colleges and represent nearly every State in the Union . Even the old college is no longer merely local in its enrollment , but draws from many of the surrounding cities and States . The University , thus enlarged and expanded , occupies one of the most commanding sites in the metropolis , surrounded by other public institutions of unusual importance , the whole destined at no very distant day to give to the imperial city of the new world all the beauty and emotion of the classic Acropolis . To sell the old buildings and site at a good price , to purchase advantageously the land for another campus , to determine in all its details the occupancy of this new ground , to plan buildings and drive construction through to a finish , to transfer all departments with no serious break in their work , to successfully refund all outstanding indebtedness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire curriculum , and to thoroughly reorganize the entire educational machinery , to accomplish the affiliation of the hitherto independent colleges , and in ten years to be able to leave all this so reasonably complete that the leading spirit of it all may withdraw without a jolt or a jar being felt in  |p547  any part of the machine , and with no apparent lessening of either power or speed ? all this is surely a noteworthy achievement . It is , probably , without a parallel in the history of educational institutions . It is a very able administrator who can so determine and direct the relations and work of others that his own place and value are scarcely recognized , and that he can retire without causing what W all Street would call a slump in the local market . It is far easier and far more common to secure a reputation for brilliancy by keeping one 's self ostentatiously in sight , by insisting upon constant recognition and upon constant personal initiative , but this is not organization . In this already great University , Mr. Low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkably high and strong character and qualities . The newer and clearer and more rational thought in public affairs is that any unit of civic life is nothing more or less than a business corporation , a very practical and successful cooperative scheme . A city chaf-r and its accompanying ordinances are nothing more than a necessary expansion and enlargement of the constitution and by-laws of every four-corners ' debating club or high-school literary society or labor union , since each simply determines the ways and means of best accomplishing the purposes of the organization . Every citizen is supposed to contribute toward a common fund , and to contribute according to his financial or property ability . This common fund is supposed to be expended for common and public purposes , expended with the greatest economy consistent with efficiency , with absolute impartiality , and without the slightest reference to mere personal desires or personal benefits . The larger the number of co-partners in such a municipal scheme the more intelligent and the more active and the more complete must the co-partnership be . The greater the need , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest taint of indolence or indifference , or self-seeking or dishonesty . The people of a rural village can far more easily determine whether their one town constable or village marshal is honestly and efficiently performing his duty , without respect of persons , than the people of a great city can possibly be similarly informed about their chief of police , and therefore there is need of far greater care in the selection of the latter . The health officer of a small town may be quite indifferent and even remiss without very serious results , but the board of health of a city may not withhold its hand for a moment without a menace to the physical well-being of thousands . Whether the street commissioner of Kalamazoo , for instance , is quite equal to his task is of some consequence , but the shortcomings of the same official in New York are of infinitely graver import . Even the leading administrative officer of the country town may be quite an indifferent or impossible person and no citizen suffer very seriously thereby or therefrom ; but if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a frightful loss in general honesty and efficiency of administration , to say nothing of the natural and inevitable humiliation of every citizen . These comparisons and illustrations may be carried through the entire list of municipal servants . It has become evident , therefore , to all truly wise and thoughtful and thoroughly unselfish people that party politics as such , mere partisanship , ought to play no part whatever in municipal affairs . At least two political parties will always exist ; ought always to exist , because each will be a check upon the other , a stimulus to the other . In national affairs the raison d'etre of these is the necessary existence of a general administrative policy concerning each of several great problems , in the solution of which there is room for honest difference of opinion . Some similar problems exist within the lines of State interests ; and the States , in Senatorial elections at least , touch closely and influentially national conditions . There may be ground for the continuance of party organization within the States , therefore . But the problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every respect , and there can be no reasonable ground for insisting upon an observance of party lines in municipal elections . Tariffs , foreign relations , the currency , internal improvements , the national budgets , the organization of the army and of the navy , the disposition of public lands ? all these and others like them have no bearing , or but most indirect bearing , upon municipal life ; and if there chance to be a point of contact on the very outer edge of the circle the slight friction can not be cured from within . The essential results of successful municipal administration are safety and security for life , property , and the conduct of business affairs ; well paved and clean streets , plenty of artificial light at a reasonable price , sufficient pure water to supply all ordinary demands , healthful and comfortable homes , sanitary sewers with expert plumbing , breathing places and recreation places for young and old , efficient public schools , the proper public care of the poor and needy and defective , the maintenance of law and order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most complete realization possible of the well-known apothegm , From each according to his ability and to each according to his need . All these matters , how/ ever , are purely business matters , and are to be cared for by business methods . Men may be divided in opinion as to the best men or the best means by winch to accomplish the best results along these lines , and thus what may be called local parties may arise , but the cleavage will be , most be , on local lines and for local reasons , and for no other . For more than twenty years Mr. Low has stood squarely and insistently , and unselfishly and fearlessly , for this theory of business principles and not partisan methods in local affairs . He has been its most conspicuous advocate , he has been its very incarnation , and for four years he put all this into practice in a remarkably successful manner . It is scarcely too much to assert that the public affairs of Brooklyn during his mayoralty became as though his private business , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same basis and by the same methods as would direct his conduct of private affairs . He tried to save money for the people precisely as he would have tried to make money for himself . He endeavored to secure the largest possible returns from the resources at hand , just as he would have labored for like results for a firm in which he was a partner . He regarded taxes paid by citizens as a definite investment for a definite purpose , and he was as eager to realize upon this investment as though it had been made by or for a corporation of which he was a director or the president . He made character and efficiency the sole test for appointment to public service and the sole assurance of continued tenure . He carried municipal administration to the highest point of efficiency ever reached in this country . And in all he manifested the characteristics which gave him success at Columbia , and which made him conspicuous in the educational world . This is why , in the hour of their supreme need of honest , competent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our citizens have instinctively and confidently turned to Seth Low .                     