@@474669

THE middle ages have exerted their deepest influence on modern life through institutions . The institutions which have had the greatest influence are the Holy Roman Empire , the Papacy , rind the University . To the University the modern world is most deeply indebted for its intellectual development . The University of Paris , in causing this development , for eight hundred years , has been , perhaps , the most efficient force . What the Empire was to . government , what the Papacy was to religion , that was the University to the intellect of man ; and in tins intellectual progress the university on the Seine bore a principal part . Let us of the English tradition , who recognize that Oxford , of all universities , has the strongest national influence , not forget that it was students from Paris who contributed much to the early progress of Oxford . The Seine flowed into the Isis , and the Isis into the Thames . The history of the University of Paris , like the history cf Paris itself , is a history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the monks into the hands of the secular clergy , down to the beginning of the nineteenth century , when Napoleon established the University of France as a method of carrying on education of all types , the annals of the great school at the capital form a record of turnings and overturnings . These revolutions were ecclesiastical , political , educational , personal . The university and its chancellor were often at enmity ; the Pope occasionally did himself the honor of excommunicating the whole university ; not infrequently , too , the authorities of the university dissolved themselves and left Park ; the rector , from time to time , quarrelled with the deans ; the university occasionally condemned Parliament , and claimed its own right , as " the eldest daughter of the king , " to plead before the monarch only . In the fifteenth century the university was frequently involved with both the ecclesiastical and the civic authorities over questions of privilege . This quarrelsomeness , both in mood and act , may have some relation to the present separate condition of the higher education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various higher schools of the French capital , he is impressed with the manifold divisions . These divisions spring from , as well as unite in , the Minister of Public Instruction . They number no less than a dozen , including schools whose names are most general as well as those of very special teaching and application . Schools of the modern languages , of the higher normal instruction , exist side by side with the College of France and the University of Paris . The University of Paris in its formal relationship includes six departments ? the Faculty of Letters , the Faculty of Sciences , the Faculty of Law , the Faculty of Protestant Theology , the Faculty of Medicine , and the School of Pharmacy . But while one recognizes these divisions , he does not fail to appreciate , also , that all these schools , colleges , universities , and faculties have their origin in the Minister of Public Instruction . B u t what is possibly of greater significance in the administration of the higher education is the fact that the relationship of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cordiality of sentiments and beliefs and by warmth of personal regard of the members of the several teaching staffs . Side by side stand the buildings of the College of France and of the Sorbonne . In these two institutions certain courses of instruction seem to be duplicated , but the relationship is one of harmony and efficiency . They are , as are other institutions , essential parts of that great method known as the University of France , which represents with the great legal code the most lasting results of the work of the first Napoleon . Universities are like Tennyson 's brook ? governments may come and governments may go , but universities go on forever . With the risings and fallings of dynasties for eight hundred years in France , the university of its capital has gone on . It is pleasant to be able to say that its progress under the Republic for the last generation has been greater than its advancement under the last Empire . Universities ought , in the nature of things , to have a higher degree of prosperity under a democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more interested in securing for themselves the best things that education can give than any monarch , be he even the perfectly wise and good despot , can give them . At all events , the Republic is more efficient in the service of education than was either Napoleon III . or Louis Philippe . The demand for money seems , in fact , to be quite as insistent under a republic as under an imperial government . It appears also LO be as insistent in Paris as in Nev Unveil . Economies in university administration are evident . The pay of professors in the College of France is small ; $2000 ? the normal sum ? is not a large income for a college family in the . French capital . It is pleasant , however , to record that the beginnings of a pension system are made . But yet certainly it is not a sign of niggardliness in either the state or The municipality to find a university building erected at a cost of some seven million dollars . It is perhaps unique that this vast expenditure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Sorbonne , in which the university has its chief centre , was incurred in equal parts by the Republic of France and by the city of Paris . It is not Minneapolis or Ann Arbor or Madison which furnishes one-half of the money for the chief buildings of its university ; each university is a child of the State and not of the immediate municipality . But the sense of pride in their university is great in the people of Paris . It is the institution which has survived all changes . Among the whole French nation , too , is found a sense of pride in the University of Paris . But what is more important is that a belief exists , of course more or less unconscious and atmospheric , that the stability of a government by the people depends largely upon the intelligence of the people . Intelligence must increase , it is recognized , as government becomes more democratic . In securing such intelligence the guidance and inspiring force of universities are of prevailing worth . The chief place of the University of Paris is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an institution . The present structure , together with the building of the University of Vienna , represents the noblest academic architecture . The Vienna- building is more imposing and impressive to the general sense . The Paris building is amore delicate piece of art . For in certain relations the Paris building is simply an art gallery . The best of French painters of recent years have worked together in placing upon its walls representations of historic academic scenes and of scholastic interpretations . The immense painting of Puvis de Chavannes , which , next to Tintoretto 's great canvas at Venice ( Streater 's paintings which form the ceiling of the Sheldonian Theatre at Oxford are in thirty-two sections , although together they cover forty-six hundred square feet ) , is possibly the largest painting in the . world ? more than a hundred feet in length and inure than thirty in height . It is of course most conspicuous of all academic paintings , but it exists not alone ; for Chartran and Flameng have also put upon the wells of the corridors and ol the noble Faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lavoissier represent names , movements , and interpretations which lend themselves both to aesthetic impressiveness and scholastic inspiration . The whole impression given by the present building is a union of both the aesthetic and the scholastic . The contrast between the University of Paris and the German university system meets one as soon as he begins to reflect upon French methods and conditions . The two phrases , the University of Paris and the German university , are significant . France has only one university which is outstanding ; Germany has several , The French method has , on the whole , been one of centralization ; the German , of division . Do not Leipsic and Munich and Heidelberg represent in some departments results as great and opportunities as rich as those which Berlin offers ? The intellectual life of Paris has been enriched at the expense of all of provincial France . But the contrast does not end with administrative elements . It continues in scholastic concerns . In scholarship the Germans are more profound , the French more facile ; the Germans more learned , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Germans are more progressive in scholarship , more daring in hypothesis ; the French more careful and conservative . The Germans are more willing to push forward their hypotheses without regard to the limitation of a fact ; the French more inclined to keep to the teaching and the force of a fact itself . The French are far more responsive to the force of tradition . The Germans stand for the specialist , manifesting a deeper narrowness in treating a subject ; the French offer a view more comprehensive mid a wider conspectus . In Germany the philosophical faculty is superior to the professional ; in France the profession has attained a place more conspicuous . Few , if any , university lectures are so dear in their articulation or so pleasing in their presentation of truths as those given in Paris ; none are more learned than those offered in Berlin . The German professor and student are greater men ; the French greater gentlemen . In Paris , as in the German university , the thesis plays an important part . Undoubtedly the best German theses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the best written by French students ; but also undoubtedly the poorest German are poorer than the poorest French . A mediocre French student , wishing to get a doctorate , usually manages to collect enough literary stuff to make a fairly good presentation . A mediocre German student , a candidate for degrees , would be passed in certain universities who would be refused in Paris . On these grounds it may be added that it would be wiser for the American student to begin his advanced studies in Paris , and to continue them in Germany ; but there are other grounds which make the opposite course desirable . For the methods of university work are better in the institutions of the northern side of the Rhine . The students study harder , and moral conditions seem to be more sane . For the French institution is seeking to attract students from America . The desire is constantly and strongly expressed to divert such men from going to Germany . " Do you welcome American students ? " I asked the obliging secretary of the College of France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was his emphatic reply . In fact , of the four degrees ? the Baccalaureate , the Licentiate , the Doctorate in Science and Letters , and the Doctorate of the University ? the lest one , established about ten years ago , was established confessedly as a rival to the German Doctorate Philosophy . It was in no small degree a bid for American students . So far it has not accomplished its purpose . For it must be acknowledged that the American home is hardly eager to entrust its sons , of even twenty-five years of age , to a lengthy residence in Paris ; and in any consideration of an academic question the wishes of an American father and mother do , and should , early and strongly emerge . But there is a more fundamental and general consideration preventing American students from coming to Paris . Latin peoples and life are not so akin to the Anglo-Saxon peoples and life of the New World as are the Teutonic . Such a fact constitutos a reason , more or less strong and general , against the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite another sort urging him . In the case of the student of the fine arts such reasons do exist . If France had been able to support and continue the popularity which she enjoyed in the American Republic ? a republic which she helped to make ? for the forty years following the war of the Revolution , her great capital might have attracted American students as Leipsie and Thine began to do in the early decades of the last century . It is to be feared that the time is now too late . The great French university exists primarily for the French people , despite alliances and associations formed to promote the coming of foreigners , and especially of Americans . For as a permanent condition the Anglo-Saxon peoples do not mingle so easily with peoples of Latin origin and traditions as with those of a more strictly northern source and environment . Yet Americans arc losing in their knowledge and appreciation of certain subjects in not coming to Paris . The Romance tongues can here be best studied , despite the indebtedness which the French acknowledge they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diez . This indebtedness covers both literature and philology , for Diez was the teacher and inspirer of Gaston de Paris , of ' Faller , and of Mussaffia . It is also probably true that in general there is no better place for studying the sciences than Paris offers . One . moreover , need hardly look upon the mere list of courses in the political and social sciences without being deeply impressed with the richness of the opportunities thus presented . Great universities in great cities are usually better fitted to promote the discovery of truth than to train men . Small colleges placed in small towns are usually better equipped for the training of men than for the discovery of truth . But in the University of Paris both purposes prevail . I asked a distinguished savant which purpose was the stronger , and his reply was , " They are both equally strong . " The same reply would be given by the members of the teaching staff of most American universities , but on the whole the discovery of truth seems to me to he at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more immediate human purpose . Coeducation is in Paris , as in most Continental universities , the customary method . Women come and go , work by the side of the men , and men by their side , and neither minds the other . This condition is so unlike the relation which obtains in many coeducational colleges in America , in which each does mind the other ; but a lecture-room is quite a different affair from a recitation-room ; and a great university in a great metropolis is quite unlike a small college in a small college town , or a large university in a small inland city . In the Continental university , men and women listening to an academic lecture , or even working in the same botanical laboratory , have practically no more relation than they would have in seeing a play in the same theatre , or worshipping together in the same church . The high quality of teaching found in French schools is due in no small degree , both directly and indirectly , to the University of Paris and to the Be()le Nor-male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school , established like similar schools in America , as a place for the training of teachers . Its diploma is of great worth in securing and holding a good place on a teaching staff . It has not yet been able to pass out of a stage of ridicule and of a certain degree of dislike on the part of some scholars , although its work is of a very high character . This excellence of the work itself , however , is lifting it to a high and wide place of esteem . In the general scheme of scholastic sympathies and affiliation the relation existing between this school and the University of Paris is helpful to each . The university may present content of knowledge , and the normal school methods for making this content available as a teaching instrument . In Paris and France , as in America , the best teacher represents the liberal training of the higher education united with the professional training of the school of education . There is one lesson for us American college folk , which springs out of the student life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allude . Students everywhere are sure to have a life of their own . Is it not frequently remarked to the American student that he " should not let education spoil his college life " ? In case the academic authorities fail to provide fitting opportunities for students to live their own life , they are sure to create such opportunities for themselves . Such opportunities thus created are in grave peril of not being the best . Such opportunities are far from being the best in Paris . The American college placed either in the metropolis or the country village should seek to open fitting opportunities for students to have their good times together . The times which they thus have together will prove to be good in every sense of the word . But if the college or university make and keep itself remote from its students , if it give the impression or have the belief that it has done its full duty to its students when it has set before them certain lectures , students will be inclined to take the college at its own interpretation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a life thus sought and enjoyed often represents forces and conditions which disintegrate manhood . Those characteristic gatherings , the students ' balls , are not things to be imitated in - Boston or New York or Chicago . The whole athletic condition in the American college has evil features ; but the lack of a similar interest in the Continental universities opens the way to students to have interests which are far less desirable . Better by far is the American football game even at its worst than the Students ' Bel Bullier of the Boulevard Saint-Michel. 