@@474089

THE most striking fact in the development of the industrial combat during the last two years is the extensive and firm organization of employers . They were compelled to form compact and trustworthy associations by their experience of the force which could he exerted by the large organizations of labor against any single employer . They found that their only safety was in the organization of trustworthy associations of employers in each of the principal trades or occupations , and also of comprehensive associations which represent the employers in a great variety of industries . These trade associations are , of course , various , because the interests and needs of the different trades and manufactures are various . A single uniform policy is nut to be expected in all employers ' associations except on the main lines of action . The effort after a uniform policy in regard to wages and hours , which characterizes the federated trade-unions , is , in my view , a dangerous one , whether for the trade-unions or for the employers ' associations . The diversities in the industries and occupations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which the same industry is prosecuted in different places differ so widely , that the public may reasonably distrust efforts at universal legislation or universal policies ? that is , legislation or policies which are supposed to cover a great variety of trades , or are intended to produce the same rates of wages . and the a me hours of daily labor over wide areas of our vast country . It is clear that an almost indispensable mode of conducting one industry may be entirely inapplicable in another industry , and that such diversities extend to rates of wages , to the number of hours which count as a day 's work , and to the distribution of the hours of labor through the twenty-four hours of the day . Some industries , like a blast-furnace , for instance , must be carried on incessantly , day and night , and month after month ; others , like a cotton-mill , in ordinary times run steadily a definite number of hours out of each twenty-four , and have no difficulty in stopping overnight or over Sunday ; others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with hours of unseasonable activity , and regular daily periods of corn-punitive inaction . Some trades are active at certain seasons of the year and dull at others . In some trades the effort of the worker is steady and monotonous ; in others it is intermittent and various . In seine trades all the labor is heavy and hard ; in others it is all light and easy . I expect therefore to see the employers ' associations resisting , and resisting successfully , uniform legislation affecting either wages or hours of labor . The employers having organized strong associations , it has become highly important to find some tests which may be applied to the policies of these strong and numerous associations to distinguish the good and safe policies from the evil and dangerous ones . The efforts of the employers ' associations are becoming very strenuous , and are encountering equally strenuous efforts on the part of organizations of labor ; so that it is all-important that the employers : policies ? and . indeed , the unions ' policies also ? in all thlr diversity should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies of the labor-unions , such as the closed shop , the limitation of output , and the effort after a monopoly of the labor in each trade or occupation , certainly do not now command public apEMPLOYERS ' POLICIES IN THE INDUSTRIAL STRIFE . 529 prove/ . What tests or criteria can we apply to the policies of the new employers ' associations to discriminate the selfish from the unselfish policies , the policies which will prove acceptable to the community at large from those which will prove unacceptable ? In the first place , whenever an association of employers shows that its effort is , after all , directed to the attainment of a monopoly , like the habitual effort of every labor-union , it will certainly fail to command public confidence . Monopolies are no more welcome to the free people of the United States to-day than they were to our English ancestors four hundred years ago . The contest against monopolies granted by the sovereign for the profit of his government , or of his own purse , was one of the great steps in the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free institutions , aided by all the new facilities for transportation and intercommunication over great distances , is one of the most striking social and political phenomena of the present generation . The world has never before seen such elaborate or such successful efforts after the acquisition of monopolies as the last thirty years have witnessed under the free governments of the world , first on the part of hands of working-people , and secondly on the part of hands of capitalists . In the long run in a free country neither sort of monopoly will approve itself to the public , or be permitted to exist without public regulation . A monopoly of all the labor in a given trade , sought in order that the trade-anion may regulate wages , hours , and output in that trade , will never commend itself to a free people ; no more will the effort of capitalists banded together to prevent competition , to corner the market , and control prices commend itself to a free people . These two monopolies are equally dangerous and detestable . Therefore the employers ' associations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every suspicion that they are attempting to acquire monopolies in their several trades , or to restrict that free competition which is essential to the progress of all the industries and to the building up of the whole community in comfort and happiness . Some monopolies there must be ; but every inevitable monopoly , like vac . ex. ? eqe. 658. -6 6 a street railway or a gas company or a patent , should be strictly regulated and limited by public authority . This avoidance of the monopolistic tendency is , however , a negative quality . Are there any positive tests by which the rightful policies of employers may be recognized ? It seems to me that there are two such tests , and these I proceed to describe . The first I should state thus ! the policy of an employers ' association is rightful whenever it clearly appears that in the execution of that policy a single employer or a great association of employers is promoting the development of private and public liberty . If , on the contrary , a policy adopted by employers tends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or public liberty ? the chances are that the policy is wrong or dangerous to the public weal , not right or beneficial . To illustrate what I mean by this test I shall use the following list of the objects of an employers ' association in Boston which was formed within the last six months . The association states its objects as follows : ( 1 ) No closed shop ; ( 2 ) No restriction as to the use of tools , machinery , or materials except such as are unsafe ; ( 3 ) No limitation of output ; ( 4 ) No restriction as to the number of apprentices and helpers when of proper age ; ( 5 ) No boycott ; ( 6 ) No sympathetic strike ; ( 7 ) No sacrifice of the independent workman to the labor-union ; ( 8 ) No compulsory use of the union label . Do these eight objects tend towards liberty or towards the restriction of liberty ? " No closed shop . " That means resistance to the most effective policy of the labor-unions to . procure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a measure in defence of competition . Now , the restriction of competition is inimical to personal and public freedom , to progress , and to the common well-being . " No restriction as to the use of tools , machinery , or materials . " There again the effort clearly is to prevent bonds being put on the development of the trade or on the introduction of improvements . It tends towards freedom . " No limitation of output . " That principle not only tends towards freedom , but it tends to the development of independent and unusual powers in the individual workman , which is , indeed , a most important element in individual liberty . It resists , of course , the most demoralizing doctrine and most enfeebling practice of the labor-unions . " No restriction as to the number of apprentices and helpers when of proper age . " Is that an employers ' policy which tends towards freedom or towards the restriction of freedom ? In education we should not for a moment doubt but that this policy tended towards freedom . Even Napoleon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy tends to promote ? " Every career open to talent . " To partition off and regulate wisely and effectively the numerous grades of labor which can be employed most advantageously at the various stages , or in the various parts , of a series of operations which contribute to the creation of a valuable product , like a building , a car-load of dressed beef , or a ream of notepaper with envelopes to match , is nowadays one of the most important elements in business success . The labor-union tries to limit the employers ' freedom in this essential part of his business by forcing on him a prescribed proportion between the skilled , the less skilled , and the unskilled laborers in his shop or factory . The employers ' associations must resist this effort of the unions , if the business of the country is to be conducted in the most productive and profitable manner . To give employment to two , or three , or five , unskilled men in place of one highly skilled man may be as great a public service as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if it results in a larger valuable product at a lower labor cost . It should not be forgotten , however , that the apprentice system has been in past centuries , and is still to some extent , an unjust and unprofitable method . It was a slow and wasteful way to teach a trade , and was liable to great abuses through the selfishness and brutality of employers . Any bright and diligent youth can learn a deal more in three years at a good trade-school than in seven years of apprenticeship , and at lower cost in money as well as time . " No boycott . " A boycott is a mean and illegal attack by a multitude of men on an individual trader , worker , or producer . It is of course a savage attack on the liberty of the individual . So long as organized and federated labor uses this detestable weapon in the interests of labor monopoly , so long must employers ' associations endeavor to protect their members against this dangerous form of monopolistic assault . " No sympathetic strike . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looks toward liberty . It promises to prevent the use of a formidable weapon to cripple a single firm or factory and to enforce a boycott . " No sacrifice of the independent workman to the labor-union . " Until within times still recent employers have neglected to observe the principle here stated ; yet there is no more fundamental and righteous principle than this , and none more essential to the preservation of industrial liberty . The violations of this principle occur , of course , in those industries the continuity of which is all-important to the owners or to the community , like the industries concerned with transportation or with the supply of coal , water , or food . Continuity in these industries is so important to the entire community that employers in them are required by public sentiment to make every effort to prevent any interruption in them . Accordingly , when a strike occurs in such an industry , the employers or owners enlist non-union men who are willing to risk their lives and fortunes , and endeavor to carry on operations with these new recruits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled , with or without compromise . Whereupon the owner or employer turns adrift all the non-union men who have come to his aid at their own proper peril , and takes back all the strikers in a body . They are , of course , more valuable to him than his new recruits , because they know the work better ; and ho sacrifices the strike-breakers to his immediate interest . A meaner or more short-sighted policy it would be difficult to imagine . Is it not clear that such a policy on the part of the employers must work against a just industrial liberty ? Is it not clear that it is the duty , and in the long run the plain interest , of every employer suffering from a strike not only to protect every man who comes to his help , but to make sure that that man continues to be employed , if in any reasonable time he can learn the business ? One of the main reasons for the frequency of strikes for trivial reasons is the sure belief on the part of the strikers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or weeks or , at worst , a few months , and that then they will all return to their jobs . This belief on the part of strikers , and of people who are thinking to strike , has been fully justified until recently by the unjust and dangerous policy of employers towards strike - breakers . A large majority of strike-breakers in any single case will probably be green hands ; but it is the interest and duty of employers to convert them gradually into experienced hands . If only this principle of this new association of employers could be generally enforced ? " No sacrifice of the independent workman to the labor-union " ? we should see that workmen would strike only for serious reasons ; for they would feel that in striking they were risking the permanent loss of their jobs , and were making themselves liable to a complete change of residence or of occupation . I know no more valuable principle or method for the promotion of general industrial liberty than this statement ? " No sacrifice of the independent workman to the labor-union . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ label . " Is that a regulation which tends toward liberty ? Let us observe that the union label is , next to the closed shop , the most effective weapon for securing to the labor-union in any trade a complete monopoly . Its direct effect is to secure and maintain a monopoly , and to facilitate the enforcement of serious penalties for disobedience to the union . I find every one of these eight principles to be in defence of private and public liberty . They all bear that test . It is not in industrial affairs alone that this test may be safely and wisely applied . I am sure it should be applied to every educational policy- . It is only when the governmental policy of school , college , or university tends towards liberty ? that is , tends to give play to the free spirit of youth ? that the policy willhave any hope of lung life or large hope of conferring practical benefits on the community . So it is with wars and with governmental policies . Have there been any wars which later generations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase , or development , or protecting of public liberty ? Are there any promising or even prudent policies in government except those which do away with some restraint of freedom , or give freer play to the native human instinct for liberty ? I come now to the second test which I conceive should be applied to all employers ' policies , namely this do they tend to promote good-will between employers and employed ? After all , the great thing to be done to make the industries of any people effective is to secure the good-will of the men and women that labor in those industries . What is the reason that slavery as an industrial method is notoriously unproductive and costly ? There is no good-will in it . What is the reason that any man who feela that he is working for the direct benefit of his family and himself will work a deal harder than a man who has no such belief ? It is all a question of good-will . If all the work-people in our country , organized or unorganized , felt to-day that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own uplifting and their own happiness , they would work with such a will that the productiveness and general efficiency of labor would mount to an inconceivable height . The ultimate question about . the industrial situation is , therefore , how to promote good-will in labor . We must all desire that every individual employer should constantly bear in mind this test of his own policy , and of his association 's policy ? does it tend toward good-will between the employer and the employed ? How can this tendency be secured ? Only by thoughtfulness , considerateness , and sympathy , and by constant care for right relations between the employer and the employed . How can such right feelings be expressed ? Not by any form of benevolence or condescension , and not by the giving of favors , but by the recognition of rights and the giving of earned privileges . Of course we all believe that the arrangements called " welfare " arrangements tend in the direction I am now advocating ; but welfare arrangements should never be presented as if they were a benevolence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of securing the natural good-will and the natural cooperative effort between employer and employed . All health arrangements come under this head . The great depressing influences that diminish national productiveness are low bodily condition , sickness , and premature death , all of which result from failure to take care of the bodily vigor and the animal spirits of the workmen . All contrivances which make the workman feel that he has a personal share in the success of the shop or factory in which he labors tend strongly to the promotion of good-will . We need , however , many more inventions of this sort . We already have the method of piece-work , of contract work by groups of workmen , the premium method , the method of commission on sales , the rising wage with length of service , and the sharing of profits with the employees . All these are experimental . There is a difficulty with all of them , ? namely , that a method which works well when the establishment is profitable may work ill , or not at all , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments are needed in this direction , new moans of promoting the sense of common interest between the employer and the employed . The problem of establishing good-will between the employer and the employed will , however , take us much farther than welfare arrangements and profit-sharing . The employer will have to interest himself not only in the efficient productiveness of his workmen while they are at work , but in their social surroundings and their opportunities for rational pleasure . There is no separating attention to the general physical and mental well-being of large groups of working-people from the industrial problem of establishing good-will . Municipal well-being must be made a part of industrial well-being ; and the thoughtful employer will interest himself in the condition of the town or city where his works are established , and in the opportunities for enjoyment it affords , just as he will interest himself in the tidinessand wholesomeness of his factory , and in the appearance of the grounds about his works . A dirty , squalid , ugly town , without parks , play-grounds , libraries , cheerful schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and day by a pall of smoke , can never be the permanent seat of a prosperous industry where reign health and good-will . Among sound employers ' policies may always be included their policy in regard to the discipline of the works or shops , for the reason that this policy has a great deal to do with the establishment and maintenance of good-will . It is a reasonable expectation on the part of working-men , who feel that they are in partnership with the owner , that they should have a right to confer with him and advise him about the rules of the works . It is a reasonable expectation that complaints should be promptly attended to and investigated by the right person , ? not by the person who is complained of , or by any impatient and arbitrary person . It is amazing how rough and thoughtless many employers have been in this respect . An employer of many thousands of men in a crude industry which demands vigor and a certain daring in the individual workman once told me that he attributed his exemption for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dealing justly with complaints . The employer 's ignorance about just sources of complaint , or his failure to provide a just method of dealing with complaints , is the commonest source of ill will between an employer and his workmen . Since the establishment of good-will in the workmen will inevitably be highly profitable in any commercial or industrial undertaking , the things which promote good-will should engage the constant attention of all employers , and the promo-ion of good-will should he the best test of the policies of employers ' associations . I discern , then , three tests which the public may well apply to the policies of employers , and indeed to the policies of trade-unions as well : first , do they take sufficient account of the immense variety of industries , shops , stores , employments , and occupations ? Uniform regulations or policies , except in regard to fundamental matters , are not to be expected . Secondly , do they promote personal and public liberty ? Thirdly , do they promote good-will ? It is obvious that many of the policies which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests . There is great room for improvement , and for the manifestation of a wiser and kindlier spirit than the past has brought down to us . Unions or associations among men or women who follow the same business or calling , whether employers or employed , are perfectly natural and inevitable under free institutions , where the right of association is universally conceded and , indeed , protected by law . The labor-union and the employers ' association are both going to last ; but both need to consider and reconsider their policies , and to make them conform better than they have ever done to the elementary principles of public justice and public liberty ; so that together they may promote peace and good-will among men . The trade-union is indeed indispensable in the great industries which employ thousands of work-people ? men and women . It provides a desirable facility for the single employer and for the associations of employers ; for it permits them to confer with , or consult , great bodies of employees through elected representatives . What we must regret is , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have in several important respects been misdirected . What we have to hope is that out of this conflict between trade-unions on the one hand and employers ' a &soeiations; on the other there will arise two safe , just , and wise lines of cooperative policy ? one in the unions , the other in the associations of employers . 