@@486634

Everybody has been too busy with the election to notice that silver has suffered the direst calamity which has befallen it since the " crime of ' 73 . " While the Republican and Democratic managers were jubilantly swelling imaginary majorities , silver , mate and inglorious , was suffering real depreciation , with no Bryan to cry to heaven in its behalf . In calmer language , silver was selling for 40.50275 an ounce , the lowest price that the white metal has- ever brought . Not so many years ago this would have been the occasion for tearing down the temple 4:7d Rimmon and of " riding in blood to the bridle bits . " To-day most of the Democratic States have abjured Bryan and Waite  --  their works and their phrabesand silver rises or sinks in the markets of the world like beans or pig iron , " without the weed of a melodious tear . " President Roosevelt chose a poor advocate when he permitted Postmaster-General Payne to be his spokesman regarding the removal of Internal Revenue Collector Bingham of Alabama . If , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was removed because he adhered to a form of party policy in Alabama not approved by the President , there would have been no excuse for the action . Using the Federal service as a means of partisan punishment is just as bad as using it as a means of partisan reward . But we think Mr. Payne has misrepresented the President . Collector Bingham evidently not only violated the rule which the President has insisted upon , against pernicious political activity on the part of Federal officers , but he also engaged In a scheme , thoroughly scandalous in its nature , for excluding qualified delegates from the Republican convention because of their color . Here was ground enough for his removal , and it was like the President at his best to act promptly and decisively . Mr. Roosevelt is right on the main contention also . If there is any justification for Alabama 's new Constitution , it lies in the fact that only illiterates and paupers are by its letter excluded , while negroes , as well as white persons , who can qualify , may vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitled to full political privileges , and a Republican Administration can not sit by and see them denied . It would be doubly shameful if - Federal officials were permitted to become ringleaders in trampling upon negro rights . In view of official attempts to explain away- the tariff-reduction plank of the Iowa Republican platform , Secretary Wilson 's report on the entire West , which he has recently visited , is of decided interest . He finds Republicans everywhere in an " attitude of inquiry . " They are questioning whether great combinations of capital have not got beyond - control , whether certain industries could not survive if the present duties were lowered ; finally , " they do not believe that the tariff schedules are inspired like the Lord 's Prayer . " Secretary Wilson , on the whole , commends this studious attitude of the Western Republicans . His optimism will hardly be shared by the Hannas and Grosvenors of the party . " What ! study the tariff , think about it ! " ? we may imagine them saying ? " there is nothing to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity . " Addicks is very bitter towards Republican newspapers which continue to point out his gross unfitness for election to the United States Senate . He bids them " confine themselves to the affairs of their respective localities . " But the election of a United States Senator is not a matter of interest to a given locality alone . On the contrary , the splendid determination and energy of the anti-Addicks Republicans of Delaware , in keeping this political blackleg out of the Senate , has tended to raise the tone of political morality throughout the Union . Addicks declares that no human power can cause him to give up the fight , and , despite recent reports , all the indications are that he will brazen it out to the end . His policy of " rule or ruin " has deprived-Delaware of representation in the Senate for many years . He is prepared to continue this policy whatever the cost to the State . It seems possible that the deadlock may be prolonged . The Legislature just elected will be made up of twenty-eight Republicans , twenty-three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are anti-Addicks men , and the experience of recent years furnishes foundation for the hope that they will remain stanch . It would seem that there is now an excellent opportunity for the election of compromise candidates by a combination of the anti-Addicks and Democratic votes . However this may be , it is a great relief to know that the disgrace of Addicks 's election is almost certainly averted . In the course of his successful canvass for Governor of Pennsylvania , Judge Pennypacker said that he was in favor of ballot reform , but " could not believe " that half the stories which were told about election frauds in Philadelphia were-possibly true . It is to be hoped that the extraordinary returns from two Philadelphia wards in the late voting have been brought to his attention . In 1900 McKinley received 1,738 votes in the Third Ward . This is a quarter of the city where the population diminishes year by year , rather than increases , yet the returns gave Pennypacker 3,650 votes , more than double the number received by McKinley two years before : In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population , McKinley received 1,967 votes in 1900 , while Pennypacker is credited with 5,176 this year . The total vote in these two wards in 1900 was 5,470 . The total vote as given this year is 9,500 , an increase of more than 4,000 . Such unblushing frauds speak for themselves . There can be no decency in the politics of Philadelphia , nor , indeed , of Pennsylvania , until the purity of the ballot is insisted upon and secured . There is an end of all government if such travesties of popular elections are to be tolerated . Yet it was a Republican victory won by such criminal methods , in the hands of one of the most hated and corrupt bosses in this country , that President Roosevelt said he was hoping for with " keen interest " ! The Republican politicians of this State are much agitated by the prospect of a Democratic Attorney-General in the next State Government . The name of Mr. John Cunneen happened to be oil both the Democratic and the Prohibition tickets for that office . It is not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances seem rather favorable to him . As soon as this contingency became known , there was a hasty putting together of heads to see how the laws of the State could be changed so as to deprive the Attorney-General of his usual functions . It appears that the powers of this officer have been augmented lately , so that he now has charge of the legal business of all the departments of the State Government . Such powers must bring within his ken many facts that a Democrat ought not to know . So what is to be done if Mr. Cunneen is actually elected ? We would suggest that a law be passed restricting the Attorney-General to his duties as a Commissioner of the Land Office and a Commissioner of the Canal Fund . These are the only functions which the State Constitution gives him . It leaves the assignment of his other duties to the Legislature . So , you see , there is no occasion for fluttering over the possible election of a Democrat to that office . Who 's afraid ? In bringing forward again his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his utter inability to grasp the meaning of the voting in this ' city last week . If , after driving the independents from the support of Republican candidates , he now wishes to force away also a large proportion of the enlightened Republicans , let him attempt to put this plan through . He says he wants to take the police out of politics . This has a- noble-sound , but , unfortunately , people have acquired a habit of looking sharp when Platt suggests political improvements . In this case no especial acuteness is required to discover his aim . He sees quite clearly how he could make use of an organization of , say , 8,000 men , all subject to his will . It would furnish a most excellent political machine , and could readily be made the medium of bestowing rewards and inflicting punishments . That is the only reason why he proclaims that the State Constabulary Bill may be pressed on the Legislature this winter . If it is not passed , it will be because there is a Governor at Albany who has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the principle of home rule for cities , during his term of office . Platt exhibits already a wholesome fear of the lash . Mr. Odell has only to come out squarely against the constabulary- scheme , - - as lie did before , and Platt will have to put his bill away in a pigeon-hole again . Open warfare on the unscrupulous boss is the way to head off his nefarious schemes , as it is also the way to defeat his arrangements to disgrace New York by pretending to represent it at Washington . - A plan for reducing taxation in this city by $8,500,000 per year was submitted by Comptroller Grout a. few weeks ago to the Chamber of Commerce and to various banking institutions and experts in finance for examination and advice . In substance , it proposes to discontinue the excessive collection of money for the sinking-fund , and reduce such collections to the amount necessary to meet and extinguish the city debt as it matures . It is a fact not generally understood , although Mr. Levey , the former Deputy Comptroller , took all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for sinking-fund purposes are so far in excess of the legitimate needs of the sinking-fund that , if continued till 1928 , a surplus of nearly $300,000,000 will have been accumulated , in excess of the sum needed for paying and cancelling the debt maturing at that time . The whys and wherefores of this anomaly in finance are not easy to explain . Public sinking-funds in general are hard to understand . That of New York city is a patchwork composed of so many different pieces and shapes that it is a very confusing study If we were starting a new system of municipal borrowing we should adopt a better plan . But as the present complicated system exists , and as it has led to the consequences shown by- Mr. Levey , by Mayor Low and Comptroller Grout , it is best to grapple with them now . We concur with the view expressed by the Chamber of Commerce , and we do not share the doubts which some persons entertain respecting the " contractual obligations " entered into by the city with its bondholders . Neither of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more money than was needful for the sinking-fund , and no court will hold that the contract has been violated if the collections are fully sufficient for the purpose . Judge Lambert deserves the high praise which has been accorded him for his conduct of the latest trial of the Molinuex case . He has got it to the jury in the merest fraction of the time consumed before . And his expedition has not been achieved at the cost of justice : the rights of the defendant he has scrupulously safeguarded . Nor has the prosecution been limited in its efforts to prove Molineux guilty , except as the rules of evidence and the decision of the Court of Appeals have been rigorously enforced by the presiding judge , to exclude irrelevancies and to prevent anything like a fishing excursion . Judge Lambert has , in fact , exemplified in the happiest way the Anglo-Saxon idea of the judicial character . Impartial as the light of day , and without one touch of the hectoring fashions of a Inge dinstruction , he has been clear in his decisions , resolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy only of verbosity and irrelevance , and relentless in compelling both sides to save time and come to the point . This wholesome lesson to trial justices in this county has been read by a country judge . Judge Lambert is a " hayseed . " He comes from the Me noire of Mr. Coler , " up the State . " Yet he is only typical of the class of men whom the rural voters are in the habit of placing upon the bench . The truth is , that they know more and care more about judicial fitness than do people in the city . The county and district courts still hold much of their old plade in the life of the interior of the State . The leading lawyers of the local bar are watched and sifted in actual trial of their powers . They are talked about on the street-corner and in shop and home . Judges , too , in the nice points of their conduct of cases , are discussed and weighed as , it is safe to say , no occupant of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a finer sense of judicial qualification , a more ready jealousy in resenting anything like tampering with the judiciary or lowering its standards , and the election of judges who are , on the whole , of a robuster and a more athletic type , legally speaking , than their metropolitan brethren . A very striking proof of the countryman 's sensitiveness about his judges was given in the defeat of Attorney-General Davies . on Tuesday week , though President Roosevelt thought him just the man fora judgeship , and urged , not to say intrigued for , his nomination . The shocking " accident " in Madison Square on election night should lead to a rigid investigation of the custom of permitting the use of the city parks for political celebrations . Quite aside from the danger to life and limb through the explosives an &; from the vast crowds which assemble in narrow thoroughfares , the parks and public gardens were never intended for any such purpose . They are for the recreation and health of the people , not for the celebrations of political parties or the display @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Hearst Congressional rally in Madison Square Garden , the other night , thousands of-people trampled on the grass and swarmed over the Square until it looked as if it had been the stamping-ground of an invading army . In this case the abuse of the park was all the more disgusting ; since the entire circus was in the interests of a self-advertising newspaper proprietor and his noisy sheet  --  although under the guise of a Democratic rally . No matter what the object or who the backers of the demonstrations , the police and the park authorities should forbid all such meetings and celebrations . The , crowds along Broadway were dangerously large throughout the evening , and a wise police administration would have taken every means to prevent such an alarming jam as in Madison Square . The Department must share the responsibility for the accident with the person who was so criminally careless in setting off the fireworks . Canvassing for the next Speakei ship , of the House seems a trifle premature , in view of the fact that the new Congress will not meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1903 . The canvassing will doubtless go on , however , and " plays for position " will be made throughout the coming session . It is universally agreed that Speaker Henderson has been a great success at least one respect  --  he has made it inevitable that his successor , whoever he may be , shall shine by force of contrast Congressman Cannon is commonly thought to have a commanding lead for the succession , both from his long service and from his standing so peculiarly as the representative of the West which alone saved the Republicans their majority If a cautious Speaker is wanted , averse to innovations and unfriendly to bold initiative of any sort , Mr. Cannon would seem to be lust the man . He was understood to be opposed to the ship-subsidy scheme . If that is a reason for making him Speaker , it would be a still stronger reason in favor of Congressman Burton of Cleveland , who was more courageous than Mr. Cannon and spoke out unequivocally against Hanna 's pet measure , even though a representative of Hanna 's city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service in Congress , but we presume his occasional independence of party would be urged against him , as it would against Mr. Littlefield of Maine . Both of the last-named members would stand for a more aggressive policy than Mr. Cannon . This fact , however , as party caucuses go , would not help them to obtain the honor . Professor Jenks of Cornell University has just submitted at Washington a report on labor conditions in the Philippines which is not precisely pleasant reading . He has no doubt that some form of the core &; system is necessary , and he suggests that gangs of Chinese be imported for terms of three or five years , and allotted to certain districts which they may not leave . The employers are to be put under strict bonds to treat these laborers well , and to send them back to China when their period of contract-servitude expires . The reason for adopting this form of temporary slavery is that the native supply of labor is insufficient and untrustworthy . We do not know whether the Government will bring itself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally in the South Seas . If it does , there will not be lacking clerical apologists to point out that these Chinese are packed in ships and herded in gangs for their own good and for the greater glory of God . But we trust that we shall not return again to the cant of slavery times . Professor Jenks 's report , which is presumably correct from the economic standpoint , should direct the public mind and conscience to the real cons tions of empire in the tropics . Uncle Sam as a conquistador and pacificator does very well , but we are convinced that very few of his nephews will be glad to acclaim him in the role of slave-driver . President Eliot put his finger on one of the ailing spots of trades-unionism when he said , on Monday , in his speech before the Economic Club of Boston , that some of its principles fought against both education and manly instincts The aim of the educator is to call out the best that is in man . Labor unions hedge him about , check his skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead level either of competence or effectiveness . They make rules which are as so many doors closed in the faces of ambitious young men . By limiting the number of apprentices , they do their best to prevent the ( development of special aptitude , and then discourage it when it does appear . Nothing could be more fatal , judged by the laws of education and of evolution in general . And to make the standard of work as low as possible , to produce the least allowable and to demand the highest wages for it obtainable , can but result in a race of shirks and drones . Such was the tonic gospel of work which the President of Harvard laid down , not only as teacher but as citizen . In his mind it would be lamentable to have our working classes drop to the fatalistic temper which trades-unionism has done so much to implant in England . " We can not rise from our class , " says the British mechanic , " no matter what we do ; so do not talk to us of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a deadened and discouraged America when that hopelessness prevails here . The Education Bill drags out a very weary length in . Parliament , progressing through committee at the rate of a few lines a sitting , and even so only through the application of the closure . The justification for these tedious proceedings is the fact that the clause now under debate determines the degree of control that the educational authority may exercise over the voluntary schools . Voluntary schools are those which have been previously maintained by a denomination ( but , practically , only the Church of England schools are in question ) , from private funds , with the aid of a small Government subsidy . Under the Education Bill such schools are to provide and maintain their buildings free of charge , in return for which their running expenses are to be met from the public funds . These schools , however ; are under a double control , which is very ill defined . In strictly educational matters they are responsible to the County or Municipal Council of the district , and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as respects local management generally , they are responsible to boards of managers appointed on a basis of two representatives from the denomination to one from the community at large . The exact jurisdiction of the educational and that of the denominational authority remain vague , even after much debate . It will we seen that the two authorities approach practical problems , such as the appointment of teachers , from a markedly different point of view . The County Council , for example , wishes simply a good teacher ; the local managers will insist that the gocid teacher be also a high , low , or broad churchman , as the case may be . The compromise which has actually been made suggests trouble to come . No appointment of the managers shall be vetoed by the higher authority except upon educationat grounds , and per contra the managers shall be free to dismiss a teacher upon religious grounds . Minor concessions to the Nonconformists , such as waiving trust stipulations as to creed in the case of subordinate teachers , and the opening of the voluntary schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the main anomaly of the bill  --  that the local managers , virtually a private denominational committee , will have in half the schools of England a power which , in the other half , is exercised by a duly appointed public committee . In plain words , the arrangement virtually shifts the support of the voluntary schools upon the Government . The unfairness of the transaction is so apparent that Mr. Balfour , who obviously has his Parliamentary majority safely in his hand , will soon have to reckon with the people . The greatly diminished polling in a Liverpool Unionist constituency shows that even in his own party Mr. Balfour has a threatening opposition . The meaning of the Kaiser 's visit to England is variously guessed at by the press , but all correspondents agree that the royal kinsmen are perfecting important negotiations between their respective nations . Journalistic warnings to fear the Germans even when they bear treaties seem beside the mark , for the German Foreign Office is in no position to offer reciprocal terms of trade . Whatever is on foot at Sandringham , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are two points at which the relative holdings of Great Britain and Germany obviously need adjustment ? China and Southeast Africa . In China Germany has just taken the initiative in recommending the withdrawal of the foreign detachments , an act which must have been very gratifying to Great Britain . In Parliament recently the versatile Mr. Gibson Bowles forced the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs to a tacit admission of the existence of a secret treaty with Germany concerning South Africa . Viscount Cranborne 's rather awkward evasion of the question tallied accurately with the rumor that Great Britain held an option of purchase on the southern portion of Portuguese East Africa . And now the inclusion of two Portuguese naval officers among those decorated on the King 's birthday reminds one of the care which is taken to gild an awkward transaction with extraordinary amenities . Such a redistribution of the territory below the Zambesi would gratify German pride and further British interests , while the East African would probably feel none the worse for the change of sovereignty . The frank avowal of such an intention would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's motives which is unhappily at variance with the warmth of his official reception .                     