@@473799

THE early sixties have left a clear and deep impression on my memory . It was in the earliest of the sixties that I settled in London for a life of journalism and literature , to be much interrupted afterwards by polities . The London of the early sixties bad no Thames Embankment and no underground railways and no tram-ears ; the law courts on the Strand had not yet been dreamed of , and some of the judges still held their tribunals within enclosures opening from what I may call the off-side of Westminster Hall . But the outer aspect of London street life was not very different from that which we can contemplate at the present day . I think I am warranted in saying that , even when we take the latest schemes of metropolitan improvement into view , the general appearance of the streets of London has not undergone , since the early sixties , anything like the changes which have been made in New York and in Paris during the same time . When we consider the changes which have taken place in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people of England had been living just the same life during the lapse of all these forty years and more . Let us take the condition of France , for instance . The Emperor Napoleon the Third was then at the zenith of his power and his fame . He had but lately defeated the Austrians in the campaign of which Solferino was the greatest triumph , and he was universally regarded as the most powerful sovereign on the continent of Europe . Even those in England who most strongly condemned his usurpation of power and his despotic rule felt reluctantly compelled to regard him as the founder of a new dynasty and as the force which bad finally extinguished in France the republican system brought in by the great Revolution . On the other hand , almost all Englishmen were agreed in regarding the position of von evil ? ice . 641 ? 9 6 Prussia as one of mere insignificance , and out of all consideration so far as political influence was concerned . Not one of our statesmen or our leading political writers seems to have given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressed him as a rising power or a power capable of rising in the political affairs of Europe . I do not know of any phenomenon in modern history more curious than the apparent incapacity of English statesmen and political writers , at that time , to make any forecast as to Prussia 's political possibilities . The American republic was just then engaged in its great domestic struggle , and the war between North and South created , naturally , an intense excitement throughout England . It may , indeed , be said to have divided the people of England into two hostile camps ? the advocates of the Northern States and the advocates of the Southern secessionists . It may be said not unfairly that the whole of what we describe as " society " in England was in favor of the South , and fully believed that the South was certain to make itself an independent republic , while the advanced Radicals of whatever order in England and all the English working population were on the side of the Northern States , and were confident that the Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule of its Pashas , and the Ottoman power in Turkey was still regarded by many Englishmen as a needful bulwark of British interests against the possible encroachments of Russia . The wildest dreamer had not yet thought of a system of railways extending from Egypt to the Cape of Good Hope , or of Russia opening up the resources of Siberia by the pathway of the iron rail . Palmerston and Lord John Russell were still rivals or colleagues ; Brougham and Lyndhurst were still waking up the House of Lords by their curiously contrasted styles of eloquence ; Gladstone had already achieved some of his most splendid financial triumphs ; Cobden had accomplished a great commercial treaty with France ; and Bright was the foremost democratic orator in the House of Commons . Disraeli still held his place without a rival as the brilliant leader of the Conservative party in the representative chamber , and Sir Edward Lytton Bulwer was able to convince the audiences in that same chamber that a writer of showy and fascinating novels might , notwithstanding the most serious defects of articulation , prove himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature our acknowledged leaders were Tennyson , Dickens , and Thackeray , but Thackeray 's life came to a close at a very early period of the sixties . Carlyle was creating a school of thought and of letters all to himself , and John Stuart Mill was teaching us the principles of political economy and of expanded political Liberalism . Robert Browning had not yet become the fashion , and only by men end women of intellect was recognized as a great and genuine poet . Maeaulay 's career as essayist , historian , verse-writer , and parliamentary debater had just conic to an end . George Grote had still some years of noble work before him , and although he never could be called a popular historian in the ordinary sense , his influence on the study of history was inestimable . Maclise and Landseer were probably the most universally admired among painters . The great singers of the operahouses ? Covent Garden and Her Majesty 's ? were Grisi , Alberni ( jenny Lind had ceased to sing on the operatic stage ) , Mario , Tamberlik , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Mathews , Charles Kean , the Keeleys , and Buxton were most popular , and Helen Faucit was recognized as the most successful actress in the Shakespearian drama . Macready had taken his final farewell of the English stage before the time with which our narrative opens , and Frederick Robson had just begun to make himself famous in his short career as the creator of a style which combined in original , fantastic , and unsurpassed fashion the elements of the broadly burlesque and the deeply tragic . There is one peculiarity belonging to the early sixties which I can not leave out of notice , although assuredly it has little claim to association with art or science , with literature or politics . The early sixties saw in this and most other civilized countries the reign of Crinoline . It is well for the early sixties that they had so many splendid claims to historical recollection , but it may be said of them that if they had bequeathed no other memory to a curious and contemplative posterity , the reign of Crinoline would still have secured for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I may say without fear of contradiction that no one who was not living at the time can form any adequate idea of the grotesque effect produced on the outer aspects of social life by this article of feminine costume . The younger generation may turn over as much as it will the pages of Punch , which illustrate the ways and manner of civilization at that time , but with all the undeniable cleverness and humor of Punch 's best caricaturists , the younger generation can never really understand , can never fully realize what extraordinary exhibitions their polite ancestresses made of themselves during that terrible reign of Crinoline . " Hang up philosophy , " says Romeo , " unless philosophy can make a Juliet " I should not like to say bang up caricature unless caricature can make a crinoline , because such a sentence , if it could by possibility be carried out , would only speak the doom of the caricaturist 's amusing and delightful art . The fashion of crinoline defied caricature , for the actual reality was more full of unpictoresque and burlesque effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outspread sheet of paper . The fashion of crinoline , too , defied all contemporary ridicule . A whole new school of satirical humor was devoted in vain to the ridicule of crinoline . The boys in the streets sang comic songs to make fun of it , but no street bellowings of contempt could incite the wearers of this most inconvenient and hideous article of dress to condemn themselves to clinging draperies . When T first came to London Dickens was at the very zenith of his fame and his influence . To meet him in the Strand or in Piccadilly was an event to be remembered in the life of a young man then passing through the streets of London . Dickens began his literary career as a reporter in the gallery of the House of Commons , and in my early days of journalism T heard from elder men engaged in the same occupation many an interesting and delightful anecdote of his remarkable skill in his work and of his genial and companionable qualities . The great novelist seemed to make it a part of his work to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical help to its development When he started Household ' Words he gathered around him quite a school of men who were then very young , and most of whom became under his fostering care successful and distinguished writers . Most of them have passed away since that time , but the names of such men as George Augustus Sala , Andrew Halliday , Edmund Yates , Wilkie Collins , and many others are still remembered . John Rollingshead , who was one of the cleverest and best writers of that school , and who afterwards turned his attention almost altogether to theatrical management , is still living . Dickens discovered and brought out the lyrical genius of Adelaide Anne Procter , daughter of Bryan Waller Procter , the poet . who disguised his identity for a long time under the assumed name of Barry Cornwall . Adelaide Procter sent some verses to Household Words without giving her real name . Dickens read them and saw at once that they had high poetic promise in them , and he welcomed the young writer to the ranks of his contributors , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he came to know of her relationship with his old friend . Dickens was superb as an after-dinner speaker , and was , I think , the greatest master of that modern form of eloquence T ever remember to have heard . But he was a great master also of the eloquence which belongs to the public platform , and proved himself so on the rare occasions when he took a leading part in some popular movement . Thackeray was becoming known to readers as a brilliant and original writer of magazine articles before Dickens had made his sudden uprising to the frontrank in literature . Dickens must have still been a reporter in the House of Commons press gallery while Thackeray was beginning to make a certain reputation for himself among the readers of magazines . Nor did Thackeray achieve , even by his first published book , anything like the reputation instantaneously accomplished by Dickens on his first venture in the form of a volume . My own recollections of my boyish days make it clear to me that Dickens was recognized as a great author before those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's literary life had come to know anything about the rising genius of Thackeray . I can even remember that we were all in those days so completely possessed by our admiration for Dickens as to feel a kind of resentment when we read in London papers that a new man was coming to the front who threatened a possible rivalry with the author of Pickwick : and Niehaus . Niekleby . I had the great good fortune at a later period to have the opportunity of meeting both men several times in London , and to have the honor of being introduced into some slight acquaintanceship with each of them . My life holds no clearer memories than those which it treasures of Dickens and Thackeray . The first time I ever saw Thackeray , except as the solitary figure on a lecturer 's platform , he wore a thick mustache , and the mustache was of a dark color , contrasting oddly with his white locks . That first sight of him thus unusually adorned was on the platform of the Lime Street Station , Liverpool , when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steamer on his way to deliver his course of lectures in the United States . There were a few small groups of people gathered on the platform to get a glimpse of the great author as he passed out , and I well remember that one enthusiastic young lady , who was personally quite unknown to him , went boldly up and pressed a bunch of roses into his hand . Nothing could be more graceful and genial than the manner in which Thackeray accepted this unexpected tribute , and took off his hat with a benignant smile in acknowledgment of the gift . I had heard most of Thackeray 's leetures before that time , and had , like all his hearers , been fascinated by their manner as well as by their matter . Thackeray had , indeed , none of the superbly dramatic style of delivery which made Dickens 's readings and speeches so impressive . Ria voice was elear and penetrating- , and his articulation allowed no word to be lost upon his listeners , but he never seemed to be making any direct appeal to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner of the lecture as well as its literary style had an intense fascination for all who came to listen . I have heard many great orators and lecturers in my time and in various countries , and I never made one of an audience which seemed to hang upon the words of the speaker more absolutely than did the men and women to whom Thackeray delivered the finest passages of his many lectures . I feel no regret now that Thackeray did not succeed in his one attempt to obtain a seat in the House of Commons . At the time when the contest took place I was , of course , in the youthful glow of my ardent admiration of Thackeray , an intense partisan of his candidature , and I looked upon it as nothing but the height of audacity on the part of his opponent , Edward Cardwell , afterwards Lord Cardwell , to contest the seat against such a man . The contest took place in 1857 , and the constituency was the city of Oxford . In after-years I felt nothing but satisfaction that Thackeray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not help thinking , uncongenial ambition to become a member of Parliament . I can well remember Alexander Kinglake , one of the most brilliant writers of his time or of any time , when he had a seat in the House of Commons and occasionally took part in the debate . The general impulse of listening members was to ask themselves whether this ineffective and labored speaker could really be the author of the famous Rothen . I can remember that another writer of books which were immensely popular in their day , Thomas Chandler Haliburton , the author of Sane Slick , when he sat in the House of Commons made a very poor figure there , and was once turned into ridicule ? fancy Sam Slick being made ridiculous by a happy sentence or two from Mr. Gladstone . It would indeed have been a subject of regret to all lovers of literature if Thackeray had been permitted by unkindly fate to run the risk of becoming , as I feel sure he must have done , a mere Parliamentary failure . In the early sixties Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even those who remained in an attitude of uncompromising resistance to his sovereign authority could not deny the extent of his domination . Those of us who did not fully acknowledge his rule were somewhat in the position of living Russians who will not recognize the authority of the Czar , but do not pretend to deny or ignore the fact that the Czar is a mighty monarch . There were some of its in the sixties who preferred to take our thinking from John Stuart Mill , for instance , but we did not affect to deny the power of Carlyle , and we could be as rapturous as his own professed disciples in our admiration fur many of his writings . When I think of Carlyle himself ? the man and not his hooks ? I always think of him as a moving figure on Cheyne Walk , Chelsea , This is not because I first saw Carlyle in the Chelsea region , but because my recollection of him during all the later years of his life brings him hack as a resident of Chelsea whose form was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historic quarter . The only occasions when I had the good fortune to be in his company arc associated with friendships in Chelsea . I had but few opportunities of being in Carlyle 's society , and my acquaintance with him was very slight indeed , but I must always retain a very vivid impression of his manners and his conversation . I may say at once that he impressed me rather too much for my own ease and comfort . I was only beginning my life as a worker in London just then , and I was naturally shy and diffident in the presence of a man whose intellectual greatness I so thoroughly recognized . His manner seemed to me to have something overpowering in it . We had one great poet in those days of the sixties , and his name was Alfred Tennyson . Now I hasten to rescue rayself from any possible mistake on the part of my readers by announcing at once that we were quite aware of the existence of other poets as well . Some of us had lived in the latter days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had passed many times before his home in the Lake country with the hope of getting a glimpse of the poet himself ; but Wordsworth lay buried at Grasmere many years before the sixties set in , and Tennyson had succeeded to him as Poet Laureate ? a title which in those days at least was understood to confer upon its bearer the highest place in the living poetic order . Perhaps I may also observe in vindication of the early sixties that we were most of us not unfamiliar with the works of a poet named Robert Browning , and of those of a poetess named Elizabeth Barrett Browning , who died at the opening of the period which 1 am now recalling to memory . But the appreciation of the Brownings was as yet confined to the few , and it had not yet become the fashion to give to Rohert Browning his due place in the foremost order of English poets . Tennyson , therefore , was the acknowledged king of living poets , and it did not occur to the general public to admit any rival to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under very striking and appropriate conditions . It was during the visit paid by Garibaldi to London in 1864 , and I was one of those who were invited by the hospitality of the late Mr. Seeley , a member of Parliament with whom Garibaldi was then staying at his home in the Isle of Wight , to meet the Italian visitor . There were many Englishmen of great distinction there , and Tennyson was the most conspicuous among the guests . Tennyson 's appearance was very striking , and his figure might have been taken as a living innstratiun of romantic poetry . He was tall and stately , wore a great mass of thick , long hair ? Iong hair was then still worn even by men who did not affect originality ; his frame was slightly stooping , his shoulders were bent as if with the weight of thought ; there was something entirely out of the common and very commanding in his whole presence , and a stranger meeting him in whatever crowd would probably have assumed at once that he must be a literary king . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , an imposing and unique occasion . That last time was on the day when Tennyson , just endowed with a peerage , was formally introduced to the House of Lords . I watched the ceremonial from the bar of the House of Lords , the place where members of the House of Commons are privileged to stand . The whole ceremonial is a severe trial for the nerves and the composure of even the most self-possessed and selfsatisfied among newly created peers . The newcomer wears for the first time his robes of state , and these robes make a garb in which it is hardly possible for any novice not to appear somewhat ridiculous . The new peer is formally conducted by two of his brother peers into the House of Lords , is presented with due ceremony to the Lord Chancellor and other leading members of the House , and has to make many genuflections and go through many forms which bear , to irreverent eyes , a suggestion of theatricality and masquerade . Tennyson comported himself with modesty and dignity throughout the whole of this peculiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the performance had been carefully rehearsed , which we assume it certainly was not , Lord Tennyson could not more successfully have gut through his part in the dramatic exhibition . My personal acquaintance with Cardinal Newman was of the slightest , but I had many opportunities of listening to him and of observing his bearing and his ways . I saw him for the first time before the opening of the sixties . While I was living in Liverpool , just before the Crimean war , Newman delivered there his famous series of lectures on what was then regarded as the Eastern question , the existence of the Ottoman power in Europe . The lectures were singularly impressive , although they made no pretension to the graces and the thrilling tones of eloquence . No man was a more accomplished master than Newman of all the resources which the English language can command . I heard him speak and preach on many later occasions , and he always seemed to me to have a certain distinct faculty of eloquence which has nothing to do with mere rhetoric , but is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had served under Sir Charles Napier in Seinde , bad accomplished his famous pilgrimage to Mecca , haul taken part in the Crimean campaign , and had gone with Spoke on the quest for the sources of the Nile before I came to know him . He lied acquired a full knowledge of Hindustani , Persian , and Arabic . I first made Burton 's acquaintance during one of his occasional visits to London , where I had then settled down to a life of literature and journalism . I can well remember my first meeting with him at a club made up of rising authors and journalists which used to hold its meetings at a small hotel in the Fleet Street region . Among the men whom I remember in association with that club , and whose names still live in public recollection , were George Augustus Sala and William Black : and these two were of the company on the night when I first had the good fortune to meet Richard Burton . I met him several times during that visit of his to London , then an interval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing of him , and then in days which do not belong to the sixties I renewed my acquaintance with him and maintained it until his death . During the first period of our acquaintance I knew in him a man very different from the Richard Burton I came to know in his later life . The Richard Burton whom I first met was exactly the type of man one might have expected to meet if one had read all the won , derful stories told , and truly told , of his travels and his adventures . If you had set to work to construct out of your moral consciousness a living picture of the hero of these experiences and exploits , you would probably have created an eidolon of the Richard Burton whom I came to know at the club in the Fleet Street region . Burton then seemed full of irrepressible energy and the power of domination . He was quick in his movements , rapid in his talk , never wanted for a word or an argument , was impatient of differing opinion , and seemingly could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he found himself a centre figure . His powers ofdescription were marvellous ; he could dash off picturesque phrases as easily as another man could utter commonplaces ; could tell any number of good stories without ever seeming to repeat himself ; could recite a poem or rattle off a song , could flash out jest after jest sometimes with bewildering meanings ; he was always perfectly goodhumored , and he was always indomitably dogmatic . I know that I should not have ventured to dispute with him even if he had asserted that in certain parts of Arabia three angles of a triangle were equal to five right angles . Then I lost sight of Burton altogether for many years , and time went on and soon left the sixties behind . Meanwhile , the world was always hearing something about Burton and his travels and his doings , He had written and published many books and some translations , and had occupied himself much in the elaborate preparation in his own annotated version of the Arabian Nights . I renewed my acquaintance with him during the later years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses of friends in London . At that time I first had the good fortune to meet Lady Burton , the gifted , charming , and devoted wife whose influence had such a refining and ennobling effect on Burton 's temper and manners . I have never observed a more remarkable change in the personality of any man than that which I saw in the manners and , so far as I could judge , in the very nature of the Richard Burton whom I knew in the sixties . The . genius , the intellectual power , the unfailing variety of thought and expression , the quest for new ideas and new experiences ? these were always the same . But the Burton of later days had grown kindly , cons iderate , paticnt of other men 's opinions , ready to put the best construction on other men 's motives , unwilling to wound , though certainly not afraid to strike in defence of any cause that called for his help . I could not but ascribe this remarkable change in Burton 's bearing to the sweet and gentle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love and devotion which she felt for him , and the tenderness with which she applied herself to bring out all that was best in him .                     