@@474214

NOTHING could have been further from the thoughts of the wise statesmen who guided the United States through the struggle for independence and laid the foundations of the government 's foreign policy than the institution of a philosophical propagandism for the dissemination of political principles of a certain type in foreign lands . Although the Declaration of Independence loudly proclaimed the theory of the natural rights of man , they gave to this theory , in. its application to their own concerns , a qualified interpretation , and , as practical men , forbore to push it at once to all its logical consequences . On the continent of Europe , the apostles of reform , directing their shafts against absolutism and class privileges , spoke in terms of philosophical idealism , while the patriots of America , though they did not eschew philosophy , debated concrete questions of constitutional law and commonplace questions of taxation . In Europe , the revolution meant first of all a destructive upheaval ; in America , where the ground was clear , it meant a constructive development . And yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a powerful stimulus to revolutionary agitation in Europe . There was hi the very existence of American independence , permeated , as it was with democratic republicanism , a force that exerted a world-wide influence in behalf of political liberty . Of this fact European statesmen betrayed their appreciation when they deprecated the course of the King of France in subordinating what appeared to them to be a permanent general interest to the gratification of a feeling of enmity towards Great . Britain . Spanish diplomatists were not alone in expressing this sentiment . The Emperor Joseph II . of Austria , in a letter to his minister in the Netherlands , in 1787 , remarked that " France , by the assistance which she afforded to the Americans , gave birth to reflections on freedom . " That the assistance thus given hastened her own revolution , there can be no doubt . Nor did the visible effect of the example of the United States end here . It has been manifest in every European struggle for more liberal forms of government during the past hundred years ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungary . It penetrated even to Russia , where ( here was found among the papers of one of the leaders who planned a revolution for 18213 a constitution for that country on the model of the Constitution of the TTnited States . And it may also be traced in the lives of those who have striven to advance the cause of self-government on the American continents . While the United States refrained from aggressive political propagandism , the spirit of liberty that resulted from its independence was necessarily reflected in its diplomacy . It . is true that the attitude of the government on certain special questions was for a long while affected by the survival in the United States of the institution of African slavery . It was for this reason that the recognition of Haiti , Santo Domingo , and Liberia as independent states did not take place till the administration of Abraham Lincoln , although such recognition had long before been accorded by European powers . But the attitude of the United States towards those countries was exceptional , and was governed by forces which neither diverted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the principles on which it was founded . The influence of the United States in behalf of political liberty was dearly exhibited in the establishment of the principle , to which we have heretofore adverted , that the true test of a government 's right to exist , and to be recognized by other ? governments , is the fact of its existence as the exponent of the popular will . This rule , when it was announced , appeared to be little short . of revolutionary , since it was in effect a corollary of the affirmation made in the Declaration of Independence , that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed , and that , whenever any form of government becomes destructive of the ends for which governments are instituted , it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it and to institute a new government , laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its affairs in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness . Nor was the free spirit of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial monopoly ; in its espousal of the principles of the Monroe Doctrine ; or in its advocacy of the freedom of the seas , of the rule that free ships make free goods , and of the exemption of private propertyat sea from capture . The weight of its influence was also constantly lent in favor of the maintenance of the independence of the countries of the Far East . In the treaty with China of June 18 , 1358 , made . at a time when the Chinese government appeared to be peculiarly friendless , we find the remarkable stipulation that " if any other nation should act unjustly or oppressively " towards that country , . the United States would " exert its good offices , on being informed of the case , to bring about an amicable arrangement of the question , thus showing their friendly feelings . " But , besides exerting an influence in favor of liberty and independence , American diplomacy was also employed in. the advancement of the principle of legality . American statesmen sought to regulate the relations of nations by law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weak against the aggressions of the strong , but also as the only means of assuring the peace of the world . The conception of legality in international relations lay at the foundation of the system of neutrality , which was established during the administration of Washington . It also formed the basis of the practice of arbitration , which was so auspiciously begun at the samo time . Half a century later it received an accession of strength in the development of the process of extradition . It is true that in the development of this process in modern times the credit of the initiative belongs to France ; but , beginning with the Webster-Ashburton treaty of the 9th of August . 1842 , the United States , at an important stage in the history of the system , actively contributed to its growth by the conclusion of numerous conventions . The twenty-seventh article of the Jay treaty provided for the surrender of fugitives charged with murder or forgery ; but it proved to be for the most part ineffective , and expired by limitation in 1808 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of seven offences , and proved to be efficacious . Similar treaties with other countries were soon afterwards made. , ten being concluded while William L. Marcy was Secretary of State , during the administration of Pierce . Since that time the number of treaties has been greatly increased , and their scope has been much enlarged . We can not afford , however , to rest on our laurels . In recent times other nations , and especially Great Britain since 1870 , observing the propensity of criminals to utilize improved facilities of travel , have by legislation as well as by negotiation vastly increased the mach and efficiency of the system . It will therefore he necessary , if we would fulfil the promise of our past and retain a place in the front rank , steadily to multiply our treaties and enlarge their scope . No innovation in the practice of nations has ever more completely discredited the woftil predictions of its adversaries than that of surrendering fugitives from justice . The Webster-Ashburton treaty was loudly denounced as a mere trap for the recovery of political offenders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these direful forebodings been justified by the event . American diplomacy has also been characterized by practicality . It has sought to attain definite objects by practical methods . Even in its idealism , as in the advocacy of the exemption of private property at sea from capture , it has shown a practical side . The same disposition has been exhibited in the American consular service . Consuls have been described by publicists as agents of commerce ; but for a long while their functions were passive rather than active , and to some extent were ornamental . The government of the United States conceived the idea of employing its consuls not only for the protection of commerce , but also for its extension . In 1880 , while Mr. Evarts was Secretary of State , there was begun the monthly publication of consular reports , which has been continued with useful results up to the present time . American diplomacy has also exerted a potent influence upon the adoption of simple and direct methods in the conduct of negotiations . Observant of the proprieties and courtesies of intercourse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " no notion of cheating anybody , " American diplomatists have relied rather upon the strength of their cause , frankly and clearly argued , than upon a subtle diplomacy , for the attainment of their ends . American diplomacy has in the main continued to be a simple , direct , and open diplomacy , the example of which has had much to do with shaping the development of modern methods . The effect of democratic tendencies on American diplomacy is seen in the course of the government of the United States with regard to diplomatic uniform . As early as 1817 American ministers had a prescribed dress which was fixed by the mission at Ghent . This dress consisted of a blue coat , tined with white silk ; a straight cape , embroidered with gold , and single-breasted ; buttons plain , or , if they could be had , with the artillerist 's eagle . stamped upon them ; cuffs embroidered in the same manner as the cape ; white cashmere breeches ; gold knee-buckles ; white silk stockings , and gold or gilt shoe-buckles ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the French nor so small as that - used by the English ; a black cockade with an eagle attached , and a sword . On gala-days and other occasions of extraordinary ceremony the American ministers were allowed to wear more embroidery , as well as a white ostrich feather , not standing erect , but sewed around the brim , in their hats . A description of the costume , together with a plate , was given to the minister as a part of his instructions . At the beginning of the administration of President Jackson the prescribed uniform was changed so that it consisted of a black coat , with a gold star on each side of the collar near its termination ; underclothes of black , blue , or white , at the option of the wearer ; a three-cornered chapeau bras ; a black cockade and eagle ; and a steel-mounted sword with a white scabbard . This dress , which was supposed to correspond with the simplicity of American institutions , was recommended , but not prescribed . These instructions were , however , done away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Secretary of State , on June 1 , 1853 , by which American ministers were desired , as far as practicable without impairing their usefulness , to appear at court " in the simple dress of an American citizen . " If this could not be done without detriment to the public interest , the nearest approach to it , compatible with the due performance of duties , was earnestly recommended . " The simplicity of our usages and the tone of feeling among our people is , " said Marcy , " much more in accordance with the example of our first and most distinguished representative at a royal court than the practice which has since prevailed . It is to be regretted that there was ever any departure in this respect from the example of Dr. Franklin . " Wharton , in his International Law DigeA states that the dress worn by Franklin " was Quaker full dress , being court dress in the time of Charles II . " ; it was at any rate comparatively simple . The experiences of the American ministers in carrying out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ en-countered by Buchanan , at London , where his proposal to appear at court without some mark indicative of his rank was the subject of peremptory objection . He finally compromised upon appearing in the dress which he wore at the receptions of the President of the United States , with the addition of a very plain black - handled and Hack - hilted dress sword . With this addition , he declared that he never felt prouder as a citizen of his country than when he stood amidst a brilliant circle of foreign ministers and other court dignitaries " in the simple dress of an American citizen . " At Paris , Henry S. Sanford , who was then acting as charge d'aiTaires ed inierini , of the United States , was permitted to appear at the Tuileries in citizen 's dress . When , however , the new minister , John Y. Mason , arrived , he decided , after consultation with the French officials , to adopt a uniform , and had a costume devised which was described by Sanford qwq not destroy the spirit of emulation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operation of this rule , a striking example may be seen in the act of Congress by which provision was made for the appointment of ambassadors . Prior to the passage of this act it had been assumed to be undesirable to introduce into the American diplomatic service a grade of officials deriving extraordinary ceremonial privileges from the fact that they were supposed in a peculiar sense to represent the " person " of the " sovereign . " William L. Marcy , when Secretary of State , naturally declined to recommend the creation of such a class . Secretary - of - State Frelinghuysen , viewing the matter in a practical light , thought it would be unjust to American ministers to increase their rank without raising their salaries , and that Congress could not with propriety be asked to make them " an allowance commensurate with the necessary mode of life of an ambassador . " Mr. Bayard , who was afterwards to become the first American ambassador , declared , when Secretary of State , that " the benefits attending a higher grade of ceremonial treatment " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in OUT simple social democracy , might attend upon the reception in this country of an extraordinarily foreign privileged class . " Nevertheless , in 1893 , the higher grade was introduced . For this measure it will scarcely be claimed that there was any necessity . In the days before American ambassadors existed a visitor to London sought to learn who was the most important " ambassador " at the Court of St. James 's . A European member of the diplomatic corps , to whom the inquiry was addressed , promptly responded , " The American minister . " From time to time , however , American representatives abroad , wishing to enjoy the ceremonial privileges of the ambassadorial rank , recommended its creation ; and eventually their recommendation was adopted . But it was done without any increase of compensation , so that today none but a man of fortune can afford to be an American ambassador . Among the extraordinary privileges commonly said to belong to the ambassador , by reason of his representing the " person " of the " sovereign , " is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state . In Europe , with the substitution of constitutional governments for absolute monarchies , this privilege has become merely nominal , but in Washington it has been revived in something like its pristine rigor , direct intercourse with the President , without regard to the Secretary of State , being constantly demanded and practised . In the days when the highest rank was that of an envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary the privilege of transacting diplomatic business directly with the President was rarely accorded to a foreign minister , not only because the time of the President was supposed to he already sufficiently occupied , but also because the White House is not an office of record , the custodian of the diplomatic archives being the Secretary of State , who is the legal organ and adviser of the President in foreign affairs , and who , by reason of his preoccupation with the business of his own department , is supposed to possess that mastery of its details which is so essential to the care of public as well as of private interests . The President is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rulers of other countries enjoy with regard to direct participation in diplomatic business . But without regard to methods , which Cram time to lime may change , there is no doubt of the increasing importance of the United States as a factor in that concert which embraces all civilized powers , Eastern as well as Western . In the future , however , as in the past , the potency of American influence will depend not so much upon numbers , wealth , resources , as upon the pursuit of those elevated policies that have identified American diplomacy with the cause of justice and freedom .                     