@@474582

EARLY in the morning of June 3 , 1800 , a number of horsemen could be seen straggling along the rough country roads towards Richmond , each encircled in a little cloud of dust . Here and there the riders joined forces , jogging together past the scattered plantations on to the outskirts of the town , and then threading their way more carefully through the narrow , ill-made streets of the capital , until they reached the Common , whose deep ravines , covered with stunted pines , necessitated a still more cautious approach . All the travellers were evidently bent upon the same errand , for they halted at a building before which a dozen or more men were already assembled , and having dismounted and tied their horses to the hitching-rails , mingled with the earlier arrivals . It was a picturesque gathering of Virginians that awaited the opening of the United States Circuit Court on that summer morning , for the ugly fashions of the French Revolution had not as yet found much favor in the Old Dominion , and knee-breeches , low shoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were still in vogue . And yet it was not their dress , but their faces and bearing , which particularly distinguished these gentlemen as they stood talking with one another under the widespreading trees at the edge of the public square . Many of them were clothed like English farmers , but they wore their dusty garments with an unmistakable air of distinction , and their clean-shaven , clear-cut features bespoke dignity and intelligence . The centre of one group was especially notable , his strong and somewhat stern face indicating character in every line , and the ease with which he held his auditors singled him out as amaster of men . This was John Marshall , diplomat and jurist , and soon to become the official chief of the hated judge whose official programme was summoning all the countryside . In another group near Marshall stood a handsome , neatly dressed man about thirty years of age , tall , well-formed , and graceful , with a hearty laugh and a confident manner that seemed to fascinate those about him , particularly one keen , boyish-looking listener who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already the beau-ideal of the junior bar , and Philip Nicholas had reason to felicitate himself on being associated with such a rising young advocate . In this same group stood George Hay , soon to become one of the best-known lawyers in the country , and beside him stood the distinguished leader of the Virginia bar , Edmund Randolph . All these men were to meet again at the same place under very different conditions to conduct one of the most famous trials in American history , but for the time being all professional and political differences were merged in their loyalty to the Virginia bar , whose dignity and influence bade fair to be seriously affected in the trial of James Thompson Callender for seditious libel against the President of the United States . There was no wide-spread popular sympathy with this editor of the Richmond Examiner , and no particular interest among the best citizens concerning his individual fate . He was a brilliant , drunken , fearless , mercenary product of Grub Street , whose scurrilous pen was at the service of the highest bidder , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hireling neither patron nor opponent could manifest any very deep concern . He received his price and took his chances , and under ordinary circumstances no one would probably have raised a finger in his behalf . The circumstances , however , were not ordinary , but most extraordinary , for the law invoked against Callender for the publication of his libelous pamphlet , " The Prospect Before Us , " was the odious Sedition Act , the passage of which ( together . with the Alien Law ) had aroused such deep resentment throughout the country that Kentucky had protested in a set of defiant resolutions , declaring it null and void within her borders , and inviting the other States to join her in seceding from the Union . This invitation had met with a decided rebuff from all the legislatures addressed save that of Virginia , which had responded with another set of resolutions expressing devoted attachment to the Union , but heartily joining in Kentucky 's condemnation of the law as a dangerous menace to the freedom of the press and an outrageous breach of the liberties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , any one who wrote , printed , uttered , or published any false , scandalous , or malicious matter against the government , the Congress , or the President of the United States , or which tended to bring them into hatred or contempt , could be punished by heavy fines and imprisonment ; and the statute was so worded as to penalize not only honest criticism of the Executive . but even the freo expression of opinion . No legislation more fatal to the popularity of Adams 's administration could possibly have been devised ; but although the sole responsibility for its enactment has frequently been charged to the President , it can not justly be laid at his door . His fussy , sensitive , conscientious , crotchety , tactless nature had doubtless been more stung by the lampoons and critical attacks of the pamphlets and newspapers than that of any other official ; but the abuse of the press bad been so general that scarcely a man in public life had escaped defamation , and the act had been rushed through both Mouses of Congress by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole administration party . The fact that this was the first law passed by the national legislature against the freedom of the press , and that its enforcement in Virginia threatened to provoke a conflict between the State and the Federal authorities which might involve the stability of the Union , was quite sufficient to arouse unprecedented interest among lawyers in Callender 's case and make his trial the first real State trial upon record . Nevertheless , it is probable that it was not these momentous issues that attracted the majority of the profession , but rather the personality of the judge who proposed to try the case , for Samuel Chase was probably the most violent partisan who ever sat upon a bench . Indeed , his entire public career had been marked by such intemperance of word and action that he seemed " to move perpetually with a mob at his heels , " which sometimes pursued but quite as often followed him . In the stirring days preceding the Revolution he had been one of the " Sons of Liberty " who had attacked the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and his band had actually compelled a group of old malcontents , including his own father , to take the oath of allegiance to the Continental Congress . Nor were these the only manifestations of such playfulness credited to his account , for when certain Pennsylvania Quakers had refused to illuminate their houses in honor of a Revolutionary success , he had swooped upon the offending citizens with his followers , bundled them into carts , and deported them in the depth of winter to Virginia , where they were unceremoniously deposited and left to shift for themselves . All this youthful boisterousness would probably have been attributed to exuberant vitality and misdirected zeal had not his conduct as a member of the Maryland Colonial Legislature and the Continental Congress been almost equally turbulent and provocative of riot . The man was , however , an incorrigible bully , with a genius for offence ; and when at the close of the war he found himself a member of the Maryland House of Delegates , he straightway became involved in political broils which resulted in an attempt at his impeachment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MO HARPER 'S MONTIILY MAGAZINE . stead , for he not only fought his enemies to a standstill , but had himself rewarded , first with the Chief-Justiceship of the Criminal Court of Baltimore , and then with the Chief-Justiceship of the General Court , both of which offices he tenaciously held and administered in flagrant defiance of the law , until his action was officially declared unconstitutional . Nevertheless , his name was writ large in the Declaration of Independence , his personal honesty , courage , and patriotism were unquestioned , and though he had at first opposed the Constitution , he had become in course of time the most ardent of Federal enthusiasts . Such was the man whom Washington had appointed to the Federal bench in 1706 , and there was to be nothing in his conduct of that office to belie his previous record . Domineering. fearless , vain , confident , and honest , he had many of the qualities necessary to establish the authority of the new court , but no one did more than he to make hie tribunal obnoxious to the bar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability as a lawyer , he had the majority of tho attorneys who practised before him at a distinct disadvantage , and those whom he could not unhorse with legal learning he cowed and silenced with jocular or brutal tyranny , as best suited his humor . But perhaps his gravest offence was his political activity , with which he never allowed his judicial duties to interfere , and he had not been long upon the circuit before angry outcries were raised against his aggressive Federal partisanship . Opposition of this character , however , merely excited his belligerency , and he never made the slightest effort to conceal his political opinions either on or off the bench . Indeed , when the Sedition Act became a law , he had openly rejoiced at the opportunity it afforded for silencing critics of the administration , and his actions were soon to speak louder than words . During the trial of Fries , his arbitrary rulings practically forced the prisoner 's counsel to retire from the case in disgust ; and when Thomas Cooper , member of the Pennsylvania bar , con @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence , he announced inopen court that if he could discover that the Democratic party was behind the prisoner , he would inflict the severest penalties known to the law . It is not surprising , therefore , that the most alarming rumors of this judicial tyrant 's programme for Virginia . found willing ears in Richmond when he descended upon the town with Luther Martin 's marked copy of " The Prospect Before Us " in his avenging hand . That he had publicly exhibited this libelous pamphlet to various persons and expressed his determination to punish its author was a matter of common knowledge , but the story that he had instructed the marshal to see that " none of those creatures called Democrats " was summoned on the grand jury found quite as many believers . Moreover , rumor had it . that on being informed that the leaders of the Richmond bar had volunteered to appear for Callender and test the constitutionality of the law , ho had retorted , with a coarse laugh , that he 'd put the whole lot of them over his knee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not soon forget , and it must be confessed that the thought of the learned profession in this undignified posture appealed to the popular humor and leht an added significance to " The Prospect Before Us . " . The threatened clash between the bench and the bar was , of course , particularly interesting to lawyers , but there were many laymen among those gathered before the court-house on the morning of the trial , for the country was thoroughly aroused over the attempt to enforce the Sedition Law within a State whose Legislature had officially condemned it , and the conflict between the Federal and State authorities was far more important to the average Virginian than the settlement of any professional differences . Not all the horsee men who came trailing across the Common were present from choice , however , for the marshal had invaded the most distant plantations in his search for jurors , and some of the victims had ridden ten , fifteen , and even twenty miles in obedience to his summons , spreading the news of the impending event through the outlying districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any previous court day in Richmond . Nevertheless , no one of the waiting throng seemed to be in any haste to move indoors , and jurors , witnesses , spectators , and lawyers remained clustered about the entrance or scattered along the edge of the Common , discussing tho case until nearly ten o'clock , when they slowly moved towards the scene of action , and a few minutes later the court-room was filled to overflowing . At a table beside the judicial desk sat William Marshall , clerk of the court and brother of the future Chief Justice , and near him stood Mr. Nelson , the District Attorney , with David Robertson , the shorthand reporter , whose notes were to prove an invaluable exhibit in the subsequent impeachment of the judge . The attention of the audience , however , was mainly directed to the prisoner , his bondsman , Meriwether Jones , and his counsel , Messrs . Hay , Wirt , and Nicholas ? a formidable array for any hostile judge , and a trio with whom the bar of Richmond were well content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ champions had already given Chase a taste of their quality by virtually forcing him to grant adjournments on two previous occasions , and it was whispered that they intended to manouvre him out of the ease altogether by continuing their dilatory tactics until the term expired . In fact , the word passed from lip to lip across the crowded chamber that the judge had walked into a very neat trap at the last hearing by granting an adjournment to procure the attendance of a certain witness named Giles . This , it was claimed , was a fatal concession , for if the non-appearance of this witness justified a postponement on Monday , it equally demanded it on Tuesday , for he was still missing , and the case could not therefore be tried until he was produced , which would be the day after never . The audience chuckled approvingly as this story went the rounds , gleefully anticipating the discomfiture of the judge ; and the general opinion was that , for once , at least , Chase had met his match ? a result particularly agreeable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania or Marylandbar , but the profession in Virginia knew a trick or two which would The chatter and laughter suddenly ceased as the door opened , disclosing the not too heroic figure of the District Judge , Cyrus Griffin , a rather futile , colorless , and timid personage , who appeared to be propelled into the room by a burly , bustling , red-faced man , who strode rapidly to the bench , nodding a not too gracious salutation at the assemblage , while the court crier bellowed his familiar announcement . The individual whose arrival had had the effect of a schoolmaster entering a noisy class-room was a man of about sixty years of age , huge of bulk , coarse of feature , masterful in manner . On his massive head sat an ill-made wig , and his garments were those of the ordinary citizen with no particular regard for appearances , but there was no mistaking his authoritative bearing as he loomed up behind the judicial desk and glowered at the silent audience . To most of those who returned his scrutiny he was an entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had never set foot in Richmond , and doubtless many of the spectators were prepared to find him a fiend in human shape . But though his expression was somewhat forbidding , his large , strong , clean-shaven face was not uncomely , and his giant frame suggested strength rather than brutality . Nevertheless , his small , snappy , shifty eyes had a dangerous glint , and there were ominous lines about the corners of his mouth , betraying possibilities of an ugly droop , and other indications of a quarrelsome disposition were not wanting . The whole aspect of the man , however , suggested energy and determination , rather than intellectual power , and , contrasted with the group of lawyers who faced him , he appeared at a disadvantage . The moment the proceedings opened , however , this impression quickly faded , and as he leaned over the desk and listened to Mr. Hay 's long and not too ingenious plea for an adjournment , his gaze was so uncomfortably intelligent that the speaker , obviously embarrassed , made poor work of his argument . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , growing more confident , the advocate began to shift away from the question of the missing witness , craftily turning the discussion towards the constitutionality of the Sedition Act . Then he circled back to the witness whose testimony he boldly asserted would help to determine whether Callender 's pamphlet consisted of libelous statements or merely matters of opinion , which question he declared would have to be considered by the jury in assessing the fine . " That 's a wild notion ! It 's not the law . The jury have nothing to do with assessing the line , sir ! " If some one had suddenly dashed water in Hay 's face he could scarcely have been more astonished . To be flatly contradicted on . a legal question was ruffling enough to a man of his dignity , but to have his opinion derided as a wild notion was too insulting for words , and some moments elapsed before he recovered himself sufficiently to retort . Then he announced with dignified severity that it was possible to answer argument , but quite impossible to refute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he was not permitted to proceed . A blow had been given and returned , and the battle was now for the strong . His Honor did not propose to listen to any arguments regarding the constitutionality of the law . Tf the counsel imagined that the Court was bound to keep on granting adjournments until the missing witness Giles was produced , he was mightily mistaken . In the Court 's opinion , if the trial had to await that gentleman 's appearance , it would never take place at all . There had been ample opportunity to compel the attendance of the witness . Let the jury be impanelled at once ! Startled and chagrined as the counsel were by this unexpected turn of affairs , which completely upset their well-laid plans , they were still more disconcerted by the overbearing manner and tone which had been adopted towards them , and , tingling with resentment , they announced that since His Honor saw fit to force an immediate trial upon them , it would be their duty to take advantage of every technicality known to the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was nothing more nor less than an open crime to to the eight men entrusted with his fate . Only certain portions of the offending pamphlet had been recited in the indictment , and they made rather mild reading , even at that time , while in these days they would scarcely be regarded as sensational , to say nothing of criminal . Nevertheless , they were clearly within the provision of the Sedition Law , and proof of their authorship was practically all the prosecutor needed to complete his case . This was easily established by the testimony of the printers who had put the manuscript into type and the booksellers who had sold it as a pamphlet , and when Hay protested that those men could not be compelled to answer the questions put to them , they being accomplices equally guilty under the law , and privileged from testifying against themselves , the Court not only overruled his objections , but virtually promised the hesitating witnesses immunity as a reward for their confessions . Indeed , it was said that Chase frequently identified himself with the prosecution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we " to indicate a common purpose between the District Attorney and himself . Having succeeded in proving that the prisoner was the author of " The Prospect Before Us , " the prosecutor next attempted to introduce the whole pamphlet in evidence , but here the defence again protested , claiming that only those portions of the document which were recited in the indictment could be considered by the jury , especially in view of the Court 's decision that the jurors were concerned only with the offence charged in the official papers and were not disqualified by their prejudices against the pamphlet as a whole . Chase was in no mood , however , to allow his previous rulings to be turned against him . The prisoner was being tried for writing " The Prospect Before Us , " and he was not to escape punishment because only mild selections from it appeared in the indictment . A little informality of that sort was best rectified by allowing the jury to read the whole pernicious production . In vain Hay protested against this illogical and injurious action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and baited until the wholeroom roared with laughter ; for nothing is so infectious as the wit of the bench on which a bully sits enthroned . The prosecution practically ended with this exhibition of judicial tyranny , and the defence was immediately instructed to proceed . Unprepared as they were to dispute the authorship or publication of the pamphlet , the counsel still had a chance of influencing the jury by proving the truth of its statements , and to that end they called a well-known citizen , named Colonel Taylor , to the stand . Before he could utter a word , however , the judge interrupted . declaring that every question put to him must be first examined and approved by the Court . This preposterous order fairly staggered the indignant counsel . They had submitted when forced to conduct the examination of the jury in this fashion , but to be similarly hampered in questioning their own witness was an imposition unheard of in any court of law , and they remonstrated in no uncertain terms . Neither protest nor argument nor authority , however , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fierce controversy the attorneys abandoned their struggle , only to discover that no testimony that did not prove the truth of the whole paragraph complained of in the indictment would be admitted . Struggling to conceal their exasperation , they protested that one witness might prove the correctness of one statement in the pamphlet , and another another , and that no one individual could he expected to substantiate the whole of it , and at last Chase was compelled to go through the empty form of consulting the District Judge . That shadowy official , however , meekly concurred in the views of his superior , and , finding himself supported , His Honor attempted to put an end to discussion . But the fighting blood of the Virginia attorneys was now thoroughly aroused , and , refusing to be silenced. they pressed their contentions with a force that lashed Chase into a rage , and the bitter wrangle which ensued soon had the room in an uproar . Contemptuously referred to as " you young gentlemen , " and goaded by every public slight and sneer which brutal authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground , insisting that the rulings of the Court were equivalent to a complete denial of justice , and virtually defied the bench . Finally the judge made a pretence of requesting the District Attorney to allow the questions upon which " the young gentlemen were so insistent , " and when he prudently declined , the magistrate brought the matter to a close by hammering his opponents to their seats . With this final suppression of their only available testimony , the defence had no recourse but to address the jury and endeavor to take advantage of the existing prejudice against the Sedition Law . Wirt led this forlorn hope ; but the moment he began to argue against the constitutionality of the law he was -unceremoniously halted , and informed that the jury would not be permitted to consider any question of that kind . The jurors were the judges of the facts , and not of the law , declared the Court ? a proposition which , upder ordinary cireumstance.s , no lawyer would have endeavored to dispute . Wirt , however , intimated that the Court had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the necessity of discussing the law . Interrupted and told not to reflect on the Court , he retorted with a repetition of his statement in another form , and for a perilous moment the two men faced each other , speechless with rage , while the frightened audience watched them in fascinated silence . Then the intrepid Virginian again turned slowly to the jury and resumed his argument , attacking the law with studious disregard of the official mandate . With a roar of anger Chase ordered him to his scat , and as he quietly obeyed , the man on the bench launched into a frenzied tirade . " Hear my words ! " he ranted . " I wish the world to know them I My opinion is the result of mature deliberation ! " He then reiterated with increasing violence that the facts were for the jury and the law for the Court ? an elemental principle of which the world had been previously informed , and of which no one was better advised than the experienced lawyers he was instructing . The tables were now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the counsel who was being baited . Indeed , Chase had no sooner concluded his pompous proclamation than Wirt once more turned to the jury , and , quoting directly from the third section of the Sedition Act , which provided that the jury " should determine the law and the fact under the direction of the Court , as in other eases , " calmly proceeded to discuss the forbidden . subject . The Constitution was the law , he declared ; and as the jury had a right to determine the law , they had logically the right to consider the Constitution . " A non sequitur , sir ! " shouted Chase , and the audience roared ; whereupon Wirt sat down in disgust , and Nicholas took up the same line of argument until he was virtually smothered by interruptions from the bench . Then Hay resumed the attack , but by this time the judge had worked himself into a fury , and the senior counsel , flatly contradicted , badgered , and insulted almost every time he opened his lips , suddenly brought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gathering up his papers . For a few moments the angry magistrate did not apparently comprehend what was happening , but as Hay 's associates followed his example , and began packing up their books and documents , the situation slowly dawned upon him , and for the first time he seemed to realize that he had perhaps carried matters beyond the point of safety . The retirement of the lawyers in the Fries case had not troubled him in the least , but the repetition of that rebuke at the hands of the Virginia bar might , he well understood , be fraught with much more serious consequences ; and when Hay rose and turned towards the door , he addressed him with surprising deference . " Please to proceed , sir , " he requested , " and be assured that you will not again be interrupted by me . Say what you will . " The senior counsel , however , vouchsafed no response to these advances , and , amid intense silence , he and his associates walked gravely to the rear of the room . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the judicial tyrant was now thoroughly alarmed . " I think it right to interrupt counsel when mistaken in the law , " he protested . " Yet I du nut mean to interrupt improperly . There is no reason to he captious . " Receiving no reply to this apologetic utterance , the speaker 's red face assumed a purple hue , and his vindictive little eyes , following the retreating figures , glittered with rage . Finally , as the door opened , he half rose from his chair , and roaring , " As you please , sirs ! " turned to the jury and began . a long and careful charge . Two hours later a verdict of guilty was recorded , and the prisoner sentenced to nine months ' imprisonment and a fine of two hundred dollars , and required to find sureties for good behavior for a period of two years . Thus closed the last case ever tried under the Sedition Law , but it was fatedto be heard of again . From his cell in the Richmond jail the prisoner continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be rewarded by vsmomous attacks from his pen , after the hated act had been repealed ; and five years later Chase was impeached before the Senate for oppressive and vexatious conduct during the trial , and indecent solicitude for the conviction of the accused . Politics and Luther Martin , however , interfered in his behalf ; and after a brilliant defence at the hands of the lawyer for whose support in his last illness the Maryland Legislature taxed all members of the bar , he was acquitted . and resumed his duties without ever again repeating the offences for which he had been arraigned. 