@@473801

THE American continent is a young one in more than one sense ; its geological age is not as great as that of the Eastern Hemisphere , and its discovery in the fifteenth century introduces it to the world 's history in a comparatively recent epoch . An unsolved question , however , remains ? the date of the first appearance of man and of the early dawn of civilization upon this continent . The conditions of America favored not less than those of the other continents an early development of human civilization , and as explorations are now disclosing the primitive ages of this continent , it becomes more and more apparent that the Eastern world can not claim to be the only cradle of human culture . The Spanish conquistadores found in the Pacific countries of America ? in Mexico , Central America , Ecuador , and Peru ? flourishing civilizations . They found the people living in highly organized states , under well-ordered governments , in large , well-built cities ; palaces and temples of stupendous size and splendor abounded in every direction . Arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rafts under sail navigated the seas and connected distant countries for the exchange of their goods . In Peru the llama was domesticated and served as beast of burden ; well-built highroads intersected the countries , especially Peru . The first discoverers of this surprising culture were not able to give more than detailed descriptions of what they found ; the pos-sible antiquity and previous history did not trouble them . Some of the ancient traditions were recorded by the first writers , but their work was uncritical . All they learned was that the Aztecs had immigrated into Mexico several centuries before ; that the empire of the Incas had been established about four centuries before the arrival of the Spaniards , and the most credited traditions even disputed that civilization was of an older date . Up to the appearance of the Incas ( about 1100 A.D. ) , the natives of Peru were said to have lived like savages , in eaves , without religion or government , without houses or clothes , and even cannibalism was ascribed to them . Agriculture , it was said , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered them from this state of savagery . Similar traditions existed about Mexico . The Mexican hieroglyphics apparently give no information concerning the subject . In Peru the knotted strings , " quipus , " were in general use to keep accounts . But as only numbers were recorded in knots , the rest being merely mnemonic . similar to the knot in the handkerchief , they lost their meaning to all but the living generations , and became silent for future ages . The question of the age of those civilizations has been approached by historical criticism or by general speculations . The ancient Mexican Calendar is so perfect that it must have been based upon a very long-continued observation of the sun and of the movements of the planets . Maize as a cultivated plant in its present form could only through a very long-continued cultivation become so much changed from the primitive plant . The same applies to the potato , which was cultivated in the mountains of Peru and Ecuador , and was carried from there to the Old World . The dot testication of the llama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the sixteenth century , although these animals are of slow propagation , presupposes many centuries of quiet development of ancient civilization . All these proofs , however , are too speculative to give any definite clue to the age of these cultures , and arc not conclusive . Mexico possesses a vast number of ruins of various kinds , and now it is well known that the civilization of this country was older than that of the Azte.es ; the exact age is far from being known . The same is the case with the age of Peru . Prescott doubted as early as 1847 the traditional history of Peru . He thought the list of the thirteen Inca rulers covered only two and a half centuries , and that the Inca civilization was too much developed and too universal for so short a period . Moreover , on the shores of Lake Titicaca in Bolivia , 12,000 feet above sea - level , there were extensive ruins which the natives themselves dated hack to a period before the Incas ; he therefore assumed that before the time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country ; who this race was and whence it came might afford a tempting theme for inquiry to the speculative antiquarian , but he thought it a land of darkness lying far beyond the domain of history . Later exploration of the country furnished information concerning the variety of ancient monuments . Squier , for a time United States Commissioner at - Lima , explored the country in the sixties . In his work , Peru , Incidents of Travel and Exploration , published in 1877 , he tries to prove that civilization in Peru developed in the different parts of the country independently up to the rise of the Inca empire ; he too assumes the existence of an earlier civilization before the Incas . Stiibel and Reiss , in their work entitled The Necropolis of Ancom ( Berlin , 1830-87 ) , for the first time disclosed the brilliant cultural development of a section of the coast country . It is due to the broad generosity of an American woman that two archaeological expeditions were sent to South America , the results of which caused a total change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the first expedition are housed in the Museum of Art and Science at Philadelphia ; those of the second will be ex- , hibited in the future museum of the University of California , to be erected within a few years . A third expedition , which is to pursue the same lines , will undertake its work during the coming season . ? The museums of ethnology in all parts of the world possess rich archaeological collections from Peru , showing objects of many varieties of shapes and materials , taken from the ground in Peru . They are arranged side by side as they are found in the soil , producing the impression of a general contemporaneousness of ancient Peruvian civilization . These expeditions , however , have clearly established the fact that those objects were not all contemporaneous , but originated in many different centuries , and therefore did not belong to parallel cultures , but represented succeeding epochs of civilization according as they were found in strata above each other . The discoveries of the first expedition , made during excavations at Pachacamac , near Lima @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Peruvian antiquities . At Pachacamac stands the sanctuary of an ancient deity , the creator god Paella-comae of the Peruvians , which for thousands of years was the object of pilgrimages by the natives from all parts of the country , and it was considered a privilege to be buried in its sacred precincts . It . is estimated that about 30,000 graves were in this burial-place . The temple has passed through many changes in its long history . A cemetery at the foot of the temple was covered by debris from an early destruction of the edifice . A larger temple was erected in the same place and new terraces were added in its front , entirely covering the site of the earlier strata . All these different strata are full of graves , each one representing a different cultural period . Following these stratifications , it was ascertained that the temple had outlaSted five different ages of civilization . The earlier views on the contemporaneousness of the cultural forms of Peru were thereby assailed , and it now depended mainly upon the confirmation of these results by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aim of the second expedition carried out under the auspices of the University of California . Several arehteologically interesting sections of northern and southern Peru were explored , such as the ruins near Trujillo on the coast , and of Iluamachuco , situated inland on 8 ? south latitude , and in the south under 14 ? south latitude the valleys of Chincha , Pisco , lea , and of Huaitara in the mountains . The result was the general classification of Peruvian cultural history into five or six periods . At the beginning of Peruvian history , as far as known at the present , stand two closely related civilizations , one developing on the northern part of the coast . shout Trujillo , the other in the south around Pisco and Ica . Fine as they are , there is nothing similar to them among the later cultures . The southern form is especially notable for the perfection of shape and decoration of its pottery , the freedom and breadth of its style ; the northern form is more distinguished by the harmony and greatness of its development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnishes us with figures and types from the life of their period , and introduces us to highly developed religious conceptions . Magnificent monuments , such as the vast Huaeal del Sol , near Roche , formerly ascribed to the Incas , still give evidence of that early civilization . Gold , silver , and copper abounded and were wrought into manifold forms . The finest techniques were known to the early craftsman . Gold was cast and chased , also soldered with copper and silver , or used as plating over copper and inlaid with turquoises ; mosaic was known , too . Various kinds of clay were used to produce different colors in pottery . Copper was cast in moulds best suited to commerce and easily to be divided and used as money . Fine shells were imported from tropical regions and wrought into personal ornaments . There is no doubt that trading-rafts visited the remote coast of Colombia or even of Central America . This culture is followed by another . which grew to be of the widest importance for the general development of Peruvian civilization . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surveyed by Stiibel and described in the monograph Die Rninensliitte von Tiahuanaco ( Breslau , 1892 ) , give testimony of this remarkable culture . At Paehaeamac this culture was found in the earliest and lowest stratum at the foot of the temple , ? a proof for the correctness of the tradition of the sixteenth century , which ascribed the monuments of Tiahuanaco to an age before the appearance of the sun in the heavens . The most important remains among the ruins of Tiahuanaco are large monoliths of hardest lava . They are sculptured and polished with wonderful accuracy , and defied uncounted centuries . In many respects they are the most peculiar and important relies of pre-Spanish civilization in America . From this period are to be dated various courts surrounded by monoliths similar to the cromlechs of Britain . Traces of this culture , the cradle of which were the Titicaca shores , were met throughout the ancient Peruvian country as far north as 8 ? south latitude . Various sanctuaries outlasting many ages were built during this period in the different parts of Peru . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of weaving and the wealth of religious conceptions of this period became the cultural foundations for the subsequent periods of Peruvian civilization , the lasting effects of which may be traced down to the latest . periods . Again a different form of civilization appeared over the entire country , showing a new adaptation of the cultural elements inherited from its predecessor . However , the uniformity of this culture was broken up into various provincial forms of civilization developing side by side . This period of cultural disruption coincides with an age when separate realms existed at Trujillo , 7-Iumnachneo , Pachacamac , Chavin , and others . Above these arose , in the north , on the coast , the realm of the Chimu with new cultural forms , becoming the leading one for the coast country from Ecuador southward . Farther south more recent forms supplanted the older . After this period , which may be designated as the fourth or fifth of this multifarious development , follows the age of the Incas in the south of the land , uniting once more the realm that uncounted centuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the cultures which had preceded theirs iu Peru , and were ungrateful enough to conceal from their conquerors what they had received from their predecessors . A long-continued process of changes necessarily produced a great variety in the forms , as may be traced through numerous types of objects . Pottery , textiles , wrought metals , exhibit fundamental differences of type or treatment , both in technique and decoration . The method of burial in sarcophagi , underground huts , vessels , vaults , cylindrical tombs , varied endlessly , and from great ceremonial formality in the beginning they seem to have grown more and more simple . Remarkable also are the changes in the styles of architecture . The regular megalithic blocks mark the earliest historical period in the highland . After many changes the development ends in the well-laid quarry stones or polygonal blocks of the Inca architecture . On the coast prevailed the more recent methods of building ? the construction of adobe or of tapia , the latter being made on the spot , of soft mud , allowed to dry in place . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any elsewhere by a period when adobe was still unknown , instead of which balls of mud were used , piled up and bound with clay as mortar . The remains of remote periods support the above-given results by the condition in which they now appear . Some of the megalithic monuments of Tiahuanaeo are so completely buried in the ground that they have to be dug out for exploration purposes , in spite of the utter absence of vegetation , and merely as the result of their great age . Monuments constructed of clay balls , before the introduction of adobe building , now present the appearance of mounds , to 1000 or mo.e feet in length and over 100 feet high , and so nearly resembling the natural formations of the ground that they are only to be distinguished from them by the different material of which they consist . This decay dates back to such remote ages that even before the period of the Incas these mounds , remains of palaces and temples , had served as burial-grounds like the natural hills . The results obtained during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the third expedition will have the principal purpose of following up the traces of ancient civilization in order to find the , as yet , hidden sources of the earliest culture of the country . The development of the primitive periods was by no means inferior to that of the later . Pottery , weaving , working of metals , flourished at the earliest age not less than in the more recent periods . Since the earliest times the llama appears as a domestic animal , and cotton , maize , cayenne pepper , beans , etc. , were grown . The development at this remote period was so high hi all branches of arts and crafts that it might be asserted to have been at a higher stage than at any subsequent period , notably that of the arrival of the Spaniards in the time of the Incas . If formerly research was directed mainly towards finding the sources of the Inca civilization , the task of future explora tion will be the discovery of the beginnings of another equally highly developed culture , antedating the former by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient Peru would appear incomplete without a certain chronology . All history of the world aims at establishing fixed dates of great events for comparative treatment . It is , however , difficult to fix dates for the ancient American cultures as it is done for the historical phases of the Old World countries . Those are with facility grouped according to facts of the Grecian , Roman , Assyrian , or Egyptian histories . There is , however , one way of determining facts by chronology . The cultural periods themselves must furnish a scale by which to gauge the average development . New civilizations do not spring up suddenly ; cultures develop , flourish , and decay the same as man ; and a considerable space of time is required to awaken new cultures out el ' decaying ones , and to let them mature and die out again in their turn . This process of growth and decay of any one culture embraces always a certain number of centuries . The greater the number of the succeeding phases of civilization , the more even must be the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human periods . It is to be seen that the two central European periods , those of Hallstadt and of La Tene , together embrace about a thousand years , an average of five hundred fur each . The cultural periods of Egypt may be even longer . The development of Peruvian civilization , accepting on the average five successive periods , would result in a stratification of cultures representing between two and three thousand years . Abont the year 1000 n.c. , at the time when Solomon built his temple , the early Americans in Peru reared their mighty structures to the glory of a creator god . Civilization in America would beyond all doubt have worked itself up to a high plane at some time , and might have accomplished alone a peculiar but certainly brilliant development without the intervention of European civilization .                     