@@430143

 |p882  THE relations between capital and labor in England are not unlike those between capital and labor in the United States . Speaking generally , and despite the theories of doctrinaires , both sides recognize that their interests instead of being identical are founded on antagonistic principles ; but despite this antagonism there is common ground on which they can meet , because common interests demand it . The employer in England , as the employer everywhere , is a purchaser and is chiefly concerned in buying as cheaply as possible . To the employer labor is simply raw material to be converted into a finished product and to be bought by him as he buys his other raw material at the lowest market rate . The workman , on the other hand , is a seller , and his chief object is to find the highest market for his product . These two irreconcilable purposes have led in England to constant conflict between employer and employee . The trade-union has been one of the chief causes which have led to the increase of wages , the decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage-worker . This , indeed , is no longer controverted by the employer or even by the opponent of the trade-union . It is not asserted that to the trade-union solely is to be credited this general improvement in the status of the laboring class , but it is affirmed and sustained by incontrovertible evidence that the tradeunion has been one of the great instruments in bringing about this improvement . The trade-union in England has taught a lesson both to employers and employees which might be well heeded by capital and labor in the United States ; and if some of the methods now in force in the United Kingdom were adopted in the United States , a modus vivendi would be established between capital and labor to the advantage of both .  |p883  The English labor-union owes its existence to the desire of wage-workers to provide for themselves a means whereby men working for small daily wages ? wages often barely sufficient to enable them to live , which in the very nature of things made it impossible for them to lay up anything when sickness or misfortune overtook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savings and contributions of the body of workers . Its genesis was , in fact , that of the charitable and benevolent society which has existed in all ages and in all countries . But it soon lost its original character and became a militant society whose chief purpose was to better the condition of its members without regard to the rights of employers , or without consideration as to whether it was possible for the employer to accede to the demands made upon him for higher wages or shorter hours . In that stage of its development the trade-union was a militant society , and the militant trade leader was the man who came to the fore . It was a period of continual agitation and continued unrest . Many of the leaders were honest ; many were dishonest ; but whether animated by worthy or unworthy motives , they believed that the only way by which the condition of the workingman could be improved was to embitter the relations between him and his employer , and to maintain what international lawyers recognize as a state of " limited warfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . The trade-union leader militant has been succeeded by a leader who is as courageous as his predecessor , but who is more intelligent , and who has devoted no little time and thought to the study of great industrial questions , who has at least some knowledge of the laws of political economy , and who realizes that if the wage-worker is to improve his condition , it is essential that he shall maintain friendly relations with his employers , that strikes shall be as few and infrequent as possible , and that he shall do nothing foolishly to hamper the conduct of business or to increase the cost of production . The curse of the American trade-union ? the walking delegate and the business agent , the glib demagogue or the shrewd knave ? is practically unknown in England at the present time in the ranks of the larger , the best organized and the most influential unions . Those unions are usually managed by executive committees elected by the membership at large ; the executive committee , sometimes called the council , being vested with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary , an official who devotes substantially all of his time to the union , who must have been a practical journeyman engaged in his trade , and who receives rather more than the highest wages paid in the trade , and not infrequently free rent , fuel and gas . As a rule , these general secretaries are men of great intelligence , several of them are members of Parliament , who possess the confidence of their fellow unionists and the respect of their former employers , and whose voices are more often raised on the side of peace than of war . The general secretary is a person of such importance in trade-union government that much of the advance which the English trade-union has made is due to these men coming to the front , and to the wise , cautious and progressive spirit they have displayed . Although the affairs of the union are controlled by the central body , each subordinate branch or local union is autonomous and manages its own affairs . Up to a certain point a local union may order a strike and pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not receive strike benefits from the union treasury unless the strike has received the approval of the central or executive body . In fact , the English system of tradeunion government finds its parallel in the American system of government . The subordinate unions are to the union as a whole what the separate States are to the American Union . Subject to the limitations of the constitution , they are sovereign within their own borders and can manage their domestic affairs as they please ; but in any question affecting the union as an entity their power is merged in the greater authority of the central body ; and precisely as no State can make war and Congress alone can raise the money for carrying on war , so no subordinate union may declare industrial war without the consent of the federated body of workers . In many respects the system does not materially differ from that to be found among labor organizations in the United States , but the great difference and the great advance which the English union has made over the American is the adoption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent strikes and other labor disturbances . The appeal to force ? the strike on the one hand and the lockout on the other ? is not a lost art in England , and is still employed when other means fail ; but both sides have come to the realization of the folly of fighting when it is so much easier and far less costly to keep the peace ;  |p885  instead of a victory compelled at the point of the sword , instead of violence , coercion and passion , they have substituted the more scientific methods of reason , argument and the weight of evidence . It is a specially significant fact , agreed in by laboring-men , employers of labor , government officials having to deal with labor data , and independent writers and investigators , that year by year there is noted a progressive decrease of disputes in those trades where the highest skill and intelligence are required , wages are correspondingly high , and the workers are most scientifically organized ; and it is in those trades where brute force rather than intelligence is needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized at all , that disputes constantly occur and strikes are most frequent . One of the largest and most influential trade-unions in England is the Durham Miners ' Association , having a membership of 90,000 men working in the Durham coal-fields . The Durham miners have created a Conciliation Board consisting of 36 members , of whom 18 are colliery owners or their representatives , 9 are miners , 3 are enginemen , 3 are mechanics , and 3 coke-workers . The object of the Board , as stated in the preamble of the agreement , is " by conciliatory means to prevent disputes , and to put an end to any that may arise , and with this view to consider and decide upon all claims that either party may from time to time make for a change in county rates of wages or county practices , and upon any other questions , not falling within the jurisdiction of the Joint Committee , that it may be agreed between the parties to refer to the Board . " The Board meets on an average every quarter to consider the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presided over by the chairman or vice-chairman , one of whom is a representative of the owners or the men ; but provision is made for an umpire whose services are only requisitioned when the Board is deadlocked . The agreement stipulates that " all questions shall in the first instance be submitted to and considered by the Board without the presence of the Umpire , it being the desire and intention of the parties to settle , by friendly conference if possible , any difficulties or differences which may arise . If the Board can not agree , then the meeting shall be adjourned , and the Umpire shall be summoned to the adjourned meeting , when the matter shall be again discussed , and in default of an agreement by the Board  |p886  the Umpire shall give his casting vote on such matter . The decision of the Board or its Umpire shall be final and binding on the parties . " The Umpire , who has held the position since 1899 , when the Board was created , and serves without remuneration but as a matter of patriotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of appeal , whose position corresponds in dignity and importance with a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States . When the Board finds that it is unable to reach an agreement , Lord Davey is called in , and he sits on the Board precisely as he sits as a lord-justice of appeal reviewing a case brought before him from an inferior court . Regarding Lord Davey in the light of a judge of appeal , the Conciliation Board is an inferior court of original jurisdiction . The method of procedure in any disagreement arising between masters and men is to submit the dispute in the first instance to the Board . Here it is argued and discussed in the usual way , the affirmative side naturally becoming the " plaintiff . " If it should not be possible at the first hearing for an agreement to be reached , either side may ask that it be further considered , either by a committee or by the Board as a whole , at a future hearing . This precludes hasty action and affords an opportunity for excitement to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been taken up at a meeting of the Board , discussed and postponed , and carried on in that way for a full year ; in the mean time the status quo being maintained , the appeal to the Board acting as an interlocutory restraining order . But when it becomes patent to both sides that no agreement can be reached , the appeal is then taken to Lord Davey . The two sides appear before him through their representatives in the position of appellant and respondent , precisely as they would in any other case tried in a court of justice . But Lord Davey is something more than a judge ; he is also a judge-advocate ? the adviser and the friend of the parties in interest ; and he endeavors not only to have all the facts brought out , but to get at the equities involved , so that his decision may be based not solely on legal grounds , but also that ethical and other considerations may be given due weight . His decision is final , and while of course Lord Davey has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injunction would not submit the offending party to imprisonment for contempt of court or make  |p887  him liable to any other form of punishment , both sides loyally accept the verdict and carry out its provisions . And so far neither side has manifested the slightest disposition not to accept the verdict . In 1895 Lord Davey 's services were twice called upon , the employers demanding a reduction of wages which the men opposed . The contention of the employers was that , based on the then prevailing market price of coal , they were unable to continue the wage-scale in force and were entitled to a reduction of seven and one-half per cent . on what is known as the " standard " The men urged that the state of the market did not warrant a reduction ; but after hearing all the evidence and receiving the confidential reports of accountants appointed as the representatives of the contestants , Lord Davey decided that the owners were entitled to a reduction of five per cent. , and this reduction the men accepted . Some four months later the owners again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to accept , and an appeal was once more taken to Lord Davey . After careful consideration of all the facts he decided that conditions justified a decrease of wages , which accordingly became effective . During the past year a long-pending controversy was settled by Lord Davey without interruption of work or without a trial of strength . The men claimed the right to take the August bank-holiday , the first Monday in August , which the owners objected to because of the loss caused by a cessation of work . Lord Davey decided in favor of the men , and of course the masters accepted the decision . It must be evident from the foregoing that the Durham coalminers have taken a long step forward in the direction of securing peace between themselves and their employers ; and so much satisfaction has this arrangement given that other important trades have adopted substantially similar methods of preventing disastrous labor disputes . Mr. John Wilson , M.P. , the secretary of the miners ' association , told the writer last summer that a sum not to exceed $25 was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the disputes were of such a trivial character as hardly to be worthy of notice . The men employed in the coal-pits of South Wales and Monmouthshire are organized under the name of the South Wales Miners ' Federation , who have created a Conciliation Board of arty-eight members , representing equally the owners and the workers , " and , when dealing with questions relating to general  |p888  advances or general reductions in the rate of wages , also of a chairman from outside who shall not be financially interested in any coal-mine in the United Kingdom , and who shall have a casting vote only . " The chairman of the South Wales Board may not deviate from the precise proposition presented to him for decision ; Lord Davey may affirm , reject or compromise . The agreement between the South Wales colliery-owners and their men recites that " the parties to this Agreement pledge their respective constituents to make every effort possible to avoid difficulties or disputes at the Collieries and in case of any unavoidable difference the Owners or their Agent or Agents shall endeavor to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of failing to effect a settlement shall a written appeal be made to the Board by either or both of the parties concerned in the dispute to consider the same , and no notice to terminate contracts shall be given by either Owners or their Workmen before the particular question in dispute shall have been considered by the Board and it shall have failed to arrive at an agreement . The Board shall have power to refer such questions to a Committee consisting of one or more Owners ' Representatives and an equal number of Workmen 's Representatives , all of whom shall be Members of the Board , to consider , and , if so directed with power , to settle , and in all cases to report either a settlement or a failure to agree to the Board , within three calendar months from the date of the reference to such Committee , and should the Board then fail to arrive at an Agreement within one month , or any extended period that may be agreed upon by the Board , either party may give notice to terminate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vary the existing rate of wages , notice of the proposed change must be given in writing to the secretaries ten days before the date of the meeting , with the grounds for the proposed change . " At all such meetings , " the rules state , " the podia ' us to be dealt with thereat shall in the first instance be moldered by the Board , it being the desire and intention of the parties to settle any differences which may arise by friendly conference if possible . If the parties on the Board can not agree , then the meeting shall be adjourned for a period not exceeding seven days , to which adjourned meeting the chairman shall be summoned and shall attend and preside thereat , when the questions in difference shall  |p889  be again discussed by the parties , and in the event of their failing to arrive at an agreement with regard thereto , the chairman either at such meeting or within seven days thereafter shall give his casting vote on such questions , and the parties shall be bound thereby . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commons , is the chairman of the Board , and Mr. William Brace , vice-president of the Federation , informed the writer that the success of the scheme has been fully demonstrated . The Board came into existence on the 31st of March , 1903 . Prior to that time there had been frequent disagreements between the colliery-owners and their men , and before the last sliding scale was signed there had been a seventeen weeks ' strike ; but since 1903 there has been no stoppage of work and no disagreement of any serious nature . In those trades where provision is not made for the appointment of an independent chairman or umpire , results almost as satisfactory have been reached by the employers forming associations ; and those associations , through a committee , meet a corresponding committee of the union men and discuss matters affecting their common interests . This is the practice among the engineers , their union , the Amalgamated Society of Engineers , being one of the largest trade-unions in the United Kingdom , and in some respects the most important and influential . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the general secretary as its executive officer . Throughout the Kingdom are branches , each branch electing its own officers and managing its local affairs within the limitations of the constitution . These branches are grouped into districts represented by the district committee , which has power , subject to the approval of the central executive committee , to regulate the rate of wages and hours of labor and such other general conditions affecting the trade in their respective districts ; wages in England in a trade are seldom uniform , but are based on the cost of living in the locality and other circumstances . In the event of a dispute between the members of a subordinate lodge and an employer , the question is discussed between the district committee and the local association of employers , usually through a small sub-committee , and if no agreement can be reached the matter is referred to the executive council of the society and the executive committee of the employers ' federation .  |p890  These two executive bodies meet , as a rule , every three months and take up all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reach a satisfactory agreement since 1900 , when this arrangement went into effect . The constitution and rules of the Amalgamated Society of Engineers give the district committee , in case of a dispute , after it has obtained the consent of the executive council , power to take a vote of the members of the district upon the advisability of assisting the strike committee in the district by a local levy , but that levy must not exceed sixpence ( say 12 cents ) weekly during the continuance of the dispute ; and in case of a dispute the members are not permitted to leave their employment without having first obtained the sanction of the district committee . The best organized unions disapprove of the sympathetic strike and discourage it in every way possible . Thus , the rules of the Amalgamated Society of Engineers provide that in case of a dispute involving a strike , those members of the society who can with advantage be excluded from the operations of the strike are not to be permitted to leave their work , and no general strike may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless carried by a vote of two-thirds of the full voting membership of that district . Furthermore , to make the members realize that a strike is a serious matter not to be lightly engaged in , after the strike contribution of sixpence a week already referred to has been made , it can not be continued for a period to exceed one month without a vote being taken as to its further continuance for the same period ; and no levy shall be ordered unless by a vote of the majority of the members , nor can it continue longer than three months without a vote again being taken . It may be observed en passant that the present satisfactory relations existing between the engineers and their employers is the direct outcome of the memorable engineering strike and lockout of 1897-8 , which caused a loss of hundreds of thousands of pounds in wages and contracts which went to foreign competitors , and was a victory for neither side . But the lesson , costly though it was , was perhaps worth all that it cost . It taught the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity of the adoption of some method whereby they could be avoided in the future , and means could be provided for masters and men to meet on an equality and amicably discuss their grievances instead of nourish/ ing them in secret . It is safe to say that only the most insensate and criminal folly on both sides could produce another serious strike in the engineering trade . The North of England cotton trade has always been one of the greatest of Britain 's industries , and perhaps there is no trade requiring such a high grade of intelligence among the operatives , or which has carried organization to greater perfection or has more successfully eliminated the " glib-tongued popular leader . " The scale governing the wages of a Lancashire cotton spinner is so complicated and so technical , and so many things have to be taken into consideration in adjusting the scale , that both operators and operatives have found it necessary to employ agents to represent them who devote their entire time to their duties . The operatives appoint their agents only after a searching civil-service examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions taken from an examination-paper for candidates applying for the general secretaryship of the Operative Cotton Spinners ' Provincial Association of Bolton and District , as quoted by Beatrice and Sidney Webb in " Industrial Democracy " : " Extract the square root of 80 's counts to three places of decimals , and then ascertain the required turns per inch for both twist and weft , the assumed standard being the square root of the counts , multiplied by 3 1-8 for weft , and 3 5-8 for twist . " " An upright shaft runs at the rate of 80 revolutions per minute , and has on it a wheel with 70 teeth driving a wheel with 40 teeth on the line shaft . Over each pair of mules there is on the line shaft a drum 40 inches in diameter driving a counter pulley 16 inches in diameter . On the counter shaft is a drum 30 inches in diameter , driving a rim pulley 15 inches in diameter . Give the revolution of the rim shaft per minute . " These questions seemingly would appear to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be performed by the secretary of a trade-union , but , as a matter of fact , they are extremely practical , because , as the Webbs point out , " the earnings of a cotton spinner , for instance , depend upon the complex interaction of such factors as the ' draw ' of the mule , the number of its spindles , and the speed with which the machinery works . To compute the operative 's earnings , even with the aid of the elaborate printed tables known as the ' list , ' entails no ordinary amount of arithmetical facility . " In ease of defective  |p892  or obsolete machinery or inferior cotton , allowances are made to the operative , and if the employer has added improvements to his machinery by which the operative can increase his output without additional strain , the employer may make certain deductions from the " list . " Although the cotton operatives have shown a disinclination to adopt the scheme of boards of conciliation under the presidency of an outside chairman as has been done by the coal-miners , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same spirit of progression in finding a remedy for industrial disputes . In the Lancashire cotton trade there is a joint committee composed of operatives and employees whose functions are to settle all questions relating to wages and conditions of labor . The scale is determined by joint agreement between committees of the employers and the Northern Counties Amalgamated Weavers ' Association , the central executive body , which has subordinate local unions in every town in the Lancashire cotton district ; the scale continuing for an indefinite period , but subject to change at any time by mutual consent , or if no agreement can be reached recourse can of course be had to a strike or a lockout . But it is noteworthy that the scale under which the men are working at the present time went into effect in 1892 , and since then there has been only one change , when an advance of 21/2 per cent . was made in 1898 . It will , therefore , be seen that the Lancashire cotton trade has enjoyed a long period of peace , which has resulted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weavers ' association is that neither side to the agreement has the right to make any material modification in the wage-scale without an opportunity being afforded to the joint committee to bring about a satisfactory adjustment . It seems unnecessary to cite further specific instances of the existence of boards of conciliation in various trades , although it may be mentioned , parenthetically , that the principle of voluntary conciliation has been adopted by the boot and shoe trade , the Northumberland miners , the North of England iron and steel trade , the men working in the Cleveland iron district , in the Nottingham lace trade and numerous others . Nearly every trade presents some modifications in the details of the scheme to suit the particular requirements of that trade or the temperamental idiosyncrasies of  |p893  the workers , either in the matter of the appointment of arbitrators or the method in which disputes are brought before the Board , but fundamentally they are all the same , and the basic and controlling principle is that neither employers nor employees shall take advantage of their assumed strength and dislocate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the men refusing to work , unless it becomes apparent after repeated conference and discussion that compromise is impossible , or that a matter of principle is involved which admits of no compromise . A majority of the great wars of history were capable of being avoided had justice , reason and forbearance been substituted for injustice , anger and hate ; and it is no exaggeration to say that industrial warfare is usually born in passion and nourished by ignorance and cupidity , neither side being more guilty than the other , and both being equally unyielding and resolved as a matter of pride to win the fight . If a board of conciliation accomplishes nothing else ? although in most cases it has accomplished a great deal more ? it at least affords an opportunity for passion to cool off , for men to take a more rational view of all the circumstances surrounding the particular matter in dispute , for a careful and considerate deliberation of the material facts involved , and the equities and the ethical considerations which may influence the relations between employer and employee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conciliation and the Leicester boot and shoe trade ( Rule XVII. ) provide " that there must be no suspension of work , either at the instigation of the employers or workmen , the main object of the Board being to prevent this . If any suspension of work takes place , the Board may refuse to inquire into the dispute till work is resumed , whilst the fact of its having been interrupted will be taken into account on considering the question . That in order that the complainant or complainants may not lose through waiting , any recommendation of the committee of inquiry or any decision of the Board shall be made to date back to the time of the complaint being sent in . " Similarly , the rules of the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for the manufactured iron and steel trade of the North of England contain this injunction ( By-law 20 ) : " Above all , the Board would impress upon its subscribers that there must be no strike or suspension of work . The main object of the Board is to prevent anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work  |p894  takes place , the Board will refuse to inquire into the matter in dispute till work is resumed , and the fact of its having been interrupted will be taken into account in considering the question . It is recommended that any changes in the modes of working requiring alterations in the hours of labor , or a revision of the scale of payments , should be made matters of notice , and as far as possible of arrangement beforehand , so as to avoid needless subsequent disputes as to what ought to be paid . " It has been pointed out that in nearly all the trades both parties to the agreement pledge themselves loyally and faithfully to observe the decisions of umpires or arbitrators , but in some trades to insure compliance with the terms of the charter the parties have entered into a bond to observe its stipulations , and attention may be called to at least one notable instance where disregard of a decision resulted in a heavy fine being imposed upon the union violating the compact . The Federated Association of Boot and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Operatives , in 1895 , entered into the usual agreement for the appointment of a Board of Conciliation and placed in the hands of trustees the sum of ? 1,000 as a guarantee for the observance of the compact . Lord James , of Hereford , one of the law lords , was designated as the Umpire . In 1890 a dispute arose between the proprietors of a London shop and their men , who offered to submit the question to the Board of Conciliation , but this the men refused . The employers then claimed damages because of the violation of the terms of the agreement , which contained the usual stipulation that there should be no strike or lockout pending a decision by arbitration . The claim for damages was argued before Lord James , who decided that the union had violated the terms of the agreement and awarded to the Federation the sum of ? 300 as damages to be paid out of the trust fund . After the award was made the official organ of the union said : " The fine of ? 300 imposed upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope will be a warning to executives not to break away from rules and agreements entered into , for while the agreements are in existence we have every desire that they shall honorably be carried out by both sides , " and that they have been honorably carried out by both sides is evidenced from the fact that this was the only occasion Lord James was required to draw on the trust fund .  |p895  These brief recitals of the facts prove themselves and will be accepted by the reader as worth something or nothing , according to his point of view or preconceived ideas regarding the " rights " of capital or labor , but it must be self-evident that the substitution of conciliation for hostilities must have a tendency to reduce the number of strikes and produce valuable economic results . Official statistics substantiate the correctness of this belief . The last annual report of the Board of Trade shows that in the last five years there has been a steady decrease in the number of disputes , the number of workers affected , and the aggregate number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has fallen from 864 in 1897 to 642 in 1901 , the latest available statistics ; the number of working people affected has decreased in the same period from 230,267 to 179,546 , and the aggregate of working days from 10,345,523 to 4,142,287 ; but as the report points out , these figures , gratifying as they are , express only a part of the work performed by boards of conciliation and their share in bringing about the more friendly relations that now exist between employers and their workmen . " The settlement of strikes and lockouts , " the report says , " forms but a very small proportion of the work of permanent conciliation and arbitration boards and joint committees . To appreciate these agencies at their true value , account should also be taken of the numerous alterations effected in working conditions by them without any stoppage of work having taken place . Thus , in a recent report on changes of wages and hours of labor in 1901 , it is shown that 75 per cent . of all the changes of the year , as measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scales , wages boards or other methods of arbitration and conciliation , while only 2 per cent . of the changes followed upon strikes or lockouts . " The lesson which American labor ? and employers equally ? may learn from British labor is obvious , but more important even than the beneficial result , which is so apparent that it needs no elaboration , are two other purposes accomplished , the value of which is incalculable . The trade-union becomes an enormous force for conservatism and stability and acts as a restraining influence upon employers who would seek to take an unfair advantage of their men , and no less so upon those men who are unscrupulous in the use of their power over an employer . Agreements for the settlement of disputes can not be made between indi896 THE NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW . vidual employers and individual employees ; to achieve practical results they must be between federated employers and federated workmen . The trade-union furnishes the machinery on the part of the men . But perhaps even more important is the respect inculcated for the sanctity of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquiescence to authority , even although it means personal loss . It is no small thing for men to have their wages reduced by the decision of an umpire who is neither an employer no- familiar with their trade , and yet it speaks much for them when they accept the decision uncomplainingly , and have no more thought of disregarding it than they would of violating the mandate of a court ; when they accept the decision because they believe in the honesty and sincerity of their umpire ; and because having entered into an agreement their honor requires that it shall be observed . Men who have entered into an agreement to submit their disputes to the test of arbitration are not likely to make demands which an arbitrator will not sustain , nor to substitute violence and intimidation for argument . Nor is labor the only gainer . If an employer can be induced to meet his men face to face , frankly to discuss with them their demands , and show a disposition to deal with them fairly , some of the antagonism which now exists may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way is opened for a settlement of their differences and many difficulties are removed . It is the statement of large employers of labor in England that the frequent interchange of opinions among themselves and their men , through committees and other agencies , promotes harmony and eliminates friction , because the employer can know of those things to which the men object , and it is always easier to dam a rivulet than it is to stop a torrent ; and free and full discussion often convinces the intelligent representatives of labor that what appears proper and reasonable to them is impossible in view of the state of the market or other circumstances of which they are ignorant .                     