@@486809

Hakei s of Modern History . Three Types Louis Napoleon ? Cavour ? Bismarck By the Hon Edward Cadogan London John Murray , New York ? James Pott &; Co 1905 . Read in the spirit to which their author appeals , these essays may be commended , for they certainly " stimulate " if they do not " satisfy curiosity . " They aim at presenting , in sketches which can each be read in an hour , both a skeleton of the historical career and a portrait of the personality of the three " typical " men who transformed Europe during the third quarter of the nineteenth century Mr Cadogan is neither profound nor subtle , and we do not observe that he suggests any new interpretations , but he has read pretty extensively , and he has skill in narration ; so that his story is enriched by pregnant quotations as it runs on entertainingly . The account of Louis Napoleon is on the whole satisfactory . It indicates sufficiently his complex character , although , following the fashion of recent writers , it creates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early in the ' 60s The truth is , however , that this point of view springs from the wisdom of retrospect . As late as 1867 Europe regarded Napoleon as firmly established , and France as the foremost power . Even when war broke out in 1870 , public opinion , both in Europe and in America , expected a swift success for the Emperor . But to-day , as we look back , we see clearly enough that the Imperial regime was rotten ten years earlier , an historian , however , while describing the actual conditions as they have been revealed subsequently , ought never to neglect to paint in their true proportions the conditions as they appeared to contemporaries The paper on Cavour is evidently inspired by great admiration for that consummate statesman Mr Cadogan indicates the difficulties which beset his path , although one misses at times that keenness of insight needed for going to the heart of Cavour 's policy . When he comes to judge the morality of some of the statesman 's acts , he takes the practical view that they were justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Machiavellian school , however , does him an injustice , for such an expression implies that Cavour deliberately adopted Machiavellianism as his rule of conduct , whereas the truth is that his so-called " political immorality " was largely due to his environment Ca-your was really loyal to a higher standard than that of his rivals or predecessors , that he fell short of that standard should not make us forget that he tried to realize it . But perhaps this is a matter that Mr. Cadogan could not be expected to take up His treatment of Bismarck has a very uneven quality . Down to 1871 he shows us a fair sketch of the Prussian Titan , but from 1871 to 1898 he simply peters out Bismarck 's losing struggle with the Pope , his losing struggle with the Socialists , and his general work ( other than fiscal ) as a constructive statesman , are scarcely mentioned , while Mr Cadogan , as if he were a Chamberlainite and wrote with an eye to influencing the current agitation in England , goes out of his way to applaud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor can we accept his view that Bismarck 's dismissal " by the high-spirited boy-Emperor " ? is it not stretching a point to call William II at thirty-one a boe  --  and his last years in retirement were ignoble In general , however , these essays may safely be recommended to the unprofessional reader , who will be dull indeed if he does not discover in them the absorbing interest of the three dissimilar men whom they describe Biographical epitomes are always useful , and they may be made , in the hands of an artist , as precious as portraits are in the hands of a master painter Even a mediocre portrait is better than none . Country Homes of Famous Americans By Oliver Bronson Capen Doubleday , Page &; Co 1905 The photograph and the half-tone have brought into being many books that without their aid would not have been undertaken Entertaining and well worth reading as is Mr Capen 's text , it is certain that without the profusion of pictures large and small with which the book is embellished , ' American Homes ' would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcome light upon the surroundings of many of our celebrated men , representing , as Mr T W Higginson says in his introduction , " not merely the tastes and habits of the man 's household , but the private back-ground of his public life " Not all the houses chosen are of equal interest , nor are their owners of equal celebrity If there be little to show for Thoreau , whose very but on the shore of Walden Pond escaped contemporary depiction the perhaps less generally known Bartram has left on the banks of the Schuylkill a house of great individuality and picturesqueness , surrounded by gardens once the most interesting in the American colonies In some instances , however , both the man and his surroundings reach a high level of interest , and of these Washington at Mount Vernon is the type Excellent pictures of the house with its offices and servants ' quarters , of the rooms with their wisely chosen furniture and fittings , of the well-kept formal gardens , accompany a most entertaining description of the great landowner 's life as a practical farmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea how great were Washington 's agricultural interests At one time , his estates , according to Mr Capen , reached the vast extent of eight thousand acres He estimated that his withdrawal from his farms during the Revolutionary war caused a loss of fifty thousand dollars The pictures bear the strongest testimony to his skill in remodelling the house and designing the minor buildings , and in uniting all into an harmonious whole by means of well studied gardens Even the curiously winding box borders within the main hedges are said to have been laid out by his own hand . Fine as the view of Washington 's flower garden is , it lacks something of the charm of Bryant 's old-fashioned garden at Cedarmere . A greater abundance of blossom , a less fantastic arrangement of the box edging ( here also laid out by the owner himself ) , and a very beautiful dappling of light and shade make this perhaps the best of all the garden views the book contains In all , the homes of eighteen men are chosen , Including those of Lee at Arlington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Longfellow 's Craigie House , and Madison 's Montpelier . There has , of late , been much journeying ( on paper ) to the homes of great men , but none of these journeys has ended in such a fortunate meeting of text and pictures as have those of Mr. Capen. 