@@486407

It is obvious that the Administration is now walking more warily along its perilous Isthmian path . Its first fondness for rushing into a belligerent policy , and then looking about to find law for it , has passed away . Take the case of the Colombians who are reported to have landed on an island in the waters of Panama . The old headlong way would have been to turn them out , bag and baggage . Now , it is said , they are to be politely asked to go away ; but an ' they will not , our naval commander is to sail off , thanking Heaven that he is rid of knaves . There is here a very shrewd test of the theory upon - which the Administration has been acting . Its fantastic contention is that , in repelling Colombians from the territory of Panama by force , it was but proceeding under the treaty obligation to keep transit open . But how can Colombians on an island miles away threaten to obstruct transit over the Isthmus ? Evidently , the wise men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . Their new and gratifying caution is a sign that they are finding out how unpopular a war with Colombia would be . There would be no more " glory " in it than in kicking a newsboy into the gutter . " No sheep can bite me and live , " said a soldier , who came into camp bringing the carcass of one on his back , after an order against plundering had been issued . In like spirit , Secretary Moody now says , " Let the Colombians take the initiative " The initiative in what ? If the Secretary means war , it is too late for the Colombians to take it now , because we took it seven weeks ago . When we sent cruisers to the Isthmus to prevent the Colombians from suppressing insurrections in their own territory , we forestalled any claim they might ever make to the initiative . It is strictly our own , and we so affirm , despite the warning of Congressman Hitt that " every bitter and inflammatory thing said here at home against our Government 's course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a people who are always ready for a disturbance . " What a topsy-turvy state the Illinois Congressman is in ' If the Executive gets the nation into a war by usurping power , then nobody must object to a glaring and dangerous infraction of the Constitution lest the enemy should be inflamed to the point of defending his rights . Secretary Hay finds support for our new diplomacy in an alleged peculiar ' Ty of our isthmian treaty of 1846 . It vas originally made with a country called New Grenada . " The name of New Grenada has passed away ; its territory has been divided . " But our treaty , he tells us. " is a covenant , as lawyers say , that rims with the land . " At that division of New Grenada territory , it ran with the land to the now Stale called Colombia . Having thus early shown its ability to run , what - more natnial than this nimble treaty should run again ? We are , indeed , left to infer that it has obligingly lowered its own previous record , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Secretary 's account is repeated in the President 's message ? " The name of New Grenada has passed away and its territory has been divided . " Yet , strange to say , one seeks in vain for confirmation of this alleged division of the territory of New Grenada . It is not mentioned in any historical work that we have been able to discover . The maps of South America in the ' 40s show a New Grenada identical in shape and size with the Colombia of 1903 . Further , the records show that the change of name from New Grenada to Colombia was made by the new constitution adopted between 1861 and 1863 . Except for some readjustment of boundaries between her and neighboring States , the State ' with which we made the treaty of 1846 , guaranteeing her rights of sovereignty and property in the Isthmus , es the precise State which we have now deprived of her sovereignty and property there  --  the very State from which we derived whatever legal right we have to be there at all . The treaty never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assistant Secretary of State , Mr Francis B. Loomis , has principally figured in the Panama farce-comedy hitherto as the actor who mistook his cue and rushed on the revolutionary stage several hours before there was a revolution That telegram of his , signed " Loomis , Acting , " was wittily used by Congressman Dinsmore to turn the laugh on the whole bouffe affair . Last week Mr. Loomis appeared in this city , and gave us another taste of his theatric quality . Speaking before the Quill Club , he unfolded a startling tale of the horrors that would have heaped on horror 's head had not the President strained a treaty and violated precedent in his swift recognition of the Panama republic pour rare . Here we have at last the official version of that terrible " foreign complication " which drove the President to his rapid-fire recognition . If he had not acted on the instant , and if certain fell designs , which Mr. Loomis attributes to Colombia without a particle of proof adduced , had been carried out , we should have seen a French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily have been followed by the ships of England and Holland , " and there you would have had Panama turned into a Balkan State , which " might well have been expected to furnish the spark to set half of the world in flames . " Nothing like a canal to quench that spark ! So the " man in Washington who possessed insight , " seized " the opportunity to strike a blow . " According to Mr. Loomis , that one blow saved the whole world from coming to blows at Panama Interest in argument of counsel before the Supreme Court , in the Northern Securities appeal , has been greatest in the presentation by Mr. Johnson of the case for the Company , and of the Government 's case by Attorney-General Knox Mr. Johnson 's line of defence may be concisely summarized as follows : First , as to restraint of trade If there had been , in connection with the merger , any-agreement to restrain competition between the two merged companies , then the case was ended and the merger proved illegal But the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarge , create , and improve trade . Second , the form of merger is such that no agreement is involved , but merely sale of property by one set of persons to another ; and bona-fide acquisition of property has never been held a contract or conspiracy in restraint of trade . The point on which the defence has throughout mainly rested is the plea of simple purchase of property by the Securities corporation . This , it will be recalled , is in line with Judge Lochren 's opinion of last August , in the State of Minnesota versus the Northern Securities . On the other hand , one question was put by the court to Mr. Johnson , as pregnant as Justice Brown 's famous query , a year and a half ago , whether , under the general scheme of merger , one person might not conceivably come to control all the railways of the country . Justice Brewer asked , on Monday , whether Mr. Johnsbn 's argument would not justify merger of all our transcontinental railways . Counsel replied that if such combination were requisite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney-General 's argument rested mainly on the Supreme Court 's own precedent of 1897 . The Trans-Missouri Railway Association then pleaded that its agreement " for establishing and maintaining reasonable rates " was not intended for restraint of trade . The court ruled , however , that " the necessary effect of the agreement was to restrain trade . " Mr. Knox observed of this prece-dent : " I can not think that a combination held together by a rope of sand comes within the prohibition of the law , and that one which is bound by links of steel may defy its wisdom and its power . " The particular device employed in combination , the Attorney-General contended , is a minor question ; the real problem concerns the end accomplished . The end accomplished by the merger was , he argued , to destroy competition between the Northern Pacific and Great Northern , and this was in restraint of trade under previous decisions of the court . Answering the contention that decision against a securities-holding company would forbid corporations to do what individuals might do unchallenged , the Attorney-General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than half the stock ; whereas , by using a company holding a bare majority of such shares , the same individuals might own half the stock of the holding company , and thus control the railways controlled by it , through virtual ownership of one-quarter only . Whatever the economic value of the combination movement as a whole , the form displayed in the Northern merger had , Mr. Knox asserted , no economic value whatsoever . The fact which the annual report of the Interstate Commerce Commission brings out most clearly is that there has practically been an elimination of competition among the railroads . There has been a marked and general advance in transportation rates during the last three years , and the advances have usually , if not always , been the result of concerted action by the carriers . The Commission recall 's the old theory that the adjustment of freight rates is a delicate matter , which could be dealt with only by people having a most intimate knowledge of conditions , and says that the advances of the last three years have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the traffic representatives of the various systems , but " rather with the financial heads of those systems . " If this means anything , it means that rates have been adjusted primarily in accordance with the needs of Wall Street . The ' Commission concedes that in some respects the cost of operation has been increased , but claims , on the other hand , that many economies have been introduced , and that the great increase in the amount of traffic has " enabled railroads to handle it cheaper in proportion . In short , the report gives the lie to the loudly proclaimed assertions that the greater the unification of the railroads , the lower the scale of transportation charges . The Commission emphatically asserts that " this species of property now possesses the power to tax unjustly every species of prop erty . " When it talks about " insidious means " of taxing the many for the benefit of the few , it revives poignant memories of Wall Street in 1900 and 1901 . The complete Bristow report is interesting chiefly as further evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now under indictment , and of Perry ' S. Heath , who should be rendering daily thanks for the statute of limitations . The large results of Mr. Bristow 's investigation were indicated in the abstract recently issued . The full recital of the amazing diligence of Beavers and Machen in taking toll of every contract and payment that passed through their hands entitles them to a place among the great thieves of history . The report is crammed with significant touches . Beavers used to direct seekers for contracts to a clerk , H. Clayton Graff , " as the man to do business with " ; and Graff mould gravely explain that " none of us are here for our health . The Government is not liberal with ' salaries , and it costs much to live in Washington . " Mr. Bristow simply emphasizes the fact that every day Heath remains secretary of the ' Republican National ' Committee means political capital for Democrats and losses for Republicans . Heath 's iniquity was known when the Committee met week before last ; the Committee , by tolerating him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party will be held accountable at the polls . The report of Messrs . Conrad . and Bonaparte on the so-called Tulloch charges contains more that is new and striking . They sustain Mr. Tulloch in all his main contentions . Of course , they find , as Mr. Bristow did , that Heath was one of the head devils ; and , speaking as lawyers , they declare flatly that " suspicion of his personal integrity must be inevitably aroused . " But , after the Bristow report , anything more to the discredit of , Heath is throwing a perfume on the violet . The notable thing is the plain statement about the former Postmaster-General himself , Charles Emory Smith , who is directly accused of tolerating the practice of fraudulent employments after he had received notice of their existence . Mr. Smith , " notwithstanding repeated warnings , " failed " to appreciate the gravity " of the misconduct of his subordinates , and " the consequent necessity for its prompt and adequate punishment . " It may be added that Mr. Smith even now fails to appreciate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of either generosity or justice , the grant of trade advantages to Cuba has been too long delayed to have a really fine moral flavor . A proniise of humane Treatment and fair dealing which it has taken the giver more than two years to make good is not a subject for him to wax complacent over . The immediate Cuban crisis long since passed . With an extraordinary power of endurance and recuperation , the Cubans pulled through the pinch of their industrial depression . Their own Government has been less extravagant than the temporary American rule . By a lucky upward turn in the world 's price of sugar , their leading product afforded them a small margin of profit . Consequently , the reciprocity bill , which Congress finally passed on December 16 , could no longer be urged as a measure demanded by an exigent situation . The arguments for it were rather political and economic than humanitarian , and it was a sure instinct which led the Democratic leader in the House to support the measure . He did his best to improve it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that , he rallied his followers with the cry , " This is a break in their Chinese wall . Let us help them to make it , and trust to time and our own right arms to widen it . " In the Senate , to be sure , the Democratic vote was largely against the bill . Some Democratic Senators , like Mr. Bailey , had legal and Constitutional objections ; most of them , however , put the case bluntly on the ground of special interests which they represent and which they feared might take injury . Nevertheless , the fact remains that protection hatea . Cuban reciprocity , and tried to stave it off , but has at last had to acquiesce in it . The new treaty between this country and China , which has just been unanimously ratified by the Senate , is a measure of exceptional importance . It firmly establishes our right to the most-favored-nation treatment , and points to the placing of our commercial affairs in the Empire on a more workable and profitable basis . The provisions that will command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the opening of the Mantchurian ports of Mukden and Antung to American trade . The Chinese Government agrees to abolish the lalcin and all other transit dues , in return for which the United States consents to a surtax bringing the total import tax up to 121/2 per cent. , and limiting the export tariff to 71/2 per cent . A tax of only 121/2 per cent , shows how far China still is from any real conception of civilization Contrast that beggarly tax with our Dingley schedules . As regards the Mantchurian ports , can China guarantee us equal rights there ? Russia is in possession , and while she will probably not court an altercation with this country , , she may pursue certain indirect methods of hampering our trade with the new ports . If , for instance , she should make our steamers pay twelve times the tonnage tax at Mantchurian pOrts that is paid by Russian craft , that would very nearly make waste paper of the treaty . The conclusion of the purchase of the friars ' lands in the Philippines will rank as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been brought about , not by condemnation or other peremptory proceedings , but by direct negotiation with the owners . The Vatican had given its general sanction to the scheme , but in a case of this sort the details are the pith of the matter , and these had to be slowly and painfully arranged on the spot . How well this work has been done is shown in the purchase price , *7,250 , - 000 , which is less than two-thirds the sum originally demanded . The reason for this peaceful dispossession of the friars we have already discussed . Rightly or wrongly , they represented to the people the worst abuses of the Spanish domination ; for they were the real rulers . That the transformation should be complete it was necessary that they should go . This view is quite compatible with such a belief in the piety and good intentions of the friars as Chaplain Chidwick expressed on Sunday night . Their unfortunate political activities had made them impossible , and Gov . Taft deserves the heartiest congratulations for arranging for their supersession by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which surrounds the inquiry into Gen. Wood 's fitness for promotion relates only to the charges against him . Testimony in his favor may freely be published . Thus , we have had letters from Gen. Bliss and Col. Dudley setting forth what they did say before the Senate Committee , given out by consent of the War Department , and correcting erroneous press reports . Now it is SecretaryRoot who gives himself leave to print his defence of Gen. Wood at the very moment when the opponents of the medical general are denied publicity of any kind . The Secretary 's tribute to his subordinate quotes , of course , from Gen. Wood 's record while acting as a lieutenant in Arizona in 1886 , and also from the official reports of his brief career as a colonel and brigade commander in the field Mr. Root also contends that since the work of governing a captured province is frequently the duty of a general , Gen. Wood 's services at Havana must be counted as a part of his purely military record . With this , we think , few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Secretary 's assertion that no officer below the rank of major-general has " demonstrated to a higher degree the possession of qualities which fit a man to render valuable services to the country as major-general . " It is true that Brig. - Gens . George M. Randall , J. Franklin Bell , Theodore J. Wint , Jesse M. Lee , Francis Moore , and Tasker H. Bliss have not had such spectacular commands as Gen. Wood , but this is because there was only one Cuba on our hands . It is , of course , hard luck that four of these were fighting in the civil war when Wood was a mewling infant , and that all are trained officers of long experience ; but then not every one can be medical officer to the White House on the outbreak of war , anti so let his light shine where it will do the most good . The four appointments announced by Mayor-elect McClellan on Monday must dash the hopes of those who thought that in some mysterious way Tammany Hall might be uplifted by its latest figurehead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delany , whose selection was announced last week , are of the old guard of the Wigwam . It is true that there are worse men in Tammany Hall . Mr. Jerome , for instance , publicly praised Patrick Keenan for keeping away from the grafters and the upholders of red-light conditions ; but at the same time he spoke of the present rulers of the Hall as hounds who would leap out of the windows should Croker enter and snap his jaws . Keenan has been an officeholder before , having graduated in true Tammany style from a liquor saloon into the Board of Aldermen from the old Eleventh Ward , but in 1880 he was forced out of the organization . After some years of rebellion and service as county clerk on an anti-Tammany ticket , he returned to the fold in 1890 , and has since been a model of loyalty Crain is an " orator " of considerable ability and education , which he has put to bad uses in defence of Tammany Hall . Since he is to have charge of the important Tenement House Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a Sheehan or a " Mike " Murphy . This new Commissioner was appointed City Chamberlain by Mayor Grant , after having been the Mayor 's private secretary , to succeed no less a person than Richard Croker . Francis J. Lantry , who goes back to the position of Cominissioner of Correction , which he filled none too well under Van Wyck , is a typical Tammany officeholder . Nicholas J. Hayes , the new Fire Commissioner , who is now Deputy City Clerk , has risen in the regular Tammany Hall way to a district leadership . There is nothing about him or his past which would seem to mark him as a man suitable for so important a position . By a noteworthy inversion , Mr Chamberlain 's Imperialism has now resulted in an imperiman in imperio which threatens the existence of his party . It was plain to all disinterested observers that from the moment of the Birmingham speech he had made  --  following Dante 's example ? " a party of himself . " The logic of the situation soon forced him to a secession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile , the Tariff Reform League quickly put at his command the usual political machinery , and now , by the appointment of an expert commission on the fiscal question , he virtually sets up as a Government . Since the commission is to frame the legislation which will revolutionize the finances and trade policy of the Empire , it obviously leaves to the real Government  --  if Mr. Balfour 's Ministry still deserves the name  --  chiefly such parochialisms as the maintenance of the army , fleet , and schools . Of course , Mr. Chamberlain 's relay Government lacks certain appurtenances. it can not , for instance , issue Blue Books , and it will not have to resign even if its bill be defeated in Parliament . But there are other colors than blue , and the evasion of Parliamentary responsibility may be deemed an advantage . What Mr. Balfour 's Government will do with the bill that Mr. Chamberlain 's Government presents is a problem interesting alike to students of constitutional law and of human nature . - Certainly , Mr. Balfour would be excusable if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former colleague . For it is Mr. Chamberlain and his Ministry who are to have the pleasure of playing ducks and drakes with British finance , while it is apparently Mr. Balfour who is to endure such necessary Parliamentary hardships as the measure may entail . Obviously , it is not Joe who stands to get left in this division of labor . Premier Combes has no sooner got the alleged disloyal orders suppressed than he introduces a bill requiring all the religious orders  --  as companies or individuals  --  to desist within five years from teaching in France . The act applies impartially to primary and secondary education . This means the closing of more than three thousand schools , and naturally the extension of Government school facilities to accommodate the pupils of religious institutions It should be observed that this wholesale proscription does not technically affect the rights of the secular clergy . But , practically , there are no parish schools in France ; school teaching is in the hands of the orders , and the proposed law is definitely an attempt to deny the right of teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law is an assertion of a State monopoly in education . On the theory lately set forth by the publicist Oldmenceau , who asserts that no one can be loyal to both the Pope and the Republic , such action would be highly logical ; but in that case the Catholic Church must be regarded as the enemy of France always and everywhere . Such undoubtedly is M Combes 's view . To carry it out consistently , the Concordat should next be abolished , and that , indeed , is to be expected if anti-clericalism continues to be the ruling political force at the Palais Bourbon.                     