@@486633

The Real Siberia By John Foster Fraser D. Appleton &; Co. 1902 . Works on Asiatic Russia are multiplying apace ; in fact , the world , including the Russians themselves , is just awakening to the full importance of the subject . Then , too , the Trans-Siberian Railway , which is now open to any one , is so new that foreign passengers still feel a little like explorers whose duty it is to relate their discoveries to their fellowmen . The immense resources and possibilities of the huge regions hitherto so little known are attracting wider and wider attention . There is a demand for good books about them , for we have none too many , especially in English . Mr. Wright has put into his two bulky , though really rather short volumes , a mass of valuable facts , most of them not easily accessible to the average reader . He has given us an excellent succinct account of the geography , hisfory , and general conditions of Asiatic Russia at the present time . Although as a geologist he devotes some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of his readers , history and politics are not neglected His description of the exploration and conquest of Siberia is particularly good , and his tone throughout is moderate and sensible . It is only when we come to the political reflections that we feel inclined to criticise . For some reason or other , very few writers about Russia seem to be able to steer a middle course between apology and denunciation . Mr Wright is an apologist , which is better than the reverse , but this is the weakest side of his book . In his admiration of courage and success he fres quently glosses over unscrupulousness , some of his statements are misleading , usually by their omissions , and occasionally he provokes a smile For instance , in describing the " Occupation of Turkestan , " he declares that , after the seizure of Merv , " without further bloodshed Russia at length , in 1883 , reached her natural boundary , " but he omits to mention that two years later the Russians , after killing or wounding in battle some 500 Afghans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assure us that " the alarm of the English at the advance of Russia towards India in this direction has long since subsided , in view of the evident good faith with which the Russians are applying themselves to the development of the country and to the maintenance of peace upon the border . " This conclusion is rather steep . Still more so is the remark that the despotic power of the min or peasant community , to banish to Siberia its objectionable or burdensome members " is scarcely distinguishable in principle from the increasing exercise of ' local option ' which is characteristic of so many American communities " It is also strange to find an American maintaining that " it augurs well for the Siberian part of Russia that it is not open to indiscriminate immigration , but that it has been reserved for the natural increase of the indigenous population and for Russian emigrants In this way a unity can be preserved . " And he supports this proposition by pointing out the decline in the birthrate in the United States since ( or . as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration of the last half-century . When speaking of the pastoral Khirghiz , whose situation is unquestionably becoming worse as time goes on , Mr Wright , while admitting that , in the Government of Turgai between 1882 and 1896 , " there has been a diminution of 351,000 horses , 60,000 cattle , 60,000 camels , and about 700,000 sheep , " cheerfully adds . " But as the horses and camels , above a certain number , are nonproductive , their diminution is a sign of prosperity rather than the contrary . " How about the cattle and the sheep ? Finally , the statement that " in many respects Russia is the most tolerant of all governments , " though it is often made by Russians themselves , shows an extraordinary delusion on their part , and is absurd in the mouth of an Anglo-Saion There are a number of other dicta of this sort that we might criticise , but they do not seriously lessen the value of a work which can , after all , be recommended to the public as in the main really sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Real Siberia ' is less ambitious . Starting out loaded with the usual English prejudice , as he freely admits , and innocent of any knowledge of the country he was to visit , the author journeyed to the Pacific and back . He has now written a book to enlighten those of his countrymen who remain in his previous state of ignorance . His volume has no pretensions to Be anything more than a mere sketch of travel and observation , but it reads pleasantly , and its general tone is characterized by cheery common-sense . What Mr. Fraser gets at second hand is less trustworthy . His worst slip is the statement that " in Western Siberia a grant of some thirty-two English square miles is made to every man , and in some cases there is an additional grant of six miles of forests " If the writer had said acres in both cases instead of miles , he would have been not far from the truth One Thousand American Fungi : How to Select and Cook the Edible , How to Distinguish and Avoid the Poisonous By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Bowen-Merrill Company 1902 This substantial quarto of 704 pages is frankly written by an amateur for amateurs , and must be judged accordingly . It is not in any way intended to rival such monographs as those by Prof. W. G. Far-low of Harvard or by Prof Charles H. Peck , the New York State Botanist . Of course , Mr. McIlvaine has borrowed freely from Professor Peck 's reports on the Boletus , and other similar treatises , but he has attempted to present the matter in highly popular form As a book for amateurs Mr. McIlvaine 's at once comes into competition with tour others : ' Edible Toadstools and Mushrooms , ' by the late W Hamilton Gibson ( Harper &; Bros ) , ' Among the Mushrooms , " by Ellen M. Dallas and Caroline A Burgin ( Philadelphia ? Drexel Biddle ) ; ' The Mushroom Book , ' by Nina L. Marshall ( Doubleday , Page &; Co ) ; and ' Studies of American Fungi , ' by Prof. George Francis Atkinson of Cornell ( Ithaca ? Andrus &; Church ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beautiful , but it is so scrappy and incomplete that it is of little value to the mushroom hunter . The exquisite illustrations have started more than one person afield , fired with mycologic zeal , but in a few days the enthusiast learns that Mr. Gibson did little more than get up a pretty picture-book . Then , too , the price places it beyond the reach of many . ' Among the Mushrooms ' contains some good reproductions of photographs and some fair color prints , but otherwise it is nearly useless . The mushrooms are classified according to color rather than according to structure ; an arrangement that can appeal only to the most superficial observer . ' The Mushroom Book , ' like all the nature books published by Doubleday , Page &; Co , is finely illustrated . The photographs give the most minute detail , and the color prints are extraordinarily vivid and accurate . Miss Marshall usually describes at least one variety under each genus , and of the commoner genera more than one . A considerable number of her descriptions , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book as a whole is exasperatingly incomplete . A man may in an afternoon in the woods find three or four of the Lactarms quite as interesting and important as the two which she mentions . Indeed , the Lactarius Deliciosue , the most valuable of the family for the table , she omits entirely , and so on throughout the work Professor Atkinson 's ' Studies , ' which costs the same price as ' The Mushroom Book , ' is indubitably superior in every respect but one , the number of colored plates . The ' Studies ' constains but six , ' The Mushroom Book ' twenty-four The difference is almost made up by Professor Atkinson 's many half-tone reproductions of perfect photographs . He describes many more varieties than Miss Marshall , and his descriptions are in the main more detailed . Any one who has both books will find himself relying chiefly on Professor Atkinson 's and supplementing it by an occasional reference to a colored plate in Miss Marshall 's . For example , Professor Atkinson describes thirteen species of the Lactarius as against Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from complete , as the mushroom collector will discover the first day he uses it . If the author would fill in the gaps , add twenty or thirty colored plates , and issue a second edition at the same price , he would win the gratitude of every amateur and professional mycologist in the country . The chief merit of Mr. Meilvaine 's book , to return to the one before us , is its completeness . He identifies about a thousand species  --  roughly speaking , three times as many as Atkinson . A comparison of the number of species distinguished under several common genera by the three writers may be of interest . deleted table The figures in the table hardly do justice to Professor Atkinsdn , for what descriptions he gives generally excel in clearness and accuracy . One trouble with Mr McBrame is that he identifies almost too many species . He is often inclined to class as separate species what Professor Atkinson would regard as minor variations in the form of one species . The result is that the reader is puzzled to distinguish small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole , however , In spite of possible confusions and inaccuracies , Mr. McIlysine 's book must enable the student to identify many species that are not even mentioned in the other four books . The work contains thirty-two colored plates , but , as they are reproductions of - water- color sketches , they are less aeon -- rate and detailed than the colored plates offered by Miss Marshall and Professor Atkinson . The half-tones from photographs are entirely satisfactory The size and - weight of the book , and the price , must give the average purchaser pause . What the mushroom hunter needs is a book with Miss Marshall 's colored plates , Professor Atkinson 's half-tones , the completeness that Mr. McIlvaine attempts , and Professor Atkinson 's lucidity and exactness . There are rumors of a magnum opus by Professor Farlow to fill all these wants , but in the meantime the waiting world ought to buy many copies of something less pretentious . Outlines of Criminal Law. ? A Selechon of Cases Illustrative of English Criminal Law . By Courtney Stanhope Kenny . Two volumes . Cambridge ( Eng . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1902 . The author of these volumes justifies their appearance by the fact that he has lectured - on criminal law at Cambridge for a quarter of a century ? " a period long enough to afford even the least competent lecturer some opportunity of ascertaining what principles , and what illustrations , are so successful in arresting the attention and impressing the memory of students as to be worth putting before them in the earliest manual which they peruse " A brief examination will convince the reader that no excuse was necessary for these publications . It is difficult to imagine a more perfect expository style than that of the lectures , and the fine distinctions which the nature of the subject requires are made with admirable clearness When a lecturer brings such qualifications to his task it is not surprising that he should find , as Mr. Kenny has done , that law students regard criminal law as one of the most attractive portions of their work . Presumptively , these lectures are meant for those who take up the law as a profession ; but they will be useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties of a justice of the peace . While our law has diverged from that of England , the principles of the two systems remain substantially the same , and the procedure is in most respects similar For this , and for other reasons , these lectures will be found invaluable by American readers . With nearly fifty bodies constantly engaged in law-making , we can not expect to approach the comparatively symmetrical development of criminal law attained in England . It is true that Parliament has not yet been induced to codify this law , but many useful statutes have been passed , and the judges have exerted a steady pressure in the direction of improvement . In some of our States , procedure compares favorably with that of England , but in most of them it is decidedly inferior . This is partly due to our practice of electing judges , which fills the bench with politicians , and partly to the incessant changes caused by the cacoethes legtferendi We are inclined however , to attribute much importance to the fact that the right of the citizen to prosecute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has ' been practically abolished in this country . This right is vested in the functionary generally known as the District Attorney , and he exercises it , in the Larger cities , at his pleasure . The prosecution of criminals having ceased to be a part of the occupation of the general practitioner , their defence has also passed out of his hands . In such a city as New York few lawyers know anything of criminal law , and those who are familiar with it have a clientele largely , if not exclusively , composed of criminals The results have been prejudicial , not only to procedure , but also to the law itself ; and the plight of an innocent person accused of crime and obliged to employ a " Tombs-lawyer " for his defence is certainly deplorable . This is not the place to enumerate the particulars in which the Criminal Law has been improved , or to consider those in which it is susceptible of improvement , tempting as such a review is made by Mr. Kenny 's exposition . We can mention only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Within a century , " Mr. Kenny tells us , " so eminent a statesman as Windham could urge in Parliament the view that even the most insane criminal ought to be hanged for his crime ' for example 's sake . ' " But this was never the law , nor , on the other hand , has the mere existence of insanity sufficed for exemption . Not very long ago medical experts inclined to take this view , but observation appears to have established the fact that many insane persons are influenced by the fear of punishment . Hence English law now distinguishes two classes of insane persons  --  those who are not affected by the terrors of the law , and those who , as Lord Bramwell said , " would not have yielded to their insanity if a policeman had been at their elbow . " In this country . " irresistible impulse " is recognized as a defence ; but the English courts hesitate to admit it . Nor does their law seem to regard insanity as a circumstance that may mitigate punishment , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same may be said of drunkenness . The ' Select Cases ' constitute an admirable repertory of criminal law . Few of them are taken from our reports , and many of them are of high antiquity . We must complain that they are sometimes enigmatical , in not stating whether the trial resulted in conviction or acquittal . They may be described , as the Scotchman did the definitions in the dictionary , as " Bra ' stories , but unto ' short " ; nevertheless , it is a relief to escape from the frightful verbosity which is the besetting sin of our judges . Taken together , these volumes constitute a corpus juris of which the English people may well be proud Our lawyers , and especially our judges , should welcome them ; and they deserve the attention of all who care to understand our institutions . Madame de Pompadour . By H. Noel Williams . Charles Scribner 's Sons . 1902 . This volume proves the continuance of interest that pertains to a century in which the direct action of women on the principal affairs or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Few commentators , however , add the obvious note that during that very time ( especially in France ) the rights and legal status of the sex obtained a minimum of recognition . It is one of the principal objects of Mr. Williams 's voluminous study to show bow , by dint of natural ability , sheer feminine persistence , and unscrupulous use of any effective means , a king 's favorite  --  herself a bourgeoise  --  succeeded in imposing her will on the most uncompromisingly aristocratic society of her time , and , through want of genuine administrative capacity , hastened the break-up of the very conditions that she sought to control single-handed . The story has become familiar from often telling , it is excellently summed up in Mr. Perkins 's ' France under Louis XV , ' in the following decisive words ? " A history of her rule would be properly entitled France under Mme. de Pompadour . . . She bad the ambition of a Catharine II . without her intellect . " To the severity of this historical judgment , from which there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of considerations , not by way of posthumous exculpation , but in the interest of serene impartiality . His own discussion of the political role of Jeanne Poisson is as uncompromising an arraignment as an enemy could wish ; though , it must be said , there is yet ample room in his treatise for adequate attention to the fever of megalomania which misled an unscrupulous woman into the belief that her judgment of situations and suitable men was sound Both her dismissals and her appointments , as Mr. Williams admits , were urged by private considerations or enmities , and all in view of advancing her favorites . Her proscription or exclusion lists contain the names of the only men able to cope with the problems of government , foreign policy , or war . Her pet general was routed at Rossbach Her ignorance of colonial affairs cost France , on our side of the Atlantic , the influence which neither language , nor race feeling , nor religious earnestness has yet succeeded in reinstating . This- collective ( but now somewhat banal ) charge might find some palliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show under this mass of bungling the motive of affection for either her royal lover or the common country of both . Through a discreet footnote ( p. 366 ) we discover that even in these natural impulses her present biographer believes her to have been wanting We find , as an offset to this , several chapters devoted to the generally neglected credit side of La Pompadour 's account with posterity . It amounts , in brief , to assistance given to a few men of letters and artists , to encouragement of the porcelain-workers at S ? vres , to the foundation of the Ecole Militame , and to unfailing generosity towards those she liked because they worked her will . In the above summary , we have not pointed out the range of Mr. Williams 's studies , which , with the help of a page of bibliography , he might have spared his readers the - labor of verifying in his numerous footnotes . It may be observed , however , that the weight of his attention seems to have been directed chiefly to the writers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-known interest in the minutia=-of documentation so often obscures the breadth of view essential to great historical writing . As a countervailing result , many , pages in this work present for the first time to English readers , in extremely attractive form , several episodes of picturesque , if secondary , character . The accounts of Madame de Pompadour 's theatre-c6,1 undertakings and of Latude 's escapades and impostures are given m spirited fashion . The French quotations show careful revision ; not so the words and phrases casually introduced . When Madame de Pompadour tacitly consented to , or even assisted , the infamies of the Parc aux Cerfs , she did not play the part of an " entremetteur " ( p. 208 ) ; and the haute monde ( p. 286 ) of Paris never existed outside of an English book . The volume , however , is eminently readable , and will doubtless further recommend itself to libraries , public or private , by the beauty of its form and its excellently selected illustrations . European and Japanese Gardens . Philadelphia : Henry T. Coates &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have here a series of papers recently read before the American Institute of Architects . Of late years the literature of garden design has grown apace , but its growth has included no book of moderate cost which offers so many views of important examples as does the one whose title we record above . The pictures are well chosen and include plans of many celebrated gardens . The text is by sundry - writers Prof. A. D. F. Hamlin of Columbia College gives an account of the origin and development of the Italian garden . The spirit that animated the men of the Renaissance in the making of their gardens , the genius of their style , the response of their designs to their manners , customs , traditions , climate , and to the spirit of their times  --  is brought out with the utmost clearness . So complete a picture of the garden in Italy is presented that we come away from it fully prepared to follow its influence beyond the Alps . In his paper on French gardening , Mr John Galen Howard tells how the art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing far different from its prototype . So commanding a genius was its acknowledged master , Andrd Le NOtre , that in any study of French gardening his work must fill a large space , and to this rule Mr. Howard 's essay offers no exception . For him Le Notre is the Shakspere of gardening , whose work deserves and receives his most sympathetic study and enthusiastic praise . English Gardens , as seen by Mr. R. Clipston Sturgis , present an entire contrast to such vast conceptions as Versailles and Fontainbleau . For him the chief interest of gardening in England centres about the simpler work , the smaller and less pretentious gardens seeming in every way the more perfect . He attempts no account of English gardening as a whole , either historical or descriptive , but dwells upon some of its distinguishing characteristics , such as the desire for privacy and separation , the division of the grounds according to their use , the high standard so general in maintenance . His love of the simple and homely in English gardens and of the reasonableness of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained only from the gardens themselves . The brief notes that accompany the excellent views of Japanese gardens are by IC . Honda , who describes the Hill and Flat gardens in the finished , rough and intermediate styles , and gives an account of the accessories proper to the several sorts of Japanese garden . The papers , in spite of their diverse origin , hang together well . The book is worth having , not only on account of its beautiful illustrations , but because it treats its subjects sanely and intelligently .                     