@@474689

IT is probable , especially in these latter days of great material advance , that the influence of natural environment upon man 's activities has failed of due appreciation ; men and societies are so involved in a complex of personal and group relations that the ultimate action and reaction between the human animal and his natural environment do not press home in any insistent or convincing manner . Man is so used to " triumphing over Nature , " through subtle activities in the brain which do not strike him as adaptations , that he views with impatience the suggestion that he can not do what and all he will . Is it necessary to provide against cold ? He straightway steals the coat of his fellow animal and escapes death , avoids migration , and evades the need of growing a coat for himself . He can thus anticipate or artificially effect an adjustment to environment . He can do more : he is able actually to mould his environment , and to forestall the need of adjustment altogether . In a disease-smitten locality he exterminates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives on tranquilly in the same place . These are exploits far beyond the reach of any creature save man ; and yet , whatever man 's special intellectual endowments , he is , in ultimate analysis , an animal , with an animal 's subordination to the forces of physical nature . Even his arts and dexterities ? the measures of his characteristic style of adaptation ? are strictly limited in their effectiveness . The coast-lines and rivers of the earth can not be redistributed by the taking of thought , nor may the ice-fields he rearranged , nor the amount . of rainfall or sunshine be redetermined . Cotton can not be grown on the spurs of the . Rocky ' Mountains nor iron mined in the coral rocks of Bermuda . These broadercontrols of natural environment seem so self-evident as scarcely to repay allusion ; but they are apt constantly to be minimized in comparison with man 's own power over situations . The public mind is taken up with projects and enterprises embodying the public will ; it is impatient of objections on the ground of unfavorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial enterprise . There is an optimistic conviction abroad that commerce is independent of such factors as climate , coast-line , and distance ; that refrigeratorships , ocean greyhounds , and governmental appropriations and subsidies have rendered it possible to ignore isothermals , to manipulate the line of meeting of land and sea , and to direct the course of trade into chosen regions , or through this or that selected channel . There is , however , but little to justify such confidence , except as relates to minor enterprises . The mouth of the Rhone has always been the most desirable gateway to southern France ; yet the skill of engineers has been foiled and the wealth of emperors squandered in the ineffectual effort to throw St. Louis and Aigues-Mortes into competition with Marseilles . Adria was so conspicuous in ancient times as to have given its name to the sea it dominated ; it is now a country town fourteen miles inland . Some Americans , again , wish forthwith to make Manila an entrepit which shall afford Hongkong and Singapore an object-lesson in American methods . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographical and meteorological , and can not be altered by the taking of thought . Singapore superseded Batavia some time ago despite the most strenuous efforts to restrain trade to a prearranged course . But Singapore happened to be at the centre of things , right in the focus where ? trade routes from the China Sea and those from the Indian Ocean converged . Only one station could be there , and . all efforts to dislodge it from its supremacy have been disputes with the elements themselves . A glance at the map will reveal the fact that Manila holds no such position . Again , one has met with arguments to the effect that Alaska and northern Canada can be developed and colonized as Montana and Washington were , by the enterprise of the same great race ; that cities rivalling Minneapolis and Seattle are to grow up along the Yukon and the shores of Hudson Bay , and that lines of ships are to be established between Port Nelson and Liverpool ; but it is clear upon reflection that the utmost efforts of man could not render @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latitude 45 ? , Fort Yukon is on the arctic circle , and the larger part of Hudson Bay is beyond the limit of trees . To effect a similarity of vital conditions and economic possibilities it would be needful to acquire far more extensive powers over the sun than had Joshua of old . A good many projects of this nature could be refuted by five minutes of intelligent map study ; and many more by a presentation of facts and conditions to which no one , on candid reflection , could take exception , and most of which , taken by themselves , would be accepted offhand as a matter of course . But we turn to our list of some of the chief direct influences of natural environment upon trade : one of the most important of these is the natural distribution of the materials of commerce , for trade must go where commodities are , and commodities are produced where sun and soil and rain conspire together in the right proportions . It is necessary to consider also in how far this natural distribution may be modified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shifted . Mineral wealth has been distributed once for all ; ores can not be transplanted or grown even under protection . Tin is mined in the East Indies and in Cornwall , and no tariff , however excessive in its discriminations or involved in its schedules , has been able to change that fact . The Etta mines were developed and mills were erected at enormous expense , but the Black Bills do not produce - tin , and the geologic conditions which control the deposition of ore are not affected . Men must mine metals where they occur . The influence , upon trade and local history , of the presence or absence of flint , pipe-clay , salt , asphalt , precious stones , precious and useful metals , has certainly been , at least for a period , a determining one . Flint deposits produced tribal wealth and caused tribal extinction ; pipe - clay travelled across our States before Columbus was born . The vital effect of gold discoveries upon Australia , California , the Transvaal , Alaska , is well known ; the tardiness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in disguise , as may be seen by contrasting that country with Peru , for thus Brazil was afforded time for a more orderly deveopment of society , economic resources , and trade . The history of American mining-towns Presents many examples of the determining effect of mineral deposits . Butte , Montana , is a city of 62,000 inhabitants supported by copper underlying about one square mile of land surface . The metal forms the sole raison d'tre of this considerable settlement , for in other respects the region is unproductive and unattractive ; without the mines the locality would support with difficulty a population of one hundred souls . The mineral deposits of Nevada occur beneath strips of land a few hundred feet in width and in the midst of a hopeless desert , but they have formed plausible pretext for adding a State to the Union and two Senators to Congress . The decline of the lodes has now reduced Virginia City to a population of 2500 , as against 11,000 in 1880 , when it was one of the busiest cities in America , in the midst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevada was credited with a population of 42,335 ? a figure somewhat under that for 1870 ; thus this State , with an area - twice that of New England , has less population than Waterbury , Connecticut . Through " the existence of mineral products in close proximity , Pittsburg has become the emporium for coal , petroleum , and iron . Its case differs , however , from the above , for its development was far less artificial , and its destiny could never be that of ? the regions already mentioned . Three navigable rivers converge at this point ; valleys sunk in a plateau provide natural routes for approaching railways . Natural and unnatural access , it may be added , are contrasted at Pittsburg by the fact that one railroad has recently been forced to expend $35,000,000 to effect an entrance to the city by overcoming a minor geographic obstacle . Similarly the flora of the earth remains localized in good part , determining by its distribution regions of supply and of demand , and so the trend of tradeways and the courses of exchange . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have their favorite habitat where they thrive best , and whence they are supplied to other regions ; such is maize . On the other hand , some vegetable species resist change and acclimatization ; even with the aid of modern science Manila hemp has not been successfully grown outside of the Philippines . Cloves and nutmegs were once the natural monopoly of the Moluccas , and the trade of nations was attracted to Ternate and Amboina . Mahogany and teak are tropical ; the date-palm belongs to the dry soil of the desert-edge . Many other plants may shift , but only to an identical habitat . The great febrifuge , quinine , demanding the drenching rain of clouds carried across the Amazon valley and spilled upon the eastern slopes of the Andes , throve but little in Jamaica , and did not find a new home till the enterprise of the British had ferreted out in their wide empire the exact environmental conditions under which it could become a commercial possibility . The tea-plant requires something more than legislation to produce a crop in South Carolina . Tobacco of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much-heralded imitation of environmental conditions in Connecticut has been unsatisfactory . Lovers of their country have long yearned to welcome the silkworm to a profitable existence in a new home . Nothing restrains any such projects from happy consummation except that they are so often physically impracticable and thus commercially impossible . What has been said of flora applies in general to fauna ; animal products , like vegetable products , are in good partlocalized . By duplicating the conditions of their native region , varieties of fauna may be introduced into new areas . Some animals seem to adapt themselves to a generality of conditions ; dogs and pigs , sheep and goats , are widely disseminated , and with small reference to man 's conscious activities in their distribution . The turkey , America 's one important contribution to domesticated fauna , is widely known . Other animals demand more care : the merino sheep , imported from Spain , could not preserve the quality of its fleece in many parts of the United States ; the ostrich can not be called an unqualified success even in Texas ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the cowboy , the cactus , and the alkali water made his lot particularly unhappy . Many animals will endure no change of moment in their environment ; and if the individual will , often the variety of species will not , for changed conditions of existence are very likely so to derange the reproductive system of apparently healthy animals as to render breeding in the new station impossible or impracticable . The fur trade clings to the arctic zone , that of ivory to the tropics ; the cod haunts the Newfoundland waters , and sponges and corals can not be gathered off the Long Island shore . Thus it is seen that plants and animals are to a large degree localized , and are susceptible of a wider distribution only as man is able to duplicate their normal environment . This allows a definite mapping out of the regions of supply of many important commercial articles , and a consequent determination of the course of trade . Commercial ways have also been directed and deflected by other important natural influences , ? for example , the winds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes realize ; over twenty-five per cent . of all seagoing traffic ? practically all of certain kinds ? is still carried by sailingvessels , and the shipyards at Bath are yet far from obsolete . When the Portuguese captains first sailed down the west coast of Africa , they encountered a belt of light winds and calms ( the " doldrums " ) , made slow time even for their cumbrous craft , and masters and crew were - worn out by protracted hardships and disease . CONTROLLING CONDITIONS OF COMMERCE . all A few decades later we find Cabral , directed by Da ( lama , sailing far to the westward before turning south ? so far , indeed , as almost accidentally to discover the coast of Brazil . His voyage was made longer in distance , but shorter in time , and for centuries the sailingcraft of the nations have thus planned their courses to catch the trade-winds . Even before the American Revolution it was known that sailing-time from New York to Liverpool was some two weeks shorter than the return voyages , that it was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which set forth the reasons for this situation , was the beginning of rational seamanship in the North Atlantic . The Gulf Stream and the Westerlies now determine the transatlantic routes . Again , Koreas has decreed that the sailing route from England to New Zealand shall be by way of the Cape of Good Hope , but that the returning vessels are to round Cape Horn . The Chinese have for centuries sailed to the Malay Archipelago with the northern monsoon , traded and even planted quickly growing crops , and returned home when the periodic shift has taken place . At Singapore the monsoon-borne traffic encountered that from India and the west at a common terminal . Thus the beneficent atmospheric currents have influenced the course of trade ; and it needs no description to recall the exigencies of traffic in the tempest-ridden seas . The distribution of land and water bodies , the size of continents , the nature of the shore-line , and the details of topography are controlled by geological forces beyond the reach ? indeed , beyond the knowledge ? of man . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined his external communications . A glance at a relief-map of the world shows a remarkable ridge extending almost continuously from Cape Horn through the Americas , eastern Eurasia , and Africa to Cape Town . This highland borders the Pacific ; the plains of the world slope toward the Atlantic , and lines of easy access are from that direction . The relation of lands drained to ocean area is in the ease of the Atlantic one to two ; for the Pacific the proportion is only one to eight . From the Pacific the continents are remote , their interiorsinaccessible , the tributary country limited ; while the Atlantic is a narrow ocean , with bordering lands wide in extent and easy of access . These facts have played no small parts in human history . Owing to climatic and mountain barriers Tibet has remained secluded , and Chile expands northward , not eastward . A water barrier has preserved Australia as a Mesozoic continent . The whole history of Africa , cultural as well as commercial , has been the direct result of its peculiar geographical and geological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible connection with the outer world ; a relatively unbroken coast-line , rivers which fall in cataracts over the edge of the high interior plateau , and the most forbidding of jungles impede access . A deadly climate renders settlement of foreigners for the most part impossible , or temporary and scanty . Thus , cut off from that communication with the rest of the world which means comparison , exchange , and accumulation of civilization , the continent has remained through ages " dark . " Contrast it with America , whose opportunities for intercourse with the Old World came so much later ; or compare the history of the narrow seam of approachable northern coast and the Nile valley with the recordless and negative life of the continent 's heart . What favorable conditions for navigation have meant for trade is perhaps more evident in its early stages ; take , for example , the Phienicians of old . In their ease nature seems indeed to have been in a complacent and encouraging mood . They were led to commercial expansion across an island-dotted sea , where , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive craft ever farther westward , And when , with the growth of a more venturesome spirit , shipping and nautical skill had become better developed , the distances gradually widened , each successive advance , schooling them for the next , until they had passed the Pillars of Hercules , founded Glides , and dared the perils of Biscay . Along this course harbors suitable for their small craft were plentiful , while the conditions of a mediterranean were in the highest degree favorable for these pioneermariners and their successors . Profiting by a kindly environment , trade early developed in the Malay Archipelago and in Polynesia . The American mediterranean offered similar opportunities , and the pre-discovery commerce of the Caribbean islanders was a thing all but unique in the Americas . In each case natural conditions were ever suggesting the development of shipping and exchange and rewarding it . These conditions are in time outgrown and a further adjustment takes place ; mediterraneans no longer bound the world 's commerce , and the ocean which , according to Homer , kept men apart , in our day forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gotten a " longer wind , " waystations and halts like St. Thomas in the West - Indies are being superseded ; the same fate seems likely ultimately to overtake Cape Town , Honolulu , and other such stations . The harbors which nursed up the shipping of New England have given place to bodies of water that can scarcely be called enclosed . Ships no longer regularly clear for Europe from the harbors of Long Island Sound ; and despite all efforts , including advantageous railroad schedules , Boston and Philadelphia have been unable to rival New York as outlets upon the high seas . Now , more than ever , favorable tides , currents , and shore-line are essential for the maintenance of great ports . The contention is , in the face of the instances which have been adduced , and which could easily be augmented , that trade is hound , is preordained , to certain courses and stations ; that it is not a haphazard , easily manipulated affair , but the working out of the forces of nature . Consequently , if an intelligent view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memorize the fact that the ways of trade converge at Singapore , or that Aden , Hongkong , Cape Town , and so on , are British ; or that the Cape was Portuguese until shout 1650 , Dutch ( except during periods of war ) until 1814 , and British since that date . Lade routes from the west converge at Singapore because there are but two practicable entrances into the archipelago from the west , and that by way of the Straits of Malacca is much more convenient than the one which passes through the Straits of Sunda . And the commerce of the north and east meets that of the west most conveniently at the same point . The stations mentioned above and nearly all the genuine . entrepOts of the world are British because the latter are . the chief agents of the world 's commerce , which , for reasons explained , selects its own waystations and terminals . The Cape has regularly belonged to the dominant naval and sea power ; and the change of ownership corresponds roughly with the inevitable recognition of such dominance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that man has no agency in these matters . He can often thwart the natural working out of things , and then get other people to help him endure the results ; . or stand from under and leave the whole matter to posterity . By a correct comprehension of natural conditions he can , to all appearances , raise himself superior to them ? manufacture jewels in the laboratory and bring up children in an incubator ; he can construct artificial harbors , blow up sunken reefs , and pierce an isthmus ; he can erect lighthouses and chart shoals ; he can , by insurance , reduce risks to a constant quantity of loss . It is through such noteworthy successes , however , which shut out perspective , that he becomes exalted in mind , and , if not in recurrent contact with elemental nature , feels himself emancipated from her limits and conditions . One might analyze at length the course of internal trade , with its riverways , its mountains , and desert harriers , and so on ; in the present case , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale in the world-market . An important factor in this cosmopolitan exchange remains yet to note ; and that factor is man himself . The dissemination of the materials of commerce is naught if the distribution and character of producer , consumer , and purveyor are neglected . That these functionaries are products of their environment , in the long run , is generally believed ; hence by way of her man-intermediaries trade again impinges , though indirectly , upon natural conditions . Your Australian will not produce silk for the worldmarket , nor will he buy razors for shaving purposes . He will hunt the kangaroo yet a little while and then die off conveniently , so that the white man can pursue his course undisturbed . The " exports " of New Guinea , we are told , are chiefly " articles of ethnological interest . " Dealing as we are in broad contrasts , it is possible to simplify this man-factor into the civilized and the savage or barbarous . The bulk of the former will doubtless continue to occupy the temperate regions for some time to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place where the " native " stands o. chance is where it is too hot or unhealthy for civilized man to prosper . Now the more widereaching of the environmental influences recounted above , chiefly climate and its attendants , have combined to divide the earth into what might be called " complementary trade-areas . " The most distinct of these are the areas of diverse and interchangeable products represented roughly by the temperate and torrid zones ; the East and the West , as it once was , when the tropical products of the Indies came to Europe over Damascus , Beirut , and Cairo . The influences which diversify the products of these two great regions have also diversified the men ; the yam and the negro go together , the coco-palm and the Polynesian , the durian and the Malay . Without attempting to describe this simpler type of man except as he touches the subject in hand , he is marked , first of all , by a disinclination to labor . He is generally no kind of a producer , having no foresight , living from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tropical nature to satisfy his few wants . Economic stimuli encounter a pachydermatous resistance ; or at most call forth a quite disproportionate exertion . Trinkets and baubles did something until they became too common ; spirits did more . Some tropical planters actually prefer bibulous laborers , for they are absent only once in a while ; they drink up their wages and return for inure , while the sober native saves enough in a few weeks to last him a year . It can be seen that the ordinary way of stimulating supply , by higher inducements offered in consequence of an increased demand , is here inoperative . The native , if he understood the situation , would very likely state in words what he does say by his aetions : " Demand till you burst ; it will be a far day when you get me to come under your asinine system . " The poethas conceived the situation clearly , as respects the Hindu : Now it is not good for the Christian 's health to hustle the Aryan brown , For the Christian riles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And the end of the fight is a tombstone white with the name of the late de-ceased , And the epitaph drear , " A fool lies here who tried to hustle the East . " But the white man can not , as a rule , produce by his own efforts in the tropical environment ; hence trade is blocked . However , it must not be understood that other stimuli will not work where economic titillations are not sensed . A good drubbing used to do pretty well ; and as a system slavery solved the question from the standpoint of trade . Demand here prodded tho owner , the owner brought pressure to bear upon the overseer , and the latter took a stout stick and sallied forth to " demand " more output . But compulsion of this nature proved unpalatable to that part of the world which could make the other part stop it , and since that time a good many methods have been ineffectually put into practice to reach the soul of the benighted one who could not see the advantage of the vehement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fails of its possibilities in the shape of regions of supply , and is always struggling to secure them . Herein lies an effect upon commerce of the ethnic environment ; and herewith is justified the " unethical " commercial estimate of slavery , free labor , " compulsory labor , " the coolie system , eto . The commercial exploitation of the tropics has met in the tropical peoples a passive resistance and a dull inertia ? qualities referable to environmental influences totally diverse from those under which the modern commercial system was itself developed . Nor , as we have partly seen , do our " natives " demand much from the stream of . trade to which their contribution is so slight . They can use an occasional shirt or umbrella , a tile hat or a pair of cuffs for the ankles ; brass wire and other metallic products can still be sold in moderate quantities . But there is no real volume to their traffic , and their methods are , from a European 's standpoint , incurably eccentric . There are parts of Africa where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like such things big , and are far too shrewd to buy the kind that will not , in causing the maximum of smoke and conflagration , also make the loudest report . A hag of shot or bullets , once opened and partially emptied , can not be sold for however small a fraction of the price of a full hag . Trade is a passion with many Africans ; but it is a pleasure too sweet not to be long drawn out . The German traders ask for ivory or an ox ; and after deliberation a little tusk or a sickly beast is produced , and the owner settles down to his enjoyment . Each piece of goods must be dickered over for the maximum period ; the seller must play his several roles of heartsick disappointment , virtuous irritation , and generous self-sacrifice . Here is no demand-region to tempt , large commercial operations . Hence the " development " of the tropical resources has been pretty largely outside of the legitimate , modern type of trade , as between civilized peoples ; it has been too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the environment has brought forth , While this process has been going 011 , and before a region has come beneath the so-called " protection of the market , " tinder which neither party to a transaction is supposed to be able systematically to overreach the other , profits have been naturally very large . The " frontier trade " has been a type by itself , unsurpassed in lucrativeness , dishonesty , and villainy . The unsophisticated nature of the human environment has been constantly reckoned on as a source of profit . Trade of a respectable character speedily muddied its stream under such conditions . Dellenbaugli tells of fur-trading which realized over $6000 ' worth of furs - upon sixty gallons of raw alcohol , mixed with water in the proportion of four to one , and dispensed at a buffalo robe per pint .. Personal reminiscence recalls on Indian agent whose one term of office translated him from a poverty-stricken political " heeler " to a wealthy and honored boss with heelers of his own . The influence of human environment on the course of trade is curiously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our commerce before tho Revolutionary war was of course largely with England ; it was naturally so even if the English had not tampered with it , for racial , linguistic , and religious homogeneity smoothed the path of exchange between us . And when the separation was seen to be inevitable , there was raised in Britain a despairing cry to the effect that the colonial trade was gone -- would be transferred to France , the faithful and highly disinterested ally . But , the war over , though America professed great gratitude to France , Yankee ships came straggling hack to Liverpool and Bristol , as fast as the productive occupations had recovered sufficiently to fill ' them . The old way formed still the line of least resistance . Enough has been said , perhaps , to set forth the point of this essay , that in viewing man 's proceedings here on earth , and particularly his activities in the exchange of commodities , we are not wont to accredit in fair measure the natural conditions involved . We do not seek to belittle other factors , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole history of the world bad there been no Isthmus of Suez , no river Nile ! It is not a fortuitous thing that the centre of gravity of the world 's commerce has been moving westward and northward until it rests within an Occidental island-group , and even now threatens to overleap the ocean . It is not accidental that Phoenicia , Greece , Rome , Venice , Portugal . Holland , and England , as the hour of their commercial destiny approached , turned their eyes toward the East ; nor was it a movement of another kind that caused the right-about-face of Spain . The background of all these movements was the human struggle for existence and then for a higher standard of living , the seeking of satisfactions where nature placed them . Seen in perspective man thus seems little better than a creature of environment ; and while he is more than that , it is wholesome for him to keep ever before his mind ? for the clarification of his intellect , the reenforcement of his judgment , and the betterment of his character @ @ @ @ @ @ 