@@485997

In selecting Charles H. Keep as Superintendent of Banks , Governor-elect Hughes has made an appointment which is not only excellent in itself , but is an earnest of the intention of Mr. Hughes to live up to his campaign pledges . There is especial significance in his dwelling upon Mr. Keep 's expertness in financial matters . This can mean only that the new Superintendent will be expected to aid the Governor in that thorough investigation of the Kilburn regime which Mr. Hughes has promised . Apart from this , Mr. Keep 's high personal standing , and peculiar competence gained by years of service in the Treasury Department at ' Washington , emphasize happily the new spirit that is to prevail at Albany . Important offices , it would appear , are not to be regarded as either a means of furnishing out-door relief to indigent politicians , or as rewards to party workers or personal supporters , but , rather , as opportunities for serving the State . It is not to be expected , of course , that Mr ... Hughes will be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called upon to make , but his choice of Mr. Keep shows at least that he means to hold the ideal always in view . From Kilburn to ? Keep is certainly a long step forward . Happily there is in the Senate one man who will speak out against the further increase of our army and navy burdens . Senator Eugene Hale of Maine has been warmly opposing the bill to enlarge the artillery of the army . To Senator F. E. ' Warren , the sponsor of the bill , Mr. Hale justly remarked : " The Senator ought to remember that we have no enemies . " He then pointed out that the increase of the army is urged now by one corps , now by another . First , having the troops , we are asked to provide defences ; and then , having built the defences , we must get more coast guns . Likewise in the navy the cry is first more ships and then more men , and next more ships for the men , and so on world without end . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put into the hands of every business man the country over : The military establishments are alike . Each is seeking to aggrandize itself , and each sees nothing in the disposition of the revenues of the Government except to increase expenditures . I do not suppose the people appreciate ( I do not know that the Senate does ) that two-thirds of the revenues of the Government to-day are devoted to the payment of Inheritances from pist wars , like pensions , which nobody can stop , and expenditures in view of future wars . Of all the taxes that are laid and all the revenues collected nearly two-thirds are expended for the military in a broad way . The report of the House Currency Committee on the credit currency plan follows with reasonable closeness the outline agreed upon at the recent Washington conference of bankers . The proposal is that a national bank may issue , without bond security , notes up to 40 per cent , of its existing bond-secured circulation , but that such credit issues shall not exceed one-fourth of its capital , and shall pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may issue notes up to 121/2 per cent . of capital , but this supplementary circulation will be taxed 5 per cent . A cash ' reserve equal to that already kept against deposits , must be maintained against all this credit currency . A somewhat interesting comment in the report is that the committee " recognizes no difference between this credit currency and deposits subject to check . " The security against the notes is ample ; the plan dispenses with the tying-up of capital in Government bonds , but introduces , what does not now exist , the safeguarding of notes with a reserve of lawful money . Such an arrangement would certainly facilitate band-to-hand payments in the busy season ; whether it will , as the committee asserts , " almost invariably prevent any panic whatever , " is a much more doubtful question . Panics occur because of loss in value of property , loss of confidence in individual credit , and inability to command resources to pay debts . It is therefore difficult to see how any note-issue system ever contrived can prevent such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of property have brought about the crisis . Nor is it by any means certain that the credit-note plan will do away with absorption of Eastern reserve money for the use of inland communities at the busy season . The West calls for such reserve money at those times because the money belongs to it , having been left with the East at a time of dull interior trade ; and because the West needs the " lawful money , " both as reserve aganst its own expanded bank liabilities and for the " small-note circulation " which bank currency can not provide . We mention these facts , not for the sake of criticism , but because , in our judgment , the worst mistake would be to promise too much with a new system which is at best experimental . For the rest , the passage of this bill in the present short session , amended or undinended , is hardly to be expected , unless the wheels of legisla tion move with unwonted rapidity , I3ut the way will at all events be marked out for a future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petitions in favor of the ship subsidy bill have been sent to Congress in the names of the Marine Trades Council of the Port of New York , at least invites attention to the machinery by which pro-subsidy " sentiment " is being worked up in this country . The District Attorney 's office is investigating now the story of a man who says he recived from one Alexander C. Smith a check for $2,000 , which he was to spend without an accounting , for sending copies of a set of resolutions and a request for their passage to some 14,000 local labor organizations , all this being done on imitated letter paper of the Marine Trades Council , and with the rubber-stamp signature of its secretary . ' Whether or not any literally criminal act has been committed , the fact remains that the subsidy lobby , liberally supplied with funds , is making every effort to produce the semblance of a popular demand for the " shipping bill . " The producers of doctored and dubious food and drink products , and not the consuming public , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being drawn " for the administration of the Pure Food law . Representatives Longworth of Ohio and Graff of Illinois introduced to Secretary Wilson , the other day , a delegation of " neutral spirit " manufacturers , who entered protest against the tentative ruling of the Department regarding " blended " whiskey . That decision , that the mixture of neutral spirits with rye or bourbon can not be labelled " blended whiskey , " will , so the delegation said , " imperil their business and be a grave injustice . " If the drastic ruling stands , these distillers will simply be confronted by the necessity of making a market for their product , alcohol and water flavored with whiskey , under some other name . These injured manufacturers can make something that looks , smells , tastes , and intoxicates like whiskey . It is certainly no less wholesome  --  according to their own claims it is often more wholesome  --  and they can undersell the makers of pot-still whiskey by a tremendous percentage . If people will not drink the stuff under these circumstances , why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sell it , by permitting the use of a disingenuous label ? LnSt spring it was San Francisco 's physical ruin which called out the sympathy of the world ; this winter it is her subjection to the powers of immorality . Last week , for instance , Rudolf Spreckels revealed Boss Ruef 's little scheme for throwing a municipal bond issue into the hands of a special syndicate . To prevent open sale of these securities , the boss actually proposed to order a general strike on all the street railroads , damage the credit of the city , and thus capture the bonds at a low figure . Ruef was quite willing that thousands of workingmen should suffer ? and women and children go short of food that he and his crew might make some money . Did he not control the labor unions , and was San Francisco 's government not a government by the labor unions ? It is exactly this point to which we would call attention . Champions of labor unions have long proclaimed that if only the laboring men could run a city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Well , they controlled San Francisco , elected one of their own as Mayor , and the city duly became a paradise  --  of thieves , of grafters , of the disorderly elements of every kind . The boss , who has hitherto been regarded as the product of corrupt corporations or ricb , and conscienceless business men , appeared here as the absolute creature of the labor men . We have frequently pointed the political moral of corporation greed and debauchery , but the record of the San Francisco labor-imions shows them to be quite as dangerous to the public interest and morals , when they obtain the upper hand . Government of a class , by a class , and for a class is here , as always , a denial of the basic principle of this republic . The suit of Missouri against the Standard Oil Company has already brought out evidence extremely damaging to the managers of this Trust : At the hearing in this city last week , Attorney-General Hadley of Missouri extorted from the Standard Oil Company 's own witnesses a confession that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a feigned competition . The marionettes were all operated by wires from the central office , No. 26 Broadway , New York . The legal significance of these facts is a matter for the courts . The moral significance is clear to any one who has the most rudimentary conception of ethical principles . No casuistry from clever lawyers , Baptist clergymen , or complaisant presidents of colleges can cloud the issue . The Standard Oil Company has been guilty of systematic and persistent dishonesty . No other explanation of these pretences at competition is possible . They were deliberately designed to deceive the public . Moreover , this elaborate structure of trickery could not have been erected and sustained without the knowledge and active interest of the principal officers of the Standard Oil . " Once an Englishman , always an Englishman , " was the British contention a century or so ago . Yet it is to the English law that the commission appointed by the State Department to investigate our naturalization laws points for a precedent , when it recommends that the expatriation of American citizens be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they engage in the service of another Power , or when they remain domiciled in a foreign country for five years without taking steps to maintain their American citizenship . The adoption of such a rule will at least insure that all the lightnings from Washington will not be let loose again at the behest of an " American citizen " whose real claims upon this country are about as strong as those of the Akhoond of Swat . In Turkey , especially , as the commission recalls , men with American naturalization papers but no real connection with America have been in the habit of demanding and receiving the protection of this Government in the past . This procedure is founded neither in equity nor common sense . The members of the commission , David J. Hill , James B. Scott , and Gaillard Hunt , were selected on account of their special acquaintance with the questions involved , and their conclusions should carry great weight with Congress . In all the stories about the spiteful tongues and feminine intrigues which led to the recall of Ambassador Durand , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflection upon him . In capacity and dignity he has been unexceptionable . It was rumored that there was some dissatisfaction about his conduct of the fisheries negotiation ; but the merest reference to the Blue Book would show that this business was transacted wholly in London . Sir Mortimer Durand has , for all that appears , discharged his public duties with adequate skill , while in private he has borne himself , under trying circumstances , like a gentleman . If it is true that court influence , set in motion by a dun femina plat , persuaded the Foreign Office to recall Ambassador Durand , it is no credit to the British Ministry , - while an obvious wrong to a worthy public servant . One of the first rulings of Secretary Straus confirms the right of a State to encourage inimigration to this country in a manner forbidden to its citizens . South Carolina , through its Agricultural Commissioner , persuaded 475 aliens to migrate to this country , paid their passage aboard a Vessel landing at Charleston , and on arrival distributed them to various points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract laborers , and the Commissioner did not find them jobs , but they were told that employment was absolutely certain if they would settle in the South . " States and Territories , " says Solicitor Earle in his opinion , " may offer inducements or make promises to foreign laborers by advertisements printed and published in foreign countries , and they are not forbidden to assist ' in the migration of the foreign laborers to whom such offers are addressed . " Since intelligent distribution of aliens offers a better solution of the immigration problem than restriction or exclusion , this decision has important bearings . The Western and Southern States which want more immigrants have seen Year after year the new arrivals settle in the North and East , where there are already too many . Under the new ruling States hi need of foreign labor will be able to help themselves . A movement for restricting emigration is manifesting itself in those European countries which are generally regarded as sending the least desirable immigrants to the United States and South America . In southern Italy , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depletion of farm laborers and the artificial values created by emigrants returning home with their fortunes made , and bent on establishing themselves as landed proprietors . In addition , the constant influx of money remittances from America has tended to discourage industry and given over whole villages to alcoholism . A similar state of affairs is said to exist in Galicia , where the cost of living has been greatly increased by repatriated emigrants accustomed to the higher standards of the New World . In Spain , public opinion- is alarmed at the extensive development of emigration during , the last few years , a movement which is regarded as all the more formidable , because it is carried on en masse and results in the depopulation of towns and districts . Entire villages with their municipal authorities at their head hay% left for South America . In the city of Bejar , whose population , according to the Temps , has been decreased from 20,000 to 9,500 through emigration , more than 700 families , have been conducting negotiations with various South Ameri- - can Governments to secure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new industrial centre . The Government of Paraguay offered to defray the cost of passage to Asunchin , but the would-be emigrants have , according to Wednesday 's dispatches , finally accepted offers from Uruguay and Nicaragua to supply ships and funds . It is an interesting form of auction . . The ukase granting concessions to the Jews in Russia will probably be pro- , mulgated within a few ' days .. While the exact tenor of the new regulations is unknown , the complete removal of . Jewish disabilities ' is not to be looked for . At the- same time , there will be a relaxation along the entire line of anti-Jewish legislation . Without abolishing the Pale , ' the bill , as discussed in the Council of Ministers , will grant-to Jews the right to take up residence in rural districts of the designated provinces , as well as lighten the restrictions imposed on the classes at-present - privileged to - reside without the Pale . The limited right to acquire land , and liberty - to improve educational facilities , are among the other concessions expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leaVing the ultimate disposal of the Jewish question to the Dunia , but the interests of the Stolypin Ministry , - whose ' sole objedt must " remain - the restoration and maintenance ? of internal peace , would pre-chide " complete settlement of the Jew. - nild question , - fddlowed , as it must ' be , ' by violent disapproval among-an influential . section . of - the . papulation. - Archbishop Ireland 's sermon of Sunday , dealing with the French religious controversy , is marked by a spirit of moderation and just . confidence - which no pronouncement from the side of the - Church has as yet shown . Condemning " the course of the French Government , as file was . bound to do , he took care to point out that Catholics in France are by no means free . from responsibility for the persecution that has come upon them : , The clergy are much to blame . Admirable in teaching the catechism and in administering the sacraments , they have never learned the virtues of public life . ' French Catholics have been unfortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Archbishop is right in saying that , anti-clericals and infidels have made the preservation of the republic a popular battle-pry in order to get into power ; but the tact that such an . appeal is made with- success would argue that the French electorate exercises , though wrongly perhaps , its political judgment in a way that contradicts the Archbishop 's estimate of the attitude of . the French people . " The masses , " he asserts , " are not ' used in political life . It will require long - years to decentralize power in France , to give citizens consciousness of personal independence , to obtain , through universal suffrage ' a true expression of national will . " , . These are the days when the young aeronauts are seeing visions and the old aeronauts are dreaming dreams . " Hunian mastery over the air , " said Capt . Ferber , the aerostatic expert of . the French army- , last week , . " is virtually achieved . None of the startling achieve . ments of the past , neither steam , electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future now holds in store for us . Not only will the life of individuals be revolutionized , but governments will be compelled to devise , in almost ' every department , new methods to meet the changed conditions . " Never Ras there an important invention in quite the same status as that of the potential airship . The problem which was originally believed to . ' present the chief if not the sole difficulty  --  namely , making a machine that would lift it , self  --  was solved hong ago . Practically speaking , anybody with mechanical skill can parallel Sir Hiram Maxim 's achieve.ment of some ten , years since , and construct an aeroplane which-will rise from the ground ' if its balance is only secured . To-day the world is waiting to-learn ' the art of balancing , ' it may come , as Capt . Ferber expects , by " a coordinating central mechanism , which will periniit the operator , with . an . instinctive touch of the helm , to right his machine when it dips to one side or the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instinctive inclination of his body : ' ' On the other hand , the mere human hand and eye may attain that quickness and dexterity which Lilienthal and Pilcher lost their lives trying to acquire , but which will make Possible navigation through atmospheric currents and " blow holes " and whirlpools . Santos-Dumont predicts that airships  --  as distinguished from . dirigible balloons  --  will be as common . within a few years as automobiles are to-day . If the ' world Were full of sailboats , rigged and keeled and cabined , hilt helpless on the water , because no such thing as a rudder had yet been invented , a similar situation would exist . No one could then be called visionary for saying , " If somebody will only invent some scheme for making these craft go where you want them , people will be sailing on . every lake and river before long . " It is ' somewhat the same with the aeroplane to-day . It will be good news to mountain-climbers and aeronauts that a remedy has been discovered for " mountain sickness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the symptoms and causes of this malady , and gives some account of the way in which it can be prevented Or cured . ? Vfountain sickness is not to be confounded with fatigue , inflammation of the respiratory tract , irritation of the skin , or effects of strong light . Its sole cause is the rarefaction of the air at great heights . It ' affects those who make balloon - ascensions , and it can be artificially-produced at sea-level . The symptoms are fatigue , . somnolence , aggravated nausea , dimness of sight , fainting , headache , and , palpitation of - the heart . The movements of those affected become uncertain and tremulous . The reason is that rarefaction of the air reduces the quantity of oxygen carried by- the blood to the tissues . The results of these physic ) ? logical conditions Professor Aggazzotti ? explains in detail . In order to counter , act these ill effects Professor Aggazzotti administers a mixture of oxygen , 67 per cent ; carbonic gas , 13 per cent. ; and azote , 20 per cent . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as permitted , by the powerful pumps in the ' Turin laboratory , without any unpleasant symptoms being noticeable . The iniportande of this discovery is evident . Mounting to great heights is no longer a mere adventure or amusement . Railways are being carried to the summits of lofty mountains , and a day will come Nvheii rails will be laid over the Himalayas and Andes , Professor Aggazzot- , ti 's mixture can then be on tap , to give comfort to the traveller : And as progress is made in aerial navigation , with such a ; remedy at hand , one can rise to far greater altitudes without , discomfort . or ? danger . 