@@473303

IT is a thousand years since the death of the great Englishman King Al- fred , in whose humble translations we may see the beginnings of English literature . Until it has a literature , however unpretending and however artless , a language is not conscious of itself ; and it is therefore in no condition to maintain its supremacy over the dialects that are its jealous rivals . And it is by its literature chiefly that a language forever hinds together the peoples who speak it ? by a literature in which the characteristics of these peoples are revealed and preserved , and in which their ideals are declared and passed down from generation to generation as the most precious heritage of the race . The historian of the English people asserts that what made Alfred great , small as was his sphere of action , was " the moral grandeur of his life . He lived solely for the good of his people . " He laid the foundations for a uniform system of law , and he started schools , wishing that every free-born youth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ till he can understand English writing . " He invited seholers from other lands to settle in England ; but what most told on English culture was done not by them but by the king himself . He " resolved to throw open to his people in their own tongue the knowledge which till then had been limited to the clergy , " and he " took his books as he found them , " the popular manuals of the day , Bede and Boethius and Orosius . These he translated with his own hand , editing freely , and expanding and contracting as he saw fit . " Do not blame ins if any know Latin better than I , " he explained with modest dignity ; " for every man must say what he says and must do what he does according to his ability . " And Green , from whom this quotation is borrowed , insists that , " simple as was his aim , Alfred created English literature " ? the English literature which is still alive and sturdy after a thousand years , and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alfred founded it , but here in the United States , in a larger land , the existence of which the good king had no reason ever to surmise . This English literature is like the language in which it is written , and also like the stock that speaks the language , wherever the race may have planted or transplanted itself , whether by the banks of the little Thames or on the shores of the broad Hudson and the mighty Mississippi . Literature and language and people are practical , no doubt ; but they are not what they are often called : they are not prosaic . On the contrary , they are poetic , essentially and indisputably poetic . The peoples that speak English are , and always have been , self-willed and adventurous . This they were long before King Alfred 's time , in the early days when they were Teutons merely , and had not yet won their way into Britain ; and this they are to-day , when the most of them no longer dwell in old England , but in the newer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restraint and reserve which are the conditions of the best prose ; and they have always exulted in the untiring energy and the daring imagination which are the vital elements of poetry . " In his busiest days Alfred found time to learn the old songs of his race by heart , " so the historian tells us ; " and he bade them be taught in the palace school . " Lyric is what English literature has always been at its best , , lyric and dramatic ; and the men who speak English have always been individual and independent , every man ready to fight for his own hand ; and the English language has gone on its own way , keeping its strength in spite of the efforts of pedants and pedagogues to bind it and to stifle it , and ever insisting on renewing its freshness as best it could . Development there has been in language and in literature and in the stock itself , development and growth of many kinds , but no radical change can be detected in all these ten centuries . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's own , " said Mr. Stopford Brooke in his consideration of the earliest English lyrics . " The poetry of England has owed much to the different races which mingled with the original English race ; it has owed much to the different types of poetry it absorbed ? Greek , Latin , Welsh , French , Italian , Spanish ; but below all these admixtures the English nature wrought its steady will . It seized , it transmuted , it modified , it mastered these admixtures both of races and of song . " The English nature wrought its steady will ; but what is this English nature , thus set up as an entity and endowed with conscious purpose ? Is there such a thing , of a certainty ? Can there be such a thing , indeed ? These questions are easier to ask than to answer . It is true that we have been accustomed to credit certain races not merely with certain characteristics , but even with certain qualities , esteeming certain peoples to he specially gifted in one way or another . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith that the Greeks , by their display of a surpassing sense of form , proved their possession of an artistic capacity finer and richer than that revealed by any other people since the dawn of civilization . And again , we have seen in the Roman skill in constructive administration , in the Latin success in lawmaking and in road-building ? we have seen in this the evidence of a native faculty denied to their remote predecessors , the Egyptians . Now come the advocates of a later theory , who tell us that the characteristics of the Greeks and of the Romans arc not the result of any inherent superiority of theirs , or of any native predisposition toward art or toward administration , but are caused rather by circumstances of climate , of geographical situation , and of historical position . We are assured now that the Romans , had they been in the place of the Greeks and under like circumstances , might have revented themselves as great masters of form ; while the Greeks , had their history been that of the Romans , would certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and of compacting the most diverse nations into a single empire . No doubt the theory of race-characteristics , of stocks variously gifted with specific faculties , has been too vigorously asserted and unduly insisted upon . It was so convenient and so useful that it could not help being overworked . But although it is not so impregnable as it was supposed to be , it need not be surrendered at the first attack ; and although we are compelled to abandon the theory as a whole , we can save what it contained of truth . It is nearly two thousand years since Tacitus studied the Teutonic race-characteristics , and yet most of the peculiarities he noted then are evident now Tacitus tells us that the Germans were tall , fair - haired , and phlegmatic . They were great eaters , not to say gross feeders ; and they were given to strong drink . They were fond of games , and were ready to pay their losses with their persons , if need be . They were individual and independent . Their manners were rude , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the domestic virtues , the women being chaste and the husbands faithful . They loved war as they loved liberty . They had a passionate fidelity to their leaders . They decided important questions of policy in public assembly . The several peoples of our own time who are descended from the Teutons thus described by Tacitus with so sympathetic an insight have been developing for twenty centuries , more or less , each in its own way , under influences wholly unlike , influences both geographical and historical ; and it is small wonder that they have diverged as they have , and that no one of them nowadays completely represents the original stock . Some of the points Tacitus made are true to-day in Prussia and are not true in Great Britain ; and some hit home here in the United States , although they miss the mark in Germany . The modern Germans still retain a few of these Tacitean characteristics which the peoples that speak English have lost in their adventurous career over seas . And on the other hand , certain of the remarks of Tacitus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , the willingness to run risks for the fun of the game ? is not this a present characteristic of the American as we know him ? And here we have always been governed by town-meeting , as the old Teutons were , whereas the modern German is only now getting this back by borrowing it from the English precedent . In our private litigations we continue to be governed by the customs of our remote Teutonic ancestors . while the German has accepted as his legal guide the Roman law , wrought out by the countrymen of Tacitus . Second only to a community of language , no unifying force is more potent than a community of law . In the depths of their dark forests the Teutons had already evolved their own rudimentary code by which they did justice between man and man ; and these customary sanctions were taken over to Britain by the Angles and the Saxons and the Jutes ; and they served as the foundation of the common law by means of which the peoples that speak English still administer justice in their courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great King Alfred , from whom we may date the establishing of an English literature . With the opportunism of our race . lie had no thought of a new legislation , but merely merged the best of the tribal customs into a law for the whole kingdom . The king sought to bring to light and to leave on record the righteous rulings of the wise men who had gone before . " Those things which I met with , " so the historian transmits his words , " either of the days of Ine , my kinsman , or of Offa , King of the Mercians , or of Aethelberht , who first among the English race received baptism , those which seemed to me tightest , those I have gathered , and rejected the rest . " Law and language : these arc the unrelaxing bands that hold a race firmly together . There are now two main divisions of the Teutonic stock , separated today by language and by law ? the people who speak German and are ruled by Roman law , and the peoples who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the separation is as wide and as deep legally as it is linguistically . " Ily the forms of its language a nation expresses its very self , " said one of the acutest of British critics ; and we have the proof of this at hand in the characteristic differences between the English language and the German . By the forms of its law a people expresses its political beliefs ; and we have the evidence of this in the fact that we Americans regard our rulers merely as agents of the town-meeting of the old Teutons , while the modern Germans are submitting to a series of trials for lese-majesty . Certain it is that one of the influences which have modified the modern English stock is a Celtic strain . If the peoples that speak English are now not quite like the people that speak German , plainly this is one reason : they have had a Celtic admixture , which has lightened them and contributed elements lacking in the original Teuton . To declare just what these elements are is not easy , but to deny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a swiftness of perception which we do not find in the original Teuton , and which the man who speaks English is now more likely to possess than the man who speaks German . The Celt has a certain shy delicacy ; he has a happy sensibility and a turn for charming sentiment ; he has a delightful lyric note ; and he has at times a sincere and puissant melancholy . These are all qualities which we find in our English literature , and especially in its greatest figure . Less than two centuries after the good King Alfred bad declared English law and established English literature , the Normans came and saw and conquered . Less than three centuries after King William took the land there was born the first great English poet . If the language is to-day what it is , it is because of Chaucer , who chose the court dialect of London to write in , and who made it supple for his own use and the use of the poets that were to come after . The Norman conquest had brought a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulted in an immense enrichment of the English language ; and it had related English literature again to the broad current of European life . To the original Teutonic basis had been added Celtic and Norman and Latin strains ; and still " the English nature wrought its steady will , " still it expressed itself must freely and most fully in poetry . And in no other poet are certain aspects of this English nature more boldly displayed than in Chaucer , in whom we find a fresh feeling for the visible world , a true tenderness of sentiment , a joyous breadth of humor , and a resolute yet delicate handling of human character . Two centuries after Chaucer came Shakspere , in whom the English nature finds its fullest expression . The making of England was then complete ; all the varied elements had been fused in the fire of a struggle for existence and welded by war with the most powerful of foes . The race-characteristics were then finally determined ; and in Elizabethan literature they are splendidly exhibited . Something was contributed by the literature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something more by the literature of the Italy so many of them knew by travel ; but all was absorbed , combined , and assimilated by the English nature , like the contributions that came from the classics of Rome and Greece . Bacon and Cecil , Drake and Ralegh , are not more typical of that sudden and glorious outpouring of English individuality than are Marlowe , Shakspere , and Jonson , Spenser , Chapman , and Massinger . In that greatest period of the race we do not know which is the greater , the daring energy , the enthusiastic impetuosity , the ability to govern , that the English then displayed , or the mighty sweep and range of the imagination as nobly revealed in their poetry . The works of the Elizabethan writers are with us , like the memory of the deeds of the Elizabethan adventurers , as evidence , if any was needful , that the peoples that speak English are of a truth poetic , that they are not prosaic . In the days of Elizabeth the English began to go abroad and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America there were added in due season many vigorous folk from other Teutonic sources ; and here in the centuries that have followed was to be seen a fusion of races and a welding into one nation such as had been seen in England itself several centuries earlier . To those who remained in England there came few ac cretions from the outside , although . when the edict of Nantes was revoked. the English gained much that the French lost . The Huguenots were stanch men and sturdy , of great ability often , and of a high seriousness . Some crossed the Channel and some crossed the ocean ; and no one of the strands which have been twisted to make the modern American is more worthy than this . More important than this French contribution , perhaps , was another infusion of the Celtic influence . When the King of Scotland became King of England , his former subjects swarmed to London ? preceding by a century the Irishmen who made themselves more welcome in the English capital , with their airy wit and their touch of Celtic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Irish invasion , was the influx of Scotch , of Irish , and of ScotchIrish into America . At the very time when Lord Lyndhurst was expressing the opinion that the English held the Irish to he " aliens in blood , aliens in speech . aliens in religion , " the Irish were withdrawing in their thousands from the rule of a people that felt thus toward them ; and they were making homes for themselves where prejudice against them was not potent . Yet in England itself the Irish left their mark on literature , especially upon comedy , for which they have ever revealed a delightful aptitude ; and in the eighteenth century alone the stage is lightened and brightened by the plays of Steele , of Sheridan , and of Goldsmith . About the end of the same century also the Scotch began to make their significant and stimulating contribution to English literature , which was refreshed again by Burns with his breath of sympathy , by Scott with his many - sided charm , and by Byron with his resonant note of revolt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rites had mingled in Great Britain to make the Englishman , and had been modified by Celtic and Norman and Latin influences , so here in the United States the Puritan and the Cavalier , the Dutchman and the Huguenot and the German , the Irish and the Scotch and the ScotchIrish , have all blended to make the American . Not a few of the original Teutonic race-characteristics recorded by Taeitus are here now , as active as ever ; and not a few of the English race-characteristics as revealed by the Elizabethan dramatists survive in Ameriea , keeping company with many a locution which has dropped out of use in England itself . There is to-day in the spoken speech of the United States a larger freedom than in the spoken speech of Great Britain , a figurative vigor that the Elizabethans would have relished and understood . It is not without significance that the game of cards best liked by the adventurers who worried the Armada should have been born again to delight the Argonauts of ' 49 . The characteristic energy of the English stock , never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in crossing the Atlantic ; rather has it been strengthened on this side , since every native American must be the descendant of some man more venturesome than his kin who thought best to stay at home . Nor is the energy less imaginative , although it has not taken mainly a literary expression . " There was no chance for poetry among the Puritans , " so Lowell reminded us , " and yet if any people have a right to imagination , it should be the descendants of those very Puritans . " And he added tersely : " They had enough of it , or they could never have conceived the great epic they did , whose books are States , and which is written on this continent from Maine to California . " More than hall those who speak English now dwell in the United States , and less than a third dwell within the British Isles . To some it may seem merely fanciful , no doubt , but still the question may be put , whether the British or the American is to-day really closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the typical John Bull was invisible in England while Shakspere was alive , and that he has become possible in Great Britain only since the day when these United States declared their independence . Walter Bagehot , the shrewdest of critics of his fellow-countrymen , maintained that the saving virtue of the British people of the middle of the nineteenth century was a stolidity closely akin to stupidity . But surely the Elizabethans were not stolid ; and the Americans ( who have been accused of many things ) have never been accused of stupidity . Mr. Bernard Bosanquet has just been insisting that , the two dominant notes of the British character at the beginning of the twentieth century are insularity and inarticulateness . The Elizabethan was braggart and selfpleased and arrogant , but he was not fairly open to the reproach of insularity , nor was he in the least inarticulate . Perhaps insularity and inarticulateness are inseparable ; and it may be that it is the immense variety of the United States that has preserved the American from the one , as the practice of the townmeeting has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that there is any special virtue in the purity of race , even if we could discover nowadays any people who had a just right to pride themselves on this . The French are descended from the Gauls , but to the Gauls have been added Romans and Franks : the English are descended from the Teutons , but they have received many accretions from other sources ; and the Americans are descended from the British , but it is undeniable that they have differentiated themselves somehow . The admixture of varied stocks is held to be a source of freshness and of renewed vitality ; and it may be that this is the cause of the American alertness and venturesomeness . And as yet these foreign elements have but little modified the essential type ; for just as the English nature wrought its steady will through the centuries , so the American characteristics have been imposed on all the welter of nationalities that swirl together in the United States . Throughout the land there is one language , a development of the language of King Alfred , and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and throughout the land there arc schools such as the good king wished for . American ideals are not quite the same as British ideals , but they differ only a little , and they have both flowered from the English root , as the earlier English ideals had flowered from a Teutonic root . The English stock has displayed in the United States the same marvellous assimilating faculty that it displayed centuries ago in Great Britain , the same extraordinary power of getting the sojourners within its borders to accept its ideals ,                     