@@430222

 |p1290  MR . MURPHY 'S second reply appeared during a long absence from my home , and my answer is therefore much delayed . I will make it as brief as I can . Mr. Murphy has made it clear that there were two charters with similar names granted by the Pennsylvania Legislature ? that of " the Southern Improvement Company " and that of " the South Improvement Company . " The latter charter was granted , as he says , May 6th , 1871 . I expressed a doubt of the existence of this latter charter , tho admitting that it might have existed . That doubt was based upon a thorough examination of the laws of 1871 . It did not appear among those laws . In fact , the charter was published in an appendix to the laws of 1872 . I did not look for it in that volume . Good lawyers tell me that they would never have thought of looking there for it . There is something mysterious about this publication ; it is evident that the charter had a suspicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murphy stated it . He is right in this matter , and I am wrong . A " South Improvement Company " was chartered by the Pennsylvania Legislature ; it was this charter which Mr. Rockefeller and his friends purchased , and under which they organized , in January , 1872 ; and when the question was put to Mr. Rockefeller whether he was a member of " the Southern Improvement Company , " and he said that he was not , he could not , under that answer , have been convicted of perjury . It must , however , be stated that the South Improvement Company , of which he was a member , was known through all its existence under both these names . Miss Tarbell quotes two pledges of secrecy which its members were required to sign ; in one of these it is called the " South , " and in the other the " Southern " Improvement Company . In Miss Tarbell 's book is a fac-simile of the black list of its members published while it was in existence in the Oil City Derrick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company . " Miss Tarbell says that " when W. G. Worden , the secretary of the company , was on the stand in Washington before the investigating committee in March , 1872 , he used both terms to refer to the scheme . ' It must also be remembered that it was this company , known by two names , and no other , about which information was sought . It does not appear that any other company with a similar name had been mentioned . There is no reason to believe that the existence of any other company was known to any one conducting the investigation . When the words " Southern Improvement Company " were used by the questioner the meaning of the question must have been understood , and when Mr. Rockefeller replied that he was not a member of the company he , of course , knew that his words would convey a false impression . Mr. Murphy says that it is puerile to expect any man to answer a question , under oath , in the sense in which he knows that it is asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth ; but if he means to tell " the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth " it is not puerile . So far , therefore , as this incident illustrates Mr. Rockefeller 's veracity we may say that it shows that he is willing to use language upon the witness stand in such a way as to convey a false impression , without exposing himself to the penalties of perjury . If we keep this in mind in our consideration of his statements we shall not be misled . There are two or three other bits of testimony , however , which are not so easily explained . A few minutes later in the investigation these questions were asked and answered : " Q. Has n't some company or companies  |p1291  page deleted                     