@@486901

the Treasury plan was ill-digested . No -- body ? seemed to know just what was intended . Contradictory interpretations were put upon Secretary Cortelyou 's circular . Great as was the resulting confusion in banking circles of this country , it was even greater abroad . Foreign financial authorities were all at sea . Some of them thought the issue of certificates of indebtedness was simply that of incontrovertible currency . Others failed to see that the new certificates could not possibly be used as bank reserves . Both London and Paris were in doubt about the crucial features of the project . This uncertainty alone would be a strong condemnation of the scheme . If the Treasury were to do anything at all , its action should have been so clear and precise that everybody could understand tit . It is no defence of Secretary Cortelyou to say that there was a general demand that the Treasury " do something . " If the head of the Treasury does not know what to do , or bow to make his course even intelligible to those most directly affected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , moreover , political as well as financial relations of the whole matter to be considered . It is plain that the Administration did not consult financial authorities in Congress . Chairman FowIer 's severe condemnation of the Treasury measures carries great weight . Another Republican member of the same Committee on Banking and Currency , Mr. Prince of Illinois , had already indicated his disapproval . Washington dispatches tell of the sensation caused by Mr. Fowler 's statement , and represent Democratic Congressmen as eager to attack the Administration for its blundering . Th'e whole affair is certain to be a great blow to Republican prestige in financial Management . " Fit to Rule " was the title of Secretary Root 's panegyric of the Republican party , in his speech of 1904 . The present display of fumbling and ignorance comes as a bitter comment upon that laudation . Suppose a Democratic President had put forth a scheme for currency relief which the best banking opinion condemned , and which the expert chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee declared to be of doubtful legality and of unmistakable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rung the changes on Democratic incapacity ? It is no time , however , for partisan recrimination . Th'e thing for all of us to do , on the political side , is to prepare for the campaign for currency reform . It has long been said that not until some financial disaster befell could Congress be got to do anything to give the country a currency fit for general use and also for emergencies . Well , that disturbance has now come ; the surgical operation needed to get ideas into certain heads has been performed . What should now be done is to press forward rational and practicable plans for making the currency of the country sounder and more flexible . This is a political side of the question , for it will take a great deal of campaigning and debating to get anything effective done . We need public men who will go before the people as Garfield did in the greenback craze of 1873-75 , and be able to say , as he did : " I believe I have thought this thing through . " With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the occasion of our coming out into a stronger and safer financial position than ever before . AUSTRALIAN PROTECTION AND OURS . Australia , the great political experiment station of the modern world , now Purposes to show what can be done with the principle of protection carried to its logical extreme That commonwealth , as we noted in our issue of October 24 , has seized upon Chamberlain 's idea of preferential tariffs , but the preference for English goods is a mere sham . The tariff is so high that when a reduction is made for products of the mother country , Australian manufacturers are still well fortified against competition . This is all very well for the manufacturer , but the Australian government , unlike our own , has now set itself to protect also the laborer and the consumer . First , of course , comes the laborer . Sir William Lyne , Treasurer and acting Prime Minister , has laid before the Australian House of Representatives the following plan : An excise duty at the rate of half the tariff-duty on imported goods is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty will be remitted in the case of all goods which are produced under " fair and reasonable " conditions of labor . The difficulty , of course , is to determine what conditions are fair and reasonable ; but the Commonwealth has already taken a step in that direction by setting up a standard , conformity to which entitles a manufacturer to place upon his goods the government trade-mark . But since the old machinery is inadequate to the new requirements , Sir William would have a Board of Excise appointed by the Governor-General . This body would consist of three members , presided over by a barrister or solicitor . On its decision would rest the commercial life or death of every manufacturer  --  the question whether he is to carry on his enterprise or be taxed out of existence . Our advocates of a high tariff advance the argument that it raises the wages of labor ; but the Australian workman is apparently not to be deceived by that sophistry . He insists that he is to have his share of the plunder , and have it at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can take the manufacturer by the throat and extort wages , hours , and workshop rules to suit himself . Like it or not , the employer will have no practical power to resist . But the arrangement is , we think , more equitable than our own ; for here the protected manufacturer has everybody else by the throat . In Australia he has a taste of the same treatment . What particularly pleases us , however , is the provision for the consumer , whom our tariff makes not even a pretence of considering . The American laborer is told that the tariff filth his dinner-pail , but the wretched American consumer knows that for him the tariff empties pockets and fills nothing . Let him move to Australia , where he may secure redress through appeal to the Board of Excise . That bench of judges and dividers is not only to keep its , eye on wages , hours , and the like : it is to report to Parliament on the state of trade , and particularly on combinations formed for the purpose of raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty be lowered or abolished whenever the price of an article seems too high . That the recommendations may be made intelligently and with full knowledge of the facts , the inspectors of the board are to have access at all times to the books of all companies . All this recalls the sentence in Howell 's " Familiar Letters " in which he describes Lucca . " She bath a Council called the Discoli , which pries into the Profession and Life of every one . " If the Australian board does its duty without fear or favor , the consumer can have his turn at the throats of employer and employee , and thus complete a system of industrial throttling . The beautiful symmetry of this plan must appeal powerfully to any man of logical mind He is bound to argue that if the government may suspend the operation of an economic law in order to enrich the manufacturer , it should do the same thing for the laborer and the consumer . But a logical application of his theory is the last thing which the protectionist wants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it does what is expected of it the Commonwealth will be practically where it was at the beginning . Everybody will have profited at the ' expense of everybody else , and nobody will be any better off . That , obviously , is not the aim of protectionists . The essence of their scheme is that they shall profit at the expense of everybody else , while everybody else has no chance to retaliate . Our own protected manufacturers would not be insane enough to foot the campaign bills of the Republioan party and to pay good money for the Dingley schedules if the Republicans were to allow the workman and the consumer to take a hand in the game . That would be too much of a good thing . Your political highwayman is well aware that taking purses will cease to be lucrative as soon as the whole world adopts that calling and sallies forth upon the Great North Road For this reason , we are haunted by the fear that Sir William Lyne 's proposal may fail of final adoption  --  we say " fear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workmen and consumers an object-lesson , to show them just what they are entitled to under protection , if they had enough intelligence and courage to stand up for their own rights . THE ARTIST ' AS CRITIC . Kenyon Cox , in the preface of " Painters and Sculptors , " the second series of his collected essays , raises the familiar topic of the artist as critic . His contribution comes very much to this  --  that the artist perforce must have opinions better worth while , from the mere fact of being a practitioner of the art he discusses , but that he will almost inevitably suffer from lacic of literary skill , hence of carrying power . We are to suppose an innumerable host of artists who are admirable critics in petto , but inarticulate , lacking the time and opportunity to master an alien art . When Mr. Cox speaks of lay criticism , he means presumably that of competent persons , and not the casual outgivings of half-trained writers in the daily press . He measures , that is , to take recent examples , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those , say , of R. A. M Stevenson and Fromentin . Carrying such a comparison through the whole range of serious writing on art , the advantage unquestionably lies with the artists . No one can deny that the memoirs of painters , for example , are our most valuable documents for the judgment of painting From Leonardo , through Vasari , Reynolds , Constable , Delacroix , Millet , Carri  --  re , Segantini , and our own John La Farge , we have from artists an enormous and precious mass of opinions about their art . Protessional criticism can make no such showing . Yet a summary verdict against the defendant would be premature , for the reason that lay criticism is in its adolescence . Indeed , only in very recent times has criticism had its necessary basis in an accurate history of the art of the past . And this brings us to the significant fact that in the new connoisseurship artists have had a very small part The ungrateful but certainly indispensable drudgery of determining what a given artist under consideration actually painted or modelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that this is not criticism at all , but merely the ascertainment of its materials . Yet it is at least remarkable that artist-critics have not only been averse to this humble pursuit , but also suspicious of its more certain results , and in general prone to express opinions as if it did n't really matter whether a picture under discussion were by one artist or another . Such an attitude is an almost inevitable result of the artist 's confidence in his own instincts and of his lack of minute scholarship . ' We concede readily that criticism lies in a region of appreciation where minute scholarship is not of the first importance On the other hand , one must distrust any criticism that is not sure of its data , and we may suppose that the criticism of the future will be more systematic than the clisjecta inembra which constitute the interpretation of art by its past practitioners . In other words , there seems to be more hope that connoisseurship may rise to criticism as its lesser task is accomplished , than that we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art which is not theirs . The real weakness of the artist as critic lies in the fact that the arduous practice of his craft must restrict his opportunities for wide observation . A real critic who would devote a third of the time to galleries that is given by the average connoisseur would gain an equipment with which no active artist could possibly hope to vie . The artist , in short , may speak from perfect insight , but , unless he be an artiste manqu ? ( and these the malicious say make the best critics ) , from imperfect knowledge , whereas the professional critic has every opportunity , not only for immediate observation , but also for the study of the writings of artists and for present and valuable association with the best practitioners of his time . We do not believe that the artist-critic will ever be superseded . There will always be painters who indulge a curiosity about the theory of their art and have something worth saying on the subject . But we feel that the alleged rivalry between the two sorts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Farge has somewhere marvelled thiat critics so seldom write ant-thing worth an artist 's reading . What an unfair demand to make of a critic ! As regards the artist , the critic necessarily deals either in banalities or in startling inferences , which may , however , be just the kind of interpretation which his real public needs . In short , the professional critic addresses the general public , the artist usually his own craft . Thus they are allies , not rivals . And if the opinions of artists on art have become more or less the common property of the cultivated , the merit accrues largely to professional criticism . The sum of the whole matter seems to be that the critic should stand upon the sure ground that he , too , is an artist  --  an artist in letters ; congratulating himself that his material is not unasserted nature , but its beautiful interpretation in another art , and accepting gladly as a potent source of suggestion all expressions cf artists about their own art . Such a critic will be free from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Towards the public his responsibility will lie , and his judges will be found , not among artists , but among the cultured , that is to say the competent minority of that public . M'CLINTOCK AND THE FRANKLIN , SEARCH . The death last week of Sir Francis Leopold McClintock at the age of eighty-eight removes the last but one of the famous Arctic explorers of the first halt of the nineteenth century . From 1840 on there raged in England a veritable fever for Arctic discovery . It was not only the North Pole which lured , but also the centuries-old quest of the northwest passage . When Sir John Franklin returned to England in 1844 , after seven years as lieutenant-governor of Van Diemen 's Land , he found the Admiralty bent on a naval expedition through the polar seas to the north of the American continent At once Sir John applied for the command as the senior officer et Arctic experience . But his age made the Admiralty hesitate . The First Lord remarked to Franklin that he was sixty years of age . " No , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " only fifty-nine . " The First Lord yielded , and Franklin 's fate was settled . With the Erebus and Terror he sailed for the ice-pack on May 18 , 1845 . By 1847 the absence of any news led to the first relief expedition . So general was the belief in a disaster that the next year no less than five other vessels sailed for the Arctic Three more expeditions followed in 1849 , ten in 1850 , two in 1851 , nine in 1852 , five in 1853 , two in 1854 , one in 1855 , and , finally , that of the Fox in 1857 Never before or since has there been such a rush to the Arctic , even in America the tragedy so stirred the public that Dr. Kane made his venture in the hope of disclosing its details . Not until 1850 were any traces of Franklin and his large crews discovered , and then only vast stocks of preserved-meat canisters whose putrid contents Franklin had had to destroy , thus fatally diminishing the three years ' supply of food which the Erebus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years later , in 1854 , Dr. Rae , a factor of the Hudson 's Bay Company , beard from the Eskimos of the deaths ot many white men near Back 's Great Fish River , and purchased from them numerous small articles , silver spoons , etc and a silver plate engraved with Sir John Franklin 's name . But it was not until 1859 , fourteen years after the departure of Franklin 's two ships , that Sir Leopold McClintock uncovered the - whole story of the fate of the Erebus and Terror and their crews . McClintock served in 1848 as second lieutenant of Sir James Clarke Ross 's unsuccessful relief expedition in the Enterprise , and then in 1850 joined that of Capt . Austin . From 1852 to 1854 he was again in the Arctic regions on one of a fleet of five relief ships , gaining thereby the experience in sledge work which led Lady Franklin to select him for the command of the Fox , the yacht fitted out in 1857 and destined to bring back not only many relics of the expedition , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , for its time , a powerful screw steamer . No sooner was it in winter quarters than McClintock , Lieut . Hobson , and a volunteer merchant sailor , who , as Sir Allen Young , is alive to-day to mourn the death of his companion of fifty years ago , set out in their search . McClintock purchased a dog-team , the full value of which he was perhaps the first explorer to appreciate , just as he was the first to make long journeys by this means of locomotion Soon he met Eskimos who could give him information of the Franklin party . After a long and vain search along the southern coast of King ' Walham 's Land , he finally found , on returning towards his vessel , the place where one of Franklin 's ships had sunk and where the other had gone to pieces on the beach . Not until early in 1859 , however , did McClintock light upon distinct traces of the dead explorers  --  the skeleton of one of the sailors Five days later he stumbled upon a boat mounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a miscellaneous assortment of articles , but no food From that time on discoveries were frequent , until Lieut . Hobson came upon the cairn enclosing the only written record of the Franklin expedition From this it appeared that Sir John Franklin had died on June 11 , 1847 , and that eight other officers and fifteen men had died before the date of the report , April 25 , 1848 On the next day the remaining 105 officers and men set out on foot for Back 's Fish River with almost no food and without hope of obtaining any . All perished miserably , some on King William 's Land , some on the mainland by Great Fish River , and others , as an Eskimo woman told McClintock , " falling down and dying as they walked " The record was enough to entitle Sir John Franklin to the title of discoverer ot the Northwest Passage , and this designation is on his statue in London . The details of his journey McClintock published , as we noted last week , under the title of " The Fate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great enthusiasm on his return to England , and honored-by three universities and many learned societies , not only because of his success in finding the Franklin records , but because of his own ability , intrepidity , and endurance . In his long life McClintock lived to see many changes in methods of Arctic exploration , and a wonderful increase in the world 's knowledge about that frozen portion of the globe in which he spent so many years . His feelings on receipt of the news that Capt . Amundsen , in the Gjoa , a mere cockle-shell in comparison with the Erebus , Terror , or even the Fox , actually navigated the Northwest Passage in 1905-06 , may easily be imagined . The Franklin expedition was almost the last in which large crews participated . Since then the numbers ot an expedition have steadily decreased , until now a mere handful of whites is sufficient crew for a Roosevelt or a Fram . Just as McClintock learned to use the dog-sledge for long journeys of hundreds of miles , so the explorer of today stakes everything on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relying on the natives has likewise come to stay . McClintock witnessed , moreover , the experiments with an entirely new conveyance  --  the airship . No new McClintock bas as yet discovered the fate of Andree , and no explorer of the old captain 's experience is yet on record as believing in Weliman 's plan of a dirigible balloon . 