@@430226

 | ONE of the pressing problems which are confronting the engineer at the present time in various parts of the world , and which are growing daily more urgent , is the question of personal transport in great cities . In London , Paris , New York , and Berlin the demand continues for increased transport facilities , and while improvements are continually being made , the congestion increases at such a rate that the capacity of the new works is exceeded almost before they can be put into operation . In New York , as in Paris , the subject of rapid transit has been broadly considered by a special commission ; and the works of which the present subway in one city and the Metropolitain in the other are the immediate results are but portions of much larger schemes , intended , when completed , to furnish comprehensive systems of conveyance over all parts of the respective cities . The latest candidate for radical improvements in local traffic is the greatest city of all , London . Notwithstanding the existence of the old underground railway and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such an extent as to demand the formulation of a complete scheme , the execution of which may be conducted as rapidly as possible , and be available for service as the work proceeds . For several years a Royal Commission has been at work studying the question , having in view the special local requirements , and taking into account the work which has been accomplished elsewhere . The report of this commission and the radical recommendations which it contains constitute an excellent indication of the extent to which the engineer is expected to come to the relief of the municipality . Thus , it is seriously proposed to open two new main avenues , one running north and south , connecting Holloway with the Elephant and Castle ; the other east and west , extending from Whitechapel to Bayswater Road . These new streets are each to be 140 feet wide and about four and one-half miles long , and are to be provided with four lines of surface tramways and four lines of subway track , providing for both express and local service . To cut two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construct the railways will involve the expenditure of about ? 30,000,000  | sterling , or say $150,000,000 . While much of this money will be needed to meet the value of the property taken , a large portion will be expended in engineering work . Since the control of the transport systems is to remain vested in the municipality , it is reasonable to assume that the income derived from the operation of the surface and underground railways will be sufficient to pay the interest on the cost of the works ; and if the results in New York may be taken as a guide , sufficient surplus should accumulate gradually to extinguish the original indebtedness . In connection with the discussion of municipal transport problems , it is interesting to note that a few independent attempts are being made in New York to realize a plan of improvement which has been suggested more than once in years past . Thus , it is seen that private connections have been made from several large department stores to stations of the elevated railway . Crude and irregular as these bridges are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the provision of a second-deck entrance , so to speak , and confirm the merits of a plan which would provide similar advantages for the entire street . Briefly , then , the plan would be to construct sidewalks upon the second-story levels of important business streets , these structures to be not unlike the so-called " board walks " in vogue at the various seaside resorts , and available solely for foot passengers , all vehicular traffic being relegated to the street level below . Such structures would naturally be much lighter and cheaper than those required for elevated railway trains , and so far from being opposed by property-owners , they would be welcomed as affording double opportunities for entrances and business display . The heavy electric traction would then be transferred to the solid ground or to subways , while all heavy vehicles , delivery wagons , automobiles , etc. , would have full sway below , the foot passengers walking in safety and comfort above . Such an arrangement would practically double the capacity of the streets both for traffic and for business ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishments to accomplish something of the sort on their own account may be taken as indications of the manner in which it would be received by the propertyowners and business men along the streets so equipped . The development of high-speed transport on railways is bringing out some very interesting problems for study and solution . I have referred more than once in these reviews to the experiments made in Germany upon the military railway between Marienfelde and Zossen . After it  | was demonstrated that speeds of 125 to 130 miles an hour could readily be made by properly constructed electric cars upon a suitable track , the apparatus and road were turned over to a special research committee to enable detailed studies to be made of the various portions of the problem . Some of the results of the work of this committee have been made public , and they form valuable contributions to the general subject of high-speed traction . The action of the resistance opposed by the air to the motion of a high-speed train is one of the questions studied by the committee , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are increased . Thus the 100-ton experimental car is found to require about 150 horse-power to drive it at a speed of 50 miles an hour , no especial provision being made as to the shape of the front end to reduce the air resistance . When the speed is doubled , however , it takes six times the amount of power ; while , if it is attempted to triple the speed and run the car at 150 miles an hour , it is necessary to use eighteen times as much power as to drive it at a speed of 50 miles . Another important matter for experimental test was the question of signalling . It soon became evident that human vision could not be depended upon to perceive and interpret stationary signals when passing them at speeds above 100 miles an hour . Even in fair weather , objects closer than 50 feet could not be clearly distinguished from the train , while in dull or rainy days , or at night , the difficulty became even greater . It has , therefore , been decided to place the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by electric contact , the signal being immediately before the driver and perfectly distinct and clear at all speeds . Signals of this sort have also been given trial on some American steam railways , and there seems to be every reason to believe that they will be found wholly successful . The work of the committee is to be continued upon the Marienfelde-Zossen line , working with both steam and electric traction , and much valuable experimental information will doubtless be gained . The part which is being played by applied science in the exploitation of the world can only be realized by a comparison of modern with older methods of development . An interesting example of the development of modern methods is found in the growth of telegraphic communication in Africa . The most important telegraph project in the once dark continent is the line extending from Cape Town through the entire length of the continent to Cairo and Alexandria , a distance of 11,000  | kilometres , or 6,835 miles . This line has been under consideration for fifteen years , and naturally forms a portion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time there have been constructed 1,400 kilometres ( 870 miles ) north from the cape to Mafeking and 3,500 kilometres southward through Egypt to Fashoda , leaving about 6,000 kilometres ( 3,728 miles ) to be built to connect the southern portion of the Egyptian Soudan with Salisbury , the capital of Rhodesia . Portions of this intermediate work have been already constructed , the stretch between Karonga and the northern end of Lake Nyassa being opened in 1898 . The prolongation of the line northward involves construction either upon German territory or upon that of the Congo Free State , and already a line has been run from Ujiji to the northern end of Lake Tanganyika . The construction of the through telegraph line is not wholly dependent upon the progress of the Cape-to-Cairo railway . There are long stretches of that route made up by connecting links of waterway upon the lakes and rivers , and hence no clearing is made for the telegraph route . Some portions of the route between Ujiji and Fashoda are at present impracticable for line construction , and wireless telegraph communication will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . There is little doubt , however , that the whole length of Africa will be traversed by telegraphic communication before many years , and with this and the railroad combined , the development of the natural resources of the continent will proceed at an accelerated rate . During the past few months some interesting features have been brought out in connection with the application of the steam turbine to marine service . Turbines have been installed in a number of channel : earners , and some valuable comparative results have been secured . Thus , nr vessels for the Midland Railway service in connection with the Belfast trade and for the Isle of Man summer passenger traffic have been fitted partly with steam turbines and partly with reciprocating engines . he results of the practical operation have shown that the turbine steamers are operated with a fuel economy of eight to nine per cent better than the reciprocating engines , while the entire elimination of vibration is an added point in favor of the steam turbines . I have already referred an these reviews to the plans which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cunard line with steam turbines . The German lines , however , do not yet appear to be convinced of the superiority of the turbine over the reciprocating engine ; and the new liner to be built  | by the Vulkan Works at Stettin for the North German Lloyds is announced to be practically identical with the Kaiser Wilhelm II , with vertical reciprocating engines of about 40,000 horse-power , for a displacement of 26,500 tons and a length of 707 feet . The methods of balancing four-cylinder reciprocating engines by adjusting the crank angles according to the forces acting upon each , known as the Yarrow , Schlick , Tweedy system , has been found so successful iii practice as to reduce the vibration to an almost imperceptible minimum . It will be interesting to compare the performances of the new British and German steamers , both as representatives of different types of motive power and as competitors in the contest for national supremacy at sea . The transatlantic turbine steamers of the Montreal line , the Victorian and the Virginian , appear to have given satisfaction . They stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Irish Sea and the giant liners of the Cunard and German Lloyd companies , being 540 feet long and of 10,630 tons displacement ; and with turbines of 12,000 horse power they have made speeds of 19.5 knots , an excellent showing . Doubtless there is room for both the steam turbine and the reciprocating engine in marine service , and practical experience with both types will enable them to find their respective places . Since the development of the large internal-combustion motor for stationary service has been attended with marked success , it is to be expected that attempts should be made to apply the same type of motors to marine propulsion . The success with which small motors of the automobile type have been applied to the propulsion of launches and small motor boats lends additional force to the idea of extending the scope of such machines to vessels of larger size . The high efficiency and consequent low fuel consumption of the internal-combustion motor renders it especially desirable for application to marine service , since everything which reduces the quantity of fuel to be carried or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be welcomed . The use of light hydrocarbon fuels , however , such as petrol , gasoline , and the like , is impracticable for large motors , and attempts have recently been made , with some success , to install gas producers of the suction type on shipboard , employing coal as fuel , and drawing the semi-water gas directly from the producer to the engine by the suction strokes of the machine itself . There are numerous details requiring attention in such a combination , but some very successful equipments have been made in Germany by Capitaine , and more recently upon the same principle in Eng- land by Thornycroft . In these boats the fuel is partly burned to carbon monoxide , while the admission of the vapor of water into the mass of incandescent fuel causes the dissociation of the oxygen and hydrogen , the latter enriching the gas . The producer thus takes the place of the boiler , while the engine uses the gas directly in the cylinder . One of the difficulties about the use of internal-combustion motors for marine service lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only when running continuously at normal speed in one direction . They are not easily reversed , nor are they readily controlled as to speed variation . The use of change gears or similar devices , as in automobiles , is impracticable with engines of larger power , and some other means is most desirable . One plan which has been devised for use with the Diesel motor is the so-called Del Proposto system . In this plan the engine is not connected positively to the screw propeller , but drives a dynamo which delivers the current to an electric motor , this latter being on the propeller shaft . The electric motor is regulated as to speed or direction of motion by a suitable controller , so that the Diesel motor may be kept running at full power in one direction while the propeller is run at any desired speed in either direction . The principal objection to the system is the fact that the loss by reason of the conversion of the mechanical into electrical energy and back again is considerable , reaching about fifteen per cent . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or at times when much manoeuvring is necessary , since the motor can be directly connected to the propeller by throwing a clutch into gear , when the full efficiency of the motor is obtained on the wheel . By use of a storage battery , the electric motor may be held available for use at any moment , so that an extreme flexibility is secured , while the high efficiency of the Diesel motor and its ability to burn crude petroleum directly in the cylinder are fully retained . I have referred in these pages to the recent developments in connection with the improvement of the incandescent electric lamp . These include the use of filaments of tantalum or of osmium instead of the carbonized cellulose which has been employed for many years ; those metal filaments enabling lamps of much longer life and lower consumption of electrical energy to be made . The stimulus of this competition has resulted in the production of an improved carbon filament , this being produced by subjecting the ordinary carbon filament to the intense heat the electric resistance furnace . At temperatures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filament becomes partially converted into graphite . The specific resistance is reduced and its specific gravity increased , the toughness and flexibility being also greater than before the treatment . There is every probability that carbon-filament incandescent lamps will be made by this process of much higher efficiency than the ordinary lamp , enabling an economy of more than twenty per cent in the consumption of electric energy to be attained . Although the American Pacific cable has been in operation for some time , connecting with the Philippines by way of Hawaii and Guam , it is now evident that telegraphic communication with Asia by the northern route , following the coast line of Alaska , the Seward Peninsula , the Aleutian Islands , and Kamchatka , is approaching realization . The advantages of this route were forcibly advocated several years ago by Mr. Harrington Emerson ; but the United States Government had already committed itself to the longer and much more expensive route , and the great circle line was rejected , notwithstanding the fact of its lower cost , shorter stretches , and valuable connections with Alaska and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be developed , and already there are 2,300 miles of cable connecting the Pacific coast of the United States with Alaska , and forming an important instalme n't of the northern telegraph route to the Orient . The value of the line is apparent when it is seen that in this incomplete condition it is already active with business communications ; and with the extension of the line to Dutch Harbor and the Aleutian Islands , and the construction by the Japanese of the short section required to unite their northernmost telegraph post with the system , there will be in operation the line which should have been chosen first . It is rather amusing to note that the very officials who were most pronounced in their opposition to the northern , great-circle cable route when it was first projected are now first in claiming the credit for the work . Apart from the commercial advantages of the route , it has the merit of giving connection to the valuable northern naval bases at Dutch Harbor and Kyska Island . The line also gives communication to the important Alaskan coal fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels on the Pacific ; and following , as it does , the storm route of the Northern Pacific , it will enable a prompt and efficient weather service to be maintained . A line composed of short stretches has a great advantage over a long submarine cable as regards speed of operation and consequent cost of transmission of messages ; and the business superiority of the northern route can read- ily be demonstrated in this respect when the two lines are in competitive operation . Work on the Panama Canal has reached a stage of much importance , although the present condition of affairs is not one of display or of great apparent activity . At the isthmus the principal work is that of the important department of sanitation , water-supply , and general preparation of the field , to render it habitable in safety and comfort . The important work is now transferred to Washington , into the hands of the advisory board of engineers , and upon its decisions and opinions the plans for the great undertaking will finally be settled . The last really complete plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Technique , this being for a lock canal with a summit level of 20.75 metres , or about sixty-eight feet , with a dam and lake at Bohio , and a controlling dam for the upper Chagres at Alhajuela . Of late , however , there has arisen a feeling that the sea-level scheme should be adopted , while at the same time doubt has been thrown on the practicability of obtaining a satisfactory foundation for a dam at Bohio . It has also been suggested that the control of the Chagres River might be effected through the construction of tunnel spillways into both the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean . A number of variant plans have been submitted to the Canal Commission , these coming from many sources and being of varying degrees of merit ; and it is upon all these questions that the advisory board of engineers is to pass . The constitution of the board is such as to warrant broad confidence in its judgments . Among its members are to be found engineers who have had wide experience in similar problems upon great canal works in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. W. Henry Hunter , has been engineer of the Manchester Ship Canal , involving in its construction and operation an intimate knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of locks for great sea-going vessels . M. Quellenec , the French representative , is consulting engineer for the Suez Canal , with experience in its enlargement , and was also chief engineer of the th Ship Canal . The German delegate is Mr. Tincauzer , of the 1 Canal ; while from Holland comes Director Welcker , of the Waterd , the dike system of the Netherlands . Among other members the board we may name Gen. Henry L. Abbot , one of the leading orities on hydraulic engineering in the United States ; Mr. Isham dolph , chief engineer of the Chicago Main Drainage Commission ; Mr. Joseph Ripley , of the Sault Sainte Marie Canal .  | While this board is only advisory , its opinions will doubtless be followed upon such broad questions as the choice of level , if a lock canal is to be built , together with the important matter of the section of canal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the future demands in the light of the growing dimensions of cargo-carrying steamships . The merits of the sea-level plan will also come before the board , together with the problems for the control of the Chagres , in case of the adoption of this plan . These broad questions having been settled , the details of execution may well be left to the commission and its engineers ; and it is to be hoped that they will then be given freedom to carry on the work as it would be done by any of the great railroad companies of the country , without the petty bureaucratic restrictions usually so evident in work under government control . An undertaking like the Panama Canal is no place for the " Tite Barnacles " of a circumlocution office , and the policy of " how not to do it " should not be added to natural obstructions which are in themselves sufficiently great . There is a general tendency in applied engineering science at the present time to develop experimental methods of investigation , not for the determination of purely empirical data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . In such combinations of theory and practice , the work of the investigator is at once made available for use in the workshop and manufactory , and soon accrues to the benefit of the entire world . An example of the value of experimental investigations is seen in the progress made in model experiments on the best lines for the hulls of ships . The use of small paraffine models , drawn along through a tank at various rates of speed , has long been found of much value in determining the relative merits of various forms of hulls . With experience in this mode of research , and with the confirmation of the mathematical laws of similarity , by which the relations between small models and the full-size vessels have been established , the importance of such experiments has increased . By employing larger models ? those in the tank at Washington being twenty feet long ? and by using electric traction and automatic recording devices , the performance of a hull and many questions relating to its powering may be determined before a stroke of the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the study of models for ships is that used by Mr. Froude in the testing tank at Haslar , this being the addition of a wave-making device for imitating the conditions of a rough sea . A vibrating diaphragm at one end of the tank is so driven as to produce  | waves of a uniform and determinate character ; and by drawing the model hull through these waves at various speeds , the behavior of vessels under actual conditions may be closely approached . Experiments already conducted in this manner have yielded valuable information in regard to the power required to propel ships in rough water , and the relation of displacement to speed is also being investigated under actual conditions . Although the war between Russia and Japan has been happily terminated , the engineer has always to realize that it is only by constant improvement and continual development in the art of constructing fighting machinery that the rights and liberties of nations can be maintained . In the struggle which has just ended , it has been the one nation of Asia which has adopted modern military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against a first-class European power . Had China , or even Corea , been as fully provided with modern weapons , ships , and scientific appliances , it is extremely doubtful if there would have been any war ; and it is almost a certainty that one of the results of the war will be a rapid acquisition of modern fighting appliances by other Asiatic nations . In the progress of scientific warfare there is to be expected a continual advance in the use of electricity , both for methods of defence and for communication . In the United States Army there exists a special school at Fort Totten , New York , this constituting practically a postgraduate school in which selected men from the Military Academy at West Point may be given a special training . At the present time , careful instruction is given in the electrical control and explosion of mines for harbor defence , as well as in the use of electric motors and appliances for the handling of artillery . Special attention is also given to the manipulation of field telephone systems ; and the extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign in Manchuria is evidence of the growing importance of this department of applied electricity in warfare . There is little doubt that the use of special forms of wireless telegraphic apparatus will become of increasing value in the warfare of the future . As an ordinary means of communication in naval operations , it already demonstrated its value in the Japanese navy ; but it will btless find still wider uses in the operation of distant motors , mines , ts , and other apparatus , either according to the method of Branly , to which I have already referred in these pages , or by some distinct advance  | on that system by which both the impelling and the controlling forces shall be transmitted across space by magnetic waves . Much interest has been aroused of late in the influence which the application of modern engineering methods may have upon questions of finance and economy in connection with the rapid increase of the gold supply of the world . Formerly the industry of gold-mining was rather supposed to be somewhat of the nature of a gambling venture , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He who digs for iron will grow rich ; he who digs for silver may grow rich ; but he who digs for gold will never grow rich . " At the present time , however , two applications of scientific methods are changing all this , and in consequence the industry of extracting gold from the earth is becoming much the same as any other manufacturing business . The two methods which are working this transformation are the application of the cyanide process to the working of gold-bearing quartz , and the introduction of the dredge for the exploitation of gold placers . Leaving aside the cyanide process for the present , it will be of interest to consider the action and possible influence of the gold dredge . In working a gold placer by hand , only the richer portions of the deposit can be handled to advantage ; the labor element forming too large a portion of the expense to permit of the extraction of the gold without loss . The result is the working of many known placers containing millions in gold which it has been hitherto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dredge the bulk of the work is performed mechanically , thus rendering it possible to exploit to advantage placers containing less than ten cents ' worth of gold to the cubic yard of gravel , placers such as exist in abundance in many parts of the world , but from which it would hitherto have been as impossible to extract the gold as it now is to draw the metal from the water of the ocean . The gold dredge is similar in construction to the so-called " ladder " dredge in common use for removing the mud from harbors and channels . Strong buckets , carried on an endless chain , driven by a powerful engine , scoop up the gold-bearing gravel and deliver it to the deck of the scow on which all the machinery is carried . The gravel is here passed through riffles and amalgamators , by which the gold is completely separated , and the barren gravel stacked up behind the machine by a mechanical conveyor . If the gold-bearing gravel is at the bottom of a river , the whole equipment floats upon the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pond of its own excavating , the water of this pond flowing into the space dug out by the dredge in front , while the discharged tailings fill up the space behind . No supply of running water is needed for the treatment of the gravel , since the water of the travelling pond is used over and over again . Such a dredge will travel steadily through the entire length of a placer , leaving in its trail nothing but barren and exhausted gravel , having extracted all the gold in its passage . It has been estimated that the introduction of these machines will raise the present gold product of about one million dollars per day to double that amount inside of ten years , and with the vast extent of lean placers available for their action in the United States , in Central and South America , and especially in Australia and Siberia , this prediction appears to be moderate . Yet this great increase in gold production , with all the important industrial and economic changes which must follow , is a simple application of principles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him for similar work for half a century . There have been some interesting investigations of late into a branch of applied science which , when freed from the quackery which has sometimes become associated with it , demands serious consideration . This is the use of scientific methods of protecting buildings from the effects of lightning . Both in England and in Germany there have been established scientific societies for the critical investigation of the effects of lightning discharges ; and these bodies , by keeping accurate and systematic records of all such occurrences coming to their notice , have enabled some reliable information to be obtained . Among other things , it has been shown that the material of which a lightning conductor is composed has an important influence upon its action . Thus it appears possible for a lightning-rod to be too good a conductor , and when made , for instance , of copper , the disruptive discharge passes so quickly as to produce a shock of much violence . An iron rod is much better , since it offers more impedance to the current , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lightning-rod system , according to the experience of the latest investigators , care should be taken to provide numerous and complete earth connections , and to make sure that metal portions of the building , such as the roof , gutters , water-pipes , etc. , are in electrical connection with the conductors . The air terminals need not project far above the building ; but horizontal conductors should be run along ridge-poles , and these connected to salient points in the iron-work of the roofs , all being  | fully and carefully grounded . Such a system will prevent the occurrence of dangerous side discharges , and if iron conductors are used the effects will be so dampened as to be freed from serious results . I have referred in these reviews to the problems connected with highspeed service on railways , and there has developed in this connection an interesting problem bearing upon the stability of locomotives and cars . It is well known that the movement of the reciprocating parts of a steam locomotive , for example , acts to produce vibration , both in vertical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent these actions , the most successful being by the employment of four cylinders , with separate cranks , and connections , arranging the crank angles so as to cause the opposing forces to neutralize each other . Apart from the successive vibrations , however , it is realized that the whole machine itself has a period of oscillation , and that if the number of vibrations of the moving parts forms a complete multiple of this period of oscillation , the swaying will continue to increase in amplitude until it becomes dangerous . The action is similar to that of a pendulum to which a slight push is given at the extreme end of each swing , thus giving it oscillations of increasing extent , while the same number of pushes given at other points during the swing would serve only to check its motion . In like manner , any very small periodical oscillations in a railway car become of importance when they coincide with the period of the whole vehicle , since they then have cumulative effect which may become very serious at high speeds . A remedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , existing in various places in the machine , as between the plates of the springs , in the pivot of the bogie truck , and between the tires of the wheels and the rails of the track . Extreme rigidity in the construction of a locomotive is found to be undesirable , and with a moderate degree of elasticity , combined with a sufficient degree of friction between the yielding parts , the most serious effects of cumulative oscillations may be avoided . It is also very desirable that the period of oscillation of an engine should be observed , and that such rotative speeds be maintained as will avoid synchronism with this period . In the preceding review I called attention to the criticisms which have been made of the stability of the Assouan dam and of the postponement in the raising of this important structure . It is not yet admitted that this postponement is due to the revelations of the new  | theory of stresses in dams , as propounded by Professors Atcherley and Pearson ; on the contrary , it is distinctly stated that the feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the discharge of the water through the sluices and upon the apron of the foundation . It is now reported that the strengthening works are making rapid progress , and the dam will soon be beyond criticism as to strength . At the same time , it is practically admitted that the dam is not realizing all the results which were hoped for , so far as the extension of the agricultural resources of Egypt are concerned . It is understood that a dam is also to be constructed at Esneh , and , what is more important , that extensive irrigation works are to be undertaken in the Fayoum . While the exact nature of these latter works has not yet been announced , there is little doubt that they include the conversion of the Wady Rayan into a storage reservoir , upon the plans proposed in detail by Mr. Cope Whitehouse more than twenty years ago . The extent of the new works may be grasped when it is understood that a total storage capacity of four milliards of cubic metres of water is required for the proper irrigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but one milliard of cubic metres , leaving three milliards to be provided for . Probably one of the most extensive engineering works , as regards area covered , now under consideration , is that of the United States Reclamation Service . The eight projects already under construction cover irrigable land , nearly eight million acres in extent , in Arizona , Colorado , Idaho , Nebraska , Wyoming , Nevada , New Mexico , and South Dakota ; the cost exceeding $17,000,000 . In addition to these there are projects for areas totalling more than a million acres in California , Oregon , Montana , and North Dakota . Aside from the agricultural and economic importance of these immense undertakings , the engineering features involved are : of much interest . Reinforced concrete is being freely used in the construction of the dams and diverting weirs , and the discussions as to the influence of tension and temperature stresses in masonry structures have no bearing upon these works . In this great work , the influence of engineering upon civilization is well seen ; and while diplomats and soldiers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer is adding to the permanent wealth of the world at a continually accelerating rate .                     