@@430331

 | THE two most important events marking this question as a world movement were the meetings of the International Council of Women in Berlin in 1904 and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance in Copenhagen in 1906 . The former , with delegates from twenty countries , instructed by their respective Councils , adopted a resolution that " this International Council advocates that strenuous efforts be made to enable women to obtain the power of voting in all countries where a representative government exists . " As this Council comprises seven or eight millions of the leading women in the various countries , its action certainly is an answer to the oft-repeated statement that women do not want to vote . At the International Alliance in Copenhagen twelve countries reported as organized and working vigorously for the suffrage , and an international paper was established . Two countries have since been added , and in almost every one where the status of women has reached any degree of modern civilization , they are beginning to demand a voice in their own government . The women of New Zealand have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Parliament conferred upon them the full franchise on exactly the same terms as required of men . There is scarcely a dissenting voice in the distinguished testimony as to the good effect of this on the women themselves and on the politics of the country . At a number of national elections a larger percentage of women than of men have voted . This situation is duplicated in Australia . The women in its six States have had Municipal suffrage for twenty-five or thirty years . South Australia gave them the full State franchise in  | 1895 , and West Australia in 1899 . The six States united in one Commonwealth in 1901 , and one of the first acts of the new Government was to give all women the full Federal suffrage and the right to sit in the National Parliament . New South Wales then conferred the State suffrage in 1902 , Tasmania in 1903 , Queensland in 1905 . In Victoria this vote is still withheld , having been vetoed fourteen times by the Upper House of the State Parliament after it had been passed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go through during the present session . At some elections not only a larger percentage , but actually a larger number of women than of men have voted . Last year in Tasmania women outnumbered the men at every polling-station . It is also everywhere apparent that they have roused the men to a new sense of their political duty . Turning to Europe , there is the curious anomaly that in its two so-called republics the cause of woman suffrage is more backward than in almost any of the other countries . In Switzerland every man over twenty may vote . A National Woman Suffrage Association has lately been organized which is supported by many public men . Its president and secretary are members of Parliament and university professors fill other offices . In France , all men twenty-one years old have the franchise . The National Council of Women , composed of 55 associations with about 70,000 members , has recently joined forces with the National Suffrage Union , thus assuring strong and systematic effort for the enfranchisement of women . In 1906 , a Committee for the Defence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Deputies , to secure the social , civil and political rights of women . A delegation of 150 from the National Woman Suffrage Union were received by this committee and permitted to make their plea for a Suffrage bill from the rostrum of the Chamber of Deputies . Its Chairman , M. Jean Jaures , assured them that one would be presented . The Socialist Congress at Limoges instructed the Socialist members to introduce such a bill . The eminent Baron d'Estournelles de Constant , French delegate to the Peace Congress in the United States , is a strong advocate of woman suffrage , as are many other noted men . The Catholics , who have always stood inflexibly against giving political rights to women , are now saying that , if women had possessed a vote , they would not have shown the indifference to the interests s  | of the Church that men have , and Parliament would not have been able to bring about the separation of Church and State . The women have held themselves aloof from the suffrage societies , but last summer the secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the International Suffrage Alliance in Copenhagen expressing deep sympathy with the cause ? a most significant incident . Some of them have sent a petition to the Pope , through Marie Maugeret , editor of " Feminisme Chretien , " and he has promised an answer . The Socialists , on the other hand , claim that the enfranchisement of the working-women would greatly strengthen their ranks , so it is not improbable that this may become a live issue in France in the near future . In Belgium , practically every male citizen over twenty-five is a voter , but a plural system gives two or three votes to university graduates and to property-holders . A few years ago , there was a great uprising of the working-classes under the rallyingcry , " One man , one vote . " Some progressive women undertook to have them demand " One person , one vote " ; but , although this is a fundamental principle of Socialism , they refused absolutely . As the aristocracy is principally Catholic , its men considered the feasibility of enfranchising women in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to send an agent to the United States to examine the effects of woman suffrage here , but as the working-men have made no further demonstrations the matter has been allowed to rest . Miss Martina Framers , editor of the international woman-suffrage organ , was invited by the University of Brussels to give a course of lectures last winter on the franchise for women . The Congress of Socialist Women has unanimously instructed the Socialist members of Parliament as to the introduction of a woman-suffrage bill . In The Netherlands , all men over twenty-five who own any property Whatever or pay rent may vote . The movement to obtain suffrage for women is well organized and advanced . The National Council is composed of 30 associations and about that many thousand members , with a section for politics and the franchise . The National Woman Suffrage Association , over twelve years old , is an influential body including women of all classes , creeds and politics . Its president is Dr. Aletta H. Jacobs , the first woman physician in Holland , whose husband was a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has long been a favorable minority sentiment in Parliament , but the ministry was hostile . The Liberal element finally gained the ascendency and formed a coalition of forces whose first act was to create a Commission for revising the Constitution and broadening the suffrage for men . The Woman Suffrage Association at once appointed a committee to draft a Memorial , asking for an article providing that women should be admitted to the franchise on the same terms as men . The Prime Minister promised serious consideration and asked for testimony from places where women voted . The Commission has now published its recommendation that the word " male " be struck out before all paragraphs relating to election to office , six out of seven favoring this article . This would make women eligible to all Government positions , even to a seat in Parliament . The Ministry reserves to itself the privilege of making all changes in regard to electoral rights . The press is favorable to extending these to women , the Liberal and Social Democratic parties have woman suffrage in their platforms , and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause for this purpose in the Constitution . This will go to the voters in 1909 . The women of Holland , therefore , to influence public sentiment , have arranged that the International Woman Suffrage Alliance shall hold its convention there in June , 1908 . They have little doubt that they will be enfranchised the following year . The movement for woman suffrage in Denmark was greatly accelerated by the convention of the International Suffrage Alliance in Copenhagen last August .. The excellent arrangements made by the Danish women , the parliamentary conduct of the meeting by the president of the Alliance , Mrs. Chapman Catt , of the United States , the addresses of the delegates from twelve countries , gave much dignity and prestige to the cause . The papers were unanimous in their praise and declared that it was manifest injustice to withhold longer the ballot from women . Danish women are very well organized . The National Council comprises 18 national societies . The old and important Danish Women 's Association , formed in 1870 , has 35 branches throughout the country , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suffrage Association proper has 16 auxiliary branches . All men thirty years old may vote for the Lower House of Parliament . The Upper House is partly appointed by the King  | and partly elected by large taxpayers . Only taxpayers have the Municipal franchise . Women have no suffrage , and in this respect Denmark is far behind the other Scandinavian countries , behind even its own colony of Iceland . In recent years , the Lower House has been composed almost entirely of Liberals and Socialists ; the Upper House remains strongly Conservative . The latter is willing to give the Municipal franchise to taxpaying widows and spinsters , but the Lower House demands it for all women . Several times it has passed such a bill , but always with a " rider " attached demanding some concessions for men , and this has caused the Upper House to reject it . The general opinion is , however , that a liberal Municipal franchise will soon be granted to women . The Parliament of Iceland in 1882 gave to widows and spinsters who were householders or maintained a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Town Councils and District Boards and Vestries . In 1902 they were made eligible to election to all the offices for which they could vote . The Government has just announced that it will present a bill for their full suffrage . Germany was stirred from centre to circumference by the International Council of Women which met in Berlin in 1904 . The recognition extended by the Emperor and members of his Cabinet and by the Municipality gave it such great prestige that all progressive movements among German women received a strong impetus . They have great genius for organizing , but are prevented by law in most of the States from forming any associations of a political nature , which includes those asking for the franchise . The German National Council of Women is composed of nearly 200 societies with about 100,000 members , and yet they feared even to adopt a resolution in favor of woman suffrage lest the Government should dissolve the organization ; but they finally ventured to do this . Women were prohibited in Prussia and many of the other States from attending political meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reichstag abrogated the law , stipulating , however , that they must sit apart from the men . The Reichstag is elected by universal male suffrage , but the Bundesrath , or Upper House , is appointed . In the three " free cities , " and in some of the States which permit it , women have  | now organized suffrage associations and are endeavoring to resuscitate the ancient laws which in various States allow Municipal suffrage to women property-holders , and the question has gone to the Supreme Court . Women lawyers have discovered that the fundamental law of Prussia declares the right of both sexes to be equal unless exceptions are expressly declared . In the statutes relating to the State and Municipal suffrage , only " persons " are referred to and no exceptions are made ; thus , apparently , hundreds of thousands of women are entitled to vote . A League of Evangelical Women and a League of Catholic Women are now demanding the suffrage , while the Social Democratic Women , supposed to be several million in number , are making it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffrage in a German Parliament took place in Bavaria in December , 1905 , when the Constitution was revised to give universal suffrage to men , and the women petitioned to be included . Their petition was supported by all the Socialists , half of the Liberals and one-fourth of the Clerical party , but the remaining three-fourths of the last-named party were sufficient to defeat it . This precipitated a vigorous discussion in Catholic circles , and their leading paper in South Germany has declared within a few months that the laws of the Church do not forbid the enfranchisement of women , and that social and economic development makes it desirable . At the last annual meeting of the Socialists the women demanded definite action , and , after a ringing speech by August Bebel , they adopted a resolution to make this henceforth a part of their political struggle . The Liberal party , after a heated debate , refused , at the dictation of their leaders , to indorse a resolution even for Municipal suffrage . There is no immediate prospect of women 's enfranchisement in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is growing stronger every year . The obstacles in the way of the women of Austria seem almost insuperable . It is composed of seventeen provinces , besides Hungary ; the people speak at least eight languages , and concerted action for any reform is all but impossible . A law was enacted in 1852 granting to men the right to form political organizations , but specifically forbidding this to women . There are many educated , capable and progressive women in Austria , and when , in 1902 , they wanted to form a  | National Council , they could only get the requisite permission from the Government by showing that it was in no sense of a political nature . It is composed of 36 societies representing over 13,000 women . When last year they saw a measure about to be enacted to grant universal suffrage to men and to exclude all women , they felt that some action was imperative . They could form Independent Committees on Woman Suffrage , which was done , and they have held mass conventions and sent petitions to Parliament . They invited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the International Suffrage Convention in Copenhagen , and she went in September , accompanied by Dr. Jacobs , president of The Netherlands Association . They addressed large meetings at Prague in Bohemia , at Brunn , capital of Moravia , and at Vienna . Here every inch of standing-room was occupied in the great hall by people of all classes , many members of Parliament being present . The addresses were followed by a discussion of two hours , no one speaking in direct opposition . The visitors were astonished at the strength of the movement throughout the provinces . The question of granting the franchise to women was several times debated in the Lower House . The Minister of the Interior stated that the strong demonstrations in favor of it had been made a subject of earnest consideration by the Government , but he doubted if it were wise to make a trial of it at the moment of so important a political evolution . A few of the radical members favored it , but Dr. Victor Adler , leader of the Socialists , declared that , while his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thought the reform entirely impracticable at that time . The bill finally adopted gave the franchise to all men . The first election has now taken place under the new law and has resulted in a tremendous Socialist victory which insures a commanding vote in the next Parliament . The Committee of Socialist Women , with the approval of Dr. Adler , have proposed that , at the coming International Congress in Stuttgart , woman suffrage be made a distinct issue in its programme , and it is thought this will be done . Now that universal suffrage for men has been obtained in Austria , there is a probability that they will make an effort for the enfranchisement of women . A petition for woman suffrage signed by 24,000 Czecks , men and women , sent to the Parliament of Bohemia , has been referred  | to the next session , which is to reform the electoral law . The one proposed gives taxpaying women a somewhat extended franchise , but excludes all women from the Municipal suffrage which it confers on all men . The women will insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Women composed of about 70 associations , and , soon after the Berlin meeting of 1904 , a few who had been in attendance there formed a Suffrage Society which has done an amazing amount of work . The question of woman suffrage had been agitated among men since they began the struggle for their own electoral rights in 1903 , and the Hungarian idol , Francis Kossuth , had declared that the Independent party was morally bound to support it . In a short time , however , the political situation became one of indescribable chaos , and the women finally learned that not one of the " reform " parties would take up their cause when it came to the test . Lately , the Society of Women Clerks , Bookkeepers , Stenographers , etc. , numbering 1,500 , has petitioned Parliament , demanding in the name of taxpaying women the right to vote . A great demonstration in Budapest was attended by women of all ranks and vocations . Women took a prominent part at the last election , many of the candidates publicly advocated woman suffrage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced themselves in favor of it . By urgent invitation Mrs. Chapman Catt and Dr. Jacobs extended their speaking tour to Budapest , where they held three largely attended and enthusiastic meetings . One was under the auspices of the Free Masons . The electoral laws will probably be revised soon , and there is a vigorous movement for universal suffrage for men . The women are preparing to press their claims for inclusion in whatever measure may be adopted . In Italy , with some educational and property qualifications , all men over twenty-one may vote for the Lower House of Parliament . The National Council of Women , composed of over 60 federated societies , in 1904 voted almost unanimously in favor of both the Municipal and Parliamentary franchise . In 1905 , the Woman Suffrage Association of Rome organized committees in all parts of Italy and began systematic , aggressive work . Various newspapers have come to their support and a number of distinguished statesmen , jurists and university professors have  | become outspoken advocates of the movement . The question was carried to Parliament and discussed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded with women . The discussion was dignified and spirited , both Conservative and Radical members speaking in its favor , and finally it was referred to the Minister of the Interior , the most favorable disposition which the regulations allowed . It is the intention of men and women to carry on an active campaign . Russia had no national suffrage for men until the Puma was created in. 1905 . In local government of the villages , women , married and single , have certain voting rights and sometimes hold office , as many own property and carry on business . When the war with Japan brought on the vast revolution and men began to strive for political rights , progressive women at once threw themselves into the conflict and made their demand to be included in the proposed universal suffrage . In Moscow , they organized a Union for Women 's Rights which affiliated at once with the Union of Men 's Associations , and later all were merged into the great body known as the Union of Unions , which counts its members by the hundred thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their government strong among all classes of women , but especially among the peasants . Nothing could be more touching than the petition sent to the Duma by the peasant women of the three villages of Tver , begging that they should have the same rights as the men . " Till now , " they said , " even though we were beaten sometimes , still we decided various matters together . . . . Have pity on us in the name of God ! We had formerly the same rulers as our husbands ; now our husbands are going to write the laws for us . " Alexis Aladyin , leader of the peasant party in the first Duma , who has lately been in the United States , declares that the press despatches saying the peasant members were opposed to woman suffrage were wholly untrue . He says there was not one opposing vote or voice among them . With the exception of that of the extreme Conservatives , woman suffrage has been placed in the platform of all the political parties , Constitutional Democrats , Labor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women are members of their central committees . Many of the leaders of the Octoberist or Conservative party favor it . The Zemstvos and Municipalities in all parts  | of Russia have indorsed it , and some of them permitted women to vote for the body which elected members of the Duma . The proposed constitution for self-government in Poland gives women the vote for Zemstvo members . A meeting of 4,000 university professors and students voted unanimously for woman suffrage ; the National Medical Congress of 1,200 Russian physicians did the same , and there was scarcely a dissenting voice in the national associations of the various professions and trades which make up the great League of Leagues . If the second Duma had been allowed to finish its session , there was a most encouraging prospect that it would enact a law enfranchising women . An occurrence in Armenia has great significance as showing the unmistakable tendency toward equal rights for women . There the ancient Oriental Church , occupying a position about halfway between the Greek and the High Episcopal Churches , is almost supreme in government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued a proclamation giving the Church a constitution and committing the management of its affairs henceforth to a general assembly of delegates , to be elected by all the members over twenty-one years old . At once the question was asked whether this included women , whereupon he issued a second edict declaring that not only might women vote for these delegates , but they might also be elected themselves . The most influential Armenian paper in Russia , the " Workman , " published at Tiflis , in a column editorial expressed joy over this act and a hope that it would lead to woman 's political liberty . The great victory for woman suffrage in 1906 was won in Finland , when women were enfranchised on exactly the same terms as men and made eligible to all offices , including seats in Parliament . This gives the vote at once to about 300,000 women . Preceding and during the revolution , in the attempt to throw off the Russian yoke , the women shared with the men the work , the hardships and the dangers ; and , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of men of excluding women from any portion of the rewards , the most important of which was the suffrage . But they themselves had long been preparing the ground . The Finnish Women 's Association to work for equal rights was founded in 1884 by Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg and never ceased its efforts . In 1892 the Woman 's Alliance Union was organized , more democratic and aggressive in its  | character . In November , 1904 , when the revolutionary spirit was surging , this Union called the first public meeting for woman suffrage ever held in Finland ; it was attended by more than a thousand women and hundreds more could not gain admission . Forty-seven addresses of sympathy signed by hundreds of women came from all parts of the country . A resolution was adopted declaring for universal suffrage , and another , addressed to the Diet , or Parliament , demanding the full franchise and eligibility to office for women . After the vast national strike in the autumn of 1905 , while a body of leading men were drawing up a Declaration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss ) Tekla Hulsin , a member of the National Bureau of Statistics , made an eloquent plea in behalf of the women , and they were included in its demand for universal suffrage . When this document was laid before the Tsar , he sent for Senator Mechelin , leader of the Diet , to confer with him as to the advisability of taking so radical a step as enfranchising women . The Senator warmly advocated this , declaring that the nation demanded it . The Tsar signed it in November , giving his consent to the proposed reforms . Immediately the women set to work , lecturing , organizing , getting up petitions , and finally held another huge mass-meeting in Helsingfors , demanding that the Diet carry out this measure . All of the political parties put it in their platforms . On May 28th , 1906 , the Diet with only one dissenting vote passed the bill giving the suffrage to all men and women twenty-four years old . This was signed by the Tsar on July 20th . The first election has recently been held , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in many places voting in a larger proportion . They were on the executive committees of all parties and were placed on all tickets as candidates for Parliament . Nineteen were successful ? the first women in all . time to be elected to a national representative body . In Norway , since 1897 , all men over twenty-five years old have enjoyed the right to exercise the Parliamentary suffrage . The women had been making an organized effort for the franchise since 1885 , supported by large petitions . When in 1901 it was proposed to abolish all property qualifications and give every man the Municipal vote , the women protested vigorously against any further enlargement which did not include them . The Government finally abolished all property requirements for  | men , and admitted all women to the Municipal franchise who pay taxes on property to the value of $75 in the country and $110 in cities . It also made them eligible to serve on Common Councils . At the first election , in some towns 90 per cent . of the women voted ; 98 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they continue to serve on Councils . In 1905 , although the women were barred from an official vote on the separation from Sweden , they took an informal ballot and presented to Parliament nearly 300,000 names in favor of separation . ( The men 's vote was about 368,000 . ) This undoubtedly had a favorable influence ; for , when they presented their petition this year for the full suffrage , and asked if Norwegian men would prove less magnanimous than Finnish , their question was made a Government measure . The Storthing could not quite be persuaded to give them universal suffrage , although a change of fourteen votes would have done so , but the Parliamentary franchise was granted to all who pay taxes on an income of $84 in the country and $113 in cities . Wives can vote on the husband 's income , and even domestic servants will have an income large enough to entitle them to vote . About 350,000 are enfranchised by the new law , and they will soon have enough influence in Parliament to repeal the property qualification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced . Since 1862 , widows and single women have had the municipal franchise on the same terms as men , and in 1904 this right was extended to married women who pay taxes on their own property . Women vote on matters connected with the State ( Lutheran ) Church . The only franchise withheld is that for members of Parliament . Sweden has had an ancient and unjust system of voting , which disfranchised a very large proportion of the men , but a bill has just been passed giving full suffrage to all men twenty-four years old . Since 1900 , the women have been well organized and have made a vigorous campaign . They have nearly one hundred active suffrage societies , and last October the King received about fifty delegates from these . He expressed deep sympathy with their movement , but said . he feared the inclusion of women in the pending bill for enlarging male suffrage would endanger its chances , and he was very desirous that it should succeed . They then collected 141,121 signatures of Swedish  | women in all parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same terms as applied to men , and presented it to Parliament . The Government intimated to them very strongly that in the near future it would promote their claim , and a bill was passed making them eligible to all municipal offices , and removing all tax qualifications for Municipal suffrage . The Social Democratic party have put into their platform votes and eligibility to office for women . It is evident that the way is at last clear for their full suffrage , but the strongest incentive towards it is the action just taken by Norway . The women share equally with the men the rivalry between the two nations . They will bitterly resent the fact of Norwegian women 's possessing a voice in Government which is denied to them , and it is likely this feeling will be shared by Swedish men . There is every probability that Sweden will enfranchise women in the very near future . Every part of the British Empire has some form of woman suffrage . In the Isle of Man , widows and spinsters , since 1881 , have voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keys , or Parliament . In the recent organization of the Government of South Africa , there was considerable effort to secure representation for women , the new Premier , General Botha , strongly urging it . The Parliament of Great Britain would not allow it because of the great advantage it would give to the Boers , as there are comparatively few English women in South Africa . The only concession made was to give the Municipal franchise to the women of Natal . In all of the nine provinces of Canada , widows and spinsters have had for years either School or Municipal suffrage or both , and in the Northwest Provinces all women have both on the same terms as men . The agitation for the full franchise has had able supporters , but has not been very strong or well organized until in recent years . Last year various suffrage advocates formed a deputation to wait upon the new Premier and ask his influence for a Parliamentary Franchise bill . They were supported by the Speaker of the House , the Mayor of Toronto , the chancellor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assured them that they were asking only for what was their right , but that their position had been assigned by the Infinite and it was not for a statesman to try to change that plan .  | The National Council of Women , the strongest organization in Canada , has just created a standing committee on political equality , which will cooperate with the Suffrage Association . If Great Britain should give the full franchise to women , its Canadian colony could not consistently refuse it , especially with those of Australia and New Zealand in full possession of this right . The storm centre of woman suffrage at the present moment is in Great Britain . When in 1.869 the Municipal ballot was secured to women by act of Parliament , and later the District and County vote was added , it was supposed the Parliamentary franchise would soon follow , but the efforts of forty years have proved unavailing . The suffrage for men has been gradually enlarged , until now only a very small property qualification , or the payment of about one dollar a week rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party proposes to abolish in its Adult Suffrage Bill to enfranchise all men . For a quarter of a century , a strong , well-organized National Suffrage Union has worked in a thorough and systematic manner for the Parliamentary franchise . Its president is Mrs. Fawcett , wife of the former Postmaster-General , and the president of the central or London branch is Lady Frances Balfour , sisterin-law of the ex-Premier . They have held great mass-meetings , gathered immense petitions and labored persistently in an earnest but dignified way . Before the last general election in 1906 , the Union took a poll of the candidates , and 420 , a majority , were returned pledged to vote for woman suffrage . Early in the session , nearly 200 members of Parliament , and many organizations of women , petitioned Premier Campbell-Bannerman to receive a deputation to urge action by the present Liberal Government . He received a delegation of about 300 , composed of all classes , while hundreds marched up and down outside . They presented a memorial representing about 400,000 women . Meanwhile , the Independent Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead of Keir Hardie it stood for the enfranchisement of women . The Women 's Social and Political Union was formed in Manchester , as an auxiliary of this party , to further the interests of its candidates . Its founders were ardent advocates of the suffrage and kept this question to the front . The gTeat Trades Unions among women , who for years had been sending to Parliament huge petitions for the franchise , 1-Lr n . o ie ' s e ,  | gave allegiance to this new body . By 1905 it placed woman suffrage before all other questions , moved its headquarters to London and invited women of all political affiliations to join in the movement . This invitation was accepted and the militant campaign was mapped out , which it is hardly an exaggeration to say has startled the civilized world . While at first all Great Britain was dreadfully shocked , public sentiment has now in a large degree veered around in favor of these aggressive methods . The spectacle of nearly .200 women thrown into prison for demanding their political rights has appealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 73,384 women textile workers , and by 133 trade and labor unions representing more than 100,000 women wage-earners , have been sent to Parliament asking that they may have a vote to protect their interests . They have stirred the old suffrage society to more vigorous action and , a short time ago , under its auspices , all classes of women , to the number of several thousand , factory workers , university graduates , clubwomen , members of the nobility , marched through the principal streets of London and held a mass-meeting in Exeter Hall . Now they are circulating a petition for the franchise headed by those prominent in all lines of activity , which has been signed by tens of thousands of women who are working for support or for the public welfare . On March 8th , the Suffrage Bill came up in the House . With so large a majority pledged in its favor , the only hope of defeating it was through the old tactics of talking it to death . The Speaker refused to entertain a motion for closure , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Campbell-Bannerman favored the bill . The Scottish Liberal Association , at its last convention , voted unanimously for enfranchising women . There is a strong committee in Parliament for advancing this cause composed of seventy Liberals , its chairman being Sir Charles McLaren , nephew of John and Jacob Bright , and its secretary , the Hon. Geoffrey Howard , son of the Countess of Carlisle , so long president of the great Women 's National Liberal Federation , and herself an advocate of woman suffrage . Nothing can be done by the Liberals , however , while the Speaker and most of the Cabinet are hostile . The Independent Labor Party has two grievances against the Women 's Social and Political Union which has been making so  | valiant a fight ? first , for declaring itself an independent organization , inviting women of all political opinions to its ranks and claiming the right to oppose candidates of any party , even the Labor , if they do not favor the franchise for women ; second , for refusing to merge its demands in the Adult Suffrage Bill and insisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its April Conference , the delegates declared for " the immediate extension of the franchise to women . " This is the uncertain situation in Great Britain at the present time . Meanwhile , the National Suffrage Society is putting forth heroic efforts , and the " suffragettes " are holding from twenty to thirty meetings a week throughout the country . There is so large a public sentiment in favor of giving the franchise to women , and its advocates are so numerous , able and determined , that the general opinion is it will be granted within a few years , unless some great Parliamentary changes take place . In Japan , there is an extensive agitation for more rights among the women of the upper classes . In India , the cultured Parsee women are insisting on the local suffrage possessed by men . Even in Persia , the educated women of Iran are asking a vote for members of the newly established Representative Assembly . In all the evolution and revolution which are taking place in various parts of the world at the opening of the Twentieth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost universal movement on the part of women for a voice , a vote and a share in the Government under which they live . To present adequately the status of the question of woman suffrage in the United States would require a separate article . The conditions for securing it are harder and more complicated here than in any other country , for in all others it is only necessary to win over a majority of the members of the Parliament . In the United States there are forty-five Parliaments to be reckoned with , and that is only the beginning ; for , when a majority of their members have been enlisted , they can only submit the question to the electors . It encounters then such a conglomerate mass of voters as exists nowhere else on the face of the earth , and it is doubtful if under similar conditions women could get the franchise in any country on the globe . Principally for this reason they have not succeeded here , though they have worked longer and harder than those of any other nation ? almost than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fully enfranchised women , there is unquestionably a large favorable increase of public sentiment among both men and women , and it would be quite possible to demonstrate that there are substantial grounds for encouragement and expectation of an ultimate general victory . It does not , however , tend to stimulate an American woman 's national pride to reflect that this may be the last of civilized countries to grant to women a voice in their own government . And let this fact be remembered ? it is the only one where women have been left to fight this battle alone , with no moral , financial or political support from men .                     