@@485026

One of the important features of the recent campaign was the discussion of the peculiar working of the Financial Act of March 14 , 1900 . The first section-of this measure makes the gold dollar the standard unit of value , and provides that all forms of money issued or coined by the United States shall be maintained at parity of value with that standard , and declares it to be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to maintain such parity . Other sections make provision for the redemption of all legal-tender notes in gold coin on demand , and create a special fund of $150,000,000 which can not be used for any other purpose , but must be replenished by the sale of bonds whenever it is reduced below a certain amount . pursuance of previous laws , as well as of the one under consideration , the coinage of the silver bullion purchased under the Sherman Act is going on , and the silver dollars so produced are gradually taking the place of the Treasury notes issued under that act . Eventually there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says shall be maintained at " a ' parity with gold . dollars , but the act makes no provision for redeeming them in gold , and provides no special fund for that purpose . This incongruity in the measure led to the question , which assumed some importance in the progress of the campaign , What would Mr. Bryan do if he were elected President ? Would he " pay out silver " for interest and principal of the bonded debt ? Mr. Bryan at first declined to answer the question , but near the end of the campaign he said that-the Republicans were asking him to construe the law when they could not agree upon the construction of it among themselves . He would execute the law , whatever it was ; but since it -a as inconsistent with itself , he would not undertake to construe it beforehand . There was force in this answer . The law is inconsistent . It is self-contradictory in the sense that it requires the Secretary to do a certain thing without supplying him with the means to do it . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the silver dollar with the gold dollar  --  the thing of most importance in the financial world now and hereafter . The incongruity in the law was made more glaring by the fact that the bill , as passed by the House , actually contained a provision requiring the redemption of silver dollars with gold , on demand of any holder of the former , and gave the Secretary as ample powers for this purpose as for the redemption of greenbacks This feature was stricken out by the Senate It may have been stricken out for political effect  --  that is , to bring about the-very controversy in the cam paign to which reference has been made . Senator Allison , however , said that it was dropped because the Senate would not have passed the billaif the silyer redemption clause had been retained Leaving that question aside with . the burnt powder of the campaign , it is the plain duty of Congress to go on and finish the bill as it was begun , and not leave open such a wide door for future disaster as might occur if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the farmer case the Treasury was saved from the necessity of " paying out silver " by the public-spirited action of the banks of New York , which advanced to the Secretary sufficient gold to tide him over . the crisis . In the second case the Secretary was saved from a silver cataclysm by resorting to the sale of bonds under old and forgotten laws , which many persons deemed obsolete . Although the Government escaped bankruptcy , the crisis in the business world was terrific , and the ruins have not wholly passed from view yet . Nobody entitled to be classed as an economist will deny that business conditions which should seriously lessen the demand for money for retail trade would embarrass the Treasury and compel it to " pay out silver , " that is , to do the very thing which Mr Bryan was asked if he would do in case of his election . Is there any political - reason why Congress should not now complete its unfinished Gold Standard Act at the coming session ? We can see none . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . They have been so beaten and humiliated on the Sound Money issue that they will cast it to the winds on the first opportunity , if they are wise . They can properly say that as the country has decided the case against them twice  --  the second time more decisively than the first  --  they will abandon that issue . This , in our opinion , they will do in any event . The recent election was not merely an eye-opener : it was a head-opener . The party , if it is to live at all , must fallow new lines and new leadership . But if the Democratic Senators should plant ' themselves against an amendment of the Gold Standard Act , whose object is to make it effectual for its declared purpose and shield the country from perils of which it has had direful experience in the past , then so much the worse for therm . If the Republicans ever had a " mandate " in an election , it is this one  --  to go forward and complete the work they began when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF A DEMOCRACY . Before Mr. Bryan passes into that retirement which , for a time at least , must be grateful even to himself , his candidacy and its second failure may well be used to point afresh an old moral respecting the kind of men a democracy delights to honor . His extraordinary canvass undoubtedly called out some extraordinary tributes to his personally . It was not merely that the crowd ran agape after him , as it did after his rough-riding opponent. , He often seemed to elicit , in addition , a sentiment of almost idolatrous devotion . Some of it was feigned or misleading , but much of it was genuine ; and there was enough of it to turn a solider head than his . It needs a grim and clear-sighted man like Cromwell to say , in the face of acclaiming thousands , " They would come out even more gladly to see me hanged . " Yet it is clear now that Mr. Bryan did not win the whole-hearted confidence of the very masses to whom he made his most direct appeals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval of his words ; but they did not vote for him as he expected . It was the old story over again of a demagogue not really knowing the nature of the people he was trying to lead . If Mr. Bryan had had a better cause , his character would have pulled it down ; the parts of his cause that were good could not overcome the distrust of his person The truth is , that Mr. Bryan sinned against what Lowell calls the " finer instincts " of a democracy . Among them is a vague and often confused and misdirected , but always unmistakable , im pulse to admire what is better than itself . Again and again has it been shown in this country and in England that the public man who makes himself common will fail to win the hearts of even ordinary , workaday citizens , who , in their secret souls , wish to be represented by some one decidedly uncommon . There is an ideal strain , an instinct of reverence for distinction and greatness , in the make-up of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignores it . Mr. Bryan went steadily from bad to worse in this respect , throughout his campaign . Rough-and-tumble ways will go some distance with a democracy , but they will never reach the goal . A mere agitator has never yet received the highest rewards within the gift of the American people , nor has a mere jester . It is just as impossible for Mr. Depew to become President as it is for Mr Bryan . A high seriousness is required in the man who is permanently to satisfy the latent hero-worship of all great democracies . Mr. Bryan too often erred by displays of jocoseness in public . Besides his posturing too openly as a demagogue , besides his being far too " lavish of his presence , " and jesting with too much ease in public , Mr. Bryan failed on account of the impression he gave of being an unstable man of too little ballast . He was a fertile , audacious , masterful , tireless campaigner , but , when-all was said , was he the man to direct the storm which he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appealed to  --  if they were once to break their bounds , would they . not sweep him away with everything else ? It was not alone his wild and whirling words , it was the total effect of flightiness produced by his bearing , which made men ponder and hesitate and turn away . They concluded , often with real regret , that he was not one of those " continent , persisting , immovable " persons whom Emerson described as marked out " for the blessings of the world " ? " men who have in the gravity of their nature a quality which answers to the fly-wheel in a mill , which distributes the motion equably over all the wheels and hinders it from falling unequally and suddenly in destructive shocks . " Mr. Bryan could not persuade the people that he was a " safe " man ; and nobody whom the masses of the voters did not believe to be " safe " has ever been elected President , angle for hearts as skilfully as he might . The safeguard of a strong and grave character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a democracy than in the chief of the conservative party . Mr. Gladstone often proposed a policy of upheaval . He was the champion of change . Yet , though he was throughout his career assailed as an innovator and destroyer , the poise and weight of his character were such that the English democracy knew itself safe in his hands . It takes the big and rugged natures to utter radical sentiments without frightening people . Mr. Cleveland was accused in 1892 of being an anarchist . Some things which he said about the Homestead strike were comparable , so far as mere language goes , with Mr. Bryan 's reckless utterances . But there was this difference . In the first place , Mr. Cleveland spoke of an abuse distinctly-remediable by legislation , and did not harp on mere social discontent . More important than this , he was a man of demonstrated strength of character and steadiness of purpose , and people knew that he would stand like a rock against surging passion . He was the sure , if somewhat heavy-footed , man whom the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erratic man always goes down when it - comes to close grips in the large electoral contest . Mr. Cleveland has , very gratifyingly , come to his own as a leader of democracy just at the moment of the complete eclipse of his reviler and would-be successor . A swifter reversal of contemporary judgment was never known . Republicans have had the frankness to acknowledge the immense and heroic services of the man into whose labors they themselves have so easily entered . Democrats , after following false lights for seven years , are looking back regretfully to that steady beacon by which they sailed successfully for a decade . Mr. Cleveland 's vindication has , in short , ' come in his own lifetime ; and that is a happiness which is the lot of few public servants fallen on troublous times . And in his present enviable position , secure in the confidence and esteem of his fellow-countrymen , enjoying a foretaste in life of the verdict of history upon him after he is gone , we see what it really is to be a leader in a democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , with all their smirking and smartness , they never seem able to learn  --  the lesson of " the obedient sphere By bravery 's ample gravitation drawn " THE BOOAf IN WALL STREET . Eighteen months have passed since the last great Bull Movement took place on the Stock Exchange . Its characteristic feature was the manufacture and sale of Industrial securities , or , as they are commonly called , " Trusts , " but it was not confined to these . There were many reorganizations of railroads that had broken down in the panic of 1893 and the hard times following it . The new securities issued in pursuance thereof had a much better foundation than the old ones retired . The water had been largely squeezed out , and there was real room for improvement The new industrials and the reorganized ailroads gave a tremendous impetus to the trading , and the fire spread to the adjoining property , so that for some months there was a tremendous " boom in stocks . " The buyers were of all classes and from all sections of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boom of the early months of 1899 did stop , but it did not end in a panic . There were heavy losses , but they were so widely distributed that there were few insolvencies and no hank failures of importance . Concurrently with the boom in Wall Street there was a boom in business generally . The two things almost always go together . The one depends upon the other . Stock Exchange sec-unities are worth more or less according to their earning capacity . The imagination of dealers may momentarily lift up the market , but nothing can sustain it except income which can be seen , felt , and deposited in the bank . The approach of good times or of had times is felt in Wall Street before it is appreciated elsewhere , because Wall Street is the focus where all the rays of light are most speedily assembled , El ad where the keenest observers of the country are watching them . Nothing , can take place having business significance in any part of the country without making a record in Wall Street , the import @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of experienced men who are eager to turn it to profitable account . Wall Street felt the oncoming of the business boom in the early months of 1899 and sought to Profit by it . Wall Street felt , in like manner , the oncoming of the reaction after the , upward movement had exhausted itself , and , , being quite as ready to make a profit on a decline as on an advance , " sold short . " In both cases the Street merely anticipated the course of business in the country at large After the boom of 1899 had collapsed , the general business boom slowly subsided , and merchants and manufacturers found themselves , early in the present year , facing slackened sales and a declining market . The prices of iron and steel went off heavily ; some of the largest mills were closed . The cotton industry was greatly depressed , and the Presidential campaign was entered with gloomy forebodings . The campaign itself was a cause of depression , but it was not the only cause and not the chief one It increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kansas City Convention repeated the free-silver programme of 1896 , but the mischief had been done before . It existed outside of politics . This is evident from the fact that the course of trade was the same in England and Germany as in the United States  --  the same in respect to the boom of 1899 and the reaction of the present year . Now , what about the boom of to-day ? Is it permanent or transitory ? Is it wholesome or otherwise ? Does it pre . figure business prosperity , or is it a mere flash in the pan , a mere display of fireworks after the Presidential election ? Nobody is wise enough to answer this question dogmatically . We can only look at what has gone before , and draw such lessons as we may from past experience Of course every upward movement of prices , whether of stocks and bonds or of goods , has its limits . It can not go on for- ever . The eagerness of buyers will probably carry Stock Exchange securities higher than the facts justify . Yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are warranted in thinking that the Wall Street movement does signify a real revival of trade , and that the relations of demand and supply in the general markets of the country have been readjusted In other words , prices of goods have fallen to the point where buying will again become active We think that it may be fairly assumed that the activity in Wall Street prefigures general activity There are some special facts which sustain this thesis Several large steel and iron works that had either suspended temporarily or were running on short time have resumed at their full capacity . Orders for car-building , of great magnitude , which had been held back pending the election , have been given out . The ship-building trade is in full tide of prosperity , and new yards are in course of construction . The exportation of steel and iron products , to foreign countries has been actively resumed from both Northern and Southern mills . The exportation of'coal in large amounts will begin as soon as the necessary freight room can be obtained . Even more significant is the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . or less during the summer , are now at 4 per cent. , and the demand is so active that importations of gold would take place but for the heavy sales of our securities in London and Berlin to American buyers . While these indications of returning prosperity are to be welcomed , it is easy to " overdo the business " both on the Stock Exchange and elsewhere . AN EXAMPLE FOR NEW YORK . The Republican boss insists upon two lines of policy regarding the government of the city which are directly calculated to continue Tammany in control of the administration . Platt declares that the Legislature must pass his State Constabulary scheme , by which the control of the police here is to be taken from the city and given to an official appointed by the Republican Governor , who will represent the Republican machine . He asserts that " the Republicans will never accept for -1 , , Iayorl a man who voted for free silver and went about making speeches for Bryan " ; that the only sort of a Democrat whom he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A more ingenious scheme for keeping Tammany in power could not be devised . Intelligent sentiment , without regard to party , is strongly against the State Constabulary scheme . Platt himself admits that the newspapers oppose it , although , of course , he does not think that the attitude of the press should count for anything . It would be the most flagrant violation of the principle of home rule which has been committed since the old days when the police force was ruled from Albany , with no end of scandals ; and it would give Tammany the tremendous advantage in next year 's campaign of standing for the maintenance of a sound principle . As for ruling out of consideration for the Mayoralty all men who supported Bryan , both the spirit of the Constitution and the principle of fair play are affronted by the idea . The reason for changing the time for electing the Mayor from the even-numbered to the odd years was that there might be no excuse left for connecting national politics with municipal affairs . It will make no difference to either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diskept their at-They declared against financial heresy by giving McKinley a plurality of more than 5,000 , and , they declared for a clean local - ment by giving Mr. Granger a plurality ) of nearly 1,800 . The independent voter showed unusual discrimination by marking his ballot , first for Republican electors and a Republican Congressman , then fora Democratic Mayor , then for a Republican Treasurer who for twenty-five years had been an . acceptable Assistant Treasurer , then for a Democratic Overseer of the Poor , and finally for a Republican Harbormaster . If in the heat of the Presidential battle the independent movement can reach such headway in Providence , we need not despair of New York in an election which is purely municipal . Tammany can be overthrown if our voters will show the same spirit and intelligence . HENRY VILLARD . Henry Villard was born Heinrich Hilgard in Speyer , Rhenish Bavaria , on April 11 , 1835 . The family surname , variously spelled ? in one form . Hiliard  --  occurs somewhat widely in German village nomenclature . His was the Nassau stock settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wetzlar for its early focus His first known ancestor , Johann Hilgard , a landowner , who died before 1626 , was a member of the Reformed Church , and the fourth , fifth , and sixth generations were represented by pastors . Of these , Gerhard Samuel wrote in 1792 , at seventy-five , ' A Defence of the Revealed Christian Religion , ' against the deism and natural religion of the French Revolution . His son Jacob , on the other hand , also a clergyman , and allied by marriage with the French Protestant and clerical line of Engel. - mann ( Angeaume ) , forfeited his place at Bacharach , on the Rhine , in consequence of his sympathy with the Revolution , was expelled , and his family dispersed . Republican sentiments at a later period cost Jacob 's son Fritz his office of Oberburgermeister in Speyer , through royal disfavor . Two of Fritz 's sons joined their freedom-loving uncle Theodor ( father of Julius Hilgard , who became Superintendent of the United States Coast Survey ) in the notable migration of the connection to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gustav ( 1807-1867 ) , remained at home in the judicial service of the Bavarian Government , moving from place to place , according to promotion , and ending Judge of the Supreme Court at Munich . He was the father of Heinrich , the subject of the present notice . In 1849 the boy was attending the gymnasium in Zweibrucken , the family home for ten years , when the outbreak of the Revolution caused the father to put him to school at the then fortified town of Phalsbourg , in Lorraine , where the future novelist Chatrian grounded him in the French language A year later he passed to the gymnasium at Speyer , but in October , 1853 , he broke off his university studies , and , in a spirit of adventure , set out for the United States , intending to join the colony of his cultivated relatives at Belleville . Interchange of letters with them had always been kept up , and Heinrich 's curiosity about this country had been greatly excited . He was an only son , but in any case the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose opposition was , in fact , such that the boy  --  resolved , if he could not make a name for himself , not to unmake his own  --  borrowed the kindred appellation of a French schoolmate at Phalsbourg , and became Henry Villard . He was a year in reaching Belleville after he ' had landed  --  a year full of trying experience in a New World whose language he had never studied . The winter of 1854- ' 55 was spent upon the farm of an uncle , amid purely German surroundings , and here commenced his introduction to Journalism , in contributions to the local press In the following spring he began reading law , at Peoria and elsewhere , but on his removal to Chicago he engaged in newspaper correspondence , at first in German , then , as his mastery of English proceeded , in English . In this capacity he served Eastern papers by reporting the famous Lincoln-Douglas debates in the summer of 1858 ; the Cincinnati Commercial , as legislative reporter at Indianapolis in the fall , and at Springfield , Ill , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spring of 1859 , to Colorado with reference to the newly discovered Pike 's Peak gold fields , which , upon the subsequent arrival of Horace Greeley and Albert D Richardson , he visited in their company . His letters narrating this interesting experience he afterwards worked over into a volume . As a reporter , Mr. Villard attended in 1860 the Chicago Convention which nominated Lincoln ; and in the ensuing campaign travelled through the West as a correspondent , finally in the employ of the New York Herald . For this paper he stationed himself at Springfield , sending daily reports till Lincoln began his journey eastward , in February , 1861 , when he accompanied him as far as New York . Mr. Villard , who had laid the foundations of a wide acquaintance with public characters , now established himself in Washington , still as correspondent for Journals East and West , till the outbreak of the civil war , when he took the field , his character securing him a welcome at all headquarters . He witnessed the first defeat of the Union army at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington , by singular good fortune and address , the first authentic news of Burn-side 's disaster at Fredericksburg ; was the only correspondent in Dupont 's attack on Charleston in April , 1863 , being on board the flagship New Ironsides , where , by the voluntary testimony of the commander , Capt ( afterwards Rear-Admiral ) C Ti . P Rodgers , " your own personal gallantry and unhesitating devotion in the exercise of your professional duty won for you the respect and confidence of us all " He was disabled by fever on the eve of Chickamaugua , and , last of all , accompanied Grant in his terrible Wilderness campaign . In the meantime , with Horace White and Adams a Hill , he had started in Washington a press bureau , supplying the Boston Advertiser , Springfield Republican , Cincinnati Conimeretal , Chicago Tribune , and St Louis Democrat . When Mr. White became managing editor of the Chicago Tribune , in 1865 , Mr. Villard was made the Eastern correspondent of that paper . He first revisited Europe and his family in 1864 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to report the war between Prussia and Austria , but it was over before he could arrive on the scene . He remained , however , to report the Paris Exposition of 1867 , and passed the following winter in Paris in the interest of the Chicago Tribune Meanwhile , in January , 1866 , in Boston , he married Fanny , the only daughter ofham Lloyd Garrison , whose philanthropic nature and humanitarian career made a deep impression on him , and developed a kindred instinct of active ' fienevolence , which he was destined to have abundant means itO gratify . For a time it seemed as if Boston might become his home , as in 1868 he. was chosen Secretary of the newly founded American Social Science Association , having its head-'quarters in that city , and did not finally relinquish his post till 1871 , when he made a third visit to Europe , with a prolonged stay at Wiesbaden . In this interval , through negotiation of American securities in Germany , he was brought into connection with leading bankers in Frankfort and Berlin ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroad bankruptcy and consequent default in payment of interest on bonds held in Germany , he was invited to cooperb.te with committees formed for the protection of bondholders , and proved an admirable intermediary . In April , 1874 , he recrossed the ocean , duly empowered to represent the interests in question Fate took him first to the scene of the business enterprise of his fellow-countryman of the Palatinate , John Jacob Astor , namely , to Oregon , where the grandeur of nature aroused his imagination , while his observation of geographical conditions pointed the way to profitable control of the three avenues of approach  --  by the sea , by the Columbia and Willamette River valleys . The prime result of his visit and negotiations was that the bondholders took over the property of the Oregon and California Railroad Co. and the Oregon Steamship Co. in 1875 , and made Mr. Villard President . He had already , in 1873 , been elected member of a Frankfort committee representing the bondholders of the Kansas Pacific Railroad Company , also in default and unable to execute a scheme to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1875 it asked that Mr. Villard be made receiver , and , the Frankfort bondholders agreeing , he accepted the position in connection with Carlos S. Greeley of St. Louis , who represented the company . A natural friction ensued , which was heightened by the directors ' alliance with the Union Pacific Company , then controlled by Jay Gould , who soon became master of the Kansas Pacific , playing fast and loose with it in his contracts . Mr. Villard firmly and successfully withstood him till the courts removed both receivers , but he ended by bringing the bonds up from 40 at foreclosure to above par . Meanwhile , in Oregon , the rise of a rival line so alarmed the foreign mortgage creditors of the Oregon Steamship Company that Mr. Villard was urged to help them to sell out . This he effected through a small syndicate of his friends , and he then turned his attention towards an eastern outlet for the State , and , as a preliminary to undertaking railroad construction in the valley of the Columbia , he purchased the stock of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Pacific Company had at one time held a controlling share . Mr. Villard was in treaty with the Union Pacific to join him in his new enterprise , but was left to carry it on alone , and in June , 1879 , ha incorporated the Oregon Railway and Navigation Company , of which he became President . Its success was instantaneous . Fine new steamships were built for the ocean service between Portland and San Francisco , and the railroad was duly constructed along the south bank of the Columbia to Wallula , the westernmost point on the fragmentary Northern Pacific Railroad . With this road Mr. Villard now sought to enter into friendly relations , hoping to induce it to forego a parallel construction along the north bank of the Columbia , or alternative outlet by way of the Cascade branch to the Pacific Ocean . To facilitate this understanding , he offered to raise enough moneyon the Northern Pacific 's first-mortgage bonds to complete the main line ( then lacking about a thousand miles ) ; but he could effect no more than a traffic agree-pent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific availed itself of the Oregon Railway and Navigation line until such time as it should build one of its owmoiMeanwhile , it transpired that the Northern Pacific was preparing to realize the necessary amount on its bonds independently , and Mr. Villard then resolved to anticipate this action . The masterly stroke by which he succeeded consisted in the formation of a new company , the Oregon and Transcontinental , which should acquire a controlling interest in both the Northern Pacific and the Oregon Railway and Navigation Co .. , and construct a full system of branch lines subsidiary to the two main trunks , to guard against rivalry and foster local traffic . His mode of procedure was to buy the stock first and to form the company afterwards . The ' tarrying he began privately on his own account in December , 1880 , and in February , 1881 , feeling assured of ultimate success , he invited some fifty persons to subscribe with himself to a fund of $8,000,000 , for an enterprise which he would disclose later . This so-called " blind Tool " was subscribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Villard 's integrity not less than in his ability . On the disclosure of his scheme , a second subscription of more than $12 , - 000,000 was made , and the total $20,000,000 paid in money . In September , 1881 , Mr. Villard obtained recognition on the Board of Directors , and was chosen President of the Northern Pacific Thanks to the Oregon and Transcontinental Co. , the completion of the Northern Pacific was now vigorously entered upon , and achieved in the summer of 1883 , in the presence of a large number of invited guests , German , English , American , of distinction . From the point of junction of the two approaching ends of the roads , the guests proceeded to the Pacific Coast at Seattle , where the feeling of the population on being at last united to the rest of the continent found expression in almost triumphal festivities , such as had , indeed , been encountered at St. Paul and Minneapolis and all along the route . Mr. Villard was now at the height of his reputation as a financier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagination regarding the future of the communities to whose welfare he had pledged himself as some benevolent despot might have done . Like them , he looked forward to a rapid influx of settlers , enormous expansion of industry and commerce , and such a degree of prosperity and happiness as comported with the enchanting face of nature  --  mountains , woods , and waters . But the vision was trembling in the very midst of the celebration In the autumn occurred that disastrous business depression under which the country labored for years . It found the companies directed by Mr. Vila lard involved in unexpected outlays , beyond the engineers ' estimates , for the most difficult portions of the Northern Pacific extension . In vain he strove to maintain them  --  not more for himself and his prestige than from sympathy for his friends embarked with him  --  by pouring in his private fortune till it was almost exhausted They could not escape the genefal collapse , and he remained the heaviest loser as he was the largest individual owner of the properties This fact did not save him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who classed him among the vulgar faithless magnates of Wall Street ; and this caused him a thousand times more pain than his pecuniary losses That his mind did not give way in the terrible stress , is proof of the soundness of his moral fibre . He was depressed , his health forbade his continuing at the helm , he sought rest with his family abroad , but he kept to his faith in the future of the road and the coast , and abated nothing of his interest in the building up of the Far Western empire During his sojourn in Germany , he formed new financial relations which enabled him to repair his fortune , and to return to the United States with much of his old prestige as a capitalist . His ever keen interest in inventions of great-rimblic utility early attracted him to the commercial development of electricity , and made him an ardent believer in the profitableness of it . He was one of the first to encourage Edison with pecuniary aid in those experiments which resulted in the incandescent lamp now in universal use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturing interests , including the Edison Lamp Co. at Newark , N. J , and the Edison Machine Works at Schenectady , N. Y. , and from these organized the Edison General Electric Co. , of which he became President , serving in that capacity for about two years . This company has become one of the largest electrical manufacturing establishments in the world . It had been Mr Villard 's intention to bid good-by to railroad management altogether , and it was against his better judgment that , in October , 1889 , he yielded to the entreaties of his old associates and assumed the chairmanship of the Northern Pacific Board of Directors . The commercial panic of 1893 , and the consequent hard times and falling oft in immigrants , on the transportation of whom the road largely depended for its profits , again dragged down the Northern Pacific , and led to Mr. Villard 's regaining the quiet life for which he longed . He made many journeys to Europe , and , in the summer of 1899 , ten years after he had beheld Seattle in flames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where he was received with genuine manifestations of affection and respect that touched him profoundly . He also made for the first time the Alaskan tour , penetrating to the Klondike , and summed up his impressions of the total excursion in a series of letters to the Evening Post , afterwards printed in pamphlet form His summer home continued to be at " Thor-wood , " Dobb 's Ferry on the Hudson , amid spacious grounds in which he delighted to wander with his dogs ; and here , on November 12 , he passed away . His wife and daughter and two sons survive him Nature cast Mr. Villard in a generous mould . He was a man of commanding stat ure with a large and striking head , finely cut features , and a truly noble countenance . His manners were simple and unaffected , his associations and hospitality singularly democratic , - his living temperate . His friendships were strong and lasting , and wholly uninfluenced by his rise to wealth and power . To his kindred , near and remote , lie was beneficence itself His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( or " eventuality , " in phrenological parlance ) , was always most interesting As a speaker , on business or ceremonial occasions , he was lucid , felicitous , and impressive In both speaking and writing the English language , there were traces of the foreigner , in accent and in idiom , but these were insignificant . His mind , which teemed with large ideas and projects , had also a rare capacitiY.fm ; details , and his observation was as minutely critical as it was swift and comprehensive This made him a capital traveller and reporter The grand scale suited his contemplation best  --  the sublime in nature or in architecture , the unlimited scope of human invention He never visited London without spending some hours in Westminster Abbey . To a marked self-confidence he united a childlike and magnanimous disposition ; to a sense of the ludicrous , a certain deficiency in humor . He retained the German punctiliousness as to birthdays , and shared the delight of the-youngest in the Christmas-tree . Towards children he was extremely fond and tender , and the severest blow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who , as an infant in arms , had participated in driving the last spike on the Northern Pacific Railroad . As was said of the late John M. Forbes , Mr. Villard " never seemed a man of acquisitiveness , but very distinctly one of constructiveness . " Money for its own sake he never sought or coveted . He was no speculator , nor.had he any proper place in Wall Street in the conventional sense . He held his gains strictly in trust , and his thoughts were ever occupied with giving . He paid the penalty of conspicuous fortune in being beset with absurd and impudent claims upon his bounty , and in the ingratitude of beneficiaries But he did not wait to be asked , and his range was catholic , on both sides of the Atlantic . To the Oregon and Washmgton State Universities , to Harvard , to Columbia , to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Natural History Museum in Central Park , he was a munificent donor . While Washington was yet a Territory , the Legislature having failed to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for two years , without ever being reimbursed . In Germany , his monuments are the buildings of the hospital and training-school at Speyer , the orphan asylum at Zweibriicken ; endowments of the industrial museum at Kaiserslautern , of the great Red Cross Hospital at Munich , and of the Children 's Hospital in Berlin ; foundations for scholarships in art schools , gymnasia , and universities . On the . one hand , he remembered his birthplace with a volume , edited under the auspices of the Pfalz Historical Society , containing the earliest historical documents relating to Speyer ; on the other , he supported Bandelier in his invaluable researches in South American history and archaeology . This list is by no means exhaustive , and to trace the minor streams of his incessant benevolence were =pissible . Politically , Mr. Villard , who reached the land of his adoption in the midst of the anti-slavery excitement attendant upon the operation of the Fugitive Slave Law , soon to be reinforced bk the passage of - t- hl Nebraska Bill , was from the first a Republican . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early strengthened the hands of Mr. Jencires , the father of civil-service reform in this country , inviting him , on behalf of the Social Science Association , to make a memorable address in New York . which enlisted George William Curtis in the cause , and was productive of other far-reaching effects . Mr. Villard shared , on this side and on the side of free trade , in the hopes of the reformers of 1872 , but refused to go with those who accepted Greeley as their standard-hearer . He was in general sympathy with the views and policy of the Wution , for whose editor , Mr. E L Godkin , he cherished a high admiration In the spring of 1881 , a conjunction arose which enabled him to serve three friends while lending a powerful support to independent journalism . Mr. Carl Schurz , after having been a member of Hayes 's Cabinet , was practically removed from politics , Mr. Godkin was feeling the strain of the editorial conduct of the cutirni , a struggling concern , Mr Horace White , withdrawn from the Chicago Tribune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprises , was ready to reenter journalism . Mr Villard accordingly effected , with a controlling interest , the purchase of the Evening Post and the Nation , and placed at the head the triumvirate just named , with explicit guarantees of absolute editorial independence of himself . Regarded in the light of a repayment of his American citizenship , or of devotion to his friends , or of pure public spirit aiming at the elevation of political standards and national - ideas , perhaps nothing in Mr. Villard 's whole career was more disinterested , or more creditable and worthy to be remembered to his honor . This can be said irrespective of any judgment that may be passed upon the course of the Evening Post since July , 1881 . For better or worse , this journalistic experiment has been a positive force in the political contention of the past two decades , and must be reckoned with in summing up Mr. Villard 's title to distinction and gratitude . It fairly places him among the small number of German-Americans who have made a marked impress on our public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Schurz , the journalist , orator , and statesman His services in linking the east and west coasts together are also to be estimated in terms of national character-building as well as of national unity and material expansion . In this particular achievement be fulfilled the fur-trader Astor 's aspiration , but in how different a spirit  --  with personal gain subordinated to zeal in the subduing of a wilderness to civilization . He resembled Astor again in rearing spiritual and charitable monuments alike in the fatherland and in the fosterland , but on a more liberal scale , both absolutely and relatively to his means , and with broader sympathies and a superior enlightenment . It is not , however , as a German that Mr. Villard deserves to be , or will be , remembered . He was an American patriot , an American idealist , an American philanthropist His place of birth , like his accumulated wealth , was accidental . While he must have a high . place in any history of German immigration , such as that essayed by his friend Friedrich Kapp , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . in character To heredity its due , to environment its due We mourn to-day a man of the New World . UP THE IRTISH RIVER . SEMIPALATINSK , September 5 , 1900 . From Krasnoyarsk onthe Yenisei to Omsk on the Irtish River is 738 miles , but nearly the whole of - this distance is within and directly across the drainage basin of the Obi River . The Tchuhm River , one of the principal eastern tributaries of the Obi , is crossed at Atchensk , only , forty miles west of Krasnoyarsk . Indeed , in one place where the streams are still navigable , they are within six miles of each other It is a singular fact of physical geography that all the long branches of the Yenisei are on the east side , while most of those of the Obi are on the western side But really the proper continuation of the Obi is its middle branch , the Irtish , which is in itself a river 1,800 miles in length , whose source is far up on the Mongolian plateau . The garden of western Siberia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of three hundred miles south of the fifty-sixth degree of latitude . Here there are 100,000 square miles of well-watered , fertile prairie land , with a climate permitting the ripening of the most important cereals , and in every way as well adapted to cultivation as are the plains of Minnesota . Already there is in this belt a population of nearly 3,000,000 . Much of the territory is also underlaid by coal-bearing deposits . Although these are mostly of Jurassic age , and carry a coal that is light  --  almost lignite  --  still it promises to supply the want of fuel fairly well , and is being mined extensively Throughout most of Siberia , wood is still so plentiful that the locomotives ordinarily use it for fuel ; but here they use domestic coal At all the important places in Siberia touched by the railroad , new cities are growing up about the stations . The old cities are built almost entirely of wood . Even most of the best houses are of logs . But the new cities are growing up like magic out of brick . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build of brick , for the wood is rapidly disappearing Logs are , however , the easiest material from which to construct a house suited to withstand the severe winters of Siberia Brick houses here have to be of double walls with air spaces enclosed But the making of brick is already serving a good purpose in diversifying the home industries . It is now one of the most prominent of the manufacturing interests . The name of the station where the railroad crosses the Obi River is Ob , which until lately has not appeared on the maps . The old city on the river was called Krivostchekova , and was an important place of 10,000 inhabitants . Connected with this Place by steamer up the river are the flourishing cities of Barnaul and Disk , with populations respectively of 29,000 and 18,000 , while a short distance below is Tomsk , with a population of 55,000 , and a university of wide renown One finds , therefore , that in coming to this part of Siberia , he is not out of the world . The mass of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European city . The teachers in the schools are highly educated men . More than once , when my Russian and French were insufficient for conversation , I have been asked if I could converse in Latin . But Omsk , on the Irtish , is 332 miles west of Ob Here we find a city , 184 years old , of 42,000 inhabitants , which reminds us more of America than anything else we have seen Not that the architecture is like ours , for it is not The houses are nearly all of logs , and the schools and other public buildings of brick in plain style , painted white The churches , too , are typically Russian , with lofty domes and cupolas . But there is a brisk commercial air about the ulace , which reminds one of the towns on the Ohio River . Steamboats are coming and going , and the barges they have brought in are busy unloading their cargoes . Numerous rafts have also come dawn the river lOaded with waterMelas . In the stores the display of fruit is remarkable , But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave the railway and go up the river about 600 miles to Semipalatinsk , and thence by tarantass 1,100 miles to Tashkend , where we shall find steam connection the rest of the way home . But we found , when already on the steamer , that the water in the Irtish was so low that they would ticket us only to Pavlodar , about half way . We should then have to take our risk about finding boats the rest of the distance . But as we could get a tarantass there as well as anywhere we did not change our plans . The ride for the first 300 miles up the Irtish is in most respects monotonous . The banks are low . There is not a mountain or hill in sight , and there are no forests But there are other things of great interest . We are in a region inhabited by Kirghiz Tartars , and both they and their houses and habits are strange Their houses are circular , dome-shaped tents , covered with skins of animals or felt . They raise thousands of cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they are brought down to the river to drink The men ride not only horses , but steers and camels as well . We had been surprised , in the market in Omsk , to see a camel hitched to a wagon and driven like a horse . We did not expect to see camels in latitude 55 degrees . Here , only two degrees further south , we saw many . In one case two were hitched to a familiar American mowing-machine , and walking along with it through the grass at a rapid rate . At Pavlodar we were compelled to abandon the boat , and go the remaining 200 miles by land . This brought us still nearer to the people , and did not delay us any , for the windings of the river are so many , and the Russians drive so fast , that we did not lose any time . We found ourselves , also , to be but one of several parties which were going nearly to our destination-4 , e. , several hundred miles  --  in tarantasses . One thing makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , namely , the fact that for several hundred miles the river has no tributaries . There were no streams to ford or gullies to cross . Saline lakes were drying up within a half-mile of the bank . There are no trees except along the river bank . Cattle and horses are herded by the Tartars back from the river , and hay is gathered in common meadow-land on the wide river bottoms . At this season of the year the trees were rapidly putting on their autumn colors ; the first frosts were wilting the weeds , and hundreds of parties of quaint natives were stacking the hay , or hauling small loads of it near their houses . The entire distance was a scene of rare pastoral beauty and animation . The Irtish valley has played an important part in history from the fact that it is one of the two or three natural gateways to Central Asia , rising by imperceptible gradients to the plains of Mongolia . Lake Zeizan , about half way up the plateau , is an enlargement of the river well nigh as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Asia , goaded on by the failing crops of that rapidly desiccating region , have poured down this valley and overwhelmed the settlements below . Semipalatinsk was reached in two days and a half . This is a city of 35,000 inhabitants , at the head of navigation of the Irtish . But an immense amount of timber and of other coarse products is brought down from the upper portion of the river basin on rafts Indeed , all the logs for the Russian houses are rafted dawn from far up the stream . The city is situated in a vast plain , with only a few mountains in the west in sight . About 150 miles to the southeast are the lofty peaks of the Altai Mountains , some of them rising 11,000 feet and supporting large glaciers . These mountains are also full of profitable gold-mines , and contain many fertile valleys watered by mountain streams . The city was founded in 1718 , when a fort was built here by the Russians as a defence against the lawless and disaffected Kirghiz Tartars . But these have long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mosques and churches now stand side by side , as if they were products of the same civilization The territory tributary to the city has a population of several hundred thousand , and is so full of resources as to insure the permanence dnd , indeed , continued growth of the place It has several large mills and manufacturing establishments , a museum and library , and numerous schools , both public and private . Of the private schools , mne are Mohammedan The view of the city from a distance was enchanting . Some of the enchantment , but none of the interest , was dissipated upon close acquaintance . With its predominant population of native but thoroughly Russified Mohammedans , it was an appetizing foretaste of the long ride we were to take through the Steppes of Tartary , in front of the border of the great plateau of Central Asia to the historic city of Tashkend . G. FREDERICK WRIGHT .                     