@@486614

It was bound to come , this " anti-Taft plot " with which the President found Washington buzzing on his return . The only question was when ; and pei haps this between-excitements period was as good as any in which to uncover the conspiracy . Too many worthy writers for newspapers and magazines had been suffering from suppressed muck-raking to make it probable that they could ' restrain themselves much longer . If the outbreak has come sooner than was generally expected , this only goes to show that the public pretence of desiring a good rest was hollow . As the French are said to be constantly in need of a traitor to buoy them up , so we really can not get along without great poi ; tical scandals , exposed villanies in high place , and secret machinations laid bare . Old habits are not so - easily broken . After having fed on sensations and slept with conspirators for a long course of years , we are not going to lapse easily into an era of good feeling and humdrum virtue . At heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this quiet life . As we have said , the attack upon the Taft Administration by those whose hearts are far away in Africa was certain from the beginning . Its first rumblings were heard before the new President was warm in his chair . There were early to be seen men who could not contain their grief over the signs of " reaction " in the White HOuse . Within the first month of Taft 's term , we pointed to the predictions and threats openly made that there would be a terrible ripping up of a Cabinet stuffed with corporation lawyers . To-day , Washington is convinced that the storm is beginning to burst ' . Secretary Ballinger has been directly assailed , and informed that he " must go . " The report is that the Secretary of State has discovered that he , too , is involved in the hostile movement . The Postmaster-General is about to be placarded as guilty of a nefarious agreement with a wicked corporation . The other members of the Cabinet are said to be looking at each other in a kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us is safe ? " Only one thing is sure , that there is a plot . No one knows exactly what it is , but with its existence certified to by so many credible if not credulous men , the country ought to breathe easily again . Our institutions must be working nor mally once more if the air is full of treasons , stratagems , and spoils . Many are in the dark about the real scene of the conspiracy . It is not in Washington , nor in the East at all , though the operations seem to be conducted in this part of the country . The true objective is the West . Ammunition exploded here is really designed to wake reverberations among the majestic Rockies and to make the Oregon no longer able to hear its own dashing . This is the explanation of the apparent futility of the renewed attack upon Secretary Ballinger and , by implication , upon President Taft . Hereabouts , it fell as flat as Scott 's poem on Waterloo . But it is a different matter in the West . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiting for the official signal to rise and cry " We are betrayed , " and to begin a furious campaign against everything that is " reactionary . " What the East may ignore or dismiss with a smile , the intenser and more jealous West will take in tremendous earnest . Though something of this is said to be forcing itself upon the serious attention of the Cabinet , the Washington dispatches represent the President as very little disturbed . He expects to be able to meet his enemies in the gate . The Secretary of the Interior is to make an official report which will confound and crush his assailants . In his annual message , Mr. Taft is to show that he is the sworn champion of all the " policies . " But they reckon ill who imagine that what is essentially a state of nerves can be dealt with in a calm and rational manner . Hysterical unreason will shed all the mere reason that can be poured upon it . And there is great difficulty , too , in anything like a counter-attack . Muck-raking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for - example , to make a good deal of the fact that President Roosevelt 's supineness , to say no more , allowed the Sugar Trust 's thieving to go on unchecked , and let the Custom House rottenness alone ; and there are rumors of other damaging matter that may be published in the attempt to show that the idol 's feet were of clay . But does any man delude himself by supposing that this will affect the great heart of the West ? The returner from Elba will have only to denounce all this as a fresh conspiracy against him by wicked malefactors , and the troops sent to capture him will fall on their knees and beg him to lead them against the money-powerand incidentally into good offices . Such speculations about the future , however , are not so immediately absorbing as the great and cheering fact that we have again a plot . Public life , then , is to be interesting once more . From dull discussions of tariffs and the revenue and currency , we shall turn lightheartedly to such really vital questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knife under his coat , whether a magazine editor has been detected in Postmaster-General Hitchcock 's office disguised as a Guggenheim , and whether Collector Loeb has been passing , duty-free , invoices of poisoned arrows from Africa CONGRESS AND THE SUGAR TRUST . After the latest disclosures and allegations in the Sugar Trust affair , there can no longer be any question as o the action which Congress must take in the matter . A thorough and searching investigation by a committee of high standing ought to occupy a foremost place on the programme of the coming session . Such a committee ought to call before it , not only the officers and employees of the customs service who are concerned , either as accusers or accused , in the enormous frauds alleged , but the high officials of the Government and of the Sugar Trust whose names have figured in connection with the matter . It is not alone the scandalous character of the frauds alleged , and the magnitude of the robberies charged to agents of the company , which make such Congressional investigation inevitable . Justly or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself has been challenged , and it u the business of Congress to sift such charges . In saying this , we do not wish to be understood as accepting unreservedly the accusations or intimations of Mr. Parr and Mr. Wakeman . Mr. Wakeman asserts that Secretary Gage personally insisted on his laying the evidence of the Sugar Trust 's customs frauds before " my good friend , Mr. Havemeyer , " and on stopping with that . This is positively denied by Mr. Gage , who replies that not only was he personally unacquainted with Mr. Havemeyer , but that no proofs of the frauds were ever submitted to him ; and Mr. Gage is a man whose word will be believed . Mr. Reynolds , whom Parr plainly insinuates to have interfered in 1904 , when in charge of the customs bureau , , with the secret investigation of the frauds , has made equally positive denial in his own behalf . It is not a time to form hasty conclusions from one-sided statements ; but for this very reason , it is all the more necessary that Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trust has habitually used every avenue of influence to effect its purposes at Washington , has been well known for at least fifteen years . A concern which begins its connections with the Government authorities by seducing United States Senators , as it did in 1894 , into speculating in its stock at an hour when tariff legislation of great importance to the Trust was pending , and which ends by bribing obscure customs employees to install and use false scales:lies properly open to the suspicion of having grasped all other opportunities to corrupt the public service . The duty of Congress is to find out just how far these infamous practices were carried , and just how far the attitude of the Government itself , towards corpora- : tons of the sort , needs to be corrected and reformed . We are not exaggerating matters when we say that the affair stands on an equal footing of importance with the Star Route frauds and the Credit Mobilier scandal , themselves subjects of memorable Congressional investigation in their da'y . Except for the dishonest dock officials , government collusion in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet a matter of mere allegation . We shall hope that the high officials whose names have been used will come-through the inquiry unscathed . But the fact of a rotten system , and of its existence during at least three Presidential administrations , remains . The frauds continued unexposed and unpunished , despite Mr. Gage 's assertion that , had he known of them , he would " have gone after the Trust with spur , saddle , and bayonet , " and despite , also , Mr. Parr 's own statement that , in 1904 , President Roosevelt personally assured him that " he was desirous of getting evidence against the bigger criminals . " What was it that held back the hand of justice , and kept things quiet at Washington When the frauds had already Ibeen discovered ? It is the business of a Congressional committee to determine . Of the incredible baseness of the conspiracy practised against the Government and against their competitors by the managers of this great corporation , there is , unfortunately , no doubt whatever . Men or corporations who make partial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who creel ) under the statute of limitations when confronted with another set , do not have to wait long for the public to make up its mind . The question of a statutory bar to one of the prosecutions , on which Judge Holt sustained the Trust 's contention , and on which Attorney-General Wickersham has appealed to the Supreme Court for a final interpretation of the law , is a delicate one , which rests very largely on the language of the Anti-Trust Act itself . But a Congressional committee is bound by no statute of limitations Its power of inquiry and investigation is supreme , and this is preSminently an occasion on which to exercise it THE UNEARNED INCREMENT TAX AND LAND OWNERSHIP . Substantial taxes on the unearned increment of the value of land are a part of the British budget which is fairly certain to get itself established , whatever the result of the present ? contro thoughts of political economists and of a few persons specially interested in land tenure , suddenly acquired ill ? vitality of an issue big with blessings for the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was , moreover , a combination almost unique of the crusading fervor for righteousness with the enthusiasm of a campaign for intellectual enlightenment . For Henry George , whatever were his economic errors in other matters , expounded with great clearness the Ricardian doctrine of rent ; and any Georgite , fitted out with his master 's arguments , justly felt that he knew the fundamental economics of the subject better than ninety-nine out of a hundred of those with whom he might happen to discuss it . With this union of crusading fervor and intellectual self-confidence , there has been carried on for several decades a campaign for Henry George 's doctrine , which now begins to bear fruit in definite political achievement . Yet a little consideration will show how extremely remote the results thus obtained , or in prospect , in Germany and England , are from Henry George 's real object . And it is a remotaness not merely of degree , but of kind . For it is to- be remembered that the distinc-tive point in Henry George 's teaching was not the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unearn-ed increment , nor even the idea of con-the unearned increment . All this had been taught , so far as future unearned increments were concerned , a quarter of a century before Henry George 's time , by no less authoritative an economist and publicist than John Stuart Mill . The cardinal doctrine of " Progress and Poverty " was the total confiscation of land values  --  not merely the confiscation of their increase after a certain time , but the confiscation of the , whole thing . To accomplish this by taxation , without disturbing the title of the nominal owner , was part of the practi-cal programme laid down by Henry ! George as a matter of expediency ; but he did not flinch from the assertion that the result must be virtually equivalent to total confiscation . And his reasons for this position were as clear-cut as the position itself . Private ownership of land was robbery , and the hoary an-tiquity of the robbery could not be pleaded as an excuse  --  this was his eth-ical ground . And his - reason from the standpoint of practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a great revolutionary reassumption by the people of that whica belonged to thed of rightuconid the end in view be attained  --  viz. , the abolition of poverty and the consequent regeneration of mankind . It was this attitude on the question of confiscation that distinguished him from his predecessors , and especially from Mill , who was as emphatic in condemning confiscation as George was in advocating it . Now contrast with all this the actualities . We read detailed accounts of the unearned-increment tax in Germany , and hear of its increasing popularity . But on examining the official figures in the accounts , we observe , first of all , that the total annual proceeds of the new taxes amount to 0.76 mark per head of the population of the German Empire ? 18 cents a year for each person . This does not look like even a beginning of the abolition of poverty . In Hamburg , the great city in which the tax seems to be heaviest , the amount is 27 cents per head annually . While the rates are very complex and differ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average amount that a landowner has to pay over is something like 15 per cent . of the increase in the value of his land , and that there are numerous exemptions . In the English budget , the proposed tax varies from 10 to 20 per cent. , and here , too , there are many exemptions . Now , what does all this mean ? It means that not only has Henry George 's principle of confiscation been absolutely ignored , but that such taxation of unearned increment as is wholly kce from ethical objection is approached with great caution on grounds of expediency . Practical consequences of the most serious kind would attend a system under which city landowners should have no share in the advance of the value of their land ; such consequences are almost wholly absent when the owners get the benefit of nine-tenths or four-fifths of that advance . In a word , what we are witnessing in Germany and England is not even a remote approach to the triumph of Henry George 's doctrines ; it means the recognition of a certain amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own , but to which M. ; extraordinary work gave a most powerful impetus . HUMANITARIANISM AND CRIME . Under the heading " Where the Golden Rule Failed , " a Cleveland newspaper , ' a feye , , da ( ys after , thet , recei4t election , , ; eaid ; editorially : s - " There never was a wilder election night crowd than that which choked downtown streets Tuesday night . " This ' is the comment of an afternoon paper , and it is beyond doubt the truth . The rowdies were out in full force They lcstled and insulted women and girls . They threw snuff and pepper and daubed women 's faces and gowns with grease paint and lampblack . One woman 's set of white fox furs was ruined .6. gang of ruffians picked young girls up and tossed them in the air . Practically the entire police force was on duty in the downtown district , but until the acts of the hoodlums became alarming nothing was done to suppress them . In the course of an article appearing in Hampton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general title , " Beating Men to Make Them Good , " Mr. Charles Edward Russell gives an enthusiastic account of the working of the " Golden Rule " plan of police administration instituted by Chief Kohler of Cleve-laud After citing the figures showing the great diminution of the number of arrests made in that city in the past two years , as compared with the preceding two , Mr. Russell says : " Meantime , the peace and order of the city have not been impaired ; they have been furthered . " The contrast between this judgment and the Cleveland papers ' comment on the doings of election night affords an interesting illustration of the difficulty of ascertaining the truth of such a matter . Further evidence of this difficulty , in the very same matter , is furnished by an article in the Outlook , by William- J. Norton of Cleveland . Mr. Norton gives Chief Kohler great credit not only for high purpose and exceptional ability , but also for marked success in the diminution of crime in Cleveland But he ascribes this success altogether to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with the Golden Rule policy , namely , to that policy which is described by the name of " police repression . " This consists in setting so close - and constant a watch on places known or suspected to be of disorderly or criminal character as to make it impossible for them to continue their nefarious business As to the diminution in the number of arrests not accounted for in this way , a very large proportion  --  indeed , not very far from the whole  --  relates , according to Mr. Norton , to cases of drunkenness , the treatment of which under the Golden Rule i plan is not radically othere , is much less efficient- than under the old plan . And he adds many other particulars reflecting unfavorably on Kohler 's programme . What with this minimizing of the actual scope of the change , and what with such an allegation of failure as that quoted above in regard to election-night disorder , one is left very much at sea as to the actual merits of the case . To determine the proper limits of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime and lawlessness requires most careful thought and most painstaking inquiry ; but there are some broad considerations which it is well steadily to bear in mind . The endeavors of those who are concerned with reclaiming the individual criminal and preventing a given delinquent from becoming a ' criminal through the evil associations of prison life have been productive of a large amount of good , and will be productive of vastly more in the future ; but it is only natural that in their zeal for this object , reformers should run the risk of losing sight of the other , and certainly not less important , aspect of the case . This has been illustrated in a striking way in the views of the more extreme advocates of the indeterminate-sentence plan . Proposed as a means of dealing efficiently with a wide range of offences  --  possibly with the great majority of them  --  it has weighty reasons in its favor ; erected into a principle , it lays itself open to objections that are not only grave , but vital . Just as soon as its advocates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old plan is inherently and absolutely vicious , it ceases to be a plan resting on considerations of practical expediency , and becomes a dogma , the acceptance of which would change fundamentally the whole attitude of men toward crime and responsibility . " To sentence a man to prison for a fixed term , " they say , " is as insane as it would be to send a sick man to a hospital for a fixed term . " To take this position is not only to forget that the primary object of the imprisonment is the deterring of others from crime by the fear of punishment ; it strikes much deeper than this . Far more efficacious even than the explicit fear of punishment is the habitual association of the idea of disgrace with the idea of crime , an association which can not fail to be altenuU'ed if ' we deliberately adopt the view time th &e; is no cliitinctiloirl'be-i tween'crithinality and 0 ' 134161 diseas'e ' : On one phase of the movement to reduce to a minimum the range of the evil effects of prison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segregation and special treatment 41 youthful culprits , and great care and consideration in the handling of first offenders , can not be too strongly insisted on ; and the develOpment of the probation system is one of the most beneficent of recent advances . There is need for much amelioration of the condition of prisoners , and little call for exhortation to , greater rigor . But it is none the less right to hold fast that which is good , while clearing away that which is evil ; and however grave the faults and abuses , and even the cruelties and injuries of existing systems of criminal administration , it would be an error , and a mischievous error , to suppose that the fundamental idea of them is a delusion What avoidable evils they have clone to those caught in the meshes of the law it may be possible to exhibit ; what evil they may have prevented by keeping the weak or the vicious from yielding to unlawful propensities is quite beyond discovery or computation . 