@@486886

The real importance of the Hohenlohe " Memoirs , " it now appears , lies in the exposure of German diplomacy about the time the Franco-Russian alliance was formed . Almost equally important is the explanation of German foreign policy for twenty years past as consistently anti-liberal , monarchical , and pro-Russian . Indubitable testimony bears out surmises in this tenor , and the general belief that France was be-fooled by Russia , and Austria and Italy ignored by the initiator of the Triple Alliance , receives striking confirmation . Ex-Minister Lockroy , speaking at Rome last Sunday , urged the Italian Francophile party to associate Italy with the Anglo-French entente , as a means of assuring " the triumph of democratic principles in Europe . " Undoubtedly , the sentiment to which he appealed will be greatly strengthened among French , English , and Italian readers of the Hohenlohe revelations . The league of three Emperors ? Dreikaiserbund  --  was a favorite dream of William I. It was to be a sort of limited Holy Alliance against democracy , Socialism , and liberalism of all sorts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commenting on Joseph Chamberlain 's plan to create peers enough to pass the franchise bill , remarked that , if republican tendencies got the upper hand in England , " we shall have hard work keeping our places . " It was this feeling that dictated the so-called " reinsurance " with Russia , which is in moral effect to-day . By this secret agreement , Russia was to have a free hand in the Balkans , agreeing to maintain neutrality in case of war between Germany and France . The agreement calmly ignored the claims of Italy and Austria in European Turkey , and , as Caprivi remarked when he refused to renew the treaty , in 1891 , " if it had become known , it would have broken up the Triple Al ' liance " The treaty lapsed , but the spirit which gave it validity persisted till the eve of the Franco-Russian alliance . Indeed , the most interesting , and glaringly indiscreet , portion of the " Memoirs " is the account of Hohenlohe 's conversations with the Czar and other high Russian officials , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fall of 1896 . On an earlier occasion , Lobanoff , the Russian Chancellor , told Hohenlohe that Russia " did Europe a good service by taking up France . God knows what these people might have gone and done it they had not been reined in . " Naturally , Nicholas II . never committed himself in quite the cynical terms of his confidential adviser , but he took pains , nevertheless , to explain away the Paris visit . Speaking with Hohenlohe in September , 1896 , the Czar " mentioned that he had not spoken to the Emperor about Paris , and he asked me if I had any objection to his visit to Paris . He was pleased when I replied that the visit to Paris seemed to me to be ' inevitable . ' He laid stress upon the fact that he had declined to put up at the Quai d'Orsay , or anywhere else in Paris . He was going to stay at his own embassy , like all his predecessors . " In view of the furore created by the Paris visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But France wanted an ally , and Russia a tanker , and the part the Czar played in this exchange of French money for Russian amiabilities did not require deep conviction on the part of the leading gentleman . - AlI the remarks of the Czar at this time are of considerable political interest . Discussing tentative overtures from England , he fully agreed with Hohenlohe that " the English Constitution and the account which English ministers lave to take of public opinion made it impossible to conclude treaties with England . " In view of the Anglo-Japanese alliance and the Anglo-French entente , these words are worth recalling ; and since the opinion of the Czar can hardly have altered , they throw a certain light , also , on the prospects for an understanding between England and Russia . On the other hand , the Czar discredited the favorite bugbear of the English Russophobes , the advance on India On Hohenlohe 's remarking that the British activity in South Africa was really impelled by the dread of - some day losing India , the Czar replied : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them ? We are not so stupid as to pursue a design of that sort . " These words should be kept standing by every enlightened newspaper in England , for use whenever the periodical Russian ague afflicts the young lions of the press . Certain remarks of the Czar look forward to the war in Manchuria , if only by implication . He liked the Japanese , he told Hohenlohe . Everything he had seen in Japan had greatly impressed him . He had been struck by the great orderliness , activity , and intelligence of the population " But this sympathy , " he added , " has not kept me from acting against the Japanese when they have gone too far . " No doubt of his ability to check them had entered his head . He further declared that Japan was arming at a great rate , but had no resources except the Chinese war indemnity . " When these were exhausted , he could not think how they were going to complete their military preparations . Besides , they would take years - to ? do it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready , and then Russia would be in a position de faire faced toutes eventualit  --  s . " Evidently , the financial reckonings of Russia were no better than her military forepasts . We need not enlarge upon the pathetic interest of these reports of the views of the youthful Czar . They throw light upon the unwritten covenant between , Germany and Russia , and explain the dynastic sympathy that found such striking expression during the war in the Fax : East . When Nicholas IL took leave of Hohenlohe in September , 1896 , he used these surprising words : " Tell the Kaiser to continue to write to me personally - when he has anything to communicate . " Such a message , we venture to think , has rarely been transmitted to a potentate through his Prime Minister Perhaps the chief value of the memoirs is the revelation of the importance of such dynastic sympathies  --  an influence which liberal governments are prone to underestimate or even to regard as obsolete But the spectacle which Prince Hohenlobe affords of the arbiters of Germany and Russia either scorning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is certainly calculated to inci ease the diplomatic isolation of Germany . One can hardly wonder that the Kaiser wants the present Prince Hohenlohe 's resignation , or that the Prince plans to spend his remaining years in the salubrious climate of the French Riviera . THE NEWFOUNDLAND FISHERIES AGREEMENT . According to our new modus vivendi with England respecting the Newfoundland fisheries , the English Government will " not bring into force " ( that is , will temporarily disallow ) the " Newfoundland Foreign Fishing Vessels Act , 1906 , " imposing additional restrictions upon American shipmasters . It also consents. to the use of purse seines by American fishermen during the coming season , though " due regard " is to be " paid , in the use of such implements , to other modes of fishery . " On its part , the American Government undertakes to direct American fishing vessels to conform to the Colonial customs law and harbor regulations , " when physically possible to do so . " This will cause the Captains Courageous of Gloucester to take fresh courage ; also , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our Government , while maintaining the right to ship Newfoundlanders , has " assured his Majesty 's Government that such shipments , if found necessary , will be made at a sufficient distance beyond the three-mile limit . " These provisions make the wrath of the Newfoundlanders , concerning which we have heard so much in the dispatches from St. John 's , wholly intelligible . They regard their entire herring fishery as imperilled . They made in 1905 what they believed to be a perfectly fair convention  --  the Hay-Bond treaty  --  to secure reciprocal rights in the fisheries. , But this , our Senate refused to ratify , Lodge taking the lead against that Administration measure . Thereupon , Newfoundland set about defending her interests . As our intensely American shipmasters , in their patriotic efforts to make their fishing fleet a " nursery of American sailors , " are in the habit of shipping great numbers of Blue Noses , at low wages , the Newfoundland Legislature passed an act providing that " no British subject shall leave the colony for the purpose of joining a foreign vessel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicitly , that " no British subject shall fish in any foreign fishing vessel in the v eters of this colony . " The act likewise forbade the selling or leasing of " fishing gear , " of any kind , to foreign fishing vessels . Prohibition of purse seines has been the law in Newfoundland for twenty-five years . It is believed to be necessary if the herring are not to be made as scarce as mackerel have been , by the use of purse seines . Indeed , since the announcement of the agreement , the f , shermen of both nationalities on the spot have consented to give up this method of fishing . Thus that clause of the modus is abandoned by its beneficiaries . With regard to the obligation of American vessels to enter and clear at the colonial custom-houses , and to submit to inspection , it is maintained by the Newfoundland authorities that only by such means can they be assured that the schooners are really American No others have the treaty right to fish in colonial waters , and the colony asserts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that they are not smugglers or pirates . Very naturally , the disallowing of this legislation has caused great excitement and indignation in St. John 's . There was talk of the Ministry resigning in a body , as a protest , after the fashion of the Government of Cape Colony . But the final decision was to remain in office and fight the matter through Every colonial statute enforceable against American vessels will he employed . It was even proposed to repeal the law forbidding colonial fishermen to use purse seines , the idea being that the local fishermen would thus be able to anticipate the Americans , and take practically all the annual catch in the Bay of Islands . But that would only drive Lodge and the other tariff-dodgers into new devices for buying the herring of Newfoundlanders , and then having them entered free of duty at Gloucester as " the product of American fisheries , " All this friction , ' however , but accentuates the need of following up the modus vivendt with a comprehensive treaty , fair to both Newfoundland and New England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our diplomacy for many years . Secretary Root has expressed the determination to clear up , if- possible , every pending controversywith England . This fisheries dispute is the most vexing of all . That the English Government has made great temporary concessions , even at the cost of inflaming its own subjects , is an earnest of good will on that side . We can but hope , therefore , that the mod= vivendi is but the precursor of a treaty which will be broad enough and fair enough to withstand the assaults of Senator Lodge , and to remove forever a cause of ill feeling between natural friends . WANTED ? A NATIONAL GALLERY . The Burlington Magazine , with its customary enthusiasm in museum matters , urges editorially the creation of a national gallery at Washington under the administration of the Smithsonian . Although the scheme is advocated with a somewhat nonchalant hopefulness as to ways and means , it has intrinsically much in its favor . Washington fs the natural location for a gallery of American art  --  a museum that should not merely display the art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , becoming a sort of American Luxembourg . Such a project has been frequently mooted , but no practical steps have been taken , partly because the fine arts have never had influential advocates at Washington , partly , perhaps , because the Corcoran Gallery , a private foundation , seemed to occupy the field A recent judicial decision , however , has revived interest in the artistic function of the Smithsonian Institution By its character it is empowered to collect and exhibit objects of art and of curiosity . Before the fire of 1865 it had considerable collections ; it now possesses the important print collection of the late G P. Marsh ; has accepted the reversion of C. L. Freer 's splendid collection of American and Japanese paintings ; and , by the court decision already noted , becomes the keeper of the art collection of the late Harriet Lane Johnston So far as the organization of an art department goes , the Smithsonian has no conspicuous connoisseur on its staff , but it already represents in an eminent degree the cautious scholarship that should preside over such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Smithsonian is the natural body to ore . ate a national gallery . In the projected National Museum building , an art department could be accommodated for many years to come . Thus money which on any other basis must be spent upon a separate building , could be devoted to acquisitions . And in the present ' rapidly rising art market , money in hand has threefold purchasing power . Since the Smithsonian has no funds for such a new departure , the - scheme for a national gallery depends entirely upon the generosity of Congress . But one can hardly doubt that a plan at once inexpensive , intrinsically desirable , andpatriotic would make a strong appeal to our law-makers . It is no question here of the enormous endowment that a general museum requires We believe the estimate of the Burlington Magazine to be conservative , when it fixes the current budget for both administration and purchases at $25,000 annually . It should be recalled that if the museum concentrates upon American art , the usual expensive staff will be unnecessary , a cur-al or-director with proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that Congress should at the outset make a handsome appropriation of , say , $300,000 , in order to found the historical collection . The prices of old American painting and sculpture are rising , and money spent now will save multiplied expenditure in the future . We can hardly doubt that , if the Smithsonian Institution will magnify its own function and plead its own cause vigorously , Congress will gladly vote the necessary funds . It might be asked , Why restrict the aims of a national gallery to the exhibition of American art9 We answer , frankly , because an American museum is more urgently needed , because it might exert a useful influence upon our art and our standards of taste , and , finally , because the limited and patriotic appeal is far more likely to gain the support of Congress . To:rival the Metropolitan Museum without adequate funds would be very foolish . The Corcoran Gallery is an instructive example of the drawbacks of conducting a museum in a capital on an income adapted only to provincial requirements If Congress would appropriate a- matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would be worth while , but the modest plan suggested above seems more likely to be carried out Of course , a national gallery would by gift acquire many exam-pies of non-American art . We have recalled that the Smithsonian already has a representative collection of European engraving , and is to possess a rare collection of the finest painting of China and Japan Undoubtedly , the general collections would be similarly enriched as time went on . In fact , the prestige of such a national museum would from the first bring it gifts in abundance No one , for example , could make a more dignified disposal of heirlooms of painting , while artists and their friends would naturally seek the honor of representation on its walls . The funds would " properly be " spent " in buying the pictures of the younger artists of talent ; the veterans  --  at least the more successful ones  --  could fairly be counted on to contribute by gift or bequest . Evidently the director of such a museum should be an enthusiast for American art , but it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He should he familiar also with the best art of all periods . What the production of our modern studios needs most is td be judged , apart from parochial applause , by something like a universal standard . In fact , the most important function of a national gallery might well be the creation of a Sound national taste Not only would a director at Washington be fortunately remote from the promptings of the artistic cliques , but he would find a body of spectators singularly receptive to any lesson he might choose to address to their eyes . There is no city in . America ' where travellers go so frequently merely " for to see , and for to admire . " A collection of the finest works that American artists have produced , or are Producing , could from Washington extend an educating and refining influence to the remotest hamlet in the land . The realization of such a dream depends apparently upon the zeal of the regents of the Smithsonian Institution and Upon the good will of Congress . MUTE , INGLORIOUS LITERATURE . William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his essay on " Literature and the Living Voice " in the Contemvorary Review . He maintains that the nerveless quality of much modern writing is due to the fact that literature , like the proverbial good child , is seen but not heard . Recalling the days when the minstrel still held his own against the scribe , Mr. Yeats bids Ireland , which still represents " the old world that sang and listened , " resist to the last " the world that reads and writes " More practically , he hopes first for a revival of the habit of recitation , , especially by authors , and believes that the popular stage , like his own unique enterprise at Dublin , may again become a place where the people hear the best literature , learning the poets not from the inexpressive page , but from the living voice of skilled interpreters . ' Mr Yeats 's peculiar theories of cantilating verse have excited considerable comment . The presence of the great disease , Mme Yvette Guilbert , among us is evidence enough that there is between singing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is generally communicable , we doubt ; and we hardly expect to see even in - Ireland poets who habitually practise recitative to the rote or some modern equivalent , or a guild of minstrels who declaim sonorously to the dulcimer . But if Mr. ' Yeats 's remedy for the widespread poverty of style seems fanciful , he has at least done much to explain a prevailing anmnia in modern literature . It may fairly be maintained that only of late years has the eye been the sole medium of literary enjoyment . When books were comparatively few , and the habits of readers leisurely , even silent- perusal was undoubtedly accompanied by a-sub consciousness of the sound of the voice . If there- is one- quality more marked than another in Elizabethan poetry , it is that it was always a heard thing It must have rung alluring in the ears of its authors ; to-day , it rouses any but the most inert reader to break silence and give voice to its splendid cadences With the great romantic writers , Byron , Shelley , and Keats in England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case was the same . Their Periods crave utterance , and can be appreciated only dimly by those who have no consciousness of the sound . When the change came about and readers lost the use of the inner ear , is matter of simple conjecture . It evidently hangs upon the enormous modern production of books , and the habit of silent reading The hypothesis that most books of the last fifty years have been written by deaf people for deaf people would explain nanny things . It would throw some light on the admitted saplessness of current French prose . Possibly the average review article , with all its erudition and keenness , is pale and monotonous simply because it was never heard or meant to be heard . Like a muted instrument , such a style has neither legato nor accent . And that is the prose of the day , whether you look to France , Germany , Italy , or , nearer home , to England and America . Everywhere the same respectable , lifeless , insipid product . Certain scholars in Germany have recommended that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because more ground may be covered the other way The prevalence of such literary deafness would go far to account for the present condition of polite letters beyond the Rhine , though the defect is well-nigh universal . To recall the exceptional modern writers who are in any sense eloquent , is , we believe , to name those who hear their writings and desire that others should hear them . D'Annunzio , Anatole France , Thomas Hardy , are of this type , whereas one might confidently assert that Fogazzaro , Bourget , and Mrs Humphry Ward compose without auditory satisfaction of any sort . The distinction is Presumably psychological and fundamental . Just as memories are classed as visual or verbal , so minds are auditory or the contrary , tending in the first case ' to associate sound- and sense , in rho second to eliminate sound altogether . A reader of an introspective sort- tells us that , in reading poetry he habitual- ly recites it mentally , whereas he seldom hears prose at all , but occasionally is checked by an instinct that a passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lovingly under his mental tongue Eloquent verse will stimulate the - inaudible recitation to an actual whisper , or even a croon This appears to be a case of a good  --  that is to Say , an audi tory  --  reader , forced into the deaf , or merely ocular , class by a large bulk of duty-reading that must be done at high speed . The future of literature depends largely upon writers and readers who are in some fashion obedient to the living voice , and it is one of the most paradoxical instances of the prevailing intellectual confusion that , just as painting is striving to attain to the vagueness of musical expression , literature is disavowing its natural ally , indeed , its proper medium , the human voice On natural principle of flux and re-flux , one may expect a return to the better way . We may not see again a Virgil and a Cmsar weeping together at a private reading , but may fairly hope for some reaction against the present surdity . Fortunately , the habit of mental audition can be cultivated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their product vocally Similarly , readers who insist that the ear be satisfied as well as the mind are already in a manner critics , In fact , criticism in the genuine sense can hardly exist on any other basis . The point may seem to some narrowly rhetorical , but it is a case where an improvement in the form must infallibly work an improvement in the substance also . Here Mr , Yeats brings indubitable testimony when he describes the results of rewriting his plays for popular audiences He says ? Every one who has to interest his audience through the voice discovers that his - success depends upon the clear , simple , and varied structure of his thought . I have written a good many plays in verse and prose , and almost all those plays I have rewritten after performance , sometimes again and again , and every change that has succeeded has been an addition to the masculine element , an increase of strength in the bony structure It is precisely this access of " bony structure " that modern literature most needs , and while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applies with equal validity to prose , where surely the need of reform is more urgent AN S. P. O. P Some benevolent but misguided per . son has proposed that a society be formed for the prevention of cruelty to parents . But no such reactionary step will , we hope , be taken . Emancipation of successive classes has been a mark of human progress . The spiritual control of - the laity by the clergy has given place to the government of the pulpit by the pew . Kings and emperors hold their sceptres by the favor of their subjects . And fathers and mothers are beginning to be aware that they have no rights which their children are bound to respect . That they should enjoy special immunities or privileges would be absard In all progress there is : a class . ? which- Suffers- and- complains . And : iff parents are suffering now because their children are getting- - the upper hand , they should not look to any voluntary society for relief . Unfortunately , children have necessarily to be burdened with what Stevenson called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to close upon the growing boy and girl ; they seek greater freedom . Their consequent rise to a place of authority in the family is in many cases the effect of their saperior education Not only have they better advantages at school than their parents had before them ; they alsb make acquaintances who move beyond the narrow parental circle . The fathers soon learn to abdicate to sons who have been educated with social superiors , and no daughter who has been properly " finished " would think of submitting her opinions to those of her mother . Estimable wives of political magnates or of millionaires may be dressed by the best modistes of Paris- and New York ; they may have the art of giving good dinners and " smart " balls ; they may do well for fashionable charities , and may even show a halting respect for the rules of grammar . But without the approval of their daughters , it profiteth them nothing . In former days wayward children could be corrected by rebuke or chastened with a rod ; but now the absorbing problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encourage them to persevere on the way to social eminence . Mothers may get endorsements from their children as good housekeepers , convenient chaperons , or faithful nurses ; but of the finer social practices they-are too often shockingly ignorant . Occasionally , they are trained in the way that they should go by their daughters , but " queer ideas " have a trick of haunting the brains of unruly matrons . Generally , they plod on quietly and peacefully , sometimes to their own social undoing , indeed , but frequently to a pleasant , shopping , dining-out , sitting-out , tiara-wearing , corpulent old age , heedless of a daughter 's tears and admonitions . In view of the fact that these shortcomings are often due to congenital defects , it has been contended that children should be more indulgent . But over-indulgence on their part has hurried many parents to their rain . As for fathers , they do not so much matter In developed societies the paternal function has not been highly specialized . The father is a bread-winner , and his kingdom is not of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true that , with obsolete ideas of the patrza testes , he has sometimes- made a feeble stand as the purveyor of munitions for the social warfare . But by intelligent sons and daughters it has been decided that , however highly he may be esteemed in Wall Street , he is out of place in the rarefied air in which they live and move and have their being . Fathers take no due interest in the weightier matters of social life . For a brief period during the early childhood of their offspring they manifest a proper spirit by believing in the inspiration of the children , and by quoting their sayings as if they had been uttered at Delphi . But as a social asset , a father is of little importance . Viewed merely as a blood-relative , no indulgence should be shown to him . Even if he should repent his mistakes and senile follies , and declare that he will arise and go unto bis son , let there be no minstrelsy or fatted calf provided for him In the life of the very rich , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humble life who keep the girls at home and the boys out of the bar-rooms . Middle life and old age , even when money is abundant , are too hidebound to get accustomed to the manners of the new generation of young men who are old and worn before they graduate , and of young women who win or lose large sums at gambling . But whether parents are young or old , children have a right to expect from them implicit obedience . At f rst this may be difficult , but , as Aristotle says , " Virtue is a habit , " and it can be acquired . No one therefore should complain of cruelty to parents . The chastisement which they endure may be grievous , but it will finally yield the peaceable fruits of righteousness . There are surely enough elements of anarchy in modern society without the encouragement of parental revolt . The man who " never shook his mother " was a rude denizen of the uncultured West ; he should not be held up as an example for imitation . In these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are elect , and that the Fifth Commandment is a part of the code of primitive tribes . 