@@474152

THE most marked feature in the history of teaching in the nineteenth century has been the great increase in the number of different kinds of education which are open to the student . A hundred years ago , one general course of study was provided for everybody . It began with reading , writing , . and ciphering ; it went on with " practical " arithmetic , geography , and a certain amount of history ; it ended with Latin , Greek , moral philosophy , and the elements of higher mathematics . Some pupils were given the time to finish the course , others stopped at various points on the way ; but with this exception all were treated alike . There was little technical training to fit the pupils for their several callings . There was little organized effort to provide a choice of subjects which should be suited to their several tastes and abilities . In most quarters the mere mention of such an attempt to meet the students ' preferences would have been regarded with suspicion . Those were the good old days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their taste , and creeds in proportion to the strength of their damnatory clauses ; when the fact that a boy or girl liked a thing created a presumption that it was evil , and the fact . that a boy or girl hated a thing created a presumption that it was good ; when the object of the teacher was to fill out deficiencies , real or supposed , in the mental equipment of those who were entrusted to his charge , rather than to develop the special capacities or talents of which he might find them possessed . Of course there were exceptions to this rule , and highly honorable ones ; but the educators of a hundred years ago , taken as a body , were inclined to regard the prevailing system as sufficiently adapted to the von CXI . ? No. 661 ? I6 needs of any child except a genius or an idiot , and to assume that anybody who objected to the standard or deviated from it belonged to the latter class rather than to the former . In the early part of the nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory ; but its real breakdown came within the last fifty years , and was brought about from the practical instead of the theoretical side . The first important inroad upon the old system was made by the development of professional schools . These were originally established for the purpose of enabling lawyers and ph'ysicians to acquire a profitable practice sooner than was possible without such aid . But the number of instances where men who had shown li itle interest in the general course of college study at once showed great interest in the special lines of study taught in these schools , led people to recognize the possible importance of modern science and modern history in college education . The introduction of an elective system into our colleges was the inevitable result . Meantime the sphere of professional training itself was being extended . The success of schools of law and medicine gave an impulse to the development of other kinds of technical schools which took boys at an earlier age and trained them to he engineers or chemists . These institutions had the same effect upon the high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college . They created a demand for the broadening of its course , and for the introduction of elective subjects . Year by year the opportunity for choice of studies has been made wider and been pushed farther down ; until at . the present time the whole arrangement of our school courses seems to be dominated by the assumption that every child has a more or less clearly defined natural bent for some particular subject or group of subjects , and that when you have found out what that bent or inclination is you should teach that subject or group of subjects first and foremost , and let other studies range themselves about it as they will . The resulting system is much better than the one which it superseded . It enables the teacher to appeal to a larger proportion of his pupils than was possible under the old system . They stay in school much longer and use their time rather better . But it has its faults as well as its merits . It is very expensive . It is somewhat disorganizing . It encourages pupils to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligently . In many cases it leads to the neglect of that general training in accuracy and regularity of work , apart from artificially stimulated interest in the subject-matter , which is essential to the boy or girl who is going to succeed in afterlife . These difficulties and evils show that there is something radically wrong about the principles wider which we are working . They do not prove that we should go back to the old system ; but they indicate that we should go forward in a somewhat different direction from that which we have recently pursued . There is a small number of boys and a still smaller number of girls for whom the elective system works admirably ? boys or girls who have a well-marked and absorbing interest in some one subject as compared with any and all others ; boys or girls whom nature has distinctly marked out for some special line of lifework , and whom the teacher can best develop by making all roads lead to that end . liut there are not many of them . They probably do not form over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other ninety per cent . have no such well-marked natural bent which will stimulate the lazy or concentrate the interest of the industrious . They do not know what they are going to do in after-life . If they like to study , they will work reasonably well on almost any subject , provided it is taught by some one who knows how to appeal to their understanding . If they dislike to study , they will do ill in almost every subject indiseriminately , and strive to get on with as little work as possible , no matter what may be the topic selected . For such children the elective system distinctly fails to do the good which its advocates have claimed . The lazy and shiftless try to choose whatever course is easiest . The average pupil , who is neither better nor worse than his fellows , takes what seems most attractive for the moment . Even those who are most industrious and farsighted find it difficult to determine what they ought to study , and are more likely to make a confused choice than a clear and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not work quite so badly in practice as this analysis of the situation would seem to indicate . The lazy pupils are not so numerous as the ambitious ones , and the standard of teaching in our better schools is so high that those who make a serious choice of courses of study , however imperfect the information on which they may base that choice , are apt to get something valuable . But even if it be true that matters turn out tolerably well to the majority of the pupils of our schools , I think we may attribute the result more to the happy faculty of the American people for falling right side up than to any intelligent exercise of educational theory . For of the two assumptions which are at the base of the modern elective system ? the assumption that each student has a distinct preference for some particular topic and the assumption that a course of study should bo grouped closely around some one line of preferences ? one can be proved to be wrong and the other has never been proved at all . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me some years ago in advising Yale students as to their choice of electives . It was apparent that students even of eighteen or twenty as a rule " did n't know what they wanted . " Few had decided upon their future professions ; and even among those few the majority did not know whether they wished to hasten or to defer the time of professional specialization . It seemed quite hopeless to try to elicit any expressions of preference or aptitude for particular studies . Those who enjoyed study at all were ready to take up almost anything that might be advised . Those that did not enjoy study regarded all class-room work in the light of a somewhat irksome duty . But just when the difficulties seemed most insuperable certain facts about the students began to come to light which suggested a possible line of solution . For while it was true that few of these students had preferences for specific subjects which they wanted to study exclusively , it gradually became clear that almost all of these students had preferences for specific kinds of teaching and specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They did not have so much a taste for distinctive departments of study as for distinctive methods and results . In this respect the boys knew what they wanted ; and , on the whole , they knew it surprisingly well . Varied as were the individual students in their characters and in their ambitions , they fell , with few exceptions , into three singularly well-defined groups , according as they were interested in facts , in ideas , or in affairs . The boy who is interested in facts is the one who has what is blown as the scientific type of mind . It is from such boys that we recruit the ranks of our physicians , our engineers , our manufacturers , our technologists , or our skilled operatives in the various departments of production and commerce . The boy who is interested in ideas belongs to what we call the literary type . It is from such boys that we develop our journalists , our preachers , our teachers , or our barristers . The boy who is interested in affairs belongs to what we call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we find our successful merchants , financiers , legal advisers , or constructive statesmen . If we can find oat to which of these types a boy belongs , we can give him and those like him an education which will stimulate his interest on the broadest possible lines , and prepare him , not for some single profession which may ultimately prove out of his reach , but for any and all of that group of professions for which he is naturally fitted . But it may perhaps be asked , " Is not this proposed grouping of students according to their mental habits simply the old elective system under a new name , and with perhaps a little attempt at organization and concentration of effort ? Are you not still proposing to offer scientific courses to one set of boys , literary courses to another set , and commercial courses to a third ? " No . The difference is not between subjects , but between different methods of getting at the same subject . It is not true , at least to the extent that has been generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and another in literature , and another in the practical affairs of life . It is rather that one boy gets at all subjects ? whether physics , or language , or history from the standpoint of the scientific investigator , another from that of the literary expositor , and a third from that of the practical administrator . One reads for the substance. , another for the impression , a third for tla , . utility . There are some subjects which can more readily be taught in one of these ways , and other subjects which can more readily be taught in another ; and to this extent it may be said that one of these subjects is specially adapted to one class of minds . Thus chemistry , in the hands of the ordinary teacher , will appeal to the boy of scientific habit ; but with proper teaching the results of chemistry may be made intensely interesting either to the general reader , who wishes scientific laws of the present day in philosophical form , " or to the practical man of business , who cares more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he discovers . Instead of enceuraging , the teacher of such a subject to narrow the appeal which the subject makes to boys of one type , which is the general tendency of the elective system as it has been managed in the last generation , I believe that we should urge him as far as lies in his power to extend and differentiate his teaching to meet the needs of boys of all three types . lin the majority of cases of study it is surprisingly easy to do this . Take a subject like French . The boy of scientific type is interested in French first because the language is an interesting thing to study for its syntax and its etymology , and next because the power to read French gives him access to facts which can be had in French hooks that have not been translated ? into English . The boy of literary type is interested in the language in another way . He sees in it a vehicle of human expression . He can with surprising readiness catch differences between French style and English style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the people of France have been developing so wonderfully through the writing and conversation and diplomacy of centuries . To the boy of the administrative type French appeals as something to be spoken . The rules of etymology and syntax the administrative boy regards as unpleasant obstacles to be surmounted . The forms of style and shades of expression interest him only as they throw light on the character and habits and history of the people with whom he has to deal . To get into touch with French activity and French doings is the one object that appeals to him . lie wishes to get the most power of communication with the least expenditure of effort ; but if the teacher will put the end within his reach the boy will labor vigorously and ungrudgingly toward that end . In all these three cases the subject of study is the same , but the means and ends are absolutely different . It may be worth while to illustrate this difference from a subject of another class ? the group of studies known under the name of mental philosophy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a department of psychology . The human mind is an object which is being studied . He welcomes every experiment in the psychological laboratory , every observed classification of the phenomena of memory or imagination . To him the morphology , the physiology , and the pathology of the human mind are intensely interesting parts of the order of nature . But to the boy of the literary type philosophy is not so much a science as a body of literature . He studies the dialogues of Plato as he would the tragedies of lEschylits . He reads Bacon or Montaigne as he reads Shakespeare . He derives suggestions from Herbert Spencer as he derives them from Browning or from Goethe . In philosophy , as it appeals to him , the operations of the human mind are not the subject-matter of science , but the raw material of art ; things out of which one writer may make a philosophy as another might make a novel or a drama . To the boy of the administrative type philoso phy takes still a different aspect . It interests him as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than for Plato ; more for men like Edmund Burke or John Morley , who have known how to make history throw light upon the careers and motives of men at the present day , than for observations as to the transmission of nerve force or for speculations as to how the world was made . To him philosophy means ethics ? not as a series of formulas which are appropriate to some metaphysical theory or Utopian fancy , but as a summary of observations and inferences which will enable him to appreciate the conduct of the men and women about him . It has been said of social life that it does not so much matter what you say as how you say it . It may be said with equal truth of school life that it does not so much matter what you teach as how you teach it . History or literature , if taught as science , may be made as interesting to the boy of scientific mind as botany or physics . Conversely , books on botany or physics may , in the hands of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lover of literature . And each or all of these subjects appeal to the boy of administrative mind when their practical bearing upon affairs is brought home to hint , and they become to his mind live topics instead of dead ones . The teacher is like a man who goes out to shoot in a contest where there are three separate targets . If he shoots in the average direction in which he supposes those targets to lie , lie will probably miss them all . This was the method which was encouraged by the old curriculum . If he keeps on shooting at the first one he sees , he will never hit either of the others . This represents the result under the elective system . The old curriculum , by collecting children of different types into one class , prevented the ordinary teacher from securing definiteness of aim at any point . The elective system , by putting boys of the scientific type into classes in science , or boys of the literary type into classes in literature , helped the teacher to keep a definite object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it prevented him from encouraging the scientific boy to study literature , or the literary boy to study science ; and so far it was bad . It enabled him to make a score , but it prevented him from making the largest possible score . Let the teacher once learn that he can make his subject interesting to all pupils if only he gets at it in their several ways , and you give him a larger field of usefulness , a higher enthusiasm for his special line of work , and a power of bringing that line into coordination with the needs of the citizen as well as those of the specialist . Even those subjects which in old times have been regarded as dull will prove under this analysis to make the widest and strongest appeal If there is any subject which is traditionally regarded as stupid it is mental philosophy . Yet this dullness did not arise out of any inherent necessity of the case . For teachers who knew how to deal with their classes have probably roused greater enthusiasm in this field than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from an attempt to force down a student 's throat an emulsion of psychology , ethics , and literary criticism as unpalatable as it was indigestible . Let the teacher of philosophy separate the mutually repellent ingredients , instead of trying to mix them . Let him teach psychology to one class , ethics to another , and literary criticism to a third ; and he will find himself , if not a Mark Hopkins or a Herbert Spencer , at any rate in much nearer approximation to these great lights than ever before seemed possible . The old theory of the curriculum made it a mere accident if the teacher brought any subject home to any boy . The elective system made it easy for him to teach some subjects to some boys . The recognition of mental temperaments , if fully and successfully carried out , should render it possible to teach most subjects to most boys . I believe that it should be the aim of parents and teachers to find out as soon as possible to which of these types a boy or a girl belongs ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the methods of study are the ones which rouse present interest , and are likely to meet future wants . In choosing a course for such boys or girls , I would not follow the present plan of trying to pick out specific subjcets which are supposed to be specially attractive or useful . This specialization may well be deferred till they enter thetechnical school . I mould try rather to keep their range of interests as wide as possible ; encouraging them to seek the teacher who knows how to train their minds in methods which they are going to use in after-life , on subjects far outside of the probable sphere of their professional study . Under the elective system as at present conducted every teacher and every parent , in choosing a course of study for a pupil , is face to face with an awkward dilemma . Either he does not attempt to decide what his buy will do ? in which case a course of study is selected at random , and may be the wrong one ; or he does attempt to make such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young to know his exact preference , and when the future is so remote and uncertain that things which appear feasible to-day may be out of the question to-morrow ? in which case the special training which has been chosen is largely wasted . By adopting a middle course , and fitting our education to the type of boy with which we have to deal , we avoid both horns of this dilemma . We find which group of professions a boy is fitted to pursue ; and we can do this long before he is able to decide upon his particular line of life . By training him in the methods which are suitable for his type of mind we give him a preparation which will be valuable in any one of a number of lines for which he is fitted , and to which circumstances may subsequently direct him , by training him to use the methods appropriate to his temperament . We have prepared him to meet conditions as they arise , instead of leaving him at the mercy of the conditions . It is an interesting fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have outlined them ? the scientific group , which includes the physicians , the engineers , the technologists , and the skilled operatives ; the literary group , which includes the journalists , preachers , teachers , nr barristers ; and the administrative group , which includes the merchants , financiers , statesmen , or legal advisers , ? it is possible for a man to make a change from one calling to another within each group , even at a comparatively late period in life , without much loss or danger : while changes from a calling in one group to a calling in another group , even if made 