@@473278

IN the early seventies , Richard Hengist Horne , the well-known author of " Orion " ( " the penriy epic " ) , contributed a story to this Magazine , entitled " Aemilia Duran . " A few clays after its appearance in print the editor was visited in his office by an elderly gentleman , who in violent terms called him to account for its publication . Smart and agile , the ruddy - faced old man handled his gold-headed cane in a nervous manner , which seemed to threaten instant punishment . The story ? a masterpiece in its way ? was a fine portraiture of a jealous and ingeniously cruel Italian nobleman , and it was the description of his brutality to his wife that had aroused the ire of this strange visitor . The admission of such a horror to the pages of the 141 agazinc seemed to him an insult to every reader . The editor was truly penitent , impressed by what seemed a so righteous indignation , and made promises of better behavior in the future . He had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkable piece of art which he had exposed for public admiration ; and those readers who judged the story as a work of literary art doubtless appreciated it . But why should an editor offend those other readers whose sensibility had not been firmly established on an aesthetic basis ? Yes , the editor made promises , but how far could he keep them ? That was a Iong time ago , and though he can never quite forget the flashing blue eyes of his angry visitor , many things have come to pass since then in the minds and sensibilities of writers and of readers . Even then a great change had been wrought in the American feeling towards fiction and the drama by the effect upon it of a long and terrible civil war . It seems strange that while the amenities of our civilization grew out of warfare , war itself should be so brutalizing , like an intoxicant at once stimulating and blunting sensibility . A chasm ? which we cannot. repassdivides the American life of the last four decades from all that it had been before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Who would venture to say that , either in our life or our literature , that change has , on the whole , been fur the worse ? Our Mexican war , before the period under consideration , had , simply as a war , been a gentle stimulus to national vitality and consciousness ; as a counterirritant it had aroused New England , quickened Whittier , given Lowell the incentive to his first series of Biglow Papers , and begotten the impulse which resolved the nebulous genius of Boston and its neighborhood into a brilliant and ever - memorable literary constellation ; and through its results ? the acquisition of California and the rapid development of our Pacific frontier ? laid the basis for national success in the war that was to come between free and slave labor . This later war was merely an incident in the evolution of American political economy . Like all wars , it was bad business ; the three billions we shall , in 1002 , have expended for civil war pensions would in 1860 have been sufficient for the purchase of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is an evil , but , in our still crude civilization , as necessary en evil as arc the diseases incident to childhood . We are so constituted , individually and collectively , that the very procession of our life is through reactions . There is the possibility of excessive mastication , whereby , though the teeth might be strengthened , the stomach would be weakened . There may come to be a so complete system of sanitation that children 's diseases shall be impossible , but what would be the effect upon the race ? Possibly , physiological astonishment and atrophy . And what Atropos would confront a consummate civilization that had won universal peace and comfortableness ! Certainly in all progress ? which itself implies imperfectness ? while there is the increment of good , there is also an increment of evil , an accumulation of peril . Reactions grow in complexity ; and as we must live through them we must also live up to them , and this is our development , our culture . The spiritual growth of the American people has more than kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our loves and our sympathies have deepened and expanded . And to a corresponding degree our literature has grown in all its values and meanings . But in our journalism and in every form of literary expression there have been more frequent and more malodorous whiffs from Tartarus than ever before ? so that , though the irate visitor with the minatory cane , nor his like , has ever again invaded the editor 's office , he has often been present to the editor 's vision . We do n't think he would have complained of Trilby ( though some protests against that reached us through the mail ) , for that was a story so humanly real as to quite disarm criticism . It belonged to that unmoral region which art has always claimed for its own . It was , on the whole , very pleasant company that Du Maurier introduced to his readers . And it is just here that the occasion for remonstrance on the part of readers is often a proper one ? in that they are compelled , in a certain kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with vileness or vulgarity . The editor of a respectable magazine is not likely to admit to its pages any fiction that would offend moral or religious sensibility ; but he should also respect the rule that " evil communications corrupt good manners . " Where is the line to be drawn in the matter of profanity or vulgarity ? Profane exclamations , uncouth characters , and repellent situations can not be arbitrarily excluded altogether ; but they should not only be incident to a noble purpose fully justifying their use , but necessary incidents . Owen Wister , in his Western stories , instinctively followed this rule ; and in the case of no American writer of the kind of fiction that may properly be called literature does the editor ever need to be on guard . The editor , in looking over a recent number of this Magazine , was unpleasantly surprised to find that it contained three short stories , in each of which were three tragic deaths . The mortal issue was , in each case , natural and dramatically inevitable ; and the tragedies were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any way depressing . A much longer list of mortalities is implied in " The Chohan Bride : a Romance of Ind , " contributed to the present number by a high-caste Hindu . Probably the distribution of so much mortality through three stories , in a single number , gave occasion for the editor 's unpleasant reflection , ? as if he were making a chamber of horrors in the House of Imagination . Evil belongs to any world we know , and can not he excluded from fiction . It never was excluded from even the least vital fiction ? even that of the early fifties , in which the hissing of serpents was as audible as the cooing of doves . Pathos is an essential element in all art , and tragedy is as old as storywriting itself the aura thereof being the very breath of every great drama since Eden . The dramatic motive must relentlessly dominate ; all we demand of it is that it should be itself noble , and that the action , however tragic or terrible , should quicken and lift . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? truly of the spirit . We have a predilection for stories that end happily , though we confess that if this were always the case , we should be content with few . The story altogether happy , where love always runs smooth , or where ? whatever the passion ? there is no obstacle , no foreboding doom or besetting peril , could never be deep or great ; and some stories , ending happily , would betray an unhappy art . But there is no excuse for a story whose main effect is grave depression . No great novelist ever so perplexed our editorial conscience as Thomas Hardy , who in his generation stands nearest to Shakspere and most intimate to the masters of Greek tragedy . No problem of this difficult nature was presented by his early novels , and with his latest there was no question affecting their issue as books by any reputable publisher , but only one as to the propriety of their serial publication in a magazine freely admitted to every home . Zola had set the pace for all those writers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beast " ? a mark , by-the-way , not always open to despite or denunciation . His works were masterpieces of art ? that is , as real presentations of life in the field chosen by the author ? a field which could have no proper representation save in a wisely secluded pathological library . But just as Zola was repenting of this kind of work and beginqing to write another sort of novel , of which we have the best examples in Lourdes and Rome , and in his still later and ultimately repentant Labor , Thomas Hardy seems to have caught a note from the French author , and to have asked himself why novelists outside of France should not also include in their study of mankind the animal man . The result was first Tess of the D'Urbervales , and then Jude the Obscure . The author 's purpose was sincere and honest as well as wholly legitimate , and these two novels were in many ways his greatest . They had no more likeness to a work like Zola 's Germinal than a noble English landscape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English literature . Yet there were passages in Jude the Obscure as published in book form against the publication of which in the Magazine the editor protested , and which Mr. Hardy obligingly and without taking offence recast or omitted for serial use , though in doing this he submitted to deterioration of his art . One can not fairly say , " so much the worse for the readers of the Magazine . " The story came to these readers piecemeal , each part denied the full perspective necessary for artistic judgment ; it came to them not by their own choice , and any offence to their sensibility ? even if justifiable on artistic grounds ? through the too emphatic intrusion , from their own point of view , of a repellent incident or situation could not be condoned . We have now to reckon , not editorially , but on general principles , with an Italian writer , who is in some respects , at least in a few of her novels , a disciple , though hardly a follower , of Zola . This is Matilde Serao @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country , and about whose writings Henry James has just contributed an interesting paper to the North American Review . The publication of these novels needs no justification outside of themselves , for they have been judiciously selected , and are of such literary , or perhaps we should say picturesque , excellence as to command attention . The writer 's early work arrested Henry James 's attention nearly a score of years ago , and he has recently given to that old acquaintance a happy extension . " He speaks of her work as " strikingly romantic , " and as interesting , largely , because the writer " is , in the light of her free , her extraordinary Neapolitan temperament , a vivid painter , and a rich register of sensations and impressions . . . . A Neapolitan by birth and a journalist by circumstance , by marriage and in some degree doubtless also by inclination , she strikes for us , from the first , the note of facility and spontaneity , and the note of initiation and practice . Concerned , through her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of a large circulation and a radical color , she has , as I infer , produced her novels and tales mainly in such snatches of time and of inspiration as have been left her by urgent day-to-day journalism . They distinctly betray , throughout , the conditions of their birth ? so little are they , to the literary sense , children of maturity and leisure . . Loud , loquacious , abundant , natural , happy , with luxurious insistences on the handsome , the costly , and the fleshly , the fine persons and fine clothes of her characters , their satin and velvet , their bracelets , rings , white waistcoats , general appointments , and bedroom furniture , with almost as many repetitions and as free a tongue , in short , as Juliet 's nurse , she reflects at every turn the wonderful mixture that surrounds her ? the beauty , the misery , the history , the light and noise and dust , the prolonged paganism and the renewed reactions , the great style of the distant and the past , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Of the " so powerful " Passe di Cuccagna ( which in an English version is the first of Madame Serao 's novels to be published in America , and which he considers the strongest example of her great talent ) , Mr. James says : " There is , for good luck , in this large , miscellaneous picture of Neapolitan life , no passions save that of the observer curiously and pityingly intent upon it , that of the artist resolute at any cost to embrace and reproduce it . Admirably , easily , convincingly objective , the thing is a sustained panorama , a chronicle of manners , finding its unity in one recurrent note , that of the consuming lotteryhunger which constitutes the joy , the curse , the obsession , and the ruin , according to Matilde Serao , of her fellow-citizens. , , Mr. James notes the distinct demarcation between two classes of this author 's novels ; the one represented by Passe di euccagna , and the other ? the novels of " passion " ? by Fantasia . And it is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is most interesting . His comment is a natural conclusion to our consideration of - fiction ( and what in modern fiction raises the question of propriety ) in the earlier part of this " " Study . Thus far , as we have indicated , where a question has arisen concerning American or English fiction it has been one of delicacy rather than of sexual morality ; and it is always to be remembered that thus far , also , we have had a great body of action , of the highest literary excellence as well as imaginative value , open to no question whatsoever . In French , Russian , and Italian novels the case is far different . Here it is claimed that whatever belongs to life is proper to fiction , and that there is no limit to the freedom of the novelist 's realm either in subject or manner , so long as he tells the intimate truth . Not only is the rigor of " convention " wholly relaxed , but the natural instinct of reticence is violated . Henry James intimates that among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater freedom from convention on their part in novel-writing . His comment on the " novel of passion " is a timely note of warning that should be heeded , and takes the form of a criticism that is worthy of thoughtful consideration . " The effect , " he says , " of the commission to give passions its whole place is that , by the operation of a singular law , no place , speedily , appears to be Ieft for anything else ; and the effect of that , in turn , is greatly to modify , first , the truth of things , and second , with small delay , what may be left them of their beauty . We find ourselves wondering after a little whether there may not really be more truth in the world misrepresented according to our own familiar fashion . . It is not only that , if Venus herself is notoriously beautiful , her altar , as it happens , is by no means always proportionately august ; it is that we draw , in the long-run , small comfort from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of every relation in life but that over which Venus presides . . . The common humanities and sociabilities are wholly absent from the picture . " The effect of this is extraordinarily to falsify the total show , and to present the particular affair ? the intimacy in hand for the moment , though the moment be but brief ? as taking place in a strange , false perspective , a denuded desert which experience surely fails ever to give us the like of , and the action of which on the faculty of observation in the painter is anything but favorable ... Who are these people , we presently ask ourselves , who love indeed with fury ? though for the most part with astonishing brevity ? but who are so without any suggested situation in life that they can only strike us as loving for , and more especially through and in , nothing ? We know them by nothing but their convulsions and spasms , and we feel once again that it is not the passion of hero and heroine that gives , that can ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is they themselves , with the ground they stand on and the air they breathe , who give interest to their passion . " Does not the dim religious light with winch we surround its shrine do more , cm the whole , for the poetry of passions than the flood of flaring gas with which it is drenched ? . . . it is at the category of the familiar that vulgarity begins . There may be a cool virtue , therefore , even for art , ' and an appreciable distinction , even for truth , in reticence and gaps , in the inspired , inconsistent , indefensible superficial . "                     