@@486733

The Isthmian Commission 's annual re . port on the Panama Canal never lacks one delightful element of interest : By how much hag the latest estimate of cost moved still further from the original estimate of $144,000,000 ? Progress is , of course , being made towards the completion of the vast enterprise . The millions of cubic yards of excavation may vary from year to year . The administrative and engineering systems may come in for frequent reorganization . But the one permanent , undeviating , unfluctuating factor in the construction of the canal is the rapid march of the final cost straight upwards . In 1902 the canal was to cost $144,000,000 , inclusive of police and sanitation . In 1906 it was to cost $139,000,000 , exclusive of police and sanitation , which will swell the total some seventy-five millions before the end . Now Col. Goethals 's latest re Tort , for the fiscal year ending last June , forecasts a total expenditure of $375,000 , - - ? 000 . The increase is explained as due , an the first place , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of work necessary to be done , and of 20 per cent . to the cost of labor - due to the enhanced - cost of living , the difficulty of attracting labor from the United States , and the . introduction of the eight-hour clay . If there is any prevailing idea that civil service reform means the keeping in office ' of the organization find there , I will give the community a new idea of civil - service reform " This statement by Mr. George McAneny , president-elect of the Borough of - Manhattan , was , of course , not designed to have any bearing on matters outside his own province , but it is nevertheless peculiarly timely in connection with the crookedness in the customs service . Whenever it happens that dis'honest persons occupy places in the classified service , there arises , in certain quarters , a wail about the difficulty of the heads of the offices in getting rid - of undesirable employees who are protected under the civil service rules . Many persons are doubtless under the impression that those rules , interfere with the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the case . The only requirement is that the cause of the removal shall be stated , and the person removed shall have a chance to protest , if he sees fit . There , is no trial , public or private , the necessity of stating a cause ( in so far as ' that necessity exists ) is intended merely as a safeguard against wanton removals . No responsible officer need have the slightest fear of a crooked employee protesting if removed on some such general ground as that his work is not compatible with the good of the service ; he will be glad enough to let it go at that . Collector Loeb is evidently not bothered in the least with the imaginary difficulty of the civil-service rules . The real protection furnished by the rules is in doing away with arbitrary removals for the purpose of giving places to political or personal favourites . That Boston has not yet abdicated her ancient position as a source of civic leadership in the country ' is attested by the inauguration of ' a hopeful experiment . Nominations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city charter , be made by petition only , and party designations will be wholly absent from the ballot . It is plain , furthermore , that the people of Boston realize that a mere change of machinery , however excellent , will accomplish nothing without the active and intelligent interest of the best citizens . A committee of one hundred and fifty undertook to name a candidate upon whom the people who desire good government might concentrate their support , and the sub-committee to whom the finding of the right man was uelegated included such men as Richard Olney , Attorney-General and Secretary of State under Cleveland , and Charles S. Hamlin , ex-Assistant Secretary of the Treasury . The nomination of the Committee of One Hundred and Fifty has now been made . Their candidate for Mayor is James J. Storrow , president of the Boston Chamber of Commerce , a member of the firm of Lee , Higgmson &; Co. , long president of the School Board , and the choice is indubitably a strong one . The Mayoralty of a big city is a great business ofice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all our cities , toward bringing the people to demand the same kind of qualifications for that post as in the conduct of a great business . In announcing his company 's acquisition of control of the Western Union Telegraph , the president of the American Telegraph and Telephone  --  the old Bell Telephone Company  --  points out that " the making of one business the auxiliary of the other business would result in large economies both to the public and to the companies . " He instances the joint use of certain portions of the plant , meaning not the wire 's , but the offices and general service . In the matter of charges for telephone and telegraph service , Mr. Vail is guaraed ; he merely says that telephone service has been growing cheaper , and that telegraph service ought to reflect the benefit of cooperation . Nevertheless , this is , from the public 's view , a crucial point It is hardly necessary to say that an advance in telephone tolls , following  --  even at a distance of months or years  --  an announcement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious and disquieting is the bearing of the virtual merger on the question of competitive rates for telegraphing . For many years , the Western Union has had only two sources of competition in the field -- -the Postal Telegraph Company , which was a direct competitor , and the telephone company , which was an indirect competitor to the extent that high telegraph tolls or poor telegraph service would tend to drive patrons from the telegraph to both short-distance and long-distance telephone . The second of these , the indirect or potential competition , is extinguished by the present amalgamation . The other , that of the Postal Telegraph , has been an active force in compelling reasonable rates and efficient service . It can not be described as altogether reassuring , despite the announcement of the Postal 's : independence , that the Postal holds a $10,000,000 interest in the telephone company . What attitude the State or Federal . Government will take in the matter is as yet by no means certain ; that , also , will probably depend upon what construction is placed on the ulterior purposes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law 's delays are not always on the side of the capitalist plunderers . It is some time since Mr. Gompers was enjoined from preaching the boycott against the Bucks Stove and Range Company . It is some time since Mr. Gompers was sentenced to prison for contempt of court . Yet by the latest accounts Mr. Gompers is still at-liberty and is still making public his views concerning Mr. Van Cleave . Our system of appeals and stays and appeals irom appeals and writs of habeas corpus upon appeals from appeals works as efficiently in keeping a captain of labor out of jail as it does many a captain in the service of Mammon . Only the other day Mr. Gompers 's lawyers obtained a stay of execution until November 29 in order that they might apply to the United States Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari to bring the case before that tribunal . The judge who granted the stay told the lawyers that , if it shall prove impossible to secure such a writ on November 29 , they may obtain even more time . Appeal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intertwining they are a mystery to the layman whose impious voice shall not be raised against the entire beautiful system , lest he , too , be found guilty of contempt of court and be dent to the year 1945 . It really begins to look as if the twenty-six victims of football who have died since the opening of the season , mostly because of mass-play , had not lost their lives altogether in vain . From every side come protests and demands that the game shall be either thoroughly reformed or ' abolished . The schools have taken the lead . Following the action of the St. Louis and Washington . high schools , it is probable that the game will be prohibited in the New York , city schools unless radically revised . The Berkeley School , one of the large private institutions of this city , has disbanded its team in response to protests from parents . The annual game between the Montclair Academy and the Montclair High School was cancelled when one team was already on the field , for the reason that a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colleges are also stirring . Those of the Middle West have instructed their delegate to the Rules Commit tee.to deliver an ultiniatum , if they are to continue to play the game . This indeed assures revision . But revision alone will not suffice ; if there is to be football , it must be reconstituted . All this is in striking contrast to the apathy , which has marked previous efforts to reform the game . When the Nation first attacked mass-play some fifteen years ago , it was difficult to rouse interest . Yet the revolving mass-play of those days was abolished , and some three years ago the play was opened up by requiring a ten-yards gain , instead of five . For a time it appeared as if this change , reluctantly wrung from the Rules Committee , had , together with the onside kick and forward pass , opened up the game sufficiently . But this season has witnessed a further reliance upon mass-play . The Harvard team on Saturday was well trained only in the " old-fashioned " game . It gained its ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which was shown in the very first rush ; it " knocked out " Lilley , the veteran Yale tackle . The expectation that the Yale team would open up the game for the game 's sake proved groundless . It was as if , in this last important contest of the season , both teams were bent upon proving how impossible the present game is . The award of the Copley medal of the Royal Society to Die George W. Hill of West Nyack , N. Y. , is an honor to an American that is not likely to get the public attention which it merits . The Copley medal is the highest distinction conferred by the Royal Society , and it is matter for national gratification that this honor at the hands of the oldest and one of the greatest of scientific societies should have been bestowed upon an American . And , while it may be inferent departments of research , yet a certain primacy belongs to that domain which is at once the most ancient field of scientific inquiry and demands for its exploration all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sciences . Dr. Hill 's work in celestial mechanics places him not only foremost among the mathematical astronomers of to-day , but marks him out as one of the extremely few men who , since the time of Laplace , have carried forward the great results embodied in the " M ? canique celeste . " His honor is a refreshing change from the wearisome process of round-robin degrees for college presidents . In reading such a report as that of the new anesthetic which enables  - -  a man to undergo an . extensive surgical operation without pain and without loss of consciousness , one is impressed again with that steady , definite , and imposing progress of physical science which has been held by some eminent scientific men to constitute the most significant difference between scientific knowledge and the sort of thing that has been recently claiming widespread attention under the name of psychical research . The argument is not conclusive , but it is worthy of attention . Here we have been , for fifty years and more , confronted with alleged phenomena of table-tipping , slate-writing , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of scientific ability and ingenuity , have been interested in them . If they are genuine , they open up to the imagination boundless possibilities of development ; and yet they are still at the stage-of simply demanding to be recognized as true . Of course , it wo n't do ti lay down laws to the powers of nature , still less to powers outside of what we commonly call nature ; yet one can not but , feel that if these things bad really been true , there should by this time have been some advance in the results , brought out , at least faintly comparable-with the advances that have followed upon every new opening in the field of electricity , or chemistry , or bacteriology . The Christian Science machine at Boston functions with less ease than efficiency . It is a triumph for centralized authority that Mrs. Stetson should havegation , New York 's oldest and wealthiest Christian Science congregation , , avail her nothing . She is now outside the pale of the church and among the fallen angels . But it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the creed at Boston had to play their highest trump card . Mrs. Eddy herself had to break a silence and seclusion SO , profound as to have raised doubts whether she was alive at all , and chasten the sinner into submission by direct reproof . The culprit submits ; it could not 1 be otherwise with Christian Scientists , while yet the founder of the faith is among them . It must be different in the future , when out-of-town congregations are pretty sure to rebel against the rule of the Boston Camarilla . There will probably be an Eddy testament in which the succession will be settled . But very few prophets have been sue , cesstul in warding off schism after they are gone . Last Monday 's debate in the House of Lords , with the significant declaration by the Lord Chancellor , made it clear that the coming general election will turn on much more than the budget . The Liberals will go to the country for a warrant not merely to pass the present budget without interference by the Lords , but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The result of the Constitutional struggle , if the Conservatives lose in the appeal to the electors , - will be to strike at the veto power of the Lords in general , and ttj make it nearly as inoperative as that of the King has become . This question Liberal statesmen have long desired to find a way of bringing directly before the people . Gladstone would have eagerly made it the issue in 1893 , after the rejection of the second Home Rule Bill , if he had not been so stricken in years . Even Lord Rosebery talked then of either mending or ending the House of Lords . Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman 's Proposals , two years ago , to deprive the Lords of the right to veto a bill passed a second time by the House of Commons , were an indication of this persistent search for ground upon which to make a fight against the Lords . The Liberals have been steadily looking for a good occasion . Some thought they would find it in the rejection of the Education Bill , but they did not then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill by the Lords , and the bill for the abolition of plural voting  --  many Libera 's said , " Now is our chance ! " but the leaders held back . Today , however , the Lords are themselves furnishing the opportunity which the Liberals have so long sought in vain . The bringing about of so acute a crisis , involving such immense censequences , is a great surprise . It does not look like the English way of doing things . Especially does it appear as if the Lords had walked into a net openly spread in the sight of the bird . Why should the Conservatives do what their enemies were devoutly praying that they would do ? We admit sincerity on the part of many of the members of the House of Lords . Lloyd-George has frightened them . They honestly think that they are facing the first onset of a determined Socialist movement . Knowing the great risks which they take in resisting , they yet resolve to resist . But this is only a part of the story . Selfish interests are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , the influence of gthe manufacturers who have been induced by Joseph Chamberlain and his agents to supply funds to finance the campaign for protective taxes . We have heard it credibly stated that they have already contributed as much as $5,000,000 . And they are getting impatient to have something to show for their money . They are betraying something of the haughtiness of our own protected manufacturers in demanding that legislation which they had bought and paid for should at once be enacted . Moreover , there are the brewers and keepers of public houses . They have Peen faithful allies of the Conservatives . There was too much truth in the assertion that the latter won the election of 1900 on the issue of " Beer and the Bible . " The " trade " is strongly against the budget because it contains licensing clauses and liquor taxes most obnoxious to it . In one way or another , Balfour 's hand has been forced , and he has been compelled to go reluctantly with his party into a fight which he would have avoided upon an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has recently published statistics which must be depressing reading for all Gauls who believe that a nation 's greatness depends on its size . The number of births during the first half of the present year is shown to be smaller by twelve thousand seven hundred than those for the corresponding period of 1908 . At the same time , deaths have increased by twenty-five thousand . From these figures , certain American newspapers have already drawn their usual conclusions as to the terrible decadence of France . That the situation is , from the standpoint of the French militarist , highly perturbing , there is no use in denying Yet what if the French plight of to-day is also our own dilemma of to-morrow ? At Ithaca , Professor Wilcox of Cornell University states that " the decline of the birth-rate in the United States has probably been as rapid as in any country of Europe , and if it should continue unchecked for a century and a half , at the end ? of that time no births would take place . " No one quite expects this last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is quite evident that the decrease is one which should set to thinking those of us who cherish illusions , if they are illusions , as to the virility of our " American " stock . Figures from Harvard College , cited by the Cornell statistician , indicate that for each hundred graduates there are in the next generation only seventy-three sons . This is a thin crop for Theodore Roosevelt 's college , and we may now look for a revival of the ex-President 's " race-suicide " preach-meats from almost any quarter . The extraordinary series of Socialist victories in Germany continues . Parliamentary and municipal elections show the same result . The tide runs much more strongly towards the Social-Democrats than any mere reference to the ordinary swing of the pendulum can explain . In Great Britain , it is pretty nearly the regular thing for a party to win a general election and then , trom the beginning , almost , to lose bye-elections The greater its majority in the general election , the more rapid will its losses be when the original enthusiasm has died out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter-ofcourse reaction , no local conditions , can explain what is taking on the proportions of an unheaval against the Government parties . Profound national discontent is voicing itself in Socialist votes  --  discontent with an Imperialism that is driven to tax the bread and light and air of the working masses , discontent with the traditional Government policy of ruling with kaleidoscopic blocs cemented , while they last , by very frank bargaining and log-rolling methods . Moreover , there is deep dissatisfaction with the so-called " Liberal " factions which , in their susceptibility to Court favor , and their exaggerated fear of Socialism , seem never to lose an opportunity of betraying the cause of Constitutionalism and anti-feudalism , for which they profess to ' stand .                     