@@440654

I PROPOSE nowt to recount some incidents that followed the conditions which I have attempted to describe in a previous paper . At this point , I can not keep out of mind the story of the preacher who divided his discourse into three heads . He declared it to be Iris intention , under his first head , to speak of some things that he knew all about , and of which Iris congregation knew nothing ; under his second head , he proposed to deal with matters that both he and his hearers fully understood ; and under the third head , he promised to discuss topics concerning which neither he nor they had any knowledge . I shall not adopt this division in its entirety . Though I do not see how I can avoid speaking of some things that are within my knowledge , and not thoroughly within yours , and while I shall be quite satisfied to traverse ground equally familiar to both you and me , must utterly repudiate our preacher 's third head , and shall studiously avoid the mention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is another matter in relation to which I desire to have an understanding with you . In the recital of events with which I have had to do , I would be glad to speak always in an impersonal way , but I will not agree to be constantly casting about for turns of expression for that purpose . If , there- fore , in speaking of things clone by me , and things done to me , I use the pronouns " I " and " me , " I hope I may indulge in that easier form of statement without being accused of egotism . Immediately after the change of administration in 1885 , the pressure began for the ousting of Republican office-holders , and the substitution of Democrats in their places . While I claim to have earned a position which entitles me to resent the accusation that I either openly or covertly favor swift official decapitation for partisan purposes , I have DO sympathy with the intolerant people who , without the least appreciation of the meaning of party work and service , superciliously affect to despise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilty of a flagrant misdemeanor . It will indeed be a happy day when the ascendency of party principles , and the attainment of wholesome administration , will be universally regarded as sufficient rewards of individual and legitimate party service . Much has already been accomplished in the direction of closing the door of partisanship as an entrance to public employment ; and though this branch of effort might well be still further extended , it certainly should be supplemented by earnest and persuasive attempts to correct among our people long-cherished notions concerning the ends that should be sought through political activity , and by efforts to uproot pernicious and office-rewarding political methods . I zim not sure that any satisfactory progress can be made toward these results , until our good men with unanimity cease regarding politics as necessarily debasing , and by active participation shall displace the selfish and unworthy who , when uninterrupted , control party operations . In the meantime , why should we indiscriminately hate those who seek office ? They may not have entirely emancipated themselves from the belief that the offices should pass with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , it can surely be said that in all other respects they are in many instances as honest , as capable , and as intelligent as any of us . There may be reasons and considerations which properly defeat their aspirations , but their applications are not always disgraceful . I have an idea that sometimes the greatest difference between them and those who needlessly abuse them and gloat over their discomfiture consists in the fact that the office-seekers desire office , and their critics , being more profitably employed , do not . I feel constrained to say this much by way of defending , or at least excusing , many belonging to a numerous contingent of citizens , who , after the 4th of March , 1885 , made large drafts upon my time , vitality , and patience , and I feel bound to say that in view of their frequent disappointments , and the difficulty they found in appreciating the validity of the reasons given for refusing their applications , they accepted the situation with as much good nature and contentment as could possibly have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party associates had been banished from Federal office-holding for twenty-four years . I have no disposition to evade the fact that suspensions of officials holding presidential commissions began promptly , and were quite vigorously continued ; but I confidently claim that every suspension made was with honest intent , and I be liere accordance with the requirements of good administration and consistent with prior Executive pledges . Some of these officials held by tenures unlimited as to their duration . Among these were certain internal revenue officers who , it seemed to me , in analogy with others doing similar work but having a limited tenure , ought to consider a like limited period of incumbency their proper term of office ; and there were also consular officials and others attached to the foreign service who , I believe it was then generally understood , should be politically in accord with the administration . By far the greater number of suspensions , however , were made on account of gross and indecent partisan conduct on the part of the incumbents . The preceding presidential campaign , it will be recalled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were apparently no confident of the continued supremacy of their party that some of them made no pretense of decent behavior . In numerous instances the post offices were made headquarters for local party committees and organizations and the centres of partisan scheming . Party literature favorable to the postmasters ' party , that never passed through the mails , was distributed through the post offices as an item of party service , and matter of a political character , passing regularly through the mails and addressed to patrons belonging to the opposite party , was withheld ; disgusting and irritating placards were prominently displayed in many post offices , and the attention of Democratic inquirers for mail matter tauntingly directed to them by the postmaster ; and in various ways postmasters and other officials annoyed and vexed those holding opposite political opinions , who , in common with all having business at public offices , were entitled to considerate and obliging treatment . In some quarters official incumbents neglected public duty to do political work , and in Southern States they frequently were not only inordinately active in questionable political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sinister manipulation of colored voters , and by other practices inviting avoidable and dangerous collisions between the white and colored population . I mention these things in order that what I shall say later may be better understood . I by no means attempt to describe all the wrongdoing which formed the basis of many of the suspensions of officials that followed the inauguration of the new administration . I merely mention some of the accusations which I recall as having been frequently made , as illustrating in a general way certain phases of pernicious partisanship that seemed to me to deserve prompt and effective treatment . Some suspensions , however , were made on proof of downright official malfeasance , as distinguished from personal transgression or partisan misconduct . Complaints against officeholders based on the latter charges were usually made to the Executive and to the heads of departments by means of letters , ordinarily personal and confidential , and also often by means of verbal communications . Whatever papers , letters , or documents were received on the subject , either by the President or by any head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed together on department files . These complaints were carefully examined ; many were cast aside as frivolous or lacking support , and others , deemed of sufficient gravity and adequately established , resulted in the suspension of the accused officials . Suspensions instead of immediate removals were resorted to , because under the law then existing it appeared to be the only way that during a recess of the Senate an offending official could be ousted from his office , and his successor installed pending his confirmation at the Senate 's next session . Though , as we have already seen , the law permitted suspensions by the President " in his discretion , " I considered myself restrained by the pledges I had made from availing myself of the discretion thus granted without reasons , and felt bound to make suspensions of officials having a definite term to serve only for adequate cause . It will be observed further on that no resistance was then made to the laws pertaining to Executive removals and suspensions , on the ground of their unconstitutionality ; but I have never believed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when construed as permit4ing interference with the freedom of the President in making removals , would survive a judicial test of its constitutionality . Within thirty days after the Senate met in December , 1885 , the nominations of the persons who had been designated to succeed officials suspended during the vacation were sent to that body for confirmation , pursuant to existing statutes . It was charged against me by the leader of the majority in the Senate that these nominations of every kind and description , representing the suspensions made within ten months succeeding the 4th of March , 1885 , numbered six hundred and forty-three . I have not verified this statement , but I shall assume that it is correct . The list presented contained among the suspended officials two hundred and seventy-eight postmasters , twenty-eight district attorneys , and twenty-four marshals , and among those who held offices with no specified term there were sixty-one internal revenue officers and sixty-five consuls and other persons attached to the foreign service . It was stated on the floor of the Senate , after that body had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus submitted there had been fifteen confirmations and two rejections . Quite early in the session frequent requests in writing began to issue from the different committees of . the Senate to which these nominations were referred , deleted material // Up to this stage of the controversy , not one of the many requests made for the reasons for suspensions or for the papers relating to them had been sent from the Senate as a body ; nor had any of them been addressed to the President . It may seem not only strange that , in the existing circumstances , the Sensate should have so long kept in the background , but more strange that the Executive , constituting a coordinate branch of the Government , and having such exclusive concern in the pending differences , should have been so completely ignored . I can not think it uncharitable to suggest in explanation that as long as these requests and refusals were confined to Senate committees and heads of departments , a public communication stating the position of the President in the controversy would probably be avoided ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an intent , in addressing requests to the heads of departments , to lay a foundation for the contention that the Senate or its committees had a right to control these heads of departments as against the President in matters relating to executive duty . On the 17th of July , 1885 , during the recess of the Senate , one George NI . Dos-kin was suspended from the office of District Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama , and John D. Burnett was designated as his successor . The latter at once took possession of the office , and entered upon the discharge of its duties ; and on the 14th of December , 1885 , the nomination of Burnett was sent to the Senate for confirmation . This nomination , pursuant to the rules and customs of the Senate , was referred to its Committee on the Judiciary . On the 26th of December , that committee then having the nomination under consideration , one of its members addressed a communication to the Attorney General of the United States , requesting him , " on behalf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by its direction , " to send to such menibbr of the committee all papers and information in the possession of the Department of Justice touching the nomination of Burnett ; " also all papers and information touching the suspension and proposed removal from office of George M. Duskin . " On the 11th of January , 1886 , the Attorney General responded to this request in these terms " The Attorney General states that he sends herewith all papers , etc. , touching the nomination referred to ; and in reference to the papers touching the suspension of Duskin from office , he has as yet received no direction from the President in relation to their transmission . " At this point it seems to have been decided for the first tulle that the Senate itself should enter upon the scene as interrogator . It was not determined , however , to invite the President to answer this new interrogator , either for the protection and defense of his high office or in self-vindication . It appears to have been also determined at this time to give another form to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure the " papers and in touching the suspension and proposed removal from office of George M. Duskin . " In pursuance of this plan the following resolution was on the 25th of January , 1886 , adopted by the Senate in executive session : " Resolved . That the Attorney General of the United States be , and he hereby is , directed to transmit to the Senate copies of all documents and papers that have been filed in the Department of Justice since the 1st day of January , n. 0 . 1885 , in relation to the conduct of the office of District Attorney of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama . " The language of this resolution is more adroit than ingenuous . While appearing reasonable and fair upon its face , and presenting no indication that it in any way related to a case of suspension , it quickly assumes its real complexion when examined in the light of its surroundings . The requests previously made on behalf of Senate committees have ripened into a " demand " by the Senate itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that from the beginning there might have been an intent on the part of the Senate to claim that the heads of departments who are members of the President 's Cabinet , and his trusted associates and advisers , owed greater obedience to the Senate than to their Executive chief in affairs which he and they regarded as exclusively within Executive functions . As to the real meaning and purpose of the resolution , a glance at its accompanying conditions and the incidents preceding it makes manifest the insufficiency of its disguise . This resolution was adopted by the Senate in executive session , where the entire senatorial business clone is the consideration of treaties and the confirmation of nominations for office . At the time of its adoption Buskin had been suspended for more than six months , his successor had for that length of time been in actual possession of the office , and this successor 's nomination was then before the executive session of the Senate for confirmation . Tine demand was for copies of documents and papers in relation to tine conduct of the office filed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incumbency almost equally divided between the suspended officer and the person nominated to succeed him . The documents and papers demanded could not have been of any possible use to the Senate in executive session , except as they had a bearing either upon the suspension of the nine or the nomination of the other . But as we have already seen , the Attorney General had previously sent to a committee of the Senate all the papers he had in his custody in any way relating to the nomination and the fitness of the nominee , ? whether such papers had reference to the conduct of the office or otherwise . Excluding , therefore , such documents and papers embraced in the demand as related to the pending nomination , and wIlich had already been transmitted , it was plain that there was nothing left with the Attorney General that could be desired by the Senate in its executive session except what had reference to the conduct of the previous incumbent and his suspension . It is important to recall in this connection the fact that this subtle demand of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the office " followed closely upon a failure to obtain " all papers and information " touching said suspension , in response to a plain and blunt request specifying precisely what was desired . I have referred to these matters because it seems to me they indicate the animus and intent which characterized the first stages of a discussion that involved tine right and functions of the Executive branch of the Government . It was perfectly apparent that the issue was between the President and the Senate , and that the question constituting that issue was whether or not the Executive branch of the Government was invested with the right and power to suspend officials without the interference of the Senate or any accountability to that body for the reasons of its action . It must have been fully understood that if it was desired to deal with this issue directly and fairly , disembarrassed by any finesse for position , it could have been easily done , if only one of the ninny requests for reasons for suspensions , which were sent by committees of the Senate to heads of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . ? Within three days after the passage by the Senate , in executive session , of the resolution directing the Attorney General to transmit to that body tine documents and papers on file relating to the management and conduct of the office from which Mr. Duskin had been deleted material 8 The Independence of the Executive . petency , and character are above reproach , and to give place to another who has not rendered such service , is a violation of the spirit of the law and of the practical gratitude the people and the Government of the United States owe to the defenders of constitutional liberty and the integrity of the Government . " The first of these resolutions contains charges which , if true , should clearly furnish grounds for the impeachment of the Attorney General , ? if not the President under whose " influence " he concededly ref used to submit the papers demanded by the Senate . A public officer whose acts are " in violation of his official duty and subversive of the fundamental principles of the Government , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his predicament of guilt . The second resolution has the merit of honesty in confessing that the intent and object of the demand upon the Attorney General was to secure the demanded papers and documents for the purpose of passing upon the President 's reasons for suspension . Beyond this , the declaration it contains , that it was the " duty of the Senate to refuse its advice and consent to proposed removals of officers " when the papers and documents relating to their " supposed official or personal misconduct " were withheld , certainly obliged the Senate , if the resolution should be adopted , and if the Senate 's good faith in the controversy should be assumed , to reject or ignore all nominations made to succeed suspended officers unless that body was furnished the documents and papers upon which the suspension was based , and thus given an opportunity to review and reverse or confirm the President 's executive act , resting , by the very terms of existing law , " in his discretion . " The third resolution is grandly phrased , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , as the removal of veteran soldiersfrom office did not seem to assume any considerable prominence in the arraignment of the administration , the object of the resolution is slightly obscure , unless , as was not unusual in those days , the cause of the old soldier was impressed into the service of the controversy for purposes of general utility . A minority report was subsequently submitted , signed by all the Democratic members of the committee , in which the allegations of the majority report were sharply controverted . It was therein positively asserted that no instance could be found in the practice of the Government whose similarity in all essential features entitled it to citation as an authoritative precedent ; and that neither the Constitution nor the existing law afforded any justification for the demand of the Senate . These two reports , of course , furnished abundant points of controversy . About the time of their submission , moreover , another document was addressed to the Senate , which , whatever else may be said of it , seems to have contributed considerably to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a message from the President , in which his position concerning the matter in dispute was defined . In this communication complete and absolute responsibility for all suspensions was confessed ; and the fact that the President had been afforded no opportunity to speak for himself was stated in the following terms : " Though these suspensions are my executive acts based upon considerations addressed to me alone , and for which I am wholly responsible , I have had no invitation from the Senate to state the position which I have felt constrained to assume in relation to the same , or to interpret for myself my acts and motives in the premises . In this condition of affairs I have forborne addressing the Senate upon the subject , lest I might be accused of thrusting myself unbidden upon the attention of that body . " // This statement was accompanied by the expression of a hope that the misapprehension of the Executive position , indicated in the majority report just presented and published , might excuse his then submitting a communication . He commented upon the statement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is whether it is within the constitutional competence of either House of Congress to have access to the official papers and documents in the various public offices of the ' United States , created by laws enacted by themselves , " by suggesting that t hough public officials of the United States might be created by laws enacted by the two Houses of Congress , this fact did not necessarily subject their offices to congressional control , but , on the contrary , that " these instrumentalities were created for the benefit of the people , and to answer the general purposes of government under the Constitution and the laws ; and that they are unencumbered by any lien in favor of either branch of Congress growing out of their construction , and unembarrassed by any obligation to the Senate as the price of their creation . " While not conceding that the Senate had in any case the right to review Executive action in suspending officials , the President disclaimed any intention to withhold official papers and documents when requested ; and as to such papers and documents , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue as he had theretofore done in all cases , to lay them before the Senate without inquiry as to the use to be made of them , and relying upon the Senate for their legitimate utilization . The proposition was expressly denied , however , that papers and documents inherently private or confidential , addressed to the President or a head of department , having reference to an act so entirely executive in its nature as the suspension of an official , and which was by the Constitution as well as by existing law placed within the discretion of the President , were changed in their nature and instantly became official when placed for convenience or for other reasons in the custody of a public depart-intent . The contention of the President was thus stated : " There is no mysterious pow , of transmutation in departmental custody , nor is there magic in the undefined and sacred solemnity of departmental files . If the presence of these papers in the public office is a stumbling-block in the way of tine performance of senatorial duty , it can be easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the message as follows : " The requests and demands which by the score have for nearly three months been presented to the different departments of tine Government , whatever may be their form , have but one complexion . They assume the right of the Senate to sit in judgment upon the exercise of any exclusive discretion and Executive function , for which I ft/11 solely responsible to the people from whom I have so lately received the sacred trust of office . My oath to support and defend tine Constitution , my duty to the people who have chosen me to execute the powers of their great office and not relinquish them , and my ditty to the chief magistracy which I must preserve unimpaired in all its dignity and vigor , compel me to refuse compliance with these demands . " This was immediately followed by this unqualified avowal of tine power of the Senate in the matter of confirmation " To tine end that the service may be improved , the Senate is invited to tine fullest scrutiny of tine persons submitted to them for public office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to advise and consent to their appointment . I shall continue , as I have thus far done , to furnish , at the request of the confirming body , all the information I possess touching the fitness of the nominees placed before Omni for their ac- tion , both when they are proposed to fill vacancies and to take the place of suspended officials . Upon a refusal to confirm , I shall not assume the right to ask the reasons for the action of the Senate nor question its determination . I can not think that anything more is required to secure worthy incumbents in public office than a careful and independent discharge of our respective duties within their well-defined limits . " As it was hardly concealed that by no means the least important senatorial purpose in the pending controversy was to discredit the Civil *Service reform pledges and professions of the Executive , in concluding the message this issue was time distinctly invited : " Every pledge which I have made by which I have placed a limitation upon my exercise of executive power has been faithfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no mistakes have been committed ; but not a suspension has been made except it appeared to my satisfaction that the public welfare would be promoted thereby . Many applications for suspension have been denied , and an adherence to the rule laid down to govern my action as to such suspensions has caused much irritation and impatience on the part of those who have insisted upon more changes in the offices . " Tire pledges I have made were made to the people , and to them I am responsible for the manner in which they have been redeemed . I am not responsible to the Senate , and I am unwilling to submit my actions and official conduct to them for judgment . " There are no grounds for an allegation that the fear of being found false to my professions influences me in declining to submit to the demands of the Senate . I have not constantly refused to suspend officials and thus incurred the displeasure of political friends , and yet willfully broken faith with the people , for the sake of being false to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allurements , constantly offered , of confirmation of appointees conditioned upon the avowal that suspensions have been made on party grounds alone , nor the threat proposed ire the resolutions now before the Senate that no confirmation will be made sinless the demands of that body be complied wil h. are sufficient to discourage or deter nre from following in the way which I trill convinced leads to better government for the people . " The temper and disposition of the Senate may be correctly judged , I think , from the remarks made upon the presentation of this message by the chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary and the acknowledged leader of the majority . On a formal motion that the message he printed and lie upon the table , he moved as an amendment that it be referred to the committee of which he was chairman , and said : " I merely wish to remark in moving to refer this document to the Committee on the Judiciary , that it very vividly brought to my mind the communications of King Charles I. to the Parliament , telling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do and ought not to do ; and I think I am safe in saying that it is the first time in the history of the Republican United States , that any President of the United States has undertakers to interfere with the deliberations of either House of Congress on questions pending before them , otherwise than by messages on the state of the Union which the Constitution commands him to make from time to time . This message is devoted simply to a question for the Senate itself , in regard to itself , that it has under consideration . That is its singularity . I think it will strike reflecting people in this country as somewhat extraordinary , ? if in this day of reform anything at all can be thought extraordinary . " King Charles I. fared badly at the hands of the Parliament ; but it was // most reassuring to know that , after all aid and done , the Senate of the United States was not a bloodthirsty body ; and that the chairman of its Committee on the Judiciary was one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when outside of the Senate . The debate upon the questions presented by the report and resolutions recommended by the majority of the committee , and by the minority report and the presidential message , occupied almost exclusively the sessions of the Senate for over two weeks . More than twenty-five Senators participated , and the discussion covered such a wide range of argument that all considerations relevant to the subject , and some not clearly related to it , seem to have been presented . At the close of the debate , the resolution condemning the Attorney General for withholding the papers and documents which the Senate had demanded was passed by thirty-two votes in the affirmative , and twenty-five in the negative ; the next resolution , declaring it to be the duty of the Senate to refuse its advice and consent to proposed removals of officers when papers and documents in reference to their alleged misconduct were withheld , was adopted by a majority of only a single vote ; and the proclamation contained in the third resolution , setting forth the obligations of the Government and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimously approved , except for one dissenting voice . The controversy thus closed arose from the professed anxiety of the majority in the Senate to guard the interests of an official who was suspended from office in July , 1885 , and who was still claimed to be in a condition of suspension . In point of fact , however , that official 's term of office expired by limitation on the 20th of December , 1885 , ? before the demand for papers and documents relating to his conduct in office was made , before the resolutions and reports of the Committee on the Judiciary were presented , and before the commencement of the long discussion in defense of the right of a suspended incumbent . This situation escaped notice in Executive quarters , because the appointee to succeed the suspended officer having been actually installed and in the discharge of the duties of the position for more than six months , and his nomination having been sent to the Senate very soon after the beginning of its session , the situation or duration of the former incumbent 's terns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term was , however , distinctly alleged in the Senate on the second day of the discussion , and by the first speaker in opposition to the majority report . There was , therefore , no question of suspension or removal remaining in the case , but still the discussion continued ; and shortly after the resolutions of the committee were passed , the same person who superseded the suspended officer was again nominated to succeed him by reason of the expiration of his term ; and this nomination was confirmed . At last , after stormy weather , Duo-kin , the suspended , and Burnett , his successor , were at rest . The earnest contention that beat about their names ceased , and no shout of triumph disturbed the supervening quiet . I have attempted this evening , after fourteen years of absolute calm , to recount the prominent details of the strife ; and I hope that I may assume that your interest in the subject is still sufficient to justify me in a further brief reference to some features of the dispute and certain incidents that followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its true character and motive . Of the elaborate speeches made in support of the resolutions and the committee 's majority report , seven dealt more or less prominently with the President 's Civil Service reform professions and his pledges against the removal of officials on purely partisan grounds . It seems to have been assumed that these pledges deleted material deleted material 14 Some Prejudices about Life Assurance . lage , became again the independent agent of the people , representing a coordinate branch of their Government , charged with responsibilities which , under his oath , he ought not to avoid or share , and invested with powers , not to be surrendered , but to be used , under the guidance of patriotic intentions , a clear conscience , and an unfaltering faith in the Divine Ruler of the universe , who fails not when sincere mid lofty human endeavor humbly seeks his aid . Grover Cleveland .                     