@@430334

 | THE Western Union Telegraph Company and the telephone interests of the United States are directly responsible for the very existence of the great poolroom game and its aftermath of human wreckage . I know full well that , because they are among the country 's great " business interests , " because the stock in them is owned by eminent respectables in business , and because they can hide behind the impersonality of their corporate existence , they have not been compelled to bear their just share of the terrific burden of guilt . But they have been drawing from five to ten million dollars a year as their " rakeoff " from the pool-rooms . Then why should they escape any part of the odium attaching to the infamous game they nourish ? Let me tell here the story of their complicity in this crime . Halfway between the Sucker and the racetrack stands the pool-room . Connecting the race-track with the pool-room , is the telegraph . Forming the connecting link between the pool-room and the Sucker we find the telephone . As we approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , therefore , to the telephone . With the mutations of the game , the telephone sometimes usurps the original function of the telegraph , and the telegraph sometimes infringes on the general function of the 50 telephone ; but the services of these two offenders in the pool-room game , for the most part , are found to be rendered as first stated . Every pool-room of the two thousand or more that were running in New York before District Attorney Jerome began his last crusade was equipped with one or more telephones that were used for gambling purposes and for nothing else . All of the many hundreds of pool-rooms still running in New York , and all of the handbooks , are equipped with telephones for gambling purposes and for nothing else . Every one of the estimated four thousand pool-rooms throughout the United States is equipped with telephones used for gambling purposes and for nothing else . In every big city in the United States there are extensive switchboards , with hundreds of telephone connections , which are used for gambling purposes and for nothing else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of the big telephone companies , and in ninety-nine cases out of every one hundred the company knew when it was installing the telephone that it was to be used to lure men and women to destruction . But for the sake of swelling the dividends to stockholders the managers of the telephone companies have entered into active partnership with the pool-room criminals , and , because their dividends are swelled so materially by these managers , the stockholders and directors have not said the word that would clear their skirts of the nasty smirch  | of this crime . They tacitly have allowed their companies to become bone and sinew in the body of the pool-room crime . Take the operations of the New York Telephone Company and of the New York and New Jersey Telephone Company . The former dominates Manhattan and the Bronx and Westchester County , the latter , territory contiguous . The New York company , the chief offender in the New York situation , has approximately two hundred and fifty thousand telephones . Probably two per cent . of the entire business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pool-rooms . Out of the enormous business of the New York company two per cent . does not sound like as important a factor as I here insist the gambling part of the telephone business is . But , expressed in another way , the extent to which dividends are swelled by participation in the pool-room game becomes more graphic . While there is no way of finding out from the official statements of the company what its revenue from its poolroom service is , men who stand with one hand on telephone affairs and the other on the pool-room game tell me that the business approximates one million dollars annually . In the office of the New York Telephone Company is a huge book which contains the names of the users of telephones who keep their addresses and their telephone numbers out of the telephone directory . In the beginning this secret book was supposed to contain only the names of those subscribers who had some good purpose in keeping their telephone numbers from the public . In this secret book there were about three thousand names . Not more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the names of subscribers who had any proper motive for wishing their numbers kept from the public . The others were pool-room keepers . In hundreds of instances more than one telephone was listed under a single name . Sometimes there were as many as twenty telephones charged to one man . And , almost invariably , the men whose names appeared in the book as the lessees of many telephones were either known pool-room men or were men of obscure identity who unquestionably were dummy subscribers for pool-room keepers ? men " higher up " who had obvious reasons for doing business in other men 's names . The telephone company takes no chances of losing money by the installation of poolroom telephones . There is a rule that all telephones used for this purpose shall be paid for at the full rate one year in advance . The company knows that the business is more or less precarious . It knows that poolrooms shift locations , that they are raided by the police , who sometimes tear out telephones , and that pool-room men are not good business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes and the police come along and tear out the instrument , you have lost the amount of a full year 's payment , minus the service you had before the raid . The telephone company does not re-install your telephone in another location , or in the old location after the trouble is over , for the customary charge made to legitimate subscribers who have their telephones moved . In a word , the telephone company charges a special rate and binds the lessee down so tightly with provisos that it not only takes no financial risk on this class of business but makes sure of a big profit for itself in excess of the profit it makes from legitimate subscribers . I have heard many pool-room men protest profanely against the extortion of the telephone company . The pool-room keeper , however , has no recourse . He can not operate without telephone service . To fall under the ban of the New York Telephone Company by reason of deliquency or other cause means that the bookmaker must step down and out . I know how the police graft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy of the telephone company . The function of the telephone in the poolroom game is threefold . It is used , first , to disseminate the information on which the gambling is based ; second , to carry the bets from the Sucker to the pool-room ; third , to convey results of races . After that hardened malefactor , the Western Union Telegraph Company , was compelled to abandon , ostensibly , its special racing service ? an incident to which more extended reference will be made when I come to the complicity of the Western Union ? the telephone company leaped promptly into the breach made between race-track and pool-room . So , at present , we find the advance information on the races gathered into a clearing - house in Jersey City and telephoned across to Manhattan Island . From the Jersey side the information ? scratches , weights , jockeys ,  | track conditions , and " prices , " or odds posted at the track ? is telephoned to four sub-centers in New York . Each of these centers is equipped by the telephone company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are arranged so that the information coming from the one chief headquarters in Jersey City may be sent out to several pool-rooms and handbooks at a time . This is necessary because it would be an interminable task and involve too great an expense to serve each room separately . Each pool-room pays fifteen dollars a day for this service . With this advance information the Sucker is ready to make his bets . In making these bets the second function of the telephone appears . It is estimated that not less than forty million dollars a year is bet in Greater New York over the telephone . By this I mean that this enormous amount of money is gambled in rooms in out-of-the-way lofts , dwellings , flats , and obscure offices which are not frequented by the bettors in person at all . In a previous article I described the system by which the pool-room mob gathers and cares for these " telephone bets , " how each bettor is rated with reference to the amount of money he can afford to lose without " welshing " , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of secrecy for bettors . Such rooms , ordinarily , do not give even their customers any information about themselves in the directory , being kept in the big secret book of the respectable New York Telephone Company . This estimated figure of forty million dollars does not include the volume of business which is done over the telephone indirectly . Here , then , we have the spectacle of a fiftymillion-dollar corporation , owned and controlled by men who would discharge one of their employees for playing the ponies , saying to thousands of New York men and women : " You want to bet but are afraid to be seen entering a pool-room . We have arranged with the pool-room criminals so that you can gamble away your money , your employer 's money , your husband 's money , any money you can lay your hands on by fair means or foul , and at the same time never go near a pool-room . We have fixed it so that your office telephone-booth will do as well . If you are an under-clerk and not allowed to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when you go to lunch . We have installed the telephone for the bookmaker , and he will give you the number . Of course , officially , we will have no knowledge of what you are doing . But by our dividends we will know how many trusted employees have embezzled , how many men have committed suicide , and how many honest husbands have been ruined financially by the betting fever in their wives . " Remember , it is a corporation that thus does its share in driving all these thousands hellward . It is one of the sacred " business interests . " It is a corporation that prates of the work it has done in the progress of the world by the development of the telephone . Whereby I am reminded that nitroglycerin has played an important part in the progress of the world . Yet , when my friend " Frisco Red " uses nitroglycerin to crack a safe , no one argues that " Red " did a good thing . And , more than likely , " Red " needed the money , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smug directors and stockholders of the great wireusing companies supporting the pool-room crime by their partnership . To me it is a case of a parson with a jimmy under his surplice . The third function of the telephone is of equal importance with the other two . It brings the results , thereby enabling the bettor to play from one race to the next , and perpetuates the crime by rendering the facilities for its commission perfect and complete . The hypocritical cry of the New York Telephone Company , when criticized for complicity in this crime , has been that it does not know to what uses a telephone is to be put , and that , being a common-carrier corporation , it could not base a refusal to serve the public on a mere suspicion . Does anyone believe for an instant that the New York Telephone Company does not know virtually every pool-room telephone it owns ? Does it install extensive and expensive switchboards , especially designed to serve the largest possible number of poolrooms at one time , and enter into contracts for such installation without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be put ? Does anyone outside of an insane asylum believe that the names in this big secret book maintained by the company are  | thought by the management to be those of honest business men ? These be times when the public is asked by a certain class of corporations to believe many things . Is it not inferring that the public is credulous to the point of feeble-mindedness when we are asked to believe in the innocence of the telephone company ? In other cities I hear the same hypocritical cry from the telephone companies . In Chicago the situation is described when the New York situation is told , except that the figures must be scaled down some . Daily receipts of the Chicago Telephone Company , directly and indirectly , from the race-betting game are said to approximate three thousand dollars . There is the same demand by the company that the gamblers pay in advance . When something goes wrong between police and gambler and the former wander in and destroy the telephone apparatus , the gambler must make a new contract and pay for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one incident which should forever put to rest the false plea that the telephone company does not know of its complicity in the pool-room game , so far as Chicago is concerned . That particularly daring band of criminals known as the old Cook County constabulary once got a notion that " Mont " Tennes , a big pool-room operator , should pay them a large sum each week for the privilege of operating pool-rooms and handbooks . The leader called him up and told him so . What Tennes said was explicit , but not printable . The constables immediately sent out from their number a wrecking-crew to drive spikes into the big , lead-sheathed cables carrying the telephone wires . The result was the destruction of all telephone service , both legitimate and illegitimate , throughout large areas of the city . The Chicago Telephone Company , which has been even more hypocritical than the New York company in this pool-room muter , sent out armed men to bag the outlaws who were tampering with the cables . They did not catch them , and the destruction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered an ultimatum to the big pool-room combination , to this effect : " Call off these constables instantly . Pay them tribute or not ? we do not care ? but call them off . If you do n't , we will withdraw telephone service from every pool- room and handbook in Chicago . " Interference by the constables stopped , and the friendly relations between the telephone company and the gamblers were restored . Within a few days of this incident the same high official gave his solemn assurance to the newspapers that his company was doing all in its power to cooperate with the police in the suppression of race-betting ! Until last summer the long-distance telephone played an unimportant part in the race-gambling of the country . Previously the Western Union had carried the gambling information from the race-tracks to the pool-rooms , leaving the telephone companies to distribute it to bettors . Then came the fight by the Rev. Thomas Slicer on the New York state race-tracks and the compromise between the tracks and the reformers , under the terms of which the Western Union was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this compromise was that , if the Western Union could be prevented from getting the track information , the source of supply of the pool-rooms would be cut off , and they would die for sheer want of the nourishment the Western Union had been giving them . But there is no band of criminals so resourceful as this pool-room mob . The action of the track-owners having made a gap in the Western Union service , it called for immediate and , if need be , desperate counteraction on the part of the respectables who keep the game alive by their eagerness to supply service . Into this gap leaped David Mitchell , who had had charge of the racing department of the Western Union before the City Club of New York forced the company to abandon the open operation of that department . Mitchell knows more about the transmission of gambling information by telegraph than any other man in the United States . He became associated with " Johnny " Payne , of Cincinnati , who had been a racetrack and pool-room man for many years . The National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these men for the sole purpose of dealing in gambling information . At the Eastern tracks most extraordinary means were employed to steal the racing news for which hundreds of thousands of frenzied bettors throughout the country were clamoring and which the race-track owners  | refused to give out because of their agreement with the reformers . Towers were built " outside the fence , " telescopes and heliographs were brought into play , a secret but comprehensive messenger service was established , and every other method of stealing the information that their criminal ingenuity and their long experience suggested was employed by the National News Company . Toward the latter part of the last Eastern racing season , this company began to employ the long-distance telephone for the dissemination of the information that forms the basis of racegambling . Headquarters were established in Cincinnati , Payne 's home . Into these headquarters was and is being gathered the information from the various tracks . It was found that by leasing long-distance telephone wires , satisfactory service could be established between headquarters and the various cities throughout the country . Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In each city where the betting fever raged a service headquarters was established . A gambling clique in each city bought the information and peddled it to the individual pool-rooms and handbooks , from which it was passed on to the bettors by local telephone . The long-distance wires used for this purpose are the property of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , formerly called the American Bell Telephone Company , the concern owning the great rights and patents underlying the Bell system wherever it exists . This corporation owns 64.43 per cent . of the stock of the New York Telephone Company , 52.04 per cent . of the stock of the Chicago Telephone Company , a majority of the stock of the Philadelphia company , and is in absolute control of the telephone service of a great many of the other large cities of the country . It has more than five million miles of wire , and employs more than seventyfive thousand persons . It has an authorized capital of two hundred and fifty million dollars and assets of three hundred million dollars . It is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , and yet , because going into virtual partnership with the pool-room criminals . meant increased dividends to the stockholders of this great concern , the wires of the company have been turned over to these criminals whenever they were asked for to perpetuate and foster the greatest gambling evil that exists , or ever did exist , in the United States . I fancy that if Mr. Frederick P. Fish , president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , or his general manager were asked to what use Payne is putting the long-distance wires he leases from the company , Mr. Fish , or his manager , would reply that he does not know , that the company has no control of nor right to censor the information that is sent over a leased wire . But if a stock-broker in New York wishes to lease a wire to Chicago , he is compelled to establish the character of his business to the satisfaction of the telephone company and to prove beyond question his ability to pay for the service . Is it reasonable to suppose that at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man opens negotiations with this same telephone company , the manager , through suddenly acquired unsophistication , neglects to ascertain what the wires are to be used for or the character of the man leasing them ? No man in the race-gambling business in the United States is better known than Payne . Few men , if any , have paid as much money to telegraph and telephone companies for tolls on gambling information as has Payne . And yet we are asked to believe that when a " National News Company , " an " Interstate News Company " or other " blind " race-information company springs into existence , with a former trusted employee of the racing department of the Western Union and " Johnny " Payne at its head , the telephone company does not know to what evil purposes the service they contract to give is to be put . There is no way of telling exactly how much money has been and is being paid by the pool-room criminals to the telephone companies , local and long distance . Presumably for fear that there might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the profits from this criminal source are hidden away in the reports of telephone companies along with other sources of income . The polluted profits of the New York Telephone Company are larger than those of any other company . This item of an estimated one million dollars a year from the New York business probably is not more than one-fifth of all the income that is derived in a similar way throughout the country , including the  | local and long-distance business . Five mil- lion dollars a year is ten per cent . on the capitalization of the New York Telephone Company . It is two per cent . on the quarter-billion capitalization of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company . It is the share of respectable stockholders in the net profits on the play of the American race-betting public . It is their reward for the prostitution of one of the big " business interests " of the country . In New York the efforts of the men who have made it their business to fight the pool-room have not been directed strongly against the telephone company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not live . The full extent of the guilt of the New York Telephone Company does not seem to have impressed itself on those who are seeking to uproot the iniquitous pool-room game . I find in Chicago , however , that there has been made much advancement in this direction . When New York becomes fully aroused to the enormity of this amazing evil it has harbored , it will find in Chicago some progressive ideas as to its uprooting . There is in the western city a loud and prolonged demand that the Chicago Telephone Company be compelled to do by law that which it has been claiming to do all along , but which it never did ? refuse telephone service to gamblers . That the telephone company is responsible for a large part of the betting evil , the Chicago men who are fighting the pool-rooms accept as a fact too patent to require argument . They are fighting on that line . It is the hardest possible blow ? barring the excision of the telegraph service from the situation ? that can be struck at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago passed a law prohibiting the printing on the tickers of race-results or racing information which could be used for betting purposes . These results are printed to-day on the New York tickers . Millions of dollars a year are wagered in New York with the stipulation that the bets shall be decided by the ticker . " Ticker odds " ? the quotations on the horses printed on the ticker ? is one of the commonest of all expressions in the betting world in New York . I am much mistaken if New York does not reach the same conclusion as did Chicago as to the harm that may cone out on the tape . The pool-room ? the halfway house between the Sucker and the race-track ? has been described in a previous article of this series . Having followed the Sucker along the wires and cables of the telephone companies to the pool-room , I come to the Western Union Telegraph Company , linking the race-track to the pool-room . Before tracing the pool-room history and the present operations of this callous corporate criminal , I want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the list of corporations which nurse the pool-room crime . The explanation is simple . Not so very long ago the Postal company , with the assistance of " Johnny " Payne , Louis Cella , and other notorious pool-room men , tried to take from the Western Union the pool-room business that the latter had nourished so carefully for many , many years . The Postal failed . It was a novice at this sort of thing . While it was trying to supply gambling information to the pool-rooms of the United States , the Western Union was " cutting in " on the Postal service in the South , stealing the information the Postal had paid the racetracks for , and delivering it to the very pool-rooms the Postal had contracted to serve , before the latter could get the information to them . This was possible because the Western Union had its " loops " in every pool-room in the country , and had built up a wonderfully complete and effective system of pool-room service . The pool-room man , when he buys gambling information , is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Union got its information , or whether it was stolen from the Postal . He bought from the vender who delivered the best goods quickest . The Postal tried to keep the Western Union out of the field for a few weeks , and then , realizing that a beginner in crime had no chance against a grizzled and cunning old thief like the Western Union , it quit in disgust . This is the brief , unvarnished story of the Postal 's only sally into the field of pool-room crime , and is the reason why the Western Union is the recognized pool-room telegraph company . It is the reason why my story from this point must deal with the Western Union to the exclusion of other telegraph companies except those that are controlled by it . The United States government once went to the trouble of having the Western Union indicted as a corporation for helping a notorious gang of green-goods men to promote their swindle . The offense was committed  | in Wisconsin and was of such a character as to admit of no doubt of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked long and hard to land the greengoods gang , and at every turn had found themselves beaten by a most mysterious procedure on the part of the telegraph company . Secret-service men are not the most unsuspecting persons in the world , but even they did not suspect the complicity of the Western Union at first . After months of unsuccessful work it was decided to " plant " an operator in the Western Union office in the small Wisconsin town to which the messages of the gang were being sent . This operator discovered that the messages , before reaching the Wisconsin destination , had been " dropped " in Chicago so that the green-goods swindlers could have access to them . They then were forwarded , as a " stall , " to the Wisconsin town , where the Western Union operator , acting under orders from his superior , received and destroyed them . In other words , by explicit understanding with thieves , the Western Union was handling the messages in such a way as to divert attention from their Chicago headquarters . Whenever I speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swindle ? to which the old green-goods game was as a drop of water to a torrent in viciousness and awful effect ? I am reminded of this incident . It seems to me to illustrate better than anything else can do the utter lack of morals which has marked the operations of this giant corporation . Incredibly insatiate in its grasping for bigger dividends , there has been no depth of deviltry to which it would not descend to swell these dividends . The spirit that permeates its policy seems not to have been nor to be tinged with any restrictive element of common morality . Its wanton disregard of decency seems to be traditional . What , then , of the Western Union 's part in the pool-room crime ? First , it may be charged directly that without the connivance of this company in the beginning the pool-room could not have had its being . There was a time when racing in America was a clean sport , and had to do with improvement in the breed of horses . There was a time when the professional bookmaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him would " take a chance . " In those days betting was a com- paratively innocent amusement between friends , and was confined to the race-tracks . Had not the Western Union been willing for gain ? for bigger dividends ? to carry betting information wherever and whenever the men who conceived the modern pool-room saw fit to send it , there would be no poolroom evil to-day . This was not ignorance of possible consequences on the part of the managers of the great telegraph company . Twenty years ago ? when the iniquitous potentiality of the pool-room first dawned on honest men ? efforts were made to quench the evil by preventing the telegraph company from distributing the information that made the pool-room possible . Courts of competent jurisdiction went so far , even , as to declare a telegraph instrument , when used for pool-room purposes , a gambling device under the common law . The Western Union was told in the beginning that it was aiding and abetting a form of gambling that promised to develop tremendous power for the ruin of men . The Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of morality or common honesty . The dividend god had to be propitiated . The fortunes , the lives , the souls , of men and women were the sacrifices . Nothing mattered so long as the god of dividends did not frown . I might go into history and anecdote to show the partnership of the Western Union and the pool-room in the early stages of the race-gambling evil , but the present-day sins of this habitual offender against decency and morals will take all the space at my disposal . It is necessary , however , in order to set forth the present hypocritical attitude of the Western Union so that the uninitiated may read clearly , to go back in its history to the point where the City Club of New York undertook to force it to be decent . The late Capt . F. Norton Goddard , the most practical and persistent of all the men who have sought to make New York better , appreciated , as any practical man who gives the subject any thought must appreciate , the importance of the part the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He knew that if the Western Union could be forced to abandon its partnership with the pool-room criminals the bottom of the game would fall . At that time the telephone companies had not taken any part in the transmission of gambling information from race-track to pool-room.  | Captain Goddard knew from its history that the Western Union never would abandon its enormous revenue from crime without a tremendously potent incentive . He appreciated the legal difficulties in the way of forcing this sinner to repentance , but he knew that among the directors were men who had no personal knowledge of the practices of which the company had been guilty . It was to the consciences of these that he proposed to appeal . The City Club took up the work of forming public opinion . It depicted the Western Union 's role in the pool-room crime without the softening of colors or the tempering of words . It was shown that from this one source the Western Union derived an income of about five million dollars a year . Jacob Schiff was the director on whom first dawned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped to direct and the taint of some of the dividends he had drawn . Mr. Schiff acted promptly . The enormous Gould interests were swung into line for reform through the appeal which the expose made to the conscience of Miss Helen Gould ; At that time the Western Union maintained an extensive " racing department " for the sole purpose of gathering and distributing gambling information . It paid the race-tracks for the exclusive right to the information , and then peddled it to the thousands of pool-rooms throughout the country . This " racing department " was in New York . Enormous pressure on the board of directors from within and without resulted in the adoption of a resolution calling on Pres. R. C. Clowry , who was and is general manager also , to abandon the special racing bureau . This was in May , 1904 . The day following the carrying out of this order , on May 21st , there was not a pool-room in operation in Greater New York . Such a condition had not prevailed in thirty years . It more than vindicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they claimed that the Western Union supported the pool-rooms of New York and the country . It established the guilt of the telegraph company and its responsibility for the human wreckage in the wake of the pool-room more graphically than anything else could have done . The situation on May 21 , 1904 , was a verdict of " Guilty as charged . " The compulsory righteousness on the part of the Western Union was of short duration . With eyes rolled heavenward and in holier-than-thou tones this corporate hypocrite sanctimoniously announced that it was through with the race-betting business ; that , once and for all , it had washed its hands of the whole affair . The public ? which is disposed to accept the word of a millionaire sinner and doubt the repentance of a porch-climber ? assumed that the Western Union would keep its spoken and written word to the men who were trying to rescue New York particularly and the country at large from the pool-room demon . But reform usually is spasmodic , and after the first engagement the watchmen of the common weal are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of the City Club . The spasm of alleged reform that had come over the Western Union with the application of the ax of an outraged public 's opinion was taken as permanent reform . But men familiar with the pool-room game knew here was no such word as regeneration in the vocabulary of the Western Union . They waited to see just what its next move would be . There is no question that a number of the directors of the Western Union who were brought into unenviable notoriety as the partners of common gamblers by the revelation of the company 's " racing department " were honest in their intention to have that department done away with permanently . There may be a question as to whether these men know of the action of the Western Union subsequent to May 21 , 1904 ? how by adroit management and manipulation much of the pool-room business was again grabbed and is still retained ; how , while still at the mourner 's bench in apparent torment of soul over past sins , the wily Western Union was busily engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not plead ignorance acceptably again . The wheels within wheels in the management of the company , so far as it pertains to the pool-room game , the hoodwinking of some honest directors , and the apparent intention of the management of the company never to relinquish its profits from this unholy alliance must be reserved for another chapter .                     