@@439222

DOES a fiendish necromancer transform a John into a Judas when he enters the halls of legislation , or is it impossible to elect able and honorable men to make our laws ? Popular impression seems to affirm both horns of this deplorable dilemma . We have grown to distrust our state legislatures . Their convening is not hailed with joy , and a universal sigh of relief follows their adjournment . The utterances of the press , the opinions of publicists and scholars , and the sentiments of the street and the market-place are quite at one in their denunciation of the legislature . Our representatives are the subject of jest and ridicule , of anger and fear . This is a serious matter . When a democracy loses faith in its law-makers , respect for law must soon fade away , and with it vanishes self-governinent . Has it never occurred to us that these gibes and thrusts , cartoons and editorials , sermons and sentiments , ought to be directed against ourselves , and not against our servants I am not writing an apology for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbors an insane delusion ; the man who thinks it utterly depraved allows his malevolence to dispel Ins reason . A careful study of and long familiarity with state legislatures , with their personnel , the conditions under which they were elected , and the environments in which they performed their tasks , leads me to believe that some of our criticism is misplaced , and some of our zeal and activity displayed at the wrong time . There are faults , grosS and glaring , in the conduct of stale legislatures . There are also faults , as gross and glaring and less excusable , in the conduct of the constituencies which selected the legislators These must he studied together , that the truth may he learned and the fat/Its remedied . The nature of the problem and the scarcity of published data render the sei . entitle study of the legislative situation delicate and difficult . I have here attempted a fragment of such an inquiry . For this purpose I have taken four legislatures , of states whence biographic data were forthcoming : It is of course vain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fitness of a given class of men for legislative duty . Yet the average human being is influenced most potently by education , by occupation , and by Ca perience . Knowing these we can at least roughly gauge his fitness for the ordinary duties of public life . Genius , indeed , is not amenable to statistical diagnosis , neither is it an clement in this analysis . There is not even a " trace . " Genius would not be represen tative of the 111 assus . I begin with the legislature of Vermont , a sturdy New England state , clinging more nearly than any of its neighbors to the ideals of a day long past . A survival of the revolutionary times gives carts town a representative in the lower chamber . Hence we find one of the largest assemblies in one of the smallest states . There are two hundred and fifty-two members in this populous house of representatives , while in the senate there are thirty members . Of the thirty members of this senate . only three were college graduates ; seven had received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ academies , no numerous in New England : and thirteen received no further education than that offered by the public schools . Nine of the senators were farmers , of lawyers and physicians there were four each , and thirteen were engaged in mercantile pursuits . The state constitution limits the age of the senators to thirty years . Only three members of this senate were under forty years of age , one half were between fifty and sixty , six ranged in age between forty and fifty wars , while six were beyond threescore , the oldest member being seventy-three . The average age of the lawyers was forty-three years , of the physicians fifty vests , of the business men fifty-one years , and of the farmers fifty-four years . Of these thirty men only three had had no previous political experience . Some had been in office practically all their lives . One had carried the burdens of " all the usual town offices . " Another had been township clerk thirty-five years , chairman of the selectmen thirtyseven years , and all this while a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held " most of the town offices , " while still another had held " all except clerk and treasurer . " What showers of public honors ! In the house one twentieth were college graduates , one fourth had received training in academies , while over one half had gone no further than the public schools . There were one hundred and twenty-three farmers in this house , six lawyers , ten physicians , forty-eight merchants and manufacturers , three bankers , five preachers , six insurance writers , two hotel proprietors , three liverymen , fourteen laborers or artisans , including a blacksmith , a driver , a sailor , a teamster , a painter , a " boardsawyer , " several laundry men , carpenters , and loggers . Six had no visible occupation other than that of " politician and office-holder , " while one was a student not yet graduated from his college . One would think that a wonderful degree of versatility and originality was displayed by some of these law-makers in their private pursuits . One member made his daily bread by " occasional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " One useful member was a " lawyer , farmer , and breeder . " Another was busy as " town clerk and trea surer , and clerk in a general store . " But the most versatile of this coterie of men of many affairs was one who professed to find time to be a " furniture dealer and undertaker and miller and dealer in grain and feed . " In this house were twelve under thirty years of age ; one sixth were between thirty and forty years , one third were between forty and fifty years ; one fourth were between fifty and sixty years ; while thirty-five were old men over sixty . The average age of the lawyers was forty , of the business men forty-three , of the laborers forty-three , of the farmers fifty , of the physicians fifty - two , or the clergymen fifty-five . This house also was rich in political experience . Only one eighth had never before held public office , and these were mostly the young men . Many of the older members had held office for fifteen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half had held more than three offices , and had been in public service more than ten years . Of this body of two hundred and eightytwo law-makers , only nineteen had sat in former legislatures , ? several , it is true , for four or five terms ; but the vast bulk had received no previous training in legislative work . Such special preparation for legislative duties as they possessed , they had received in the minor township and county offices . Thirteen of these men were old soldiers , and two were of foreign birth . Ohio may be taken as a type of the populous state in which manufacturing , mining , and agriculture are of nearly equal importance . There sat in its general assembly thirty-three senators and one hundred and ten representatives . In the senate one third had received a college training , a second third had not been farther than the cominon schools , and the last third had been trained in academies , normal schools , and professional schools . Fourteen , or almost one half of this body , were lawyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 730 Our State two teachers , two editors , two farmers , and one physician . Nine of the senators were under forty years old , nine were between forty and fifty years , ten were between fifty and sixty years , and two were over sixty years old . The average age of the lawyers was thirty-six years , of the editors , thirty-eight years , of the business men forty-four years , of the teachers forty-nine years , and of the farmers fifty-five years . One half of these senators bad not held previous political office of any kind . Only six had had previous legislative experience . One eighth of the house members had received a college education ; three eighths attended normal schools , academies , or professional schools , and nearly one half received only a common school education , one representative reporting that he had not been " in school after twelve . " One third of these representatives were lawyers , one fifth were farmers , one sixth were business men , including manufacturers , bankers , druggists , a lumber dealer , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were ten teachers , all from country schools or villages ; five physicians , three editors , and one preacher . Ten laborers and artisans also participated in the lawmaking . This category includes a machinist , several carpenters , and a cigar maker . There were two auctioneers in this house , one the proud possessor of " an established reputation , " and the other , " one of the best in the country . " Here was a commercial traveler who laid claim to greatness because he had " traveled more than one hundred and eighty thousand miles . " One member had for thirty years been a court crier accustomed to the routine of court drudgery . With him sat a metal polisher who was an exponent of labor unionism . One member was still a student in a law school . And , most unusual of all , there sat in this heterogeneous assembly a " musical composer " with a " national reputation , being the author of many works on music and over one hundred piano compost-Legislature8 tions , many of which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said of some of the legal compositions which he helped enact . Of these representatives of the people , six were under thirty years of age , very nearly one half were between thirty awl forty years , one fifth between forty and fifty , one eighth between fifty and shaft . and one eighth over sixty , the oldest member being eighty years old . The average age of the teachers was thirty-five , of the lawyers t iirty-fi ve , of the editors f ortytwo , of the physicians forty-five , of the laborers forty-one , and of the far:m.1.s fifty-four years . One third of the house had not . held any previous political office . Nearly noe fourth had been members of former legislatures , and four of these men were professional politicians ; while others were " experienced politicians or active in politics , " or had " entered politics . " Such members had usually filled county and township offices . It is probable that scarcely any one is sent to the stale legislature who has not been active in local party organizations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district conventions . The acquaintance thus formed is an essential prelude to a successful political canvass . ? There were members is this assembly who had tried their skill at lastly occupations . The teacher who had turned lawyer or editor or farmer was the most numerous of this class . Several were both farmer and merchant ; others wrote insurance between the intervals of law practice or merchandizing . It is the man of modest affairs , or the man of no affairs , who most relishes legislative experience . Over one tenth of these members were old soldiers , and five were foreign born . Indiana represents the states of the middle west where the agricultural interests are still predominant . Of the fifty senators who composed its upper house , ten had received a college education ; eight had graduated from professional schools ; eight had partially completed a college course twelve had attended normal schools or academies ; while quite one third had not passed beyond the common , , Tools . Lawyers composed just one half of this senate , six followed mercantile pursuits , seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a glass oilier and a factory foreman ; there were d-o four physicians , two teachers , and one editor . Only one of the senators was ruler thirty years old . One half were rider forty , one third were between forty and fifty , eight were between fifty and skis ; while only three were over sixty . The average age of the lawyers , the predominating force of the body , was forty vears , of the physicians thirty-nine , of the teachers forty years , of the artisans fortyfive years , of the farmers forty-seven years , and of the business men fifty years . This was virtually a senate of young men . One third had not held previous political off ice , while one tenth had held office over ten years , and one third had been members of former legislatures , many of them for several terms . One seventh of the house members were college graduates , sixteen had received training in professional schools , six partially completed their college course , while eighteen had attended academics or normal schools . Nearly one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the public schools . The records of some of these men recall the pioneer days . Two had received but " six months ' schooling . " Another had been deprived of all educational advantages in his youth , and what education he possessed he received after he had grown to manhood . One member had learned to read in Sunday School . Yet another had only a " limited education . " And still another survival of the age of primitive things had gotten " four months of schooling in a log school-house . " Not quite one third of these representatives of the people were lawyers ; another full third were farmers ; of the remaining one third , four were physicians and four were editors ; the remainder was about equally dividedbetween business men and artisans or laborers . With the bankers , manufacturers , and merchants , sat carriage-makers , miners , painters , glassblowers , bricklayers , bottle-blowers , and plumbers . Here also we find a member who was still a student in college , and who was honored with the privilege of nominating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scant one third had had none , while five had been in public service over ten years , and one had held office over twenty-two years . Nearly one fourth had been members of former legislatures . Nine of this house were under thirty years of age , and nine were over sixty . The rest were about equally divided among the three decades between thirty and sixty years . The average age of the lawyers was thirty-four , and twenty of this number were only thirty or under ; of the laborers or artisans , fortytwo ; of the business men , forty-four ; of the physicians fifty-five ; and of the farmers , fifty-five years . In this assembly were eight old soldiers , and four foreign born . There is evidence here of the same diversity of gifts that WC have found in the other states . Here is one roan who was " teacher , publisher , and lawyer . " Another who combined the tasks of " farmer , brick-maker , and bricklayer . " Of " farmer and lawyer " there are many ; so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchant " or " teach er and farmer , " or " merchant and insurance ; " while one carries his partisanship into his bread-winning as a " farmer , carpenter , contractor , and Democrat . " Here also sat representatives of the labor union , one of whom avowed his convictions that " our tax and financial systems should be overhauled . " Fortunately he was in a large minority , and there was no overturning of established institutions . A " **38;120;TOOLONG " helped neutralize the acid of socialism . Finally , Missouri may be taken as a representative of the southwestern states 732 Our Stole where the sentiments of ante-hellion days are being rapidly dispelled by manufacture and industry . In the assembly I describe sat thirtyfour senators and one hundred and fortywo representatives . One third of the senators were college graduates ; nearly one half bad not passed beyond the common schools ; of the remainder about equal soothers had either a professional training , or had attended college for a short time , or had taken a course in a normal school or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the remaining one Third were mainly business men , only three farmers being f ou nd in the list , and one physician . One half of these men were between forty and fifty years of age , two were over sixty , and one third were under forty . The lawyers averaged fortyone years , the business men forty-seven years , and the farmers silty-four years . Only five of this membership had held no former political office , and two thirds had been members of former legislatures , most of these for several terms . Nearly all of the lawyer-members had been prosecuting attorneys , or city attorneys , or county judges . This senate wan therefore rich in political experience . Of the one hundred and forty-two members of the lower house , only seven had completed their college course , while twenty-seven had gone partially through college . Thirteen had attended professional schools , and twenty-one had received their education in secondary schools . Over fifty-four per cent were limited to a common school education . One member had formed the commendable habit of " studying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confessed himself " quite a student of political economy . " Not quite one third of the house were lawyers , and one third were farmers ; one fourth were engaged in business pursuits , including banking , manufacturing , real estate , insurance , contracting , and milling . Six members were physicians , three were teachers , and nine were editors and Legislatures , " newspaper men . " With the two clergy-men sat one college professor and one Saloon-keeper . The unions were rem , ' sented by a plasterer , a " grainer and marbler , " a miner , a smelter , and a " railroad car inspector . " The variations of mercantile and pc-as combinations were as amusing as in the other states we have studied . . Here was an " undertaker and lawyer , " certainly a misjoinder of parties ; should not read " undertaker and physician Here sat the " promoter and real eslate merchant , " the " salesman and mine organizer , " the " furniture dealer and editor , " the " hortictilturalist , " and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mired and farmer , " and the " teacher , minister . and f armer . " Of " farmer and mercliant " there were several , also of " farmer and miner , " and " farmer and teacher . " Seven of this interesting throng were under thirty years of age , one seventh were over sixty ; over one third were b0-tween thirty and forty , one half between forty and sixty years . The average age of the lawyers was forty-one , of the laborers thirty-nine , of the teachers thirty-five , of the physicians forty-two , of the business men forty-four , of the editors fortytwo , and of the farmers fifty-one years . One fourth of the house had not held previous political office , while one third had been members of former legislatures , many of them for several terms . Over one half of the members had held more than two offices , and one third had been in office more than ten years . In this assembly of one hundred and seventy-five citizens , seven were of foreign birth , and forty-two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Union or for the Confederacy . These are the four legislatures , and from what I can learn they are typical of the entire forty-five that convene annually or biennially in our land . To those who look for a body of welltrained and expert law-makers , this analysis must be depressing ; to those who affirm that the average state legislature is // sot representative of the great body of citizens , the data gathered are likewise disappointing . For one must be profoundly impressed:by the real representat ive character of these law-making bodies . Every degree of education is represented . Indeed , tire one fifth of the men of college training and the one third of academy or professional training far outnumber Me ratio of such men in everyday life . Every profession is represented , almost every conceivable business activity has its patrons on the floor of our legislature ; w it h the farmer sits the artisan , with the hanker sits the union labor agitator , with Me manufacturer sits the small shopkeeper , with the preacher sits the saloonkeeper , with the professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assemblies are far more representative of the rural communities than of the great cities . I have mentioned the men who engage in a multiplicity of pursuits . Them can thrive only in the country . The site exacts specialization . From the cities come most of the young lawyers seeking publicity , the labor union representatives , awl the professional politicians . The age of the law-maker is not that of unfledged youth or useless age . Man is in Iris prime from forty to sixty , and the very large majority of our legislators are of that age . The extreme youth , not yet in possession of his college degree , and the man laden with the experiences of eighty years , are only picturesque extremes in these democratic assemblies . And in the experiences of political life likewise , every phase and variation is represented . Those who have been only voters , those who make politics a business ; those who are ardent partisans , and those who are politically torpid ; the conservative and the demagogue , all are intermingled in these representative bodies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a legislature is not only to represent the people , it is to make laws ; and , un fortunately for our legislative system , the making of laws requires expert knowledge , judicious temperament , and great wisdom . None of these qualities are apparent in bulk , in any state legislature . The class of men who possess expert knowledge in framing and interpreting law are the lawyers . While they predominate over other professions in the legislature , those who are found there are either young men , or men without large practice . I think that it will surprise my readers to learn that from one fourth to one third of the members had previous experience in legislative work . These can temper the conduct of the raw members , but they can scarcely be called experts . It requires also another species of expert to aid in lawmaking , the man who is possessed of technical information concerning tire conditions that bring forth the law : the mining engineer , the elect riciaiT7 the ship-master , the sociologist ; the men who are most affected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halls of legislation . There are other features of this problem which can not be revealed by statistics , but which most be discovered by personal knowledge . ' low many of these men have been elected by corporate interests , to help pass laws favorable to corporations ? How many are owned by politicians , and how many by rich individuals seeking ulterior gain ? How many sought their seats with the secret purpose of bartering their influence for money ? And finally , how many are absolutely independent , placing public welfare high above the claims of party or of persons ? My experience must lead me to answer each of these questions in the same manner : but very few . The legislature is composed of average men , possessed of human weaknesses , prejudices , and passions . They are elected by party machinery . They are pressed by corporate and party demands . The majority are as honest as they are simple , and as efficient as they are wise . These men meet to frame our laws , their work is 734 Our State largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the quality of their output . I remember the first state legislature I ever saw . I was a freshman in college and had gone to the capitol to witness the organizing of the senate and house . The scenes I looked upon were almost a parallel to those in which I had been an actor but a few months before , the organizing of our freshman class . The importance suddenly thrust upon the fresh matriculate turns his head about as much as the sudden fame upsets the new legislator . Here are men who have always lived in small towns and out-of-the-way places , unaccustomed to travel and distinction , now become suddenly the centre of interest for the entire'state . Their pictures are in the papers , distinguished politicians seek them out , they are complimented and dined , and in the blaze of this transitory flame of glory , they lose themselves . The state legislature has been the burial place of many a man 's virtue . The most important function of our early legislatures was deliberation . This has almost entirely disappeared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall , and bills are shot through as by pneumatic pressure . The two most important factors in modern legislation are the lobby and the committee . What deliberation now is granted a measure is given in committee rooms and in private discussion . In the turmoil and boyish ardor of organizing , the lobby interests must secure committees . It takes some weeks before the new members become accustomed to legislative routine . An average session lasts about four months . Of these the first is given over to organizing and learning the pace , the second and third to trading and manipulating , and the final month is devoted to law-passing . The amount of this legislation is overwhelming . One of the legislatures I have described sat one hundred and thirty-two days . It passed four hundred and forty- Legislatures eight general laws , three hundred and twenty-eight local laws , and sixty-two joint resolutions , a total of eight hundred and thirty-eight enactments , or an average of six and one third a day . But the work was not thus evenly distributed . One half of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last day sere passed seventy general laws , seventeen local laws , and six joint resolutions . On next to the last day were passed fifty-nine general laws , twenty local laws , and one joint resolution . A total of one hundred and seventy-three enactments , or one fifth of the work of the session , in two days . I will grant that some of this grin ! had been ground out in committee , but how fine could even a committee grind so much grist ? There are twenty-four hours in one day : in forty-eight hours one hundred and seventy-three laws were passed , or one law every sixteen minutes . But as the legislature sat only twelve hours a day , these rules of human conduct were created at the rate of one every eight minutes . What fecundity ! And there is a fiction that every one is presumed to know the law . These were not all trivial measures , mere amendments or matters of little import . The work of this session included important laws concerning the powers of the boards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an entire negotiableinstrument code . In the same year were passed by the various state legislatures nine thousand three hundred and twenty-five local laws , and four thousand eight hundred and thirty-four general laws ; a total of fourteen thousand one hundred and fifty-nine . An overproduction that has lifted lawlessness above par . Of this mass of legislation a portion is wholesome , another portion is merely passive and harmless , ? if indeed any innocent and inert law can be harmless , ? a third fraction is vicious , and a final part is foolish . The wholesome laws are usually the result of pre-legislative deliberation . I // believe the practice developed in recent years , of codifying all laws upon one subject , is a hopeful tendency toward mature ccislation . The listless laws are the offspring Of our deplorable habit of special legislation , mated with our American Jtood humor . The foolish laws are the trait of ill-conceived reforms . And the vicious laws are the result of bribery , of carelessness , of selfishness , and of partisanship . the first group of vicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are always found in every legislature who were sent there for one special purpose . A few are always found who will play with the gold of others . lie combination of these few with the cullible many makes possible vicious Ian 's . Closely related to these men are the slue or two " milkers " found in every legislature . These under the guise of benevolence introduce a bill " To further secure the rights of stockholders in insurance companies , " or some kindred title , hiding beneath the most innocent phrases the most violent measures , This brings all the interested corporations to the capital with the pap , and the venal legislator fattens to bursting . Unfortunately legislation is often a marketable commodity . Another class of vicious legislation is due to carelessness . The volumes of repealed and amended laws are tokens of this thoughtlessness . In 1873 the legislature of New York passed a charter for the metropolis , and the repealing clause threatened a general jail delivery . The governor refused to sign the measure until an amendment rectified this careless error . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal code , and in whole page of the original was omitted from the copy sent to the executive for approval . Through a legislative blunder the supreme court of Ohio was robbed of a large portion of its jurisdiction , two years ago , and an act of a special session of the legislature was required to override the mistake . A repealed or amended law is sometimes an indication of a change in conditions ; more often it is it confession of weakness or of shortsightedness . Our tendency constantly , to amend makes laws shifting as the sands . And a final group of vicious laws are due to partisanship . The machine in American politics is the merging of all functions of government in one control . While I believe that the popular estimates of party tyranny are somewhat overdrawn , there are yet perennial occasions for a general revulsion of feeling . The party lash is too often substituted for public conscience . When a United States senator is to be elected , party servility reaches its extreme . The candidates for the senate are announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no more confined to the state capitol than the presidential elections to the room wherein the electors meet . The blood-bought Goebel Law of Kentucky , allowing the governor to appoint all local election officials , and permitting the legislature to canvass election returns and reject the vote of any county , with no power of review in any court , is an example of the vicious extreme to which partisanship leads . In 1901 West Virginia passed ten " ripper " bills , giving the incoming governor the power to appoint all the boards of control of all the public institutions in the state . So are often created new and unnecessary offices and places , to serve as nests for the faithful party workers . The payrolls of our states , like those of our cities , are padded for the benefit of the party henchmen . The evil is multiplied when the machine allies itself to corrupt and powerful corporate interests . This is not infrequent . Every state has fought such unholy alliances . The method used by party leaders to bring " pressure " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see the light , " are as amusing as they are diverse and original . I know of an instance where the wife of a reluctant legislator sags kidnapped and held a prisoner for four hours in the rooms of a man who aspired to become , and did become , a United States senator . The political influence over the wife proved as potent as her influence over the husband . This winter , in one of our legislatures , it became necessary to put through a measure which seas labeled " purely political , and therefore not a question of conscience , " ? an unusual inference . A boy member of the legislature happened to have a conscience which was somewhat political in its sensitiveness , and refused to line up . His father was called to the capital , and parental persuasion succeeded where political power failed . And finally , in this long list of laws there are always a few fool measures . There is at least one fool in every legislature . He imagines himself a reformer . He slips in his bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nebraska the reformer wanted to prohibit women from wearing ( corsets and bloomers . This was clearly ( class legislation , for the title Made no ( mention of men . In Pennsylvania he wanted to prohibit treating . In Kansas he wished to repeal the Constitution and enact the Decalogue in its stead . In Indiana he desired benevolently to change , the mathematical ratio of 3.1416 to 3.15 ( because it was " easier to calculate . " And in Michigan he wished to forbid the wearing of tights in circuses and theatres , and the use of every language except English on the menus of hotels and restaurants . This last bill had its origin in the woeful experience of a country memiber who visited Detroit for the first time . ; He confessed that he could not read the ( ( menu at the hotel whither he had resorted for his dinner . So be blindly ordered twelve dishes , " and I 'll be hanged if keven of ' em wer' n't potatoes , " he divulged , as be explained his reform bill . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a drastic anti-trust law which prohibits any corporation which is a member of any pool . or trust in any part of Wee world from doing business in the state . The members who passed this all-reaching measure probably formed a posse ewe imm.9 to in sure its efficiency . rii These proceedings betray lire common weaknesses of mankind lurking in /Ire hearts of our legislators . The creation of a party , the legislator is by nature partisan ; the creature of a boss , he is by me ture servile ; a lover of fame or of wealth , he naturally quails before temptation : a man from the normal walks of life , wills neither special training nor special unlitness , he is amenable to the normal influences that commonly affect human action . There is no need of calling him names . He is the result of our system of politics . The college professor may call him " a country squire " or " a labor demagogue . " The publicist may rail at " a body of boy ' , and inexperienced , unknown farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the puppet tool of the damned boss ; " the fact remains that the average legislature represents the average American human being . His pathology is not unique . We must not be so hasty in laying all the blame for vicious and careless legislation at the door of our representative . A vast deal of the fault lies elsewhere . In the first place we are law mad . We look upon law as a ( cure-all . If you want an index to all human ills , read the table of contents of any statute book . The legislature is not to be primarily blamed for this . It is in the air , the people demand this multiplicity of laws . And it certainly is an adventitious budding of our political tree , which the forefathers , in the planting , did not contemplate . The theory of the constitutional fathers was that the government should be one of limited powers . They believed that the people should be let alone , to work out their own salvation . They did not believe that the legislature could create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commonwealth : " Let the legislature work out your salvation , and while it is doing so , fear and tremble . " This seems to be an American mania , this craze for law-collecting , like ow craze for brie-a-brae . In no liberal nuntryv in Europe are there so many laws s , in our country ; in none are laws ' , tore Imrdensome , and less conscientiously enforced . No European health commission has such arbitrary powers as au Americ5111 ward of health . ' While we are filling , mari o pages with legislative rubbish , let u. recall Magus : " When a state is most , urrit pt. then the laws are most multiplied . " In the second place we have developed the deplorable habit of special or private lgislation , and this habit we are carrying lo a silly extreme . Over one half of the Imes annually passed arc local or special in their nature . Utterly insignificant as are these backyard measures , they are enacted at the demand of a clamoring , unistitueney , and rob the legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputation is multiplied by the number of such laws that he can pass for his neighbors . I know of one who fathered twenty of them successfully , from babyhood to maturity , in one year . His constituency rewarded him for this commendable energy by electing him to higher office . Everybody with a grievance or an ambition hastens to the legislature . The member feels called upon to look first after the interests of his constituents , afterwards to the interests of the state at large . He uses these private bills as a lever upon which to raise his prestige as a statesman ; as a medium of exchange for legislative values , trading with his fellowlawmakers for the passage of their private turns . These measures receive practically 110 attention from committees . If the people of the district want them , why , that settles it . They know their business . So the whim of a farmer or the wish of a neighborhood becomes glorified into a statute . This custom is made possible by another American custom , that of district representation . Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be able to make laws for a state ? Of course the rea son is that that particular district feels entitled to special legislation . The two customs are twills , one should perish with the other . In the third place VC have not yet learned to differentiate entirely the functions of legislation and administration . When the evolution which dictates the total separation of these functions is completed , then separate organs of administration will be developed , as they are in France and Germany . But meanwhile our state legislatures persist in confusing the administration of state institutions with the making of law . This practice is baneful alike to institutions and departments of government , and to the purely legislative work of tie assembly . In the fourth place see . seem entirely oblivious to the forward strides of our republic , and to the fundamental principle that government must march pant passa with progress . We seem to forget that , since the days of the first thirteen states , our population and social and economic conditions have undergone wonderful changes . Then society was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth corporate . The change in needs and the multiplicity and diversity of emergencies which arise in this complex society we meet with legislative methods which were suited to the simple needs of a sparsely settled agricultural community . The most potent force in our economic life is the corporation . This creature of law has become the creator of law . This shifting of property obligation from the individual to the aggregation necessitates a new conception of duty . But have you ever seen evidences of a corporate conscience ? All branches of our public law have been undergoing a slow metamorphosis , because of the entrance of the corporation into our legal environment . So must all branches of our private law become modified . The corporation has found a permanent place in our business life , but we have not yet formed for ourselves a permanent safeguard against its 738 Our State constant intrusions upon private rights . 1Ve have retained the simple methods of a colonial legislature , while society has proceeded with giant strides loWard the goal of corporate properly and responsibility . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . More than one railroad corporation has successfully accomplished this task of government ownership . These great artificial ! wings have many times set out to elect a legislature in consonance with their desires . They have also many times secured the control of a legislature after its election . We can not excitor corruption , neither ought the to excuse a society that meets such novel and potent conditions with such primitive and impotent methods . tv There remain the two usual accusations , heard wherever a legislature is discussed : these men lack ability and experience , and they also lack the time necessary for deliberate and judicious action . It is true that the average representative is not a 1111111 of unusual ability . Men of ability can not usually be persuaded to leave their congenial occupations and subject themselves to the harsh criticisms of an unfeeling public , and to the rigors of a political contest . I value among my acquaintances a man of culture and ability who was requested by his neighbors to allow his name to be used as a candidate for the legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state allowed was not enough/ to meet his expenses as a candidate and legislator . He would have to suspend his work , and litre some one to take his place during the session : It is only in a crisis that a citizen should be compelled to give his fortune and his livelihood to the state . We do not pay our legislators a living wage , certainly not a wage that can attract ability . We do not honor our lawmakers , but rather it is a term of ridicule and jest among the cultured classes to be known as a member of the legislature . Legislatures The result of this altitude of the shit , is perfectly natural . The men of ; Glib . avoid the office . About seventy-five p ? : t ? cent of the members seek the phi ? . They are of a kind who relish the opprtunities that accompany it . S011ee are available because they are " old souther. " from the Civil War , others because they are young soldiers from the Spanish War . Sonic have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Sow " voted for Lincoln . " A few are the incarnation of radical ideas . And still fewer have only the recommendation of a quiet , useful life filled with good deeds and honest , plain thinking . Of the four legislatures tabulated above , I can count a scant dozen men in each body who are really men of superior ability or experience . The rest are not necessarily mediocre , but fairly represent the average genre , honesty , and ability of the eon , community . There are a few young men who seek the position as a stepping-stone to higher political honors . A few of these subsequently render the nation valuable service ; some of our wisest statesmen received their training in these , preparatory schools of legislation . A large number graduate into Congress . In the national house of Representatives thirty-seven and one half per cent of the members were thus prepared , and of the Senate forty-four and three tenths per cent . In 1777 it was written into the constitution of Vermont " The House of Freemen of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtue , to be chosen by ballot , by the freemen of every loWn in this state . " Time and conditions have lowered 01/1. standard . We are content with average wisdom and average virtue ; and in years of apathy virtue and wisdom are quite for-gotten , and we elect whom the machine nominates . Rotation in office , party control of nominating machinery , the ambitions of corporations and of party leaders , these are the forces that move the pawns on the legislative chess board . Under political conditions which the majority of // die voters tolerate , can we expect the legidature of a state to be composed of the best men of the community ? And we know that the real danger of the demo , ? riow is the withdrawal of intelligent and humble men from public duties . That the legislature lacks time is axiomatic . The community and conditions rob the legislator of his hours . It is not the wilful sin of the representative that he , ivss heed to the thousand voices that constantly call to him from his constituents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ township and city , from every corporation office , flows a stream of bills to the honorable representatives of the carious districts , and on the mad current of this stream arc rushed forward Mils , members , and public . The veto of the governor and the efforts of the few able members can not dam this annual overflow of our legislative Nile . Unfortunately the silt that the recession of opinion leaves after the adjournment of the legislature reeks with the unwlmlesome odor of bad laws , of foolish laws , and of vicious laws . This deluge pours forth from the people ; it is not the creation of the members . These are the conditions from which modern legislatures and their work arise . Instead of setting ourselves to the task of bettering the conditions and making scientific legislation possible , we have turned elsewhere for relief . First , we have tried to minimize legislation by biennial sessions , and some have even suggested quadrennial sessions , and standing commissions for enacting orders which . hould stand until the meeting of a decennial legislature . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republic . The evil we combat is not legislation , but unwise legislation . Legislation is a vital function of the body politic . And legislation by representation is the life blood of a republic . We dare not allow the legislative organ to atrophy ; We must help it to greater specialization , and thus follow the laws of evolution . The first step in this development was the committee system . That is now outgrown . The next step mast be toward a still greater degree of specialization . The function of the lobby must be absorbed by legitimate legislative organs . Second , we have become accustomed to view the courts and riot the law as the bulwark of our freedom . The courts stand between the people and the people 's legislature . They ward off the evil effect of pernicious laws . It is anomalous that a free people should need a court of justice to save it from the destructive forces of its chosen lawmakers . We are drifting from the Saxon toward the Homan ideal , when the court becomes both the lawmaker and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not wrong , but our practice of the theory is antiquated . Yet even with our present crowded calendars , and lobbies . and party bosses , and corporate omnipotence , noble results can be attained if the people are not supine . After ail , it all lies with the people . They can dignify the office of lawmaker by choosing only the honest and the able ; they can degrade it , they have degraded it , by choosing the average , the mediocre , the vicious , and the foolish . All of our political evils feed upon the indifference of the people . Popular demand is the ultimate source of good law , popular indifference is the immediate source of bad law .                     