@@486707

Several important topics which President Taft was expected to deal with in his first annual message he reserves for lAer ' and special communications to Con ' g ? sIs . ' The ' conservation policy is one of them ; others are the Anti-Trust law and ' the Interstate Commerce act . The this deliberate omission of exciting subjects is to cause the message to appear routine and unemotional. that ' of itself is not a bad thing . The , country has not yet recovered an appetite for the " highly spiced - message of - which it had more than enough in recent years . The proverb might be amended to read : IlappY the nation whose Presidential speeches and messages are dull . " Yet there is , after all , one theme , and the chief one , in President Taft 's message , which ' is so great a novelty that it t , might almost be called startling . We refer to his urgent demand that public expenditures be cut down . ' Not since PresidentCleVeland has Congress heard anything like this from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop with singing the praises of economy merely in the abstract . He not only declares that savings are necessary , but shows how they may be made . By means of the so-called " budget committee " of the Cabinet , and through imperative directions to heads - of departments , he has caused the knife to go deep into the ' estimate s of public expenses This total , as submitted to Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury , has been decreased from the last estimates of the ROosevelt Administration by more than $90,000,000 , and is $42 , - 000,000 under the actual appropriations for the current fiscal year . Even to have set such a mark for Congress to attain is ; agreatrpontical event . It gives firm Pres , 1 , ? 7 r ? idential sanction to ' retrenchment , and e , , May helpc to bring back again the home1.Y Virtues " of prudence and thrift in go-v --  , ernmental affairs . Economy and efficiency in the pUblic service are the real watchwords of the message , though many other matters are touched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what the President says upon the tariff . First of all , he utters a reassuring word about the application of the maximum tariff in a retaliatory sense . Mr. Taft -- th  --  notSpIiilirig for a tariff - War with other ! nations . Quite the reverse , he informs Congress : " I beg to express the hope and belief that no such result need be anticipated . " Further , in dwelling upon the powers of the Tariff , Ceontnission ; : which ' the ' President thinks are ample , he : Says that " if the facts secured by the tariff board show generally that the rates-of thity imposed by the present tariff are excessive , . . . I shall not hesitate to invite the attention of Congress to this fact , and to the necessity for action . " This is a great advance over the Winona speech . It may not be a promiSe of definite tariff relief , but shows ? how it - can ' be got , and faces in the ' riglaUdiredtion . It appears ' from his concluding paragraph that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high . and ' : increasing prices . But he : does net-admit:that this high cost of living is due to- the tariff Nor is itein- its entirety , for some prices have risen all over the world . But the President would not deny that the tariff on woollen goods , which he has publicly declared to ' be indefensible , compels Americans to pay exorbitant prices for woollen . ' clothing or else wear cotton or shodoy . There we have at least one set of high priceS for which the tariff is directly responsible . The executive order providing a systematic method of appointments and promotions in - the diplomatic service marks an important step toward making that career attractive ' to qualified young men . The scheme laid down contemplates more than the mere introduction of an examination system . Initial appointments fronarmitside the service are to be made only to the lowest grades , and the Secretary of State is directed to report from time to time to the President the names of those who have demonstrated special capacity . Careful records of efficiency are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all the secretaryships in the diplomatic service are to be graded according to tlieir importance and difficulty , so that a traneferT from one to another shall have a ' definite significance . The entrance examinations thelselves will , of course , be of a character bearing expressly on the special needs of the diplomatic service ; and provision is made for preventing the appointment of those who may have the ability to answer examination questions but have not the peculiar personal qualifications required , by limiting certifications to persons specially designated by the President , subject to examination and other tests . A man has been found brave enough to dare to accept the mission to ' China . Marvellous to say , he , - like Mr : Crane , conies froni Chicago , ' and ' his heart ' is yet ' undeterred Wirthinhim . The neW appointment seems premising . Mi .. ' W. .1 . " Calhoun , is not ' merely ' a lawyer- of-high repute ; he ' has Several times rendered " governmental service : As special com- ? missioner ' of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outbreak of war , , - ? Mr. Calhoun made a report ' which ' did much to  --  iiicfeaTe  --  public indignation , ove ? conditions in that island . It is only fair to say , however , that this was written in a judicial tone , and criticised . Cubans and Spaniards alike . For some time after the outbreak of war , he was valued adviser of President McKinley , who , on March 8 , 1898 , ' appointed ' him Interstate Commerce Commissioner . This office he resigned in 1900 : In ' the year 1905 , President Roosevelt appointed him special commissioner to Venezuela . His judicial report upon conditions there is believed to have ' changed Mr. Roosevelt 's intention ? to be very drastic with the ' ill-behaving ' Venezuelans . Mr. Calhoun is , therefore , not without diplomatic qualifications for his new post . We regret to note that the Secretary of War supports in his annual report the pending bill to increase the army by 612 officers . That there is serious absen-teeism is admitted  --  he reports 709 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not less than one-third of the captains of companies . Un-fortunately , Secretary Dickinon , like his predecessors , believei that the only remedy is increasing the total thinanber of officers . The history of the army has demonstrated , however , that this is ' no ' remedy at all , so long as the ' Department fails to set its face against useless and unnecessary details . When the number of officers for each regiment of cavalry and infantry was increased , on the reorganization of the army in 1901 , it was on the distinct assurance of the War Department that the surplus officers would take care of all necessary details . If the Department continues to lend officers to committees of Congress , to so-called military schools , and for a dozen other non-military purposes , as instructors , the drain will continue . o-day , no less than twenty nine officers are with the Panama Canal Commission , 105 on recruiting duty , ant sixty three at private schools . Secretary Dickinson is on the right track in asking . that capable retired officers should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now only if the officers consent . Before deciding on an increase in officers which would be without parallel in any European service , Congress should begin by giving him this permission , letting him understand that unnecessary details should be cut off . One recommendation for reform is not to be found in Secretary Meyer 's preliminary statement of the coming reorganization of the Navy Department , There is no suggestion that the " political navy yards " which exist only by grace of the Senators and Congressmen in whose States they are located , be done away . The Secretary or the President with the moral courage to grapple with this question has not yet been found . Yet there lies an opportunity for enormous saving , to say nothing of the release of officers for other duties than policing obscure naval stations , such as that at New Orleans , or the one at Port Royal , South Carolina , whose useless drydock no battleship can reach on account of insufficient water in the channel . If manufacturing efficiency calls for the concentration of power plants in navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentration of naval work at four or five yards at most . The reorganizers of the defunct United States Shipbuilding Company speedily found that the most economical way to handle those ship-yards which were worth keeping up was to let each yard do a specific work . Thus , one or two build large ships , one small vessels , another concentrates on repairs , and still another on equipments of various kinds . The Government should do likewise . There is nothing in the argument that in the event of war , it would be well to have a number of yards in case one might fall into the enemy 's hands . To most people , the news that J. Pierpont Morgan has purchased from Thomas P. Ryan the majority interest in the Equitable Life acquired by Ryan from James H. Hyde in 1905 , has doubtless come as a great surprise . Those , however , who were fully conversant with the nature of the Ryan control knew that a change of some sort was inevitable . The deed of trust , whereby Ryan placed voting power over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was due to terminate on the 15th of next June . One of the three trustees , ex-President Cleveland , had died , and his place in the trust had not been filled . Ryan himself had been - withdrawing from active business , and a belief had long existed that his Equitable holdings were for sale . The arrangement whereby control of the life insurance company should be independently exercised by Mr. Cleveland , Mr. Morgan J. O'Brien , and Mr. George Westinghouse was , in other words , a necessarily temporary expedient , and only a few months more remained to it . Conversion of the Equitable Life into a mutual organization , either through alteration of Its charter , or through purchase of the Ryan stock by the company itself , had apparently been prevented by the courts , at the instance of minority shareholders . Mr. Morgan 's purchase of control is a not unnatural sequel . The President 's recommendation concerning the Naval Observatory is eminently sound . He urges that the official head of that great astronomical establishment should be an eminent astronomer , and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer term . This mode of filling the post of head of the Observatory could not have survived so long as it has were it not for the false notion conveyed in the name of the institution . As the President truly says , all the uses of the Observatory specifically related to the needs of the navy might be subserved at a small fraction of the present cost . The part it . really plays is that of a great national observatory , and its material equipment is of a character befitting such a part . The President calls it " the most magnificent and expensive astronomical establishment in the world " Together with its important observational work is. carried on the Nautical Almanac , in connection with which the labors of Simon Newcomb and of George W. Hill have made American mathematical astronomy illustrious the world over . - Importers of works of art are suffering the necessary inconveniences that accompany a reform , as well as some that are wholly unnecessary . That it should take a fortnight to get an old picture through the customs is perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one recalls that a skilled examiner should generally know offhand whether a picture is or is not twenty years old  --  the really ambiguous cases being very few  --  it seems certain that . the organization of the customs is not adequate to the new work . If it were merely a question of waiting , doubtless the importers would possess their souls in patience . But an old painting on , panel is about as perishable an import as a pineapple . What must have been the feeling of that dealer who , after waiting a month , received three old Dutch paintings which had entered the public stores intact , cracked from top to bottom ? It is idle to say that he may sue the Government . That may or may not indemnify him for his loss . But damage of this sort can not be reckoned merely in dollars . To deface a fine picture diminishes the resources of civilization itself . We know of four notable pictures that have been thus Injured  --  in every case it seems through heat  --  while in the custody of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storeroom at a low and equable temperature should be provided , or , if that be impracticable , some system of prompt release under bond should be devised . The brusqueness of Secretary Knox 's dealings with Nicaragua would appear heightened if it should prove to be true , as reported , that the Mexican Government was not consulted and does not wholly approve of the steps that have been taken . Mexico as well as the United States was interested in the Central American treaty of peace and amity which was signed at Washington in 1907 . It was a part of the skill with which Secretary Root conducted the ne- Mr. Asquith 's followers are much encouraged by the promise of hearty cooperation held out by the spokesman of the , Labor party in the House of Commons . The Labor influence is important not only on account of the fifty and odd seats it now controls in Parliament , but because of the many doubtful constituencies it can swing to either of the two great parties . The question is whether the Labor leaders feel that the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warranting the sacrifice of immediate party advantages to the common Liberal cause . It has been argued , for instance , that the Labor party , like the Irish party , would be happy to see a large reduction in the present Liberal majority ; that would mean the balance of power in the hands of the small third parties . It may also be argued that if the Laborites can increase their own Parliamentary representation by a score of votes , they can even afford to see a Conservative Ministry in power . That would be a policy of indifference as to who rules the roost until the time when the Labor party is itself strong enough to think of office . But , on the other hand , the Labor leaders can not overlook the fact that a victory for the House of Lords It has repeatedly been shown that people can be more royalist than the King aimself . Hungary is now in the midst of a political crisis centring about the iuestion whether it is possible for a politician to be more Kossuthian than Kossuth himself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francis Kossuth , a son of the patriot , leader of 1848 , secured a majority in the Hungarian lower house , and Francis Kossuth became practically the leadng spirit in a coalition Ministry of Infependents and Liberals pledged to the establishment of universal suffrage and the reconstruction of the economic arrangements with Austria . No serious endeavor was made to redeem the promise of electoral reform , and the prestige of the majority also suffered from dissensions within the Independent ranks . s a result , the Wekerle Cabinet resign -- Al early in the present year and an interim Ministry was installed . The break within the Independence party has come over the question of a separate Hungarian Bank which the extremists , led by De Justh , the former president of the Chamber , wish to see established by January 1 , 1911 . The project was opposed as impossible by Francis Kossuth , who , however , has been unable to carry the majority of the party with him . Kossuth accused his followers of treachery and declared that without the prestige of his name most of them could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justh faction accused Kossuth of being recreant to the principles of his famous sire , because of his lukewarm defence of Magyar interests . There are now , therefore , an Independence and 1848 party , led by De Justh , and an Independence , 1848 , and Kossuth party under the old leadership . The prospects for a stable Ministry in the immediate future are not bright . Premier Giolitti , who resigned office last week , has been the dominating figure in Italian politics since 1901 , when he entered the Zanardelli Cabinet as Minister of the Interior . In 1903 he formed a Cabinet of his own , and with a year 's interval in 1905-6 he has remained at the head of the Government . The combination against Giolitti shows an odd alliance of Constitutional Liber als , Republicans , and Socialists , reinforced probably by the " fluid " vote that always inclines towards the victorious side . The specific question on which the Government has found itself weak is its ship-subsidies bill , in which it is accused of having made favorites of certain shipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the unpopular members of his Cab-met , the Minister of Posts and Telegraphs , who negotiated the subsidy arrangements , the Minister of Instruction , who has antagonized the Anti-Clericala , and the Minister of Agriculture and Industry , who has against him popular opinion in Sicily . The chances are , how- : ever , that Giolitti 's retirement means only a brief vacation . The Opposition may form a temporary coalition Ministry , but it is evident that the Anti-Clerical Socialists and Republicans can not work together with the Constitutional Liberal leader , Baron Sonnino , who is strongly opposed to a hostile policy towards the church . A contributor to the Revue Blom writes that , with the exception of the nobility and the purveyors to their Christian majesties , " no one in Spain is interested in King or Queen , or royal infants . " He recalls the words of Ferdinand VII : " Spain is a bottle of beer , and I am the cork , " and puts them into the young King 's mouth . It may be granted that the patience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , perhaps , a natural enough philosophy for the Peninsula . But let it be noted that " the protests abroad prove that there is a common patrimony of liberty and democracy , " as the Madrid ImparciaZ has declared . The Pyrenees are no longer a perfect insulation . If the present situation does not inspire overpowering optimism , yet the throwing down of the barrier is itself evidence against generalizations of a too sombre kind . During the regency were realized important domestic reforms . Under Maria Christina revolution was subdued to evolution : the Anglo-Saxon method , as we like to think . There is no need to be too despondent over Spain 's future . The good work of years is not to be effaced in months . Already the new Liberal Government is at work , and the wide ex. tension of local rights and home rule just announced by Premier Moret may be an earnest of good things to come , ,                     