@@430347

, THE present day is exhibiting a curiously vivid interest in fairy tales ; curious because that passionate self-consciousness which is always with us finds the foreground of its mirror filled with machinery , busy under a canopy of smoke ; and it seems strange to discover the livid vapor shadowing forth the wings of dragons , or the faces of the little people glimmering between the wheels . Perhaps our very materialism is re sponsible for this new hunger after fancy . Because the world , never so . tly actual as now , is too much with us , we spend our vacations upon foam of perilous seas ; while the scientific spirit , having charted whole orb of fact , begins to weep the tears of Alexander . Certainly , rhatever cause , we have taken up the exploration of impossible f airywith an instinctive eagerness which would have surprised folk of a century ago even more than it surprises ourselves . And it is not ) ut interesting significance that within the last few years the Rose the Ring and Alice in Wonderland have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high priest of modernism , has revived the mediaeval beast fables ; that M1 . H. G. Wells , political economist , pleases himInd us by making science the handmaid of elaborate absurdity ; that Secretary of the Bank of England is best known for his child fancies ; a rising poet puts his wisdom into the mouth of babes ; while a anent critic and philosopher quaintly declares Jack the Giant Killer epitome of the whole story of man . ' erhaps at first glance we should hardly recognize among Fairy s all of these contemporary examples ; and it may therefore be the worth while to trace their genealogy and point out their family ablances . It is not strange that the type has never been defined ; for y Tales have long been relegated to the nursery ; and children are content to sense the nature of a thing without caring for analysis . children to-day are possibly as indifferent to fairyland as the laws of childhood allow . It is we grown people , with our Babel tendency to orient old things with new names , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet the sense of the type remains . y one would probably agree that if Puss in Boots is a fairy story White Seal is another ; whereas Bob , Son of Battle , although its hero animal , falls outside the category : or that Aladdin and The Food , e Gods are alike by the magic that is in them ; while Poe 's Ligeia , ay dependent upon the supernatural , is another thing . Indeed the f ' Tale is of simple nature , not difficult to define ; and such analysis ; eels must open the door to discussion of its present popularity may miently be made through comparison with two kindred popular : the Supernatural Story and the Story of Local Color . Of the many narratives wherein the supernatural plays a minor or r part , only a small portion may reasonably be called Fairy Tales . would hardly so designate the Odyssey , for example ; and indeed , so is the horizon of our world , that most fiction , like most life , is led with some adumbration from beyond . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frankly mysterious we smugly nalize by renaming it Telepathy . At the other end of the scale such stories as La Venus d'Ille and Mr. Brain Stoker 's Dracula are dominated by the supernatural , yet without being Fairy Tales . It is not essentially distinctive that Markheim is more deeply tinged with mystery than The Ugly Duckling . What makes the one , broadly speaking , a ghost story , and numbers the other among Fairy Tales , is that the first represents an incursion of the other world into human life ; whereas the other at one stroke locates itself in the world of fancy by imputing human life to an existence whose actualities we can only imagine . Similarly , Scrooge may be haunted by three spirits ; but it is Wonderland which is haunted by Alice . Mr. IZipling 's In the Rukh shows the half-magical Mowgli in vading ordinary India ; but in the rest of the series it is Mowgli the human child who invades the extraordinary Jungle . Hamlet and Mac beth introduce a supernatural element into their account of our life ; The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it still enchantment which intrudes upon humanity ; but the Midsummer Night 's Dream is a typical Fairy Tale of human intrusion upon fairyland . So , in comparison with the Odyssey , Paradise Lost lies more near the border ; and the Divine Comedy is truly a Fairy Tale glorified into mythology . For the Fairy Tale deals with natural life in the spiritual world . And herein lies its kinship to all stories of local color . The Local Color story has for its theme the character of some specific environment : as in The Outcasts of Poker Flat , plot , persons , and tone are conditioned by the Wild West ; or as Capitalized Society presides over The House of Mirth . Stories like these happening elsewhere would happen otherwise to another kind of people . Now a Fairy Tale is a Local Color story whose controlling environment is imaginary : the Jungle , Wonderland , That Country ; not of indefinite place or time like The Mask of the Red Death , but of some definite , highly organic Never and Nowhere ; con ditioned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and truly im agined . It is difficult in this connection to avoid the abominable word Anthropomorphism ; to suggest it is perhaps enough . For we refer our fabulous creations to humanity , not by endowing them allegorically with human qualities , but by heightening what we see of their own . Baloo is not an ursine old man , but an idealized bear ; the Tin Soldier is tin first and soldierly afterwards ; and Wonderland , for all its satiric symbolism , is controlled by its own laws , not by ours . This distinction becomes evi dent upon comparing Wonderland with the territory of Pilgrim 's Prog ress. where human life is reflected . If the Fairy Tale is in respect of its magic the converse of the story of mystery , it is in respect of its organism the converse of allegory . Nevertheless the element of symbolic reference to human affairs , com mon although inessential in the Fairy Tales of all times , has become ex ceedingly prominent in those of our own . This naturally results from the increase of adult readers ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The child enjoys the chaos of the Duchess ' kitchen and the Mock Turtle 's lamentable reminiscences as pure narra tive ; while his mother blissfully perceives a reference to the servant prob lem , and his father smiles over the satire on literary sentimentalism . Returning after twenty years to a perusal of The Rose and the Ring one makes delicious discovery of the Historical Romance , the brimsriing pathos of Dickens , the middle class Briticism of the Guelph ; where long before lie thrilled with the gallantry of Hedzoff , wept for Rosalba deso late in her bare feet among the snowdrifts , and panted with suspense lest the deliberate eating of a muffin delay overlong Prince Bulbo 's re prieve . To the nursery the Bandar-Log is simply the Monkey-People ; the library recognizes a Latin-republic ; and I have seen a group of pro fessors formulating with academic finality the destinies of America , thrown into confusion of tongues by the poignant quotation : " Brother , thy tail hangs down behind . " But at this point symbolism and allegory must be clearly distin guished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all scholarly miscomprehension of mythology , should not blur our vision of the Fairy Tale . The difference is merely that between metaphor and simile . Allegory explicitly compares the struggle of a traveller wading through a bog to the conflict of Religion with Despondency ; symbolism implies a likeness between snow and purity , by speaking of the one in terms of the other . Allegory represents concrete realities by an abstrac tion ; symbolism represents the abstract concretely . Thus , Everyman is an allegory of the coming of death ; it means that and nothing else ; its figures typify the soul , its attributes , and its last grim guests in the house of clay . Fire , on the other hand , symbolizes with equal fitness Love , Pestilence , Ruin , Religion , and Life ; embodying in its different aspects something of each idea . Dives is an allegorical figure ; the Crown of Thorns is a symbol . Indeed the danger of confusing the two arises mainly from the frequent use of symbols by which allegory points its meaning ; as , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeds in the parable of the Sower . Allegory is only a crude and somewhat outworn method of narration ; symbolism is the very life-blood of all poetry . Thus the White Rabbit symbolizes fussiness , and Artemis virginity ; but the fall into the cucumber-frame is neither more nor less allegorical than the story of Endvmion . For a symbolic figure is free to all acts and accidents within the law of its material nature . There are many meanings in the wrath of the goddess against Actmon ; that her method of vengeance is to set his own dogs upon him has no particular signifi cance , but is merely beautiful narrative . It is this natural freedom of the symbol which permits the Fairy Tale to be at once perfect as pure art to the child and richly meaningful to maturity . If you would appreciate the Caterpillar as a bit of inspired characterization , consider the counte nance of a hop-worm when it uprears itself to look horribly upon you ; and in respect of his symbolism , go study literature and humanity . You will find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egoist , in the lecture room or the police force ; you will discover his relationship - Co Polonins , to Socrates , to your Uncle John . You will learn why he sits upon a mushroom ; but not why sheer imagination depicts him smoking a hookah . Only , unless you are preparing a thesis upon folk-lore for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy , do not pretend that his exit after con versing with Alice represents Arrogance laying aside Authority , and descending from Conceit to crawl amid the grass of Humility after encountering the Spirit of Childhood . Moreover , this autonomy of symbolism opens to the reader innumer able new trails of implication . Any meaning is fit that fits . It matters nothing whether the author intended it or no . Indeed the suggestiveness of the older Fairy Tales arises almost unconsciously from the naive concreteness of their artistry ; while modern mythologers are more def initely intentional . Cinderella was written without reference to the dig nity of labor ; The Rose and the Ring purposely caricatures G. P. R. James . And the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sets bounda ries to its suggestion ; for , indeed , the less a symbol expresses , the more it may imply . Because Cinderella is innocently and utterly herself , our wiser eyes may know her for the little sister of Jean Valjean ; whereas the moiety of Count Kutasoff Hedzoff dies with the school of romanticism which he travesties . Jack the Giant Killer was written frankly as fable , and so contains the history of humanity for Mi . Ches terton to discover ; the Ancient Mariner , approaching allegory , implies little else . The universe is globed in a drop of dew but not in a bowl of goldfish . Yet however we emphasize to-day the critical and satiric element of our Fairy Tales , however eagerly we read symbolism in or into them , all this remains their least important phase . It is apparent only to the few ; the mental binocularity which observes it is a faculty of age ; and fairyland is the heritage of all children , regardless of the accident of years . The immortality of great phantasy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooted in the child-heart of humankind . It appeals to perception , which is older and younger than thought , more intimate , more real : as roses and rhythm please deeplier than may be disclosed by any delving of botany or metrics ; for it appeals to the eternal spirit of Romance . This , like the names of other great verities , such as for instance Art and Love , embarrasses comprehension by its rich meaning . The Scarlet Letter is romantic ? in the perfectly clear sense that its idea is presented deductively ; but so is Shelley 's Indian Serenade , which is not narrative ; so is Turner 's Ulysses and Polyphemus , which is not literature ; so at its first hearing was the Seventh Symphony , now called classical ; so are such actualities as the death of Nathan Hale , the life of Lafcadio Hearn , the city of Venice , the character of Captain Kidd , the love of Dante . Now what is commonly essential of all these , and which is therefore the essence of Romance , is the actualization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ romantically in that he embodied the common ideal of heroic death ; and Captain Kidd is romantic as a sashed and booted emblem of piracy ; the Ulysses and Polyphemus pictures the spirit of the Odyssey ; the Seventh Symphony is plangent with strains theretofore unheard but inherently musical , and latterly familiarized into classicism . Here we discover why Romance implies strangeness , novelty , adventure , the contrary of the commonplace . For obviously , an ideal for better or for worse transcends any embodiment ; and less obviously , every fact embodies by very actuality something of its Idea . The Rose of all Roses never bloomed in any garden upon earth ; and yet every rosebud in your own garden embodies it imperfectly and in part . Only , you are not likely to think of these ordinary flowers as incarnations of the ideal . It is the rose once given you at dusk , whose spiritual meaning is made manifest to you by association , which you find romantic . And by a quaint irony , the ultimate insistence upon the ideality of ordinary things is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Romance is a thing of huge and jovial humor , like the Pantheist 's denial of God . For instead of leading you among enchanted islands or old unhappy far-off things , he says solemnly : " Romance is falsehood ; therefore step down with me into the laundry , and behold the Soul of things as they are . " His worship of Romance outdoes her own followers , as the Persians deified Alexander . She wings materialism to fly from her ; they reckon ill who leave her out . And of Romance in this broader sense , the Fairy Tale is the purest narrative type . For the Fairy Tale makes its every reader Robinson Crusoe . In that conversion of the supernatural which represents the haunting of other worlds by humanity , it leads us upon marvellous voyages , exhaustless of satisfying mystery , wherein all faro i ; I-alIilI I , n ) ) adventure impossible . It is difficult for the educated nail rn to , ( lad the pleasure of the pioneer . For we know the national debt of ( amts Ind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended t b ; : l on rot ? Doctrine to Eldorado ; computed the facial angle of the men whose heal. , do grow beneath their shoulders , and knitted sanitary underwear fer the Anthropophagi . We have reaped the wonder of this world ; but 1 ' 01. those of us who grow weary of gleaning with Realism among the alien corn , fancy still beckons toward the Jungle , Wonderland , Crim Tartary , the Forest of Wild Thyme , the Round Table , the Lodge of Locolnotive , s ; worlds without end , that no study can outwear . For though we travel forever with Odysseus we shall not learn what song the Sirens sang . Many , however , of our later explorations in fairyland have been confined to border provinces of the hither side , wherein we venture timidly with backward glances to see if Policeman Day pursues ; fearful of the tribute these frontier States pay secretly to Oberon under cloak of a commonsensical grin . To speak in a mean , we are a trifle undecided and more unwilling to reckon among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the pseudo-science of Mr. H. G. Wells , the childmyths of Mr. Kenneth Grahame and Josephine Daskam Bacon . Yet the first two deal with creatures no more actual than the Cheshire Cat or the Steadfast Tin Soldier ; the science-magicians walk with Alice through the looking-glass ; and those stories which convey us into the immemorable psychology of childhood , though lying nearer the line , work in a medium no less truly fanciful than the soul-substance of Undine . The test is that all these stories are conditioned by an environment incommensurable with fact . But in a discussion concerned , like the present , rather with content than with form , nothing is gained by rigidity-o distinction . We must know precisely what a Sonnet is not , lest we lose the proven form in futile variations ; but we care what a Problem Play is , only that we may trace the type through all its varieties . ' It is important to the zoologist that a bat is not a bird ; what interests the observer is that it can fly . Accordingly it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fairy Tale extends its ramifications than to examine whether The War of the Worlds is almost a Fairy Tale or almost a Ghost Story . Mr. Wells 's luridly imaginative nightmare is undoubtedly near akin to both , without pretension to be either . , But certain mythographers of the borderland , influenced possibly by that Shyness toward ideality to which I have alluded above , claim tacitly or explicitly for their fables a foundation upon fact ; and this claim , for the honor of franker fabulists and in justice to the doubtful narratives themselves , must be denied . Mr. Ernest Seton-Thompson , following the lead of the Jungle Book , has produced a number of interesting animal-stories which he expressly refers to actuality . Some of these , like 1'Vully and Johnny Bear , are quite realistic , narrated wholly from the human point of view ; others , like Krag the Kootenai Ram , adopting the animal view point , became evident Fairy Tales of the Ugly Duckling variety . The debated question whether the facts from which the author pretends to induce his ideas are correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor is his plea of having only , like all novelists , combined several individuals in one character an admissible defence . You may study ac curately the operation of a locomotive or combine your observations of the antics of innumerable monkeys ; but you can not induce therefrom the psychology of .007 or the race-ghost of the Bandar-Log . These can only be imagined ; and to imagine them truly is a wise and worthy act . So also is the mule a wise and valuable animal , but it will not do to pretend that he is a'horse . Some of Mr. Seton-Thompson 's Fairy Tales are of considerable power ; but they would touch more deeply if they were more purely imaginative ; and to sentimentalize over animal emotions professedly induced from human observation insults Realism and Ro mance alike . An even greater offence against the same principle is that vivid and stirring novel The Call of the Wild . Mr. Jack London holds certain social and ethical beliefs with which the present is no occasion to take issue . He writes a novel upon the theme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it from the point of view of an epic sledgedog who is kidnapped from California to the ferocious Klondike , to end his life as a leader of wolves . Every page of this vigorous fable screams aloud Mr. London 's creed ; and every vehement implication refers it to the stern actualities of life . Now , to preach through parable is of course entirely legitimate ; but in the same breath to insist upon the events of that parable as facts composing a demonstration is such a sophistry as to ridicule at length would savor overmuch of that savagery which Mr. London deifies . Our literature prizes the diary of Samuel Pepys and the letters of Clarissa Harlowe ; but that writer who some years ago published as actual the memoirs of an imaginary defunct poet won more fame than favor . Yet to declare the Fairy Tale independent of fact is by no means to abandon it to anarchy . The architecture of a castle in the clouds is less substantial , not less rigidly lawful , than the architecture of a skyscraper . A flaw in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other : nay more surely ; for the steel tower falsely planned may cohere for a time by some casual tenacity of its material ; but the enchanted palace can hope for no other support than the justice ( ) I ' its ' , rotor ( am . This is no playing with metaphor , but the statement of a profound , real ity . Imagination , which is the creative in man , is as infallihle as the creation of God . To our finite understanding some actualities must ap pear exceptional ; Ideality , which , being man-made , we may comprehend , admits of no exceptions ; and thus we demand in fiction that visible entirety of truth for which in fact all prayers have cried in vain . You must suffer in the unknowable woman you love inconsisteifcies whereof Cordelia ? blooms immaculate . The purest fiction , therefore , must be the most scrupulously real , precisely because it is irreferable to fact . Fairyland disparts from chaos as from pole to pole ; between them lie the shadowlands of rational fiction and irrational fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter she pushed under Angel Claire 's door we deem false tragedy ; yet reference to human events obtrudes the doubt lest such cruel accidents may sometimes occur . But the false comedy in the conclusion of The Little Mermaid is nakedly indubi table . It was the law of her being that the winning a human love should mean for her immortality , its loss annihilation . She could not win her prince truly by her humanity ; and she would not falsely by en chantment . Andersen 's pretence that her honesty was rewarded by an arbitrary life of kindly deeds among the spirits of the air is a com passionate lie for which we eagerly forgive him ; but the falsehood in imagination neither sympathy nor sophistry can hide . It can not lurk among those accidents to which it can not refer ; and the innocence of a child rejects the spurious consolation as surely as the relentless wis dom of an Ibsen ? as surely as Andersen 's own true heart belied him while he wrote . For he knew as we all know , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really dissolved into the foam of the sea ; and that her story is one of the rare tragedies of fairyland , almost too deeply true for tears . And it is by this ideality of truth that the Fairy Tale makes its great and universal appeal . Becoming men we put away childish things : the merely marvellous we may desire or despise ; we may from age to age be avid or scornful of satire ; Asia may prefer her gods to our American atoms ; but we alike desire to look upon Truth , inasmuch as we all have souls . It matters little under which aspect of her threefold virginity she shines in heaven , haunts the forms of earth , or lurks darkling in hell . Actaon and Endymion , scientist and dreamer , pursue her still . And by this the Fairy Tale endures and pervades , that it discloses to all people truths of which mere humanity constitutes each a : judge : lesser truths perhaps , but communal ; poor things , but our own . Hamlet is greater than Redcoat Captain ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we can join them in That Country . And the modern specialization which makes esoteric so much of our art bars no one out of these trivial heavens . Your wife may perhaps care little for Kipling , because she is not a man ; she can hardly , being a woman , dislike The Butterfly that Stamped . It is just possible , however , that she may remain indifferent to it as a trifle , a playing with fancies , of obvious purport , silly in its language , unworthy of attention . This simply means that she is educated above its knowledge , that she has outgrown it -- in a word , that she is old . Let this essay therefore , which is addressed like its theme to youth , close as youth closes with a parable for age . Nick Bottom unquestionably left his element when he wandered from the world of fact ; his negligence of material common-sense was doubtless contributory to making an ass of himself ; and his return to earth was a-painful disillusion . Yet his example is not altogether a warning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the melodies of fairyland ; and at least for the one great hour of his life he lay transfigured in the lap of Titania.                     