@@430021

A suggestion made by George Washington regarding the importance of educating public opinion furnishes the keynote of Professor Thorpe 's latest publication , " A History of the American People . " This is apparently designed to meet the long-felt want of a one-volume history of the United States for the use of the reader in the home rather than for a text-book in school or college . The six hundred pages of the volume are readily grouped into chapters relating to three themes : the consideration of legal and constitutional questions , the discussion of changes and improvements in social conditions , and the account of the running history from Columbus to the present day , ? this last apparently being the least important in the general scheme . The style is that of the college lecture , with topical rather than chronological treatment , and with frequent pauses for recapitulation and retrospect . This method encourages repetition , and unless carefully watched plays havoc with chronology , especially when several somewhat distinct lectures are bound together into a book for connected reading . Class-room lectures must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and not every successful lecturer in the class-room can use his material satisfactorily for the larger audience of the reading public . Mr. Thorpe 's sentences often drag their weary length along through involved clauses into obscure paragraphs , and it is not uncommon to find ideas and suggestions in the book suffering from a lack of clearness in the language used to describe them . A typical illustration is the sentence , " One of the Senators from Florida and Nebraska was of English birth . " In the method employed , in the character of the literary style , and in the necessity of condensation in order to cover four centuries in a single volume , Mr. Thorpe has found three serious obstacles in the way of his laudable endeavor to make an easy-to-read , interesting story of American progress . The development of American constitutional law , especially as illustrated by a study of State constitutions , forms the backbone of the history , as it has done for three or four other publications by this author . There is no more interesting field for investigation than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into it . In the present instance several of the faults of former histories have disappeared , the condensation of the subject-matter being noticeable in comparison . Even yet , however , the difficulties of long and involved sentences present themselves , and useless repetitions mar otherwise interesting paragraphs . There may well be question , too , whether the average reader cares so much for detail regarding constitutional changes in various decades , and whether many other topics might not satisfactorily have been disposed of by the common footnote reference to the author 's " Constitutional History . " The chapters of the second group , which are devoted to a study of social life , are interesting and suggestive . They contain a vast amount of matter , so much , indeed , that the proper distribution of it into readable sentences must have been a difficult undertaking . Changes in manners , customs , habits of life , material comforts , and the modes of thought of the people , make good subjects for description , and the only danger , perhaps , comes from a tendency to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell the general history of the country . The pages devoted to colonial life are very readable , and in the main are carefully worked out . Those concerned with the history from the time of Washington 's administration to the present are marred by many inaccurate statements , half-truths , anachronisms , and comparisons with conditions of " to-day , " a sort of essay feature not valuable in a finished history .  | Discussing the political situation in 1793 , it is stated of England that " she treated our minister , John Adams , with meagre politeness , " ? a disposition of that statesman which would tend to increase his discontent with the VicePresidency , if he were to read about it in Mr. Thorpe 's book . The importance of the treaty with Spain in 1795 is set forth , and then the southern boundary of the United States , the most important feature of the treaty , is wrongly described . In the account of the election of 1796 occurs an example of a very common fault ? carelessness as regards chronology . The candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the method of voting in the various States is described , and then the declination of Washington is discussed in such words as to suggest that it followed the election instead of preceding it . In like manner there is a description of Perry 's victory at Put-in-Bay , where reference is made to Lawrence 's famous utterance , although the account of Lawrence 's battle is given in a succeeding paragraph . In the account of the Civil War , one paragraph ends with the words , " Vicksburg remained the only obstruction to the free navigation of the river , " and the next one is given up entirely to an account of the taking of New Orleans . On " the 23d of July McClelland was relieved of the chief command and restricted to command of the army of the Potomac . A series of engagements now began , culminating in the battle of Fair Oaks , May 31 . " On page 445 Tennessee joined the Confederacy ; on page 447 Tennessee " kept in the Union . " The Holy Alliance appears from the text @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down those new American Republics and to regain her colonies , " although on a previous page the year 1820 is mentioned as the date of beginning of the Spanish-American revolutions . These are typical examples , in every one of which the reader , unless otherwise fortified , will be misled as to the true sequence of events . The chapter on Reconstruction is a disappointment in the light of present history , and more recent developments in our national life find faulty treatment . It is hard to account for the author 's version of the incidents just prior to the beginning of the Spanish-American war , which might easily have been described correctly if there had been an examination of the published diplomatic correspondence of that period . Mr. Thorpe records : " President McKinley appointed General Stewart L. Woodford minister to Spain . He neglected no opportunity to conciliate the Spanish government and secure a peaceful solution of the Cuban question . He discovered that no such solution was possible . " These are astonishing statements , in view of the fact that Minister Woodford 's diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " but shows , on the contrary , that two of the three demands made by the United States government were immediately complied with and that steps were taken to secure the third . In fact , Mr. Woodford discovered such evidence of willingness on the part of the Spanish government to find a peaceful solution , that he himself felt it near , and urged the President to support his efforts to secure it . Mr. Thorpe is a manifest hero-worshipper , the eulogy of Lincoln and Grant being especially marked . To show Jackson 's popularity , the half-truth is stated that " Andrew Jackson was a typical American of his day . He had received more votes than were ever before cast for anybody in America . " The account would have been more complete had he added that Jackson 's opponent , John Quincy Adams , was another typical American of his day , and that he also received in this same election more votes than were ever before cast for anybody in America . The same spirit of hero-worship leads to the surprising statement , following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced two popular heroes , the ' Hero of the Tippecanoe ' and the ' Hero of New Orleans . ' Ovations befell them thick and fast . Everybody said that each would be President some day . " Reading such nonsense , one wonders what disposition Mr. Thorpe would make of the attitude of the New York Democracy some years later , when Tennessee suggested Jackson for the presidency , and what method he would take to obscure the attitude of the Democrats toward the " imitation old hero " when Harrison was " mentioned " some twenty odd years after the battle of New Orleans . A few typographical errors occur , such as " George B. Meade , " on p. 458 ; " Phohibition , " on p. 477 ; and the division of " Semmes " in two syllables , on p. 458 . But the volume is in the main a good specimen of bookmaking and reflects credit upon the publishers . It is to be hoped , however , that they will take measures to put forth an edition of the work better fitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their description of it as a " comprehensive , scholarly , readable , and exact " history of our country .  |                     