@@485051

The upshot of the latest official correspondence in reference to China is that Germany has receded from her demand that , as a preliminary to negotiations for peace , China should surrender to the allied Powers the persons deemed by them guilty of the recent outrages at Pekin The nature of this demand was so extraordinary as to suggest that Emperor William had , in this instance , taken the conduct of foreign affairs away from his Minister , and had shaped it to correspond with the gloomy speeches which he addressed to the German soldiers embarking for China . These speeches , if made by any person . of less importance than the Kaiser , might have been fitly called howls . Whoever may have originally conceived the German proposal , it has been definitively abandoned , and the United States has the credit of causing it to be abandoned . Our diplomacy in this instance was commendable for its bluntness . It was such as Germany was accustomed to employ when Bismarck was Chancellor . It embodied the art of saying what you mean not uncivilly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in more ways than one . Resolutions were passed a few days ago by Americans in Tientsin deploring the contemplated withdrawal of United States troops from China ; affirming that the work of the allied armies is far from accomplished , and that the refusal of the American Government to take its part therein is sure to be regarded as an unworthy act by the allies , and as a sign of indifference by the Chinese ; and urging the Government to maintain a sufficient force there to secure protection to mercantile and missionary interests until a settlement of the present trouble is accomplished . Now , if the Government desired to keep its forces in China , these resolutions would be quoted as a sufficient reason for doing so , and thus Duty and Destiny would conspire to retain our troops there But as it does not desire to do so , it takes no notice of the resolutions , and the public forgets them the next day ; and thus Duty and Destiny conspire to withdraw our soldiers from China . A convenient team is Duty and Destiny , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is now pulling the right way . The programme put forward by the Government of France for the settlement of Chinese difficulties embraces six points . Three of these look to the permanent occupation of China by the Pow-ers . One calls for the dismantling of certain Chinese fortifications ; another for the military occupation of certain points on the road from Tientsin to Pekin ; and the third embodies a prohibition of the import of arms by China . All of these are a denial to China of the rights of sovereignty and of nationality . It is to be hoped that she will refuse them ; but whether she does or not , they will , if pressed , lead to prolonged disputation , and not improbably to war . Every step now taken , every new proposition put forward , every new complication that befalls , is a fresh cause of rejoicing that we are well out of it , or shall be out as soon as existing orders to our troops can be executed . Mr. Josiah Quincy is not far wrong when he says that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the punishing of individuals would not meet the ease . The truth is , that China has been under torture at the hands of Europeans for at least fifty years , and the wonder is not that there was a Boxer outbreak in the last year of the century , but that there has not been a series of such uprisings . The United States has not been a party to the spoliations of the past , and has consequently the best opportunity to conduct separate negotiations with China , and to obtain fair terms from her . As regards the rights of Americans in China , there is no doubt we shall get those rights as well protected as the rights of the Chinese are in America , and that is all we can decently ask for . " What thou doest , do quickly " should be the motto of all the Powers concerned in the Chinese difficulty . The situation is one which necessarily worsens by the mere fact of not improving . No wonder that the German official press is again pessimistic . The Chinese Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long arm and mailed fist of the German generalissimo . Gen. Chaffee is reported to have said that he could not imagine any European monarch returning to his capital while it was occupied by the allied troops of his enemies , and that it was not strange that the Emperor and Empress were shy about going back to Pekin . They were openly urged to go back . The Russian Minister addressed a special memorial to the Dowager Empress on September 21 , desiring her to return to Pekin , and promising her protection , and on the same day forty high Chinese officials remaining in the capital besought the Emperor and Empress to rejoin them The answer , we now see , was flight further inland , to a position where a foreign army of 100,000 men could scarcely follow them . ' Meanwhile , the Powers are doing a vast amount of negotiating and pourparlering with each other , but have made no appreciable advance in the crying duty of the hour  --  to negotiate with their Chinese adversary and agree with him quickly . As we enter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted for singleness of purpose , independence of mind , and strength of character who have declared themselves against Mr. Bryan 's election , although opposed to Mr. McKinley 's policy in the Philippines , is the most striking feature of the campaign . We are not referring to Republicans or to those of Republican antecedents , but to the class who may be called Independent Democrats , like Wheeler H. Peckham , John . G. Carlisle , George Roadley , Francis Lynde Stetson , George L. Rives , etc . We have heard of no criticism upon these men which imputes to them aught but patriotic and disinterested motives in declaring the position which they have taken . It is not merely that they are unalterably opposed to the financial heresy which Mr. Bryan espouses . Perhaps even more is it the general tendency of Mr. Bryan 's leadership toward the arraying of classes against each other which impels them to take a stand against what they regard as a disintegrating force in society and politics . The 16-to-1 campaign , however , is the feature which is exercising the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most strongly to the instinct of self-preservation . If men are once convinced that the election of a particular candidate will be bad for business , nine out of ten of them will vote against that candidate . Mr. William M. Ivins , Gold Democrat , formerly City Chamberlain of New York , has added his name to those who oppose the election of Bryan . He has published a letter in which he answers the arguments of Richard Olney and Bourke Cockran and others who support Bryan in the present campaign . His reply to Mr. Olney is in the nature of the argumenium ad homineni , and is rather effective . He says that Mr. Olney has left us in doubt as to what he really thinks about Expansion and Imperialism ; that he was in favor of the war with Spain , and that he wrote a strong article in favor of Expansion and the necessity of our taking a place as a world power , but now says that McKinley is about to join the European land-grabbers in dismembering China  --  a prediction which has already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a gentleman " who carried the Monroe doctrine to its extreme limit , asserted for the United States rights which no other American of eminence ever dared assert , and which no foreigner of prominence ever admitted , and in behalf of which rights he was quite willing to have precipitated a war with England , concerning the boundaries of a swamp in which he had no real interest , political or commercial  --  in fact , no interest whatever , other than that of sustaining a theoretical right which had never been advanced before " To complete the picture of his inconsistency , it only needs to be said that in his Atlantsc Monthly article Mr Olney took a step in Imperialism beyond McKinley , and beyond any doctrine avowed by the Republican party , by declaring that we ought to retain Cuba , even though we had promised to withdraw and make her independent as soon as Spain should be expelled and the island pacified . In the exchange of compliments between Mr. Bryan and Gov Roosevelt which is now in progress , the Democratic candidate had decidedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in his address to the Democratic Clubs at Indianapolis , was speaking on his favorite topic of Trusts , and remarked that the only one that any Republicans seemed to know about was the Ice Trust , and that they did not know much about that . " If they knew more about the Ice Trust , " he continued , " they would know that its harm was confined to the people of New York , and if they knew that they had as Governor of the State of New York a man who would not let any harm come to his people , they would know there would be no Ice Trust there or the Governor would kill it . " Mr. Bryan added " New York has a Republican Governor and a Republican Legislature , and you Republicans who have been worrying so much about the Ice Trust can just ease Your minds , for , as long as the Governor is out West making speeches , you may be sure nobody is being hurt in New York . " This is making game of Roosevelt in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect of the matter fox Roosevelt is , that the attention of the whole country is thus called to his gross neglect of duty through his prolonged absenteeism . The Governor most likely could not do anything very effective against the Ice Trust if he were m Albany , but he could at least discharge promptly , decorously , and intelligently the duties of the Executive These just now include consideration of as grave a question as could come before the Governor  --  whether he ought to remove the Mayor of the chief city in the State for misconduct in office . Gov . Roosevelt is plainly convicted of violating the Constitution of the State in the proclamation which he recently issued asking contributions for the relief of the Galveston sufferers , and appointing a committee to receive and forward subscriptions This proclamation purports to be " done at the Capitol , in the city of Albany , " by the Governor , Theodore Roosevelt . On the day that it was issued , Theodore Roosevelt was not in the city of Albany , or in the State of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tour . The Governor being absent from the State , the powers and duties of the office had devolved upon Lieut. - Gov . Woodruff from the moment that Mr Roosevelt crossed the border line on his Western trip , early in September . The proclamation signed by Theodore Roosevelt , therefore , was nothing better than waste paper , and his appointment of a committee was without the slightest authority . Happily no actual harm was done , but it is never well to have an official set the example of violating the Constitution . In spite of positive predictions to the contrary , Senator Hanna is again the central figure of the Republican campaign . Last year it was common rumor that he would retire into the background His personality was thought to be offensive . The Tribune 's fearless correspondence from Ohio showed him up as a vulgar boss , of the same mercenary methods in politics as McLean , and a man whose prominence in party counsels was driving away thousands of Republican votes . It was even telegraphed from Washington , as if by authority , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the burden of a manager who had come to stand unblushingly for commercialism in politics . But , as we say , Hanna is nev ertheless at the helm again . He is also on the quarter-deck He has suddenly become enamored of his own eloquence , and is planning extensive speaking tours If his personality is offensive , he is going to make it offend as many people as possible . Instead of being content , as it was promised he would be , to be the power behind the throne , he acts as if he were himself the candidate for the throne . The explanation is , we suppose , that he is known to have an endorsement in blank from McKinley . Whatever pledges Hanna may make , whatever appointments to office , no matter how discreditable , he may promise , the President will stand by to the foot of the letter . Then , besides , Senator Hanna is in a position to promise legislation as well as offices . This makes his power as a collector of contributions unique . Croker has backed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court a renomination , in order to make a place on the bench for Corporation Counsel Whalen , has been abandoned . This result is a signal triumph for public opinion . The protest against the threatened outrage was so quick , so general , and so emphatic , that the boss was forced to yield . Even the managers of the Democratic national campaign felt constrained to interfere , so evident was it that the party throughout the State would suffer if the man who is managing its New York campaign should furnish such an object-lesson of what Crokerism really means The surrender of the boss shows that our ruler still finds it necessary occasionally to pay some heed to public opinion . Returns from the Georgia election on Wednesday week show that the result was exactly what was expected The Populist vote has fallen off to only half what it was in the corresponding election of 1898 , and to less than a third of the total in 1896 . Except for the fact that there were spirited local contests between the Populists and the Democrats in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in the election throughout the State The result assures a great majority for Bryan in the Presidential election , because the Populists will then generally vote for him , while the Republicans are making no effective campaign for their electoral ticket . But this will not signify that a great majority of the people of Georgia wish the Democratic-Populist candidate to be elected . In point of fact , there is little warmth in the support which he receives , except from the Populists , who like him because he has accepted their platform . The Bryan majority will simply mean that the white men of the State still feel it necessary to vote the Democratic ticket in all elections on account of the race issue . The Michigan Supreme Court has refused to grant a mandamus to compel , under an act of 1897 , the payment of bounties on beet sugar refined in the State The Court is unanimous in declaring this law to be class legislation , and , therefore , unconstitutional , and cites an opinion of Justice Cooley , the great Michigan jurist , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the names of bounty or any other cover or subterfuge , to furnish capital to set private parties up in any kind of business , or to subsidize their business after they have entered upon it . The Court not only declares the act of 1897 unconstitutional , but refuses to permit the payment of bounties due on sugar manufactured last year and year before , and it is even suggested that action may be brought by the State to recover bounties which have been paid , The honor and integrity of the State , the Court holds , are not involved in the case , since the State is not bound by an unconstitutional act ; but while people generally will uphold the Court in refusing to allow the State to be turned into an eleemosynary institution for the benefit of industrial paupers , those who have taken the constitutionality of the law for granted and made investments in the - beet-sugar industry seem entirely justified in protesting that the State has broken faith with them It is another instance of the dangers lurking in this sort of vicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colored graduates of industrial schools at the South is a matter of general interest , and in the annual report of the Tuskegee ( Ala . ) Normal and Industrial Institute , Booker T. Washington gives some interesting facts concerning its graduates . Referring to a newspaper report that few of the negro graduates of industrial schools worked at trades learned at the school , he states that a careful examination shows that at least three-quarters of them are actually using , during the whole or a part of the time , the industrial knowledge gained at the school , while those who do not use this knowledge in earning a living , use it as housekeepers or indirectly as teachers As an illustration of the instruction at Tuskegee , he gives an account of work done on a new brick building , 283x315 feet , dedicated at the Institute last Jan. wary The plans for this building were prepared by an instructor , who was a colored man . Eight hundred thousand bricks required to construct it were manufactured by students learning the trade of brick-making . These bricks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brick-masonry , and the plastering , carpentry work , painting , and tin-roofing were done by students learning those trades . Electrical fittings are being put in by those learning electrical engineering , and a **38;27;TOOLONG engine and a seventy-five-horse-power boiler have been installed in the building and are operated by students . Sir Charles Tupper casts a brand-new issue before the Canadian electors  --  national cold-storage as a Conservative policy . His manifesto is of formidable length , and is addressed to the farmers of Canada . Its major premise is that the farmer can thrive only by a cold-storage system which shall enable him to ship his perishable products without loss to England . " Canada must have mechanical refrigeration , or our farmers will be driven to the wall , " is Sir Charles 's cry The minor premise is , the Conservative party binds itself to provide a national cold-storage system The conclusion is obvious , " Farmer , return a Conservative member , or go to the wall . " There are other points in Sir Charles 's lengthy essay . Historically , he writes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . The execution of the plan was interrupted by the fall of the Conservative Ministry , and the succeeding Government , with their characteristic blindness to the needs of the country , provided only a lukewarm Liberal cold-storage . It still remains for Sir Charles Tupper , scorn-mg half-way measures , to give the Canadian farmer the real chill . While the department-store issue is seriously raised in this State , it would be unseemly to poke fun at Sir Charles and his cold-storage plank . It will be felt , however , that Sir Wilfrid Laurier is hardly to be thus circumvented . Sir Charles dangles cold-storage before the farmer . Sir " Wilfrid has only to promise " something equally as good . " Two can play at the game of bidding for the farmer vote The most interesting feature of the recent International Copyright Congress in Paris was the agreement upon a so-called " type " law for the protection of literary property throughout the civilized world . In so far as the proposed law looks forward to the absolute reservation of all rights of reproduction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dramatization , to the author , it is a radical measure , and even , when one considers the practical conditions of ob ? taming uniform copyright legislation , doctrinaire . In suggesting a compromise between the much-discussed perpetual copyright and the present varying but always too short terms of the actual laws , however , the " type " law is distinctly practical . The compromise proposed is this the author is to enjoy the full rights to his property for life , and his heirs are to retain copyright in his book for a further period of eighty years . Opinions may differ as to the term for which copyright should run after the author 's death , but no one will seriously contest , in the author 's ease , the right , denied to no other occupation , of assuring the profits of his intelligence to his immediate family and heirs . Persistent agitation by the Copyright League should at least obtain relief from laws Which , as was illustrated in the cases of Holmes and Whittier , may terminate an author 's rights during his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace with the army , through attendance at the late grand manoeuvres , and carried through successfully his Gargantuan banquet for French mayors , a cloud falls upon the growing prosperity of the Moderate Republicans in the failure of the Paris Exposition . To say that the Exposition is a failure does not mean that the city of Paris has not gained enormously from the host of strangers that have paid their scot handsomely in shop and inn , nor that the Exposition has not been an artistic and industrial success . It means rather that the multitudinous holders of bonds secured by tickets to the Exposition will never get their money back . These . bonds were issued in small denominations , with a tempting lottery privilege , and were eagerly subscribed throughout the Republic . The failure to pay the bonds will consequently bring disappointment to thousands of thrifty families which imagined that they were combining a conservative investment with a gambler 's chance . The Government will be held responsible for this . loss , and with a certain right , for it is largely to delay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this very palpable grievance may possibly come the thrust that , on the assembling of the Chamber of Deputies , will upset the tottering Rousseau Ministry . The stubborn obstruction that for two years baffled the Pelloux Ministry in Italy , shows signs of disintegration . Et-tore Sacchi , whose Radical followers formed an important part of the obstructionist " Left , " has practically recanted for himself and his party In an address delivered at Cremona on the ? ational holiday , he eulogized warmly not only the personality but the public policy of the late King He expressed the desire that a common grief and a common horror of the crime might reconcile traditional enmities and stifle the seeds of future strife , that , just as the supreme work of liberation had united all Italians , so the supreme need of social and economic reform should unite them now . " Work , " he said , " will bring less division than has discussion " The very favorable comment of the Liberal press upon this speech shows that a portion at least of the Radicals are willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social reforms as that recently advocated by Sonnino . The sagacious voice of Professor Pasquale Villari warns the nation how far it is from the mere expression of benevolent intentions to their realization in concrete policies and laws The gravest of all Italian problems , that of tax reform , has not passed from the stage of discussion to that of working plans . The crucial test will come when the Chamber of Deputies assembles for the winter session . A fresh crop of scandals has just come from the Cameroon , where colonial officials are again accused of cruelties . Even the semi-official Norddeutsche Zeitung has had to take notice of them , recording the fact that a Captain von Bessei had been recalled for trial on the charge of excesses committed against the natives It also appears that " an extremely bad impression " has been created in the capital of German East Africa by the spectacle of the chief judge of the colony brawling at a public banquet , and going out to fight a duel with an apothecary . Furthermore , the German Governor of Kiao-Chau is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinaman about by the pigtail . His defence is that he did not do it himself , but ordered soldiers to do it He adds that this is " the usual manner " of making an arrest in China . That is , to govern brutes , you must be a brute yourself .                     