@@474402

THE University of London is a university in London . Its relation to its own immediate community is even more impressive than its relation to the world is significant . In the roar of the traffic of the world 's metropolis is yet heard the still , small voice of learning and of culture . A municipal university to be impressive must be large . A small one is in peril of becoming the object of ridicule . The University of London has not only a place in London , it is also an illustration to the world of the worth of a high ideal , long and nobly held , for ministering to the community ; and it represents a method for bringing together into economical efficiency institutions of the higher and professional education . The history and the present condition of the University of London illustrate the methods of the growth of English character and of the English nation . More than three hundred and fifty years ago , in 1548 , Sir Thomas Greshim founded a college in London which bore his name and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Thomas was to give to the citizens of London " means of academic instruction cheaper and more accessible than those of Cambridge and of Oxford . " The foundation did not prosper . The fire of 14366 , and personal disputes which were also hot , contributed to its decline , although Sir Christopher Wren and Barrow were among its officers . One hundred years after , it was said by a noted Presbyterian , " There is no city , in any learned nation , of London 's magnitude or mag-nificeuee without a university in it : i The period of the Commonwealth was a period in which neither Oxford nnr Cambridge could be regarded as suitable schools for the rearing of a godly ministry . But the project to build a university in London , despite the favor of Parliament , came to naught . Indeed , about a quarter of the nineteenth century had passed before the endeavor was again made to establish a university in the world 's great city . From the attempt made by Thomas Campbell , the poet , in 1825 , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first charter in 1836 to the university itself , through the granting of at least half a dozen charters in the last two-thirds of the nineteenth century , down to the present day . the University of London has moved to and fro with that variableness which marks the progress of most English institutions . The endeavor to establish an institution of the highest education has been beset by many difficulties . Its primary purpose and fundamental methods have been the subject of constant and not infrequently acrimonious debate . Should the institution be a teaching or only an examining ! body ? If it were to be an examining kL ? fly , should its examinations be limited o graduates of certain schools , or should he tests be thrown open to all ? It has keen obliged to contend against the **33;59;TOOLONG w great commercialii chha r a harasses 1 ma all i community ri i nt y-itutions in a metropolis which are concerned with the higher education . Theuniversity on the Thames has not been free from the opposition , at certain times , of the university on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered from the lack of a permanent and proper abiding-place . Its machinery has been complex and heavy . Like the administration of London itself , composed of municipal boroughs , metropolitan boroughs , county councils , rural councils , and parish courts . crossing and recrossing each other , it has to contend with elaborate , cumbersome , and conservative methods and conditions . Its revenues have been inadequate . Its progress has as a result been slow . Decades have been required to secure results which ought to have been gained in a year . Yet it has progressed . Gains once made have usually been held , and have proved to be the cause of securing still further advancement . On its list of officers in the last two-thirds of a century it has had such names as Faraday , Senior , Airy , Thomas Arnold , Macaulay , Hallam , and George Cornwall Lewis . Its progress has been like the growth of the principle of civil liberty ? sinuous and slow . Beset and defeated by opposing forces , crushed or harried by foes either open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom in enthusiastic but irrational supporters , restrained by the indifference of formal but stolid friends , it has yet gone forward . To-day the University of London has become the most important institution for uniting , confederating , and coordinating all institutions of the higher education of Greater London . It is an institution in and of itself . But it is also , and more , an institution formed through other institutions which are affiliated with it . These schools thus affiliated , while usually independent schools , are also schools recognizing their federation with the university . Commonly they eontrol their own finances , make their own appointments of members of the teaching staff , and govern their students as they in their own corporate wisdom determine . They are , however , influenced in these scholastic activities by the whole university , in whose chief governing body ? the senate ? they are represented . They also feel the inspiration and the sense of relationship which belongs to association with a large body , administrative and scholarly . As the registrar of the university in a personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies in all the institutions connected with the university by the curricula laid down for degrees by the senate . These curricula are drafted in the first instance by the boards of studies , which practically include teachers from all the various institutions , who are therefore brought into close intellectual contact ; and , as a rule , the recommendations of the board with regard to curricula are adopted by the senate with little or no modification . " The University of London , therefore , may be compared to the relationship which exists between the United States and each of the commonwealths which helps to constitute the United States . Yet the analogy is by no means complete . For there exists a University of London , apart from all confederation , I and in its broader relation the University of London includes the whole federation . Each party to the confederation retains certain rights , yet each has surrendered certain of its rights to the whole body . The whole body determines or confirms certain methods and measures of each individual school . The system is a system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of related forces ? educational and executive . It is a system ? if a system at all it might be called ? built up not by rule , but rather by principle , changing from year to year , but always enlarging , determined entirely by conditions , and its success assured by reason of the wisdom and force of the personalities which are in and beneath the whole movement . The aim in this great affiliating process which has gone on , and is still bound to go on in yet larger relationships , is to put down educational eccentricities and anomalies and to raise the level of the higher education . The union of institutions has made a strength for each which the strongest previously lacked . In the carrying out of this purpose the characteristic English purpose and method have prevailed . The Englishman is conservative and individualistic . He is economical ; he wastes nothing . He builds on and out of the past ; he respects tradition . Unlike the French , he does not begin anew ; he takes old institutions and adjusts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrates the passion of the one nation for radicalism . The English Revolution of 1688 illustrates the willingness of the other nation to transmute the old into the new . In making , therefore , a university for the great metropolis the London people have preferred to use the materials which the past has given them ? materials heterogeneous and in some respects unworthy , but which represent the economy , the labor , and the sacrifice of generations , and so to change and to reehange the materials as to use them in the construction and reconstruction of a great university . The confession is general , as it is sincere , on the part of the English people , that they feel little interest in education . The primary interests of the English people are social , political , and economic . Education has to fight for a proper standing . Under such a condition , the struggle of the University of London for worthy place and power is constant and heavy . But in making this struggle great forces are mobilized and worthy personalities are summoned into service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatness in any institution is imperative . A small institution would be utterly neglected . Greatness contributes to greatness , littleness to littleness . The method , therefore , of the promoters and supporters has been and is wise , as their purpose is high . The university in London is the University of London . Yet it is also something more . The university still recognizes two classes of students , known as external and internal . External students are those who enter in order to pass certain examinations . These students take on a very wide relationship . For the university has for years not only conducted examinations in London , but also in the ethnics . It is possible for a student to obtain some of the degrees by examinations held entirely in his own colony . Yet it has been the desire of the University of London not to compete with colonial universities . Internal students are obliged to spend at least three years in London and to take such courses for the Bachelor 's degree as are approved by the senate . These courses are usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university , or under teachers who are recognized by the senate . There are now about three thousand internal students and about seven hundred and fifty recognized teachers . The great governing body of the university is the senate . It is composed of fifty-six persons . Membership is , on the whole , representative of the confederated schools . But also general personal reasons prevail . Two members at the present time are women . Among the members are the ablest of the able men who constitute the higher civil , social , literary , and educational life of the metropolis . It is to the dignity , public worthiness , as well as to the noble individual outstandingness of the members of this body , that credit should be given for the later creation and advancement of the great university . The university illustrates the truth ? of which there is no need of illustration ? that men are more than methods or measures . The immediate scholastic equipment impresses the American observer as inadequate . The laboratories found in the main building are rather examining than teaching establishments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which students are trained are taught rather in the separate institutions which go to make up the university than in the headquarters of the university itself . But in the great building of the university are found laboratories , large and not inadequately furnished , in which examinations are given , and which also , under certain conditions , may serve for teaching purposes . These laboratories , however , in comparison with such laboratories as are found in Chicago and in Cambridge , give the impression that the English idea of education is still the idea of two men talking to each other about high concerns . The thought of James A. Garfield regarding Mark Hopkins and the other man dominates in England even more than in the United States . The significance of the university to the world is well illustrated in the fact that the university is in its administrative relationships housed in the noble building , of the Imperial Institute . This impressive but somewhat nondescript structure was built as a memorial to the great Queen in 1887 . It was filled with diverse and manifold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worth of the wealth of the possessions of the English crown . The officers of the university are disposed to lament their lack of a building specifically and entirely their own . But the present condition seems to me to be not without peculiar significance . London is the world as no other City is . Its university , therefore , fittingly has specific relations with the world through the Imperial Institute . The comparison of the University of London with Oxford and Cambridge presents a contrast almost as sharp as the contrast between the violet-crowned cities on the Isis and Cam and the Babylonian town on the Thames . The university in the metropolis has little or none of academic atmospheres or associations . It has no noiseless and shadowy quadrangles of velvety turf made soft and its grass fine by seven hundred years of cropping . Its towers are not crowned with either time or ivy . its common rooms play an insignificant part in academic fellow-ship . Its chapels have small relation to kings or to Christ Church Cathedral . Neither prestige nor tradition rests upon it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as heavy as death . The Middle Ages have Hung over it no spell . Unreasoned and unreasonable beliefs have not troubled its students , nor have artificial or arbitrary discriminations proved determinative . What Oxford end Cambridge count as of primary worth ? and in many respects such countings are of primary worth ? London regards as secondary . And what London might regard as of first significance , the ancient foundations interpret as of less worth . Yet , be it said , that in many fundamental respects they are alike . They are both ministers of culture to humanity . Oxford is near the Thames as well as on the sluggish Isis . But Oxford and Cambridge and London , a trinity blended into a unity , would offer a result as near academic perfection as the modern world possesses . For the three would create and train the man of refinement and appreciation , of gentleness without weakness , of persistence without stubbornness , of largeness without vagueness in thought or activity , and of quietness without indifference . It would also offer as a result the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not absorbed his humanity and whose love for the exact has not made his character small . Such a unity , too , would train the gentleman . unto efficiency , whose selfwardness never becomes selfishness , who can inspire to service without being regarded as guilty of pertness . A further creation of such united academic training would be a worker at the world 's tasks who could invite his soul and read , while he toils at his simple duties , the lessons of the eternities . If the forces which have insured the progress of the last score of years of the higher education in London continue ? and the evidence indicates that they will even increase in their worth ? London will 7 be as worthy a centre of the world 's education as it is now of its commerce . Students will assemble in enlarging numbers . Research will be promoted , A distinct and definite service for the educational needs of humanity will be increased , as it is now measurably maintained . Great libraries will be established , and larger laboratories for professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' The University of London , under fairly good conditions , should become the university of the world . It will still be , as I said in the beginning of this paper , a university in London , but it will not be simply a university of London .                     