@@430337

 |p847  THE subject of the mode of electing United States Senators has always been a favorite topic of discussion . In the convention that framed the Constitution , the debate upon this subject was protracted and animated . The deliberations of that body resulted in a compromise that was made possible only by the bi-cameral form of the National Legislature . The compromise agreed to was a middle ground between what was then called a National Government on the one hand and a Confederate Government ? or , as some of that time called it , a Federal Government on the other . These terms , National , Confederate and Federal , were all loosely used , as also was the term Consolidated Government . The result of the compromise was a Federal Government , properly so called . Accuracy and clearness of definition for the discussion in hand demands that these terms be better defined . What the framers meant by a National Government was a Centralized Government , as distinguished from a Dual ; by a Confederate Government , a Dual Government ; by a Consolidated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a single head or board , as distinguished from a government of co-ordinate powers . But the term consolidated was also used to convey the idea that the government was to be a centralized one . Since the establishment of the Constitution , the discussion of the subject has been continued with a growing tendency of opinion for the abrogation of the present method and a widespread feeling that Senators should be elected by the people directly . The explosion of the idea that the government is of the Confederate form has given rise to the contention that the compromise principle is no longer useful . The failure of the legislatures of a number of States , at times , to elect a Senator , and the bi-cameral system in State legislatures , both branches derived directly from the people , checked by the application of other principles , carry the conviction that the conservatism of one branch over the other is not due to the mode of election , and this the more so when it is explained that each State will still have its equal representation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position that the indirect method is an essential of political science incorporated into the system for the purpose of obtaining a higher order of legislation ; that for such a purpose one branch of the Legislature should represent the people directly , the other indirectly . With this phase of the question I do not concern myself , save only to remark that each of the four leading constitutional governments of the world observe the principle contended for , but a different indirect mode obtains in each . Formerly those who advocated the present method used to state that the Senate by its equality of representation and mode of election represented the States in their sovereign capacity . And since the fall of the Confederate idea we are still told , in the language of the advocates of the method at the time of the adoption of the Constitution , that the Senate represents the people in their corporate or political capacity , or the people in their collective capacity ; but nowhere are we enlightened as to the meaning of these terms or why they are used interchangeably . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an indirect election is not dependent upon the present method . Other indirect methods seem to he as efficient . But to return to the question : Does the present method stand for a Constitutional principle ? The controversy between a ' Confederate and a Centralized Government was not the only contention of the Convention . Those who feared what they called a Consolidated Government ( a Centralized Government ) saw in the Senate , thru its mode of election . a means of making ' the General Government dependent upon the State governments , or , to put it in the language of one of their number contending for such a mode : " Mr. Butler apprehended that the taking of so many powers out of the hands of the States , as was proposed , tended to destroy all that balance and security of interests among the States which it was necessary to preserve . " Up to this point I have substituted Centralized Government for National ( government and Dual for Confederate and Federal Governments . It is now necessary to define these new terms , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Professor Burgess . A Centralized Government is one in which . while there may he a Local Government , its powers and its existence are dependent upon the will of the General Government . The Local Government has no constitutional autonomy . This is what the Nationalists stood for in the Constitutional Convention , and its opponents called it both a National and a Consolidated Government . In contradistinction to the Centralized Government is a Dual Government . In this form both the Local and the General Governments have constitutional autonomy . To put the distinction in another way , in the Centralized Government the Local is dependent for its creation and existence on the General Government , and is more properly an administrative board . In the Dual , the Local is independent of the General for its existence and has a scope for legislation . The terms Federal and Confederate both contemplate a Dual Government ; their difference lies in the nature of the means for their alteration . In the Confederate , one or more States can withdraw and thus curtail the operations of the General Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confederate Government is a compact between sovereign States . In the Federal Government the Constitution is not a compact . If created by the deliberations of delegates from States that were formerly sovereign , these States being consolidated by the ratification of their ( the delegates ' ) acts . a new sovereignty results , or , to again borrow a thought from the profound work of Professor Burgess , in a Confederate Government the several Local Governments and the several sovereigns are co-extensive . In the Federal Government the single resulting sovereignty and the General Government are co-extensive . In the Federal the power of amendment or means of ascertaining the sovereign will with reference to alteration should be and is placed in the General Government . In the Confederate the ascertainment is placed in the Local Government . Before connecting this with the subject in hand , I propose to consider , define , dispose of or retain the question : Does the Senate represent the people in their political or corporate capacity othe people in their collective capacity Omitting a consideration of the question : Does the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place in the Federal system I should say that the term people , in their political or coporate capacity or not interchangeable or synonymous with the people in their collective capacity . Both are to be distinguished from the term people in their individual capacity To represent a people in their individual capacity is to represent them according to the principle of number of inhabitants districted in territory convenient for election purposes . As the number of inhabitants changes within the election district the representation increases or diminishes . But with representation in the political or corporate capacity the representation remains fixed and determined , the district is retained , but is not for election purposes primarily . There may be an influx of people or there may be a decrease of people , but the representation remains fixed and unchanged . So also  |p849  with the people in their collective capacity . To this extent representation in a political or corporate capacity and in a collective capacity are identical terms . The difference lies in the method of choice of the representation . In the collective capacity , the mode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people direct , thru the medium of a board of electors or by a branch of a Local Government . The group to whom the representation is accorded may or may not be co-extensive with the Local Government . A change in the present method of electing United States Senators to an election by the people of the several States directly would not invade the principle ; the people would continue to be represented in their collective capacity . To represent the people in their political or corporate capacity presupposes the existence of the people in an organized entity formed for political purposes . To represent them in this organized political capacity is to limit the representation of the people to the same territorial limits as that of the Local Government and to accord to a governmental agency the right of selection . In their collective capacity the people may or may not have a local organization of government ; in their corporate capacity they must have such a Local Government . The Local government must be co-extensive with the people in their collective capacity , and , as I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to elect , for to be represented requires as an original right the opportunity to choose . The value of each in a political science sense may be summed up in the following manner : The collective capacity idea , when used in one branch of a Legislature the other branch representing the people in their individual capacity ? is calculated to leaven a mere expression of popular will by an expression of the opinion that has grown up by virtue of local intercourse and environment . This idea may or may not contain the additional principle of an indirect election . The corporate political capacity idea retains all the features of the collective capacity , secures the principle of an indirect election and is a more faithful interpreter of the group consciousness , because in its segregations it always follows the territorial lines of the Local Government and enables the effect of local statutory law to uniformly act upon the collective opinion as a separate and consistent system , free from the conflicting enactments that perhaps might ensue if the collective unit were to overlap local statutory systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jurisdictions of the Local and the General Governments are practically free from encroachment upon each other and have a distinct field of operation , still the concurrent powers of the Congress of the General Government are such that the Local Government may act upon some given subject until the General Government shall exclusively take to itself the jurisdiction of that subject by legislation . In such a case , I should say that the policy of the General Government should be to evolve a scheme  |p850  only after consideration of the several Local Governmental policies that resulted in the Local statutory enactments : and a system placing a recognition of this principle in its structure could only do so by representing- the people in their political corporate capacity . That is to say , by an election of one branch of the General Legislature by an agency of the Local Governments , preferably by the Legislature of the State . In no wav could a direct election by the people in their collective capacity harmonize this changing body of concurrent law . Yet justice requires the admission that those who contemplate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State lines in the selection of Senators , and I wish to be understood by the reference to the possibility of an overlap under the collective system as dealing with the general principle and the possible future agitation in that direction . Taking the Government of the United States as the best example of a Federal Government , I should say that the constitutional arrangement is such that there is no possibility for the encroachment of the General Government upon the Local Government in the exercise of governmental powers . The Constitution defines the powers of the General Government and confers all other governmental power upon the Local , or , as the writers say , the General Government is one of express grant and the Local one that must be restricted by some prohibition in the Constitution , expressed or implied ; both possess autonomy , given by the Constitution itself ; each has its sphere and neither can destroy or encroach upon the other . Hence I should say that it is wholly unnecessary to have the States represented in the General Government by an election of Senators by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Government upon that of the State in the exercise of its governmental powers . But to use a phrase of Alexander Hamilton : " A government has a right of self-preservation , " and , in making a reference to the fact that the General Government can not encroach upon the State Government , it will be noticed that the limitation was confined to the exercise of the governmental power , meaning by the term governmental power an act legislative in nature . We now approach the vital constitutional principle , which the present mode of election does and should secure in a Federal form of government . The Constitution provides for amendment , and , in a partly Federal and partly Confedcrate manner . organizes the amending system . The Federal idea , however . dominates in the arrangement , it being optional with the General Government whether the final submission be to State Legislatures or to conventions of the people of the States , the Confederate feature being a right vested iii State Legislatures , if sufficient in number , to demand a Constitutional Convention . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Government is not an act legislative in its nature , however , but is an act calculated to invoke directly the sovereign power to activity . The General Government could by its power to amend strike down the State Governments , and the State Governments could in no way protect themselves against this . The Dual system could be annihilated and the Federal Government converted into a Centralized one . The General Government could propose a change and submit the same to the people of the States iii their collective capacity , thru the medium of conventions created or called by itself . All this is sound and essential to a government of the Federal form , and the Confederate feature of the amending power should be eradicated . That is to say , to place beyond question that we are a Federal Government , the calling of a Constitutional Convention should be vested in the General Government and the submission lie to the people in their collective capacity . But this , as I have said , would be an exercise of sovereign , as distinguished from legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system has the sanction of the sovereignty ; it has the right of self-preservation . Neither the General nor the State Government is sovereign ; nor does the sum total of both possess sovereignty , but in a Federal form the General Government should possess the right exclusively to address the sovereign and ascertain its will . The  |p851  State Government has no right to preserve itself against an act of the sovereign , but it should , by representation in one branch of the Legislature of the General Government , check and preserve itself against the tendency to ascertain the sovereign . will ; this is so because , when the existing order of government was established , the sovereign retired satisfied with the arrangement , and the presumption obtains that the acquiescence continues . Remove the representation of the State in the Senate , and the only opportunity for self-preservation left the States rests upon the exploded theory of Confederatism as organized in the amending clause of the Constitution and as contained in what is said to he the only irrepealable clause in the Constitution , to wit : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate without its consent , and this , of course , is Confederatism again in its most pronounced type . If this reasoning be correct it must be concluded that the election of Senators by the Legislature does represent a vital constitutional principle in a Federal form of government . In fact , the Senate , thru its mode of election , is the chief bulwark of the Federal form . Personally I am of the opinion that the United States is in need of a more efficient government . To obtain such a government I deem it necessary to depart from the Federal form . For this reason I favor the election of United States Senators by the direct vote of the people in their collective capacity . The form of government that I would hope for in case of a change would be the Centralized one . The accepted theory of sovereignty would remain unchanged and would be greatly strengthened . The sovereignty would be in the people and co-extensive with the General Government . The Government would still be co-ordinate . As I have stated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from the Dual form , because it breaks down the safeguards of that form of government . At the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States the American people were not completely nationalized . The problems of one State were not identical with those of another . Hence difference in policy was necessary . There was a sufficient development of juristic accord to establish a Federal Government in preference to a Confederate Government , but antagonistic views of a lurking Confederacy demanded that the General Government be one of enumerated powers and that the Local Government be independent of the General . The American people are becoming rapidly nationalized , if they are not fully so now . On every hand it is demanded that this subject and that subject be placed under national control . This piecemeal policy would be ill advised . The ultimate result must be that the General Government be one of plenary legislative power with designated restrictions rather than one of enumerated legislative powers , and that the governments of the commonwealth be those of enumerated legislative powers and limited to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complete juristic accord thruout the nation , with due consideration of the termination of the State legislative jurisdiction when sufficient jural consciousness prevails . The views of Mr. Secretary Root are , in my opinion , those of an observing statesman ; with a keen and accurate mind he grasps the indications , growth , effect and benefit of the complete nationality of this country , but I can not agree with him , if I understand him correctly , that the balance of co-ordinate government be distributed , and that the remedy lies in the enlargement of the powers of the Executive only . I should say that the ultimate form desirable would be that in which legislative power is concentrated in the General Government , giving to the Executive an independent and supplemental , as well as the delegated ordinance , power , calculated to insure sufficient energy for administrative purposes , and the one that enumerates the powers of the commonwealth and confines their activities to certain enumerated and administrative measures , preferably the police power . In other words , what Professor Burgess would call a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative power .                     