@@486889

After five years of government under a municipal commission in the city of Galveston , many enthusiastic Texans are saying that in this plan is to be found a remedy for what James Bryce called " the one conspicuous failure in the United States . " In the eighteen years since that judgment was passed , however , there has come not only the gain of an aroused public conscience , but a changed view of the importance of the municipal government . Very significant has been the great increase in the mayor 's power and responsibility , with the curtailed functions of aldermen Nevertheless , the evils of our city governments have remained . The condition of our urban population , as it was in 1790 , with only 3.3 per cent . of the inhabitants living in cities of over 8,000 , did not invoke the constructive genius of the American constitution-makers . Hence the principal features of a form of government framed to meet the needs of a State were somewhat arbitrarily applied to a municipality . Thus the municipal-commission form of government appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine that is the very keystone of our Constitution  --  the division of powers . The working of the Galveston Commission , as narrated by George K. Turner in McClure 's , suggests the possibilities of the new idea . In the case of Galveston , it was born of the great storm of September , 1900 In the critical period following , the old form of government with mayor and aldermen was found to be worse than useless A realization of this fact and the paramount desire to obtain concentration of authority and responsibility without hazarding everything on the choice of an all-powerful mayor , resulted in the evolution of the municipal commission It was , to be sure , not entirely a novelty . The Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia doubtless pointed the way . The government of English municipalities offered models of the high centralization sought . The New England town selectmen presented examples of small bodies of responsible representatives chosen at large . But more than any existing form of government , the great modern business corporation , with its maximum of efficiency and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Galveston Commission is a body of five men , at first partly appointive , but since 1903 elected from the city at large It consists of a Mayor , or general manager , elected specifically for his office , and four managers or directors , chosen without designation . The commissioners apportion the departments among themselves , choose all the other officers of the city government , legislate for the city , and are responsible for the enforcement and administration of the laws . A majority vote of the body is final . The mayor has no veto or appointive power ; his authority is confined to his acts as presiding officer of the board , and his vote as a commissioner . The four departments are those of finance and revenue , police and fire , streets and public property , and waterworks and sewers. in the time of her great need , Galveston 's call to the service of the city was answered by the choice of a board made up of five of her best-known citizens . Doubters declared that the service of men of such high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of five years , four of the original commissioners are still in office , the one change being due to the death of Mayor Austin in 1905 . The measure of the Commission 's success lies in its achievements , not in the character of its members . They found Galveston bankrupt ; to-day her credit is above par , and a saving of one-third in the running expenses has been effected . Simply by more efficient methods of collection , a revenue almost as great as that recorded before the storm has been obtained from assessments $425,000 smaller . Extensive public improvements have been carried on , and the city has at the same time assumed $1,500,000 of the cost of building the great sea wall . No less striking has been the Commission 's method of coping with social disorders . Galveston before the storm had the evil reputation of being the most " wide-open " city in the entire South . The Commission has succeeded in enforcing midnight saloon closing , has abolished gambling houses and policy shops , and has regulated the dance halls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserve better order than did a force one-third largef previously . Prior to the disaster , the city possessed no public sewerage system , and the streets were badly paved , and lighted only as the whim of the aldermen dictated . Under the Commission 's administration , a sewerage system has been constructed , and the streets are better paved and lighted than those of any other city in the Southwest . Of this record , the people of Galveston are justly proud ; they believe-they have solved the problem of municipal government . Nor has their success passed unnoticed in other cities . Houston has lived under a similar charter for two years . Three other Texan cities , Dallas , San Antonio , and Fort Worth , have already voted favorably , or are - planning to vote , on the adoption of the new idea Norfolk , Virginia , has a modification of the system ; while , first Of all Northern cities , Des Moines has appointed experts to report on the feasibility of the plan . It remains to be seen whether , in the cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the question than in Southern municipalities , the same degree of success is possible . But that the system is worthy of a thorough trial , the record of Galveston renders beyond dispute . BEAUTIES OF THE ART TARIFF . It may occur to certain visitors to the Columbia University Library , where splendid illuminated manuscripts belonging to J. Pierpont Morgan are temporarily exhibited , to inquire Why are these treasures of art in America , whereas Mr Morgan 's paintings , bronzes , enamels , tapestries , etc. , remain in Europe ? The answer is simple : the manuscripts are not in the eye of the law works of art , and come in free of duty , whereas the rest are included under the category of paintings and statuary and must pay 20 per cent ad valorem .. Now , the Morgan manuscripts include some ornamented by illuminators who were also esteemed painters , as was frequently the case in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries . Hubert van Eyck , one recalls , is a notable instance of such a double activity : And here the tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was fortunate enough to secure that peerles-s Hubert van Eyck , " St. Francis Receiving the Stigmata , " had to pay handsome-/y-in the customs for his enterprise , but a bibliophile who had the luck to land a manuscript containing a score of paintings by the same hand , of the same dimensions , and in the same medium , could parade his prize fearlessly before the assembled customs service . Mr. Morgan , as we have noted , has thus in a single breviary imported an entire gallery of Flemish art of the finest period without paying a cent . The thing should be looked to when the tariff is next revised ; the native illuminators of America should not be exposed to the pauper competition of the Middle Ages and Renaissance Meantime , we advise all collectors who come into the possession of small paintings to have them bound ' up and pleasingly accoutred as manuscripts . Feeling that even a protective chain is no stronger than its weakest link , we are constrained to point out another oversight in the Dingley bill Statuary is taxed its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mediaeval sculpture in metal or ivory that happens to be a book-cover escapes the duty On the other hand , a beautiful wooden chest with sculptured ornament would apparentlyhave to-pay 35 per cent . as " house or cabinet furniture , of wood , wholly or partly finished " ( Dingley . act , paragraph 208 ) . Supposing the case , of two Donatellos , one of wood , the other of bronze : the owner of the wooden statue would be penalized 15 per cent . for preferring the more perishable material . A similar discrepancy exists in the matter of drawings and prints . If one were the proud possessor of a drawing scratched on paper by Rembrandt 's pen , the tribute to the Government would be the consecrated 20 per cent. ; but if one bought instead an impression from an exactly similar sketch scratched on copper by Rembrandt 's dry-point , that would come in free , because it was an etching and " printed more than twenty years at the date of importation . " At many points we meet the same absurdity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diirer or Holbein , but one may import freely the almost priceless books containing numbers of their finest designs . Weak-kneed amateurs will doubtless be inclined to utilize the stupidity that gives this leeway to bad Americans who fancy the art of " abroad . " The Nation , though no friend of any protective tariff , is a believer in consistency , and sub . mits that , if collectors are to be penalized as such , and native art protected at all costs and against its will , the job should at least be done thoroughly . Obviously , any moral obliquity that attaches to a man who likes a painted Van Dyck portrait falls with equal weight upon him who happens to prefer an etched portrait by the same master . If either amateur should be asked to contribute to the support of the national Treasury , both should be subject to a common treatment . Why should the guilty man who buys the brush-drawings of Hokusai be made to pay handsomely for his taste , when the equally culpable lover of virtual facsimiles of these drawings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be endured . We have been pleading the enemy 's cause with our usual candor in urging that the tariff on works of art should at least be applied with some intelligence , equity , and common sense ; that it should not bear intolerably upon one class of collectors and spare others entirely . We desire to show that even on the strictest basis of protectionism , the schedules as they stand are full of glaring absurdities and inconsistencies . By the same token , it should appear that the art schedules need revision and equalization , quite apart from any general revision of the tariff , or from any special pleading for free art We should , however , be less zealous in exposing these unstopped loopholes in the present tariff , were we not confident that any committee of any party that honestly explores the legislative monstrosity yclept the tariff on art , studies its theoretical confusion , and observes its practical maladjustments , will arrive at the inevitable conclusion that the only way to reform is to abolish . CHANGES IN FOREIGN MISSIONS . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the centenary of American foreign missions , were a fitting recognition of a mighty work . It grew from small beginnings . That little band of Williams students who , a hundred years ago , devoted themselves to the evangelization of the heathen , builded better than they knew , in every sense of the words . Great changes have taken place , as well in the idea of the enterprise as in the methods employed for its success . For one thing , there has been a change in the conception of the non-Christian world . Unbelievers of alien races were once condemned by theologians to endless torment To-day , it is the present , not the future , condition of the heathen which is most talked about . Missionaries themselves are willing to leave as problematic the destiny of those who never hear the gospel . Their chief energies are devoted to the work of extending the civilization of Christian nations . Their undertaking is now looked upon by many intelligent observers as a struggle of enlightened rogress with dark stagnation . In the popular mind also there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture in the Sunday-school books was accepted as a faithful representation . He stood decently clad beneath a palm tree , with a sun umbrella over his head and a book in his hand , surrounded by undraped savages who seemed to be in doubt whether to hear or to eat him . But the missionary of to-day is thought of as the representative of wealthy and powerful churches , who preaches the gospel by action as well as by word . Within the observation of all , the qualities of the modern missionary differ from those of his predecessors He does not , like Henry Martyn at Rajemahl , portray the flames of hell to the inquiring tribesmen , or bewail in carefully kept diaries his own guilt and the doom of those who are deaf to his entreaties Nor does he , like Adoniram Judson , ask the hand of his future wife that " the heathens " may " be saved through her means from eternal woe and despair " ; nor like Robert Moffat hear an inward voice call him persistently to the work of rescuing men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man of affairs . There is now a tendency to prefer the enlightenment of the reason and the cure of the diseased body to the visions of the seer This is largely because money has been provided for education , and for medical care , to an extent impossible in times when the missionary went out alone and poor Men like Mackay of Uganda and Jessup of Syria have given an intellectual impetus even to the savage African and the indolent Oriental . And adventurous courage , similar to that of the earlier missionaries , is displayed by their successors who cut their way through the jungle , ascend fever-breeding rivers , and go unarmed among cruel fanatics and barbarous tribes , Missionaries are no longer merely ministers of the gospel who address the heathen in their native tongues They are physicians as well as priests . They build hospitals and administer them . They establish printing presses and direct them . They are linguists who translate a whole religious literature into the imperfect dialects of primitive tribes They are advisers at the courts of Eastern princes and instructors at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often in. advance of European and American traders , and find themselves , at length , opposing the vices of civilization on the one hand and those of barbarism on the other . The missionary physician and the missionary ethnologist bring the results of their research to the learned societies of Europe and America . But there is less of that haste to baptize which was once manifested by the heroic Jesuit missionaries to the North American Indians . The new missionary may still have something , to learn in the way of tact , but in general his methods are more tactful , careful , and gradual than those of a generation ago . Women are sent into the Zenana . Unsectarian societies attract unbelievers by offering them the comforts of civilization before introducing them to the principles of Christian doctrine . Missionary work has been organized and specialized . There is a " Students ' Movement " which gets its recruits from the universities . There is an " Inland Mission " which has penetrated - far into the Chinese Empire . During the last fifty years the American Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objection that this money might better have been employed at home for the poor at our doors , is met in part by the founding of asylums , free hospitals , and other benevolent institutions in the very countries whenbe immigrants come to us . Besides , be it noted , the most generous supporters of home charities are often the stanchest friends of foreign missions . A notable change in connection with this religious movement is seen in the method of its advocates when they appeal to their Christian constituencies for aid . The missionary sermon of the present resembles the address of a returned ambassador , rather than the exhortation of an evangelist ; and the organization of a missionary board is the miniature of a foreign office There are doubtless many who regret the apparent secularization of the cause ; who still have visions of the valie infern a , if not of the serapiterne fianone . They would trace their present success to the piety and prayers , and the baptism of blood , of laborers and martyrs . But , even those whose faith is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and heroism They can not fail to recognize in it a force in that wide evolutionary process which goes painfully onward towards the regeneration and federation of the world . BISMARCK 'S RETIREMENT . The publication in Germany of the memoirs of the late Chancellor Prince von Hohenlohe , giving the inside history of the dismissal of Prince Bismarck , was bound to create a sensation . The vrhole Empire seemed to rock on March 2i , 1890 , when the announcement was made that the young Emperor had calmly sent over the Side the veteran and masterful pilot who had launched and so long guided the ship of state Ger-many without Bismarck ? The thing seemed incredible , and the explanations Thich have since been furnished have been as varied as the colors in the spectrum In Germany , the net result was a widespread belief that the Emperor - was jealous of the Iron Chancellor , and , ' desiring to have things entirely his own way , had humiliated him in a moment of pique . That Bismarck himself held this view is known Speaking in English to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after his dismissal , the Chancellor said that he had been " literally kicked out of office , " and he was unsparing in his denunciation of the'Emperor and of the ministers to whom he attributed his loss of power . According to Von Hohenlohe , Bismarck declared to him that three weeks before be had not thought of resigning . " I ought , " he added , " to have expected it , since the Emperor now means to govern alone . " Most of the defenders of Bismarck have based their case upon the ingratitude of the Emperor . The actual details have hitherto been more or less veiled In mystery . The Bismarck memoirs and letters thus far published bear lightly , if at all , upon his retirement from office Not so the Hohenlohe memoirs The writer of this important record arrived in Berlin on the day of the news of Bismarck 's resignation . He speedily ascertained , so he notes in his diary , ' that the break between Emperor and Chancellor had been inevitable ' for eeks ; that more than a month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the derogatory way in which the Chancellor had spoken of him to the members of the diplomatic corps , had discussed with Count Caprivi the latter 's eventual appointMent as Chancellor A rumor of this conversation having reach- ed Bismarck , the situation at once bec  --  me impoSSible . To make matters worse , the Kaiser learned that Bismarck had " complained to certain diplomats of the Imperial policy in regard to the betterment of the working classes ; while , Bismarck was infuriated by hearing that other ministers saw more of the Emperor than he did himself . Finally , the Emperor , as Von Hohenlohe quotes him , declared that it had become a question " whether the Bismarck dynasty or the Hohenzollern should rule over Germany . " This statement and others the Kaiser made to Von Hohenlohe , when visiting him on April 24 , 1890 , and they were duly recorded in the diary now published . To the other reasons , the Kaiser added that Bismarck wanted a new law against the Socialists , and demanded ' the dissolution of the Reichstag , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' sides , he wished to take energetic measures against strikers and all tumultuous assemblages . To this the Emperor eplie 'd that he did not " wish to begin , his reign by shooting down his subjects " ? certainly not until he had " investigated their complaints and done his best to remove their just grievances . " All this now appears , we believe , for the first time , and places the Kaiser in so favorable a light that his strong protest against the publication of the Von Hohenlohe memoirs can not be based on any feeling that harm has been done to himself He may , however , feel that the charge , restated by Von Hohenlohe , that the break with Bismarck was due to a difference of opinion as to the advisability of a Russian alliance , will be injurious to him . Again , he may fear the publication  --  imw threatened  --  of the third volume of the Bismarck memoirs , whiCh is reported to be in a vault in the Bank of England But the upshOt can only be to strengthen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and liberal spirit he then displayed towards Socialists and the working classes has apparently left him . As time has passed , the Kaiser has apparently more and more leaned towards Bismarck 's original point of view in all that relates to dealing with the Social-Democrats . At the same time , the firmness and vigor which so astounded Bismarck and the whole Empire have stamped the Emperor as the most able cf the Hohenzollerns . Bismarck had never dealt with such stern stuff ; to offer his resignation to the old Emperor was with Bismarck a commonplace way of bringing William the First to his knees There is a fairly comic instance in the published correspondence between them . As far back as May 4 , 1875 , Bismarck asked to be allowed to retire with the legal pension . The Emperor 's reply is pathetic ; the secretary who wrote the letter is to be put under oath not to reveal its contents ; , as ' for- the Fmperor , he . is tiet 67 schitttert ( deeply shaken ) . Doubtless , Disniarck felt certain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to terms , as it so often had his grandfather . The bitterness of his disappointment certainly contained a large admixture of amazement . The impropriety of publishing the Von Hohenlohe memoirs at this time is as yet hardly apparent to an observer at this distance ; we confess that we can not quite understand the need of ' the Kaiser 's raging telegram to the son who permitted the book to come out , or the latter 's dismissal from office Even in his dispatch the Kaiser seems particularly piqued because the publication was made without his consent . It is a violation , he contends , of all decency to publish the " intimate conversations of a monarch " during his lifetime . Such things have , it is true , been rare ; but no established rule of this kind has ever been recognized . Intimate conversations with Queen Victoria might or might not have yielded a sensation dUring her lifetime . In this case , aside fi era the Emperor 's dignity , nothing else seems hurt , unless the memoirs contain something more startling than has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kaiser 's free advertisement , the publisher 's fortune should be made , and multitudes will read one firsthand account of a famous historic quarrel of which otherwise they might have died in ignorance . 