@@430069

 | The efforts made to preserve the sources and to write the annals of the South have been determined by the same forces which shape the historiography of any people , the sense of nationality and the prevailing ideals of education . In the colonial era few attempts were made at comprehensive historical writing and these abound in a wit and raciness which smack of the soil and a local pride characteristic of all provincial communities . It was not till the close of the second war with England and the rapid growth of nationality which followed , that Americans manitested much interest in their antecedents . This took the form of an ardent hero-worship . Weems , the parson , peddler , and biographer , well represents the nature of the awakening historic sense of the American people of that day . In time , however , this vigorous self-consciousness produced more scholarly results , and in the South , during the generation preceding the war , a number of State histories were published which have not yet been surpassed as secondary authorities . The names of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rivers , and Stevens and McCall are familiar to the students of Maryland , Virginia , Carolina , and Georgia history . There is this criticism to be offered on all authors of the ante-bellum school ; they neglected social and economic development and made history serve some moral end . The relation of industrial and social forces to political life was rarely considered , never to any marked degree , and it remains for the modern investigator to reconstruct from sources often meagre and unsatisfactory those phases of our past . The Civil War and the passions it engendered were no more conducive to a sane and rational attitude toward the problems of the past than to those of the present . In a few years after the end of the struggle the market was full of biographies , memoirs , and " pictorial histories " written by participants in the events described and worthless as adequate estimates of the period . But the altered industrial and social conditions which were the permanent results of the war , made possible new ideals of educa- tion and scholarship . The contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better illustrated than by the change in the study and writing of history . Some excellent work is still done by authors of general histories , especially by Mr. McCrady on South Carolina . But gradually historical research and teaching are being carried on by an increasing number of professional scholars , men who have the spirit and methods of the modern university . Their writings are intensive , they deal with some special subject or phase of political or economic development and are usually published in some series of university monographs . An investigation of the growth and extent of this new study of Southern history has well repaid the time the writer has given to it and the results are here presented . First in time and influence on scholarship in the South has been the work done at the Johns Hopkins University . Its place in the educational history of America is too well known to be dealt with here . At one time it had a monopoly of all graduate instruction . But as other institutions have developed schools of advanced research , a change has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern students have come to look to their own section for instruction , and because of its location in Baltimore , Hopkins is gradually becoming a distinctly Southern institution . The president 's report for 1901 makes the following statement : " During the past year 236 out of a total of 465 advanced students have been enrolled from the South . The benefits of 45 scholarships out of a total of 70 are limited to the South , and the other 25 and also 20 fellowships are open to the competition of Southern students . " From the beginning American institutional and economic his tory has been emphasized by the Department of History and along with the change in the personnel of the student body , an increasing tendency toward research and advanced instruction in Southern history has been a marked feature of work in the university . The " Studies in Historical and Political Science " has a larger number of Southern subjects than any other series of uni versity publications . The library of Hopkins in connection with the libraries of Baltimore and Washington offer the best material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is the only  | institution which offers systematic instruction in Southern history . The first step toward this intensive study of the South was the acquisition of books and manuscripts . In 1891 there was presented to the university a large number of books and pamphlets relating to slavery collected by General J. G. Birney , a presidential candidate in 1844 , and continued by his son , General William Birney , of Washington City . This is the largest and most complete collection on the subject in existence . In April of the same year Colonel Thomas Scharf , of Baltimore , donated to the University his large collection of manuscripts , pamphlets , autographs , and other historical material , dating from colonial times to the close of the Civil War . This collection , said the donor , " embodies the result of thirty years ' systematic research and a large expenditure of money , and was accumulated with the view of carrying out certain work , both that which I have already completed , and other designs which the pressure of other duties now compels me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gifts was that which alone could prompt the action " I have long noted with regret how imperfectly the history general and local , of the Southern States has been written , and ' the fact that this imperfection has been largely due to the absence or inaccessibility of material . No great collection of Southern historical documents exists . It is my hope that the Johns Hopkins University , founded by a Southern man in a Southern city , may see the way to do for the South what the Northern universities have done for the North , and become the general repository for Southern history . " A third collection of books is that begun by the late Professor Adams in 1898 of recent publications by Southern authors or books relating to the South . At the time of his death , in the summer of 1901 , between two and three hundred volumes had been brought together . After the acquisition of such sources it was only natural that instruction in the field should be offered . Since 1896 systematic class work in Southern history has been given by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course is arranged to cover three years of graduate instruction ; the work of each year supplements that of the preceding , but may also be taken as a unit in itself . Among the topics treated in 1900-1901 were the colonial land and labor  | systems , the relation of Southern economic development to the tariff , slavery , public improvements , and other political issues and " the influence of Southern agriculture upon incipient commerce and manufactures . " Also a conference of one hour a week is offered to those carrying on research . Such work as this , giving the student a large amount of information which formerly could be acquired only by extended private reading , encourages research and will hasten the day when students and teachers will have a better conception of what the South has been and its relation to the life of the nation . The growth of interest in Southern history at the Hopkins has manifested itself in the monographs of applicants for the doctor 's degree . In the twenty-five years of its life , " fifty-three Southern members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles , of which 316 have been specifically on the South , while non-Southern men have written 51 articles in addition upon the South . " From 1895 to 1901 , a period of six years , as many monographs on the South have been published in the " Studies " as in the first twelve years of the series . Such a record is one to be honored in any field of research , especially in one so important and long neglected . Not so valuable for contribution to the study of the South already made , as for the promise of such work in the future , are the monographs of students of history in Columbia University . The courses in history are among those offered by the Faculty of Political Science and for a number of years history was subordinate to constitutional law and political science . But gradually a Department of History has developed within the Political Science School and its guiding spirit has been research , the study of history from contemporary documents and sources . In American History , two fields of investigation have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which represent private study in these periods are not the conventional brochures of fifty or sixty pages but volumes of from two hundred to five hundred pages . The instruction in colonial history is given by Professor Osgood and much attention is devoted to the growth of the British system and policy of colonial administration . The theses prepared under his direction treat the political and constitutional life of the colonies with reference to the efforts of the  | English government to develop a definite system of colonial control . A new interpretation has thus been given to a most important period of our history and a generation or more of patient research will pass before some of the most important problems of the colonial system will be understood . One of the best studies that has been made in the light of these ideas is that on Maryland by N. D. Merenniss , and others are in preparation on North and South Carolina . In closer relation to the question of to-day is the instruction and work in the period of reconstruction . A series of lectures is offered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1860 to 1867 and the course of reconstruction in various States has been or is being investigated by students . The most thorough study of the conditions of reconstruction in any one State is Reconstruction in Mississippi , by Jas . W. Garner , a volume of more than four hundred pages . The book is written by a Southerner and is fair and impartial . The . workings of presidential and congressional reconstruction are not only treated , but political and economic activities during the war , and economic and legal aspects of reconstruction are considered . Its plan and method of exposition make the book the nearest approach to an ideal for its kind that has yet been produced . Closely related to all lecturing and writing on reconstruction problems is the Townsend Library of National , State , and Individual Civil War Records . In November , 1860 , Thomas S. Townsend began to compile magazine articles , news reports , and every kind of evidence bearing on the conditions of sectional strife . The collection was made day by day as events took place and was continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The results of Mr. Townsend 's labor and care are ninety volumes of printed matter , each volume larger than a bank ledger and containing six hundred pages . To make this mass of material of practical value it had to be collated and epitomized , and so a second work of thirty volumes , of thirteen hundred pages each , has been prepared , called the " Encyclopedia . " Since 1870 Mr. Townsend has kept a close watch on current events and has in preparation a similar record of the last thirty years . Such a collection of records , in which history tells its own  | story as it is made , is a marvel and monument of industry and genius . Various attempts were made to secure the collection by the Government , but failed on account of various political complications . In 1895 it was bought privately by Mr. Augustus Schermerhorn , a trustee of Columbia , and was presented to the University , perhaps the most unique and valuable repository of matter relating to American history . One of the most valuable repositories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South is the library of the Wisconsin State Historical Society at Madison . The society was founded in 1846 but its period of usefulness began in 1854 when Lyman C. Draper became secretary . During the five years previous to his administration , the society had , acquired only fifty volumes . By the end of his first year 's service , he had collected one thousand volumes and one thousand pamphlets and documents . From then till his death in 1891 , his life was devoted to securing and preserving the sources of American history . Dr. Draper 's method of investigation was not limited ti ) collecting books and documents . Yet he preserved letters and accounts of interviews while searching for records . The manuscript collection he made consists of four hundred folio volumes , and much the larger proportion of these volumes record conversations and correspondence . The period covered by his researches is from 1735 to the close of the war of 1812 and the geographical territory from the Hudson River to the Wabash , from Charleston to Louisville . Six volumes in the collection relate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early manuscripts relative to the history of Alabama , Georgia , South Carolina , Kentucky , Tennessee , Virginia , and the battle of King 's Mountain . The society 's newspaper files are extensive , numbering nine thousand volumes , especially strong from the year 1830 on . Of equal value is the large collection of books relating to slavery and the Civil War , consisting of more than 1,600 titles . The society has taken special pains to secure Southern war literature  | and has " practically all of the special histories , personal naratives , and biographies of generals issued for and by Southern men and women , " among them many publications not usually found in Northern libraries . In the same city is located the University of Wisconsin , and its library and that of the Historical Society are under the same roof . Ninety-five per cent of the readers in the Society 's library are instructors and students of the University . This leads one to inquire how the rich materials of the library are being utilized in the study of American history . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems certain from the courses announced in the catalogue . Professor Turner gives graduate instruction extending over two years on the Economic and Social History of the United States to 1850 , also a course on the Vest , while an instructor offers work in American Sectionalism , " a study of the geographical distribution of political parties , with special reference to the economic factors in this rise and decline . " In these courses , says Professor Turner , " the sectional evolution and peculiarities of the South are especially traced . " In that on the West , " the conditions of the Southern westward movement " are discussed and this " involves a detailed study of the occupation of the Great Valley and the Piedmont of the whole South as well as the occupation of Kentucky and Tennessee and the other southwestern States . " The interest in these phases of history has extended to the undergraduates and among the senior theses in the university library are a number on such subjects as " Economic Characteristics of Slavery in 1850 , " " Social and Economic Influences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Anti-Slavery Movement in Kentucky prior to 1849 . " Since the School of History in the University was not organized till 1900 and candidates for higher degrees are not yet r &; quired to publish their dissertation , the product of these comprehensive plans of study is yet to cone . The older universities of New England have not been inattentive , of recent years , to the South as a field for historical research . Dr. Frank Strong , now President of the University of Kansas ,  | offered at Yale in 1897-98 a course of lectures on the Political and Social History of the Southern States . Since 189G Professor J. C. Schwab has given lectures on the " Finances of the Confederacy . " These lectures have recently been put into book form and expose the internal weakness of the seceding states . Example after example is given of the futile legislation of a people gifted with imagination and theoretical knowledge which they could not put into practice , a condition very similar to certain phases of the French Revolution . While instruction in Southern history as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no series of publications and there is no requirement for the publication of theses . This weakness of Yale is the strength of Harvard . Though no lectures are devoted exclusively to the South , some of the ablest monographs in the Harvard Historical Series deal with Southern problems . Among the earlier issues are Houston 's Nullification in South Carolina and DuBois 's Suppression of the African Slave Trade . Recently Smith 's " History of the Free Soil Parties " and Miss Locke 's " Antislavery in America previous to 1809 , " in the Radcliffs Monographs , have been published , and Siebert 's " History of the Underground Railway " though not published by the University , represents work done there . In two other institutions some courses are offered and some individual investigations have been carried on which are a distinct contribution to the historical literature of the South . At the University of Pennsylvania Professor MacMaster 's seminars in the Jackson ear and the period since the Civil War must in time bear fruit in a number of studies . Already " Lincoln 's Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and two other monographs are soon to be published . " The Status of the Free Negro in the South before the Civil War " and the " Treatment of the Tory during the War for Independence , " will deal of interesting and important phases of ante-bellum life . At Chicago University a course has been offered in the Summer Quarter for several years on Reconstruction , but the only publication which has so far resulted has been Fertig 's " Secession and Reconstruction in Tennessee , " a monograph of the older type , not so broad in plan or instructive in execution as the Harvard and Columbia publications . Since the recent call of Professor J. F. Jameson , formerly editor of the American Histori- cal Review , to the Professorship of History announcement of courses in the history of American slavery and States rights , nullification , and secession have been made which in time will strengthen and increase the interest in Southern political and economic history . From this review of the ideals and the work of students of Southern history , no definite conclusion can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are most difficult to judge . But it is evident that within the last few years there has been awakened a new and saner interest in what the Southern people have achieved , that from a small beginning at Baltimore this interest has reached other university cities , and like all truth , the more that is known , the more extensive is the revelation of knowledge vet to be gained . The fields are white unto harvest .                     