@@486430

Enough is known of the protest filed with the State Department by Colombia to make it clear that it is a document to be reckoned with . The discreet ability displayed by Gen. Reyes and his associates has been , in fact , highly notable . They have not blustered or threatened war  --  on the contrary , they have labored with wonderful success to still warlike passions in Colombia . War , they say , would have been a fatal blunder . It would have been playing the game of American Jingoes . Much wiser as well as more humane.was the course actually pursued . The Colombian representatives have taken the position of a lawyer with a good case . He does not begin promiscuous shooting , but goes to the courts . It is really also a tribute to the American Government which Reyes and his advisers have paid in assuming that it would give a fair hearing to an argument going to show that it had proceeded improperly , and had laid itself open to a claim for , substantial damages . The net result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Isthmian canal . Our right is by no means so clear as was at first glibly asserted . Grave questions of treaty interpretation are involved , as well as of correct procedure under the general provisions of international law ; and all these matters are presented with force by the Colombian envoys and the able counsel they have employed . Their protest we are bound to consider seriously . Arms we would have met with arms , but reason we must encounter with reason  --  better reason , if we can produce it ; if not , with frank admission that we have been in the wrong And if , failing agreement between ourselves and Colombia , the solemn appeal is made that we refer the points in ' dispute to the Hague Tribunal , this Administration could not think of refusing to do so . We who urged Germany to go there to adjust the Venezuelan controversy , could not decline to submit our own differences - with Colombia to the same ' high arbitrament without exposing ourselves to the scorn of all mankind . President Roosevelt was almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way in which " the ' people of Panama rose as one man . " But his stanch defender , the New York Tribune , printed on Monday a letter from a special correspondent at the Isthmus , who declares in so many words that the people had nothing whatever to do with the revolution . " Seven men , aided by the soldiers and others whose support had been purchased , were alone responsible for the sudden revolution in the political status of Panama . " " Were the people . of the other provinces consulted ? They were not . Were the people of Colon and Panama let into the ' secret ? They were not . " We can not congratulate our contemporary on its enterprise , since the Evening Post 's correspondent gave exactly the same facts on December 8 ; but we do compliment it on its journalistic fairness in printing a truthful account of what actually occurred , even though the result is to destroy the official Republican version . Genuine republics are certainly not created by such hole-and-corner conspiracies as this letter details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the true origin of this " new birth among the nations . " Everybody knows it for the fictitious product it is ; and everybody will be correspondingly glad when some sensible arrangement is made to restore Panama to Colombia and get the canal without suspicion of fraud . A revolution in which the people had absolutely no part might easily be made to go backwards . The " authorized announcement " that President Roosevelt has promised not to make Gen. Wood lieutenant-general of the army was no sooner in print than it was denied by the Senator to whom it was said to have been made . It was stated that this assurance had ' done much to conciliate Senators who are uneasy about Gen. Wood , ' because they wish to see him a major-general and nothing more . But even if Mr. Roosevelt were to promise not to make Wood lieutenant-general and titular head of the army , it would not follow that the doctor-general will never reach that rank . If ocnfirmed as major-general now , he will be the senior officer in that grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1909 . Even if reelected next fall , Mr. Roosevelt will not be in office at that time . But whoever becomes President on that date will find himself confronted with the same argument which Mr. Roosevelt is now using so vigorously  --  that Wood is the senior of his grade and that to jump any one over him into the lieutenant-generalcy would be to ' slight him . Moreover , it will he said then as now , that the blame , if any , is Mr. McKinley 's for making Dr. Wood a brigadier-general in 1901 , and that , once having been made a brigadier-general , he ought to go up by seniority . The humiliation of having a military surgeon made the highest officer in the United States army for many years is one which Congress ought to prevent in the interest of the nation and army , and now- is the time to ' do it  --  not in 1909 . Then it will be alleged that there is so little difference in the duties of major and lieutenant-general as to make the additional promotion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rascal who stole a pig was commanded to give five stivers to the poor . He directly said he would give ten , because he wanted to steal another . This tale should be instructive to those executives who are so freely exercising the pardoning power . The Governor of Michigan has just pardoned a Detroit bank-wrecker who had served less than a year and a half of a fifteen-year sentence ; and the President granted last week eleven pardons , one of them to a former . bank president . The immediate effect of these pardons is to strengthen the impression that a rich man , of good family , who plunders a bank will be treated far more leniently than the poor man whose methods are cruder and less successful . Another effect , equally unfortunate , is the development of an idea that the pardoning power is a sort of royal prerogative , to be graciously exercised by wholesale at various high festivals . Rightfully , however , a pardon is granted only on those rare occasions when later-discovered evidence , or a fact which calls for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really unjust . The Detroit pardon is obviously a case where the tears of friends and an appeal to sentiment pure and simple have been determining causes . For the President , the duty of the moment is to get rascals into prison rather than out . The country is crying out for justice upon the land thieves and the postal thieves . Perry S Heath continues as buoyant and impudent as ever . In his latest out-giving he asserts that President McKinley had hoped to see Hanna next in succession . Heath knows this , because McKinley , recognizing in Heath those sterling qualities of heart and mind which make his name to-day a ' household word , chose Heath as confidant Posing also as the repository of Senator Hanna 's secrets , he tells us that the Senator 's business is now so arranged that he " can serve in any capacity in the Government . " Moreover , " Hanna does not want the office of President . That does not mean that he does not want the nomination . I say he does not want the office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position , the Hanna boom need not be a cause of anxiety to any one . Mr. Hanna is not likely to get the nomination ; but should he by chance secure it , the voters will never thrust him into an office which he does not want . Indeed , if Perry Heath , as Secretary of the Republican National Committee , continues until next June " airing . his vocabulary , " the voters may conceivably defeat any Republican candidate . Dr. Johnson once said , " A cow is a very good animal in a field , but we turn her out of a garden . " We may add that Mr. Heath might be a good man in a penitentiary , but he should be turned out of a political committee . Probably the best indication of the real condition of the Hanna , boom is furnished by the action of his lieutenants in Ohio . They have decided to hold their State convention at the very latest date possible . In other words , they are going to wait as long as may be to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they think that Mr. Hanna is certain to be the beneficiary of all the discontent with President Roosevelt . This may increase by the end of next May in such proportions as to compel the Ohio Senator to come to the rescue of his imperilled party . On the other hand , if the opposition to the President 's renomination proves futile , the Ohio Republicans will be ready to come out heroically as fortune 's champion , ever strong upon the stronger side , and bring up the rear of the conventions with wild enthusiasm for Roosevelt . In so far , we take it , the Hanna movement against the President is serious . It will be pushed if those behind it think it can be made successful without at the same time wrecking the party . The big subscriptions are ready ; the politicians have been sounded ; and now there is nothing to do but wait If Mr. Roosevelt should make some blunder still further alienating supporters , he would be thrown over . We presume that he understands the situation . The ostentatious reconciliation between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell said when her husband , Lord John , had made peace with his rival , Lord Palmerston : " They have shaken hands and embraced , and hate each other worse than ever . " The Times , in a State by State canvass of Democratic preferences , brings out these interesting facts : first , that there is great division of councils ; second , that Judge Parker has a handsome plurality on the theory that he can carry New York . Naturally , a vote which is merely athe opinion of State correspondents as to the political drift in their communities need not be regarded with great seriousness . One takes with a grain of salt , for example , the little roster of States which have made an adoptive favorite son of W. R. Hearst . But it is instructive to note that the Democracy at large seems to be taking Mr. Cleveland absolutely at his word and to be little inclined to force him to reconsider his letter to Mr. McKelway . It should be said also that the advocacy of Judge Parker lacks enthusiasm except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are eager for " any safe candidate : " In short , the Times 's interesting enquOte merely shows a general indecision in Democratic councils which calls for new and vigorous leadership . It is quite possible that the " man to beat Roosevelt " is as yet unnamed and unrecognized . The Cuban Congress . must be made to understand that circumstances alter cases . It is persistently rumored that it plans to increase the customs duties in order to overcome the revenue effect of the new reciprocity treaty . Such an evidence of bad faith would be shocking ; well might this country invite the world to behold how sharper than a serpent 's tooth it is to have a thankless child . An increase in tariff taxes is all right under some circumstances , but strong meat must not be given to babes . Let the new republic follow our example . It took us a long time to reach our present tariff schedules . Our physique is now inured to violent changes of this sort , but we can only view with alarm a. similar policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having food and raiment , should be therewith content . Ingratitude is certainly a marble-hearted fiend , yet Cuba is within her rights if she raises her duties . The reciprocity treaty insures us an advantage over other nations ; and so long as our relative position is not disturbed we have only sentimental ground for complaint . If reciprocity is going to reduce Cuban revenues , it is natural for the republic to ask how it can make good the loss . The average duty in the present tariff is less than 25 per cent. , which should make good Americans smile . Why , this ridiculously low figure is of itself sufficient ground for increasing the duties without an instant 's delay . The real difference between a Tammany and a civilized government is well illustrated by Mr. McClellan 's appointment of George E. Best as Bridge Commissioner . Mr. Lindenthal , Mr. Low 's appointee , had had thirty-one years- of practical experience , both as a railroad and a bridge engineer . He had , moreover , studied at the Vienna Polytechnic , and was a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian society , and of the American Society of Civil Engineers , as well as many others of a similar professional character . Mr. Best is a subservient tool of " Boss " Murphy , and a Tammany heeler who has hitherto obtained only such small jobs from Tammany that no one in the organization even dreamed of his getting so important an office . It is needless to say that he has had no technical training whatever , and is therefore manifestly unfit for the very important position for which he has been chosen . Finally , Mr. Best is universally regarded as a creature of the street-railway companies ? he at present holds a small position with a private contracting company . Since there are questions of vital importance to the traffic development of the city pressing for settlement , the Manhattan companies wish to be in a strong position in their dealings with the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company in regard to bridge railway service . And , then , for what did the companies contribute to the Tammany campaign fund ? Apparently , Mr. McClellan has purchased the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murphy . In Mr. McAdoo the Mayor-elect has selected a police commissioner much above the ordinary Tammany type . If he was only an average assistant secretary of the navy , he has , since his removal to this city , had a large law practice and been the head of some important undertakings . He refused to follow Bryan in the latter 's disastrous campaigns , and remained with the Gold Democrats at a time when to do so seemed to threaten political extinction . In so far as his record goes , this appointment is , for Tammany , a very good one . It is only necessary to recall some of the former Wigwam commissioners , such as Sexton , Martin , Murphy , and " Barney " York , to prove that Mr McClellan has aimed higher . The rumors that Timothy Sullivan and his , gang are very much displeased with the appointment are also creditable to both Mr McClellan and Mr. McAdoo But the real test of the latter will come after he has taken office . Today he uses very fair words , promising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " for the best government of this great community . " The attempt of previous witnesses in the investigation now going on to throw a large part of the blame for the Shipbuilding outcome on Mr. Schwab , is vigorously contested by him . He has just filed a cross bill denying in general and in particular all the allegations of fraud and conspiracy made by the complainants in the suit for the Shipbuilding Company 's receivership . He read the prospectus and believed in it with childlike faith . Who ever heard of a prospectus that was not absolutely , truthful ? But if everybody concerned in the Shipbuilding deal was actuated by the highest motives and pursued the most business-like methods , how does it happen that the ' completed whole strikes every one as neither reputable nor business-like ? Obviously , somebody has blundered  --  if not morally , then mental1y . Possibly the Shipbuilding collapse represents nothing more than a mere mathematical inadvertence  --  a failure to perceive that six ciphers will not make one unit . A strong sense of humor has always been considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does not think so , or else he is entirely without it himself . This bull cotton manipulator has started a " campaign of education . " He " %ants the spinners of the United States to subscribe $250,000 to make the American press and people see the reasonableness of permanently high-priced cotton . Ii is not hard to see why Mr. Sully should want this view to be widely accepted ; and that he should go systematically to work to inculcate it is not surprising . But when a person undertakes to educate the public by " write-ups " and " cooperative advertising " and " authoritative personal interviews , " he usually tries to conceal his hand . None of us supposes that Mr. Sully is bulling cotton for " his health . " His position is that of the celebrated divine who , when'he was asked what he went around the country lecturing for , replied , " f a tn. e. ? fifty and my expenses . " In a word , Mr. Sully is a little too eager to educate the American people ; this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 000,000 profits in cotton is just the thing to excite their humor He should broaden his scope . For not only must he show the people of this country the advantages of buying cotton cloths for which they have no money to pay , but he must also perform the same service for the Chinese and other foreigners . Then , too , he must teach the mill owners that there is a profit in piling up goods for which there is no sale . But , above all , it is necessary to make foreign nations see that it would be very foolish to enlarge the culture of cotton . Certainly , no educator ever undertook a more delicate task . - The " unionized funeral " threatens to be the funeral of unionism . If the walking delegates have the courage of their logic , there is no reason " why they should not proceed from a union driver to a union-made hearse and coffin , union-grown flowers , and a union-dug grave ; and finally they will insist on substituting for the extreme unction of the Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so to speak , on eternity , the unions should find it easy to seize all temporalities and unionize every act of life , from the first cry that opens the lungs to the dying gasp . The only difficulty with the present programme is - that it is almost too complete . In its prescription of a formula for all activity , it gives us a foretaste of the iron regimen of socialism ; and for this last step We Ainericans seem unprepared . Westill cling fondly to the old notion of doing a few ' things for ourselves in our own way . Union pies may be better for body and soul , but we perversely long for those " like mother used to make . " The procession headed by the union banner is a magnificent spectacle , but many of us had rather go our own easy gait than join the inexorable lockstep . Some of the enthusiastic marchers , too , seem to weary of the pace , and feel that they are dragging the ball and chain . Frederick W. Jab of Chicago , secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor unions in Chicago has fallen off $0 per cent. ; and even those who may ' dispute the exactness of his figures and charge him with prejudice , must admit that the slackening of trade is decimating the unions . The walking delegates who have been setting up their little kingdoms , are learning the truth of Mirabeau 's dictum , that a tureur de gouverner is the worst malady of states . One glaring defect of our international copyright law is the provision compelling " simultaneous publication " even for books in foreign languages , or for translations of them into English . The hardship which this works in the case of Continental authors is obvious . They are forced to decide in advance whether their writings may count upon such a sale in this country as to warrant separate printing and publishing here ; while if they do not authorize and copyright a translation immediately , they are exposed to pirating . To remedy these undoubted evils an amendment of the law has been urged upon Congress . It is in these terms : " Whenever the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which shall be published in a foreign country before the day of publication in this country , or his executors , administrators or assigns , shall , within twelve months after the first publication of such book in a foreign country , obtain a copyright for a translation of such book in the English language , which shall be the first copyright in this country for a translation of such book , he and they shall have , during the term of such copyright , the sole liberty of printing , reprinting , publishing , vending , translating and dramatizing the said book , and , in the case of a dramatic composition , of publicly performing the same , or of causing it to be performed or represented by others . " The urgent need of enacting such an amendment is argued with much force by Mr. George H. Putnam in the Critic . It is in the interest not only of fair play , but of the privileges of our own authors , since the annoyance caused German writers , for example , has been such that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States : The simple change required in the law ought to be had without fail . The bill has been favorably reported by the Senate committee . It should have the active support of all to whom fair dealing in international literary matters is a real concern . The dismissal of four more German army officers because of the revelations in Lieut Bilse 's book , ' In a Little Gar-risen , ' shows again that the author is not being punished because his book gave an inaccurate picture of army life . But the Minister of War is evidently trying to live up to his promise that there shall be no more such garrisons in the service . In all probability there are but few , yet the code of morals under which they flourish extends throughout the army , and is responsible for a vast deal of misconduct . - If it is impossible to keep Anglo-Saxons - in barracks and have them saints , it is all the more difficult to keep young Teutons in order when they think themselves , because of their uniforms , of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound by the moral laws which apply to ordinary mortals . What the German army is suffering from is merely what must happen to any troops when their officers are made demigods and overlords , when they may kill at leisure any one who displeases , and go practically unpunished What is needed is to make the army feel that it is the servant of the German people , and not that the nation exists for its benefit . The remedies are obvious . They could be put into operation at once by the Emperor , but that commander-inchief 's influence has thus - far merely strengthened the caste feeling and the abominable military code which are a direct inheritance from the Middle Ages . The Dreyfus affair is , fortunately , to be continued on a strictly judicial basis . For a time the admission of an appeal was the cause of bitter criticism . It was feared that the order for revision quashed all the proceedings of the Rennes tribunal , and left Dreyfus eligible for immediate restoration to his rank as captain . Such an act would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter now stands , the case will be reviewed by the criminal branch of the Court of Ap . peals , probably a new court-martial will follow , and Dreyfus will stand or fall by the result of the new verdict . Sensational revelations of perjury and forgery at Rennes are to be expected , for the Commission would never have reopened the case because of merely technical irregularities in the previous finding . Meanwhile , the ola verdict stands . All those who have followed the affair will agree with the very French comment of the critic Anatole France , who welcomes the new trial because he feels that so famous a case should end with something of tragic dignity and completeness . The Rennes court-martial and the subsequent pardon afforded a denouement , he avers , of bourgeois ineptitude . It may be said , therefore , that it is a case in which aesthetics and substantial justice are in singular accord .                     