@@486617

On Monday the Boston Museum of Fine Arts opened its new building to the public . It is the first structure of the sort that has taken into account the remoter growth of the collections it houses , and it is , as well , the first museum that makes a logical division between display and storage of its treasures . Though it has two and a half times the floor area of the abandoned building in Copley Square , it is still but a scant half of the greater museum that it is to be . The facade expresses clearly the double function suggested above . A well-lighted lower story is largely given up to administration , study rooms , and objects in storage exhibition ; the higher upper story is devoted to exhibition galleries containing the objects of most general value and appeal . This scheme has imposed difficult conditions upon the architect , Guy Lowell , and his advisory committee , Messrs . E. M. Wheelwright , D. Despradelle , and R. G. Sturgis . It was a question of a front 500 feet long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trustees had determined to avoid that excessive height which , affording monumental opportunities to the architect of a museum , imposes in bad lighting and ill-proportioned gallery walls , a permanent discomfort upon the visitor . The lower story also must be generously pierced for light , and could not serve merely as a base . The architect frankly accepted the situation and carried the second-story windows down to the string moulding by brackets  --  or one might say a false balcony  --  thus making the lower windows a kind of sash for the more ornate upper opening and thereby gaining , with a vertical motive , a sense of height . Again , the squatness of the front is dissimulated by bringing the wings forward 120 feet towards Huntington Avenue , and providing both them and the central entrance with slender Ionic porticos . By proper landscape gardening of the vast forecourt thus inclosed  --  and this , naturally , will take time  --  the building will gain in seclusion and dignity . It has seemed well to go rather fully into this matter of plan , because on no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The design is absolutely a structural one , being directed throughout by the inner requirements . Great ingenuity has been shown in drawing architectural profit from the cramping conditions . What is even more remarkable in the whole thing is the-fidelity with which the architect has applied his science and taste to the essential matter in hand . He has caught the spirit of the Museum , and has expressed it for all time . When one thinks of the specious libraries that are put up irrespective of the service they must render , of museums that belittle and crush the beautiful objects they contain , one is tempted to require a monument for Mr. Guy Lowell and his associates . One enters by a massive staircase in three flights to reach the elliptical rotunda , which eventually will be the distributing centre of the pile . At the front of the staircase well is the reference library and collection of photographs , approaching which one may look into the balconied courts which contain the casts . Later these facsimiles will have a hall of their own , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right at the head of the steps , one passes two small galleries and reaches the great hall devoted to the Egyptian collections . The walls , as generally in the museum , are of plaster carefully glazed , and very lively in effect . The remarkable Mastaba tombs with painted reliefs , which have been long in storage , are now set up entire and divide the early from the middle period . They supply a broad record of Egyptian life . Hunting , warfare , commerce , the handicrafts  --  all are rapreseated . The wooden images and limestone reliefs exemplifying the earlier dynasties are famous . These are set up with abundant space , and fragments of two colossal statues in alabaster have been added . Probably nothing in America so completely expresses the gravity of this ? early style . Passing to the left from the Hall of Late Egyptian Art one may make the round of five halls in the east wing , beginning with archaic Greek and finishing with Greco-Roman art . Again the walls are treated in grayish roughcast subtly toned . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of exhibition appear conspicuously . The aim has been to give an anthology of classic art century by century , and nothing has been omitted that could add to the veracity and interest of the picture , nothing omitted that is merely repetitious and tedious . Thus tho archaic room , which contains the famous Assos reliefs and a fragmentary funeral slab , really gains its effect from a splendid vase of the type of Douris , and even more from a central case containing a small group of those austere little bronzes which represented the so-called Dmdalan style at its best . Most mu- ' seums would have kept the vase and the bronzes in their respective departments , and the result would have been to impoverish the archaic display . The next hall , that of the fifth century , contains a lovely and magnificent marble relief of Eros Weighing Souls , which has been opportunely bought to give lustre to the reopening of the museum . It is a work of such transcendent beauty and importance that it seems better to return to it soon , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid red-figured vase with scenes from the Trojan war is a valuable adjunct to the major exhibits Passing two halls of marbles , we reach the fourth century , where terra-cotta figurines come to the front as the marbles become scarcer . In the next hall , that of Hellenistic art , mirrors , embossed tops of toilet boxes , are welcome exhibits . Thus gallery by gallery the components change , and the balance of interest shifts now to this now to that class of objects , while the epitome of each century remains fairly complete and satisfactory . Evidently the only way to display the art of a period is to take 1t as a humane product , ignoring the arbitrary segregations that scholars have justifiably made for their convenience . The critics of the Renaissance had the true sense of this unity of the arts when they insisted that all were included un der the general category of design ( d &sauna).; This idea has inspired those who arranged the classical department of this museum . So successfully have they displayed the material at their command that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in the British Museum , can Greek art be studied more advantageously , or , saving the Terme Museum at Rome , seen more enjoyably . And now for the finest of new acquisitions : In the marble throne with reliefs representing Eros ( Thanatos ? Hermes ? ) weighing two souls before two seated goddesses , the museum has acquired one of the most precious remnants of Greek sculpture at its best . That this is not too much to say will be plain when it is added that this relief is evidently the companion-piece of the famous Ludovisi throne at ' Rome , and that it is in every way in better preservation . That one is the pendant of the other is shown by the marble , the nature of the cutting , the dimensions , and even more by the correspondence of the subjects . And first , neither is properly called a throne . The inner surfaces where the seat should be , are roughly hewn , show no traces of facing , and evidently were not meant to be seen . The finish of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imbedded in masonry or served as the crown of a monument at a level above the eye . One may ? surmise that they were the gable ends of a small shrine , and separated by a small space of plain masonry . The Ludovisi relief , it will be recalled , shows in the gabled back Venus rising from the sea ( some archmologists say rather Persephone rising from or sinking to the Lower World ) , attended by two nymphs , now headless , who draw a mantle about the lovely torso of the deity . The corresponding panel at Boston displays a nude winged figure holding a balance in the pans of which are two athletic figures in miniature . As the beam tips , the seated figure at the left raises her hand in sorrow at the fatal lot , while the other figure sits motionless in contentment . The arm of the balance has disappeared . It was mortised into tenons , the size of which shows that the scales were entirely of marble . At the corners are fine volutes surrounded by a honeysuckle finial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The interpretation of these two main reliefs will doubtless exercise archeologists for years to come . Only the alternative seems plain that if the Roman example is indeed an Aphrodite , then : the weigher of souls should be Eros , while on the theory ' that the goddess is Persephone , the winged judge should be Hermes , or possibly Thanatos ? Death himself . The little figures in the balance , executed in freest low relief , are of utmost delicacy and beauty . To find their like one must go to the high Renaissance or to Rodin . The rhomboidal sides of the Boston piece are again of extraordinary interest . At the right a graceful youth wholly nude sits on a doubled cushion and plays the lyre . He faced the entrancing nude figure of a piping maiden in the Ludovisi throne . At the left a short-haired crone sits with hands on knees holding what seems to be the remnant of a staff . She faced the draped figure of a priestess , putting incense upon a slender brazier . The head of the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine it a portrait . And were it detached from the body , only the marble would warn the admirer that this was not a drastic portrait head by some transitional sculptor of the late Middle Ages , say , a Christoforo Romano . It reveals the genius of Greece in a new phase . The draperies and the feet have that especial delicacy and precision which we find only at the moment when " an archaic art is nearing its classic consummation . The museum is to be congratulated , not merely on securing one of the loveliest examples of Greek sculpture , but also on owning a masterpiece , the quality of which , representing a transient and seldom recurring perfection , is even rarer than that of the so-called golden ages . From the classical wing , the visiter would naturally go back either by the central corridor or the narrower passageway that skirts the Egyptian hall , to the picture galleries ? But since the pictures are in provisional quarters , and are in the main arranged as they were in the old museum , the hurried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Instead , one may pass through three side-lighted halls , to the right of the main corridor on entering , which are devoted to the art of the eighteenth and the seventeenth centuries and to that of the Renaissance . Thus one reaches a large top-lighted gallery , hung with tapestries , and , beyond to the right , a smaller hall , containing objects of Near Eastern make , chiefly Persian . Pottery and textiles constitute the bulk of this exhibition , but there is much fine metal work , and a lustred bowl with a figure design , exquisitely executed , rightly holds the centre of the room . It represents Persian draughtsmanship at its perfection and should be inspected with the reverent attention one gives to the illuminated page of a splendid medieval manuscript . One approaches the west wing and the art of the Far East through a corridor set with cases of Chinese pottery and porcelain , with larger pieces on pedestals - between . TI ere is - a- grate- fill change from the too common precedent of continuous cases . And here appears a finesse consistently carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the trim of the ha'l is in unvarnished wood , with Japanese profiles . The aim has been , not to reproduce any special form , but simply to avoid the disturbing presence of forms with Western associations In the first hall , dedicated to Japanese sculpture , this simple principle of congruity has been enlarged upon , it may-seem unhappily . Not that there is anything inherently amiss with the columned sanctuary with interlacing wood vaulting that R. A. Cram has designed for these Buddhas and lesser adepts , of " The Way " In fact , they look very stately in their intercolumnar spaces . It is just such a setting as an amateur of taste might contrive for his treasures , and this may seem both its eulogy and condemnation . It smacks of amateurism . It puts the setting in competition with the jewels , and , worse yet , it puts in an unfairly anticlimactical light the simple . walls that follow . As for the bronze and wooden images , they are already famous . In the old museum most of them$ occupied a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ styles from Shinto sculpture , antedating the Buddhist era , to , the splendid decline of the sixteenth century , are represented . What is remarkable is the severity and intelligence or the workmanship . Only the very finest Western sculpture approaches it . Look at- the three-headed god that guards the exit By the sparsest Indications , the bony form and the drag of-the muscles is suggested . Every touch of : the chisel and drawing knife has counted tremendously . Here is a minimum of work , with a maximum of vision and ' directing intelligence . Within the nine halls of the Far Eastern wing is a balcony simply carpenter  --  ed in Japanese style , with fine temple carvings let into the rail , which looks down upon a sanded garden where in four square pools grow lotos and papyrus A bronze Buddha , with some dull - gilt about him , takes in the scene in : sleepy approval . One or two gray stone lanterns rise from the silvery sand . This is not a museum feature . It is rather an oasis provided for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him-.self of the bustling associations of every day , let a little of the mysterious calm ' of the sacred East fill his harassed consciousness . The end of our visit is peace . But it is not quite the end . Questions intrude Where are many of the objects we used to see in the old buildings ? How has the princely space we note in most halls  --  by no means in all ; some are still overcrowded  --  been gained ? The answer is found downstairs . There are kept the collections that are perplexingl'y big and various for the average man. , Here is the extraordinary Morse collec tion of Japanese pottery , representing the makes of half the villages of Nippon . Here is the print collection with a roomy exhibition gallery . Here the hulk of the textiles , one of the most notable collections , is kept at the disposal of every student . Similarly , the Greek vases and terra-cottas are here in exlaibition storage . The student , or , indeed , the merely curious visitor , may see and study all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curators and working libraries . And the principle that has created this building now appears plainly . The more beautiful things , those that have a civilizing value for every man , have been shown with generous space , so that they may tell ; while the archmological objects  --  those that con-cern chiefly the professional student , have been brought into a more compact and isolated arrangement which is far more convenient for the investigator than the condition prevailing in true exhibition halls . We have , as has been said , two museums in one , but this duality does not imply disagreement . On the contrary , there will be a constant give and take between the galleries and the storerooms . Variety will be secured by changing the exhibitions as anniversaries or other current motive may dictate . As finer objects are purchased , others , to make space , will pass into storage . In what has just been written possibly the future development of this museum has obscured the present reality . This building is part of a larger whole . The dual tendency is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presume , experimentally . That it will commend itself , no one can doubt . To-day this museum is one of the easiest to see . One can hardly recall another instance where so large a sum of pleasure may be had at so little tribute of fatigue Of this accomplishment , the trustees , the staff , and the city of Boston may well be proud . It would not be surprising if the principles here partially but most promisingly exemplified , should serve as a goal totvards which all art museums ? and others for that matter  --  professing public service , must ultimately strive . M. The 105th annual exhibition of the Penndylvania Academy of the Fine Arts is announced for January 23-March 20 , inclusive Arthur Hayden is preparing a biography of Josiah Wedgwood , the famous English potter . The Wedgewood family have placed at the biographer 's disposal their private store of material . We have spoken a word of enthusiasm concerning the Metropolitan Museum 's exhibition of Dutch masters , and its wonderful Rembrandts , and , in our last issue , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a most opportune exhibition of his etchings at the Keppel galleries one is enabled to learn still more of his art , and of his character scarcely less . Here one may study Rembrandt the master of religious subjects , as it has been impossible to do at the Hudson-Fulton show And this Keppel collection is rich , no less , in his etched landscapes . Whistler is always interesting , whether good , bad , or indifferent , and in the exhibition of his lithographs now on view at the Wfinderlich galleries he is almost invariably good It was not until 1878 that he was induced to try lithography , and when he did use the greasy pencil it was characteristic of the man to strike out an original line . In two or three litho-tints , made with washes of ink on the stone and an occasional use of chalk , he does not appear to have been so happy , such pictures as the Nocturne , Limehouse , and Early Morning looking like wash drawings of no particular merit . But in some of the figures of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classical dress , with her left arm resting on a wall , the right touching a line that sugge'sts an amphora , is exquisite in its grace ; the Dancing Girl , the Draped Figure , Seated , the Model Draping , the Girl Reading , The Winged Hat , and La Jolla New Yorkaise are all delightful , delicate studies of charming womanhood Frederic-Charles Vernon has been elected to the Academie des Beaux-Arts in place of the late M. Chaplain , the medallist . The new academician is a pupil of his predecessor , and has received several medals for his work , as also , in 1887 , the Prix de Rome Francois Gruyer , a member of the Academie des Beaux-Arts and curator of the Musee Conde , has died at Chantilly , as he was entering upon his eighty-fifth year A pupil of the Ecole des Arts at Manufactures , his first professional post was lecturer in chemistry at the Institut Agronomique of Versailles Later , however , he abandoned science for the fine arts , and from 1857 to 1868 he published no fewer than seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his VirginsIn 1874 lie published his " Raphael peintre de portraits " Other works in the field of art criticism and of the history of art followed , and many periodical essays . The writer was named in 1872 inspector-general ; later , member of the conseil saperieur for the fine arts ; finally , conservatear de la petatuxe at the Louvre His election to the Academie des Beaux-Arts took place in 1875                     