@@473492

THE wide valley , the languorous - Flow of a peaceful river , the vast cultivated fields were before me ; the old stone house with its weight of a century of years was behind me ; and I , in the midst of a deserted garden , once a marvel , the pride of its owner , a garden of hope and joy and youth ? the youth of an imperial domain , of a State which is now verging toward its hundredth year , of a man who moulded many of the institutions of that State , and lives in thought as a figure of destiny pointing the way to an accomplishment of heroic deeds and the fulfilment of high ideals . At my feet a small yellow crocus fluttered its silken garments in the raw March wind ; the towering shrubs , unclip ! . and unkempt , waved branches toward me in very desolateness , as if demanding the human sympathy so long accorded them . In almost obliterated borders the weeds of last year held outdetaining fringes , and the box hedges and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the all-pervading presence of a coming March gale . The old stone house stood undismayed , but cheerless and comfortless , no hint of life in the uneurtained windows , the smokeless chimneys , the barred doors , which , in all the hundred years now past and gone , have never before been closed to guests , but opened with hospitality princely in its generosity . Silent and immutable as the Sphinx , it is yet so strong , so secure , that its very story seems as much a part of the future of our great nation as of the past . With the beautiful terraced garden as a background , one reads there a romance typically American ; the story of a man who lived and loved , and planned and accomplished great deeds by the strength of his own individuality . Drawing inspiration from the founders of our nation , he , more than any other one man , gave form and vigor and impulse to the development of the vast imperial West . The long procession of those who conquered a continent passed through , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its place in history marks it as a way-side inn of the nation where the vigorous , eventful life of a young State was told . Down in the valley lies the little city where the State of Ohio was born . It is rich in memory of the first days of the great commonwealth . There forceful , dominant , master - minds , settlers in the Virginia Military District , started the State on her career of greatness . They gave Ohio her first Governor , her first . United States Senator , her first Secretary of State , her first Speaker of the Legislature , her first Adjutant-General , her Great Seal , her first Constitution ; they started the State Library , and in that little city was the State 's first home ; it was the first capital not only of the old Northwest Territory , but of the State of Ohio . Sometimes at dawn , sometimes in the cold wet evenings of April , more often in the glory of the May noontide , I have climbed the long hill which leads to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I heard nothing there but that which was like the sad , insistent strain of melody in a dirge , the tragic , touching , piteous refrain , " I once was . " But from the little crocus which announced the recurring birth of Nature , the witness to the fact that for one hundred years March had whispered there the secret of the year to a listening earth , I caught the thrilling , stirring , hopeful , and joyous song of Spring . From the warm brown earth , and the air , and the birds , came thoughts that trembled toward expression . I felt a subtle spiritual suggestion , the realization that a life once lived in vigor and fulness never dies . It sets in motion forces which carry messages to posterity ; it gives to dreams , to aspirations , to hopes , an entity . Every aspect of the place brought back the thought of the man who had been a formative power in the young State ; and though the years might level the old stone pile once his home , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those who made it a delight to the eye , and taught the flowers to bloom , willnever cease to have its effect upon the living . The force that with high aims accomplishes great deeds is imperishable ; it is immortality . March swept out on the winds into the infinite years of the past and carried all the desolate aspect of the garden ; for when young April smiled through tears , stiff , white-green spikes were pushing themselves through the moist earth and the dead leaves of last year . The mystery of life stirred the senses , and expectancy deepened . In the first week of the month yellow Easter flowers and white jonquils nodded in the pale sunshine , making a veritable Field of the Cloth of Gold . The scarlet tanager , which had made furtive prospecting visits there in February and March , established himself and family permanently . Now and then the whistle of a quail pierced the quiet air , or the hoarse croak of a crow called defiance to the busy robins as he flapped his great black wings on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the windswept borders of March wore a dazzling greenery refreshing to winter-tired eyes . I picked a bunch of white violets from a border nearly overgrown with blue-starred creepers of the periwinkle ; the exquisite perfume was like the memories of a hundred years of sunshine and Spring . I walked through aisles of lilac-trees where furled leaves made soft green curls upon brown branches , down pathways bordered on either side by great towering green yuccas , whose swordlike leaves swept the ground with a suggestion of cruelty essentially Spanish . The tali dead blooms of last year held up empty seed-pods to heaven in a very rage of neglect . I brushed by giant shrubs of Pyrus japonica showing the first red of its fiery bloom , by magnolia-trees thick with buds , and under great snowball - bushes which arched over the pathway beneath . In the more formal portion of the garden the tulips and hyacinths were drawing from the chemistry of Nature their brilliant colors and sweet perfumes to breathe upon the air . In the centre of this reviving color and fragrance was a beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greenly vivid , that on that day it was like all of the thoughts of Easter crystallized into form ; it was the real ization of a Winter 's hope , a dream of immortality , the never - changing life of the spirit . The day made those century-old walks , bordered by mossy stone flagging , quiet aisles of prayer , or whispering-galleries where one heard footsteps which had echoed there in love and hope and joy , in death and desolation . Mid-April ! Snow , moist , deep , and clinging ! For three days the tender leaves and forming buds shivered in soft white wreaths , heavy with moisture ; and then Spring , as if ashamed of capricious ways , turned in her most attractive guise and sent warm days , and looked at the sweet fresh world through thetrembling ' haze that makes the valley so attractive . It is elusive , suggestive of day-dreams , of far , unfathomable distances ; it gives a fairylike enchantment to the cloud palaces which hang over the hill-tops . There is a subtle analogy between this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks the well-bred citizen of the quaint old town on the Scioto River . One realizes that certain social conditions are atmospheric . Nature suggests withdrawal from a too vivid life . The quiet reserve and dignified formality are but envelopes to the true personality , like the softening haze that veils the hills and valleys , and hints of undiscovered charms . And May , " who goes before to make THE STORY OF the paths of June more beautiful , " steps lightly across all this waiting , palpitating. world . She whispers to the buds and blossoms ; she breathes upon the soft curls of unfolded leaves ; she hovers over the earth ? arid to her light touch the grass and sweet wild flowers respond with eager caress . All Nature bursts into one glorious choral of praise . As I climbed the hill upon whose summit stands the old stone house , like a court beauty amid rustic surroundings , I realized how noble had been the impulse to allow Nature to tell her story absolutely untrammelled by efforts to place her advantageously . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an eye to scenic effect had grasped the possibilities there suggested . Down the sloping hill-side , in close ranks , marched primeval oaks and maples , picturesque beeches and elms . Here and there rose the ghostly , straight white trunk of a huttenball - tree , with the hanging , swinging globes of last year 's seeds ; or at a turn of the road a vision of the first Spring bride arrayed in white disclosed itself on closer view as the low - sweeping branches of a dogwood . The fragrance of buckeye blossoms filled the air , and the redbud - tree gave a sinister touch of color to the hill-side , reminding one that over those wooded slopes once bounded the moccasined foot of the Shawanoe , whose last tribal efforts were made to hold this beloved valley for his own ; his last stand was made in defence of this the ancestral home of his race . Did the wind-harp of Spring , in the trees that he loved , echo the sound of his battle-cry , or shrill his last weird call ? Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waxen blooms , and celadon - poppies in a yellow glory carpeted the earth with the gold of the kingdom of flowers . All through the grass , along the road-side , and in the crevices of the rocks were blue and white violets in prodigal profusion ; while in and out and all about . crept the trailing fringe of the ground-ivy , with its tiny blue-eyed blossom reflecting the vivid color of the sky . Here and there the bloodroot lifted cups to heaven . The pure white flower with its golden heart. , its blood-red root , its broad shielding green leaves , which ward off unholy grime , is Nature 's symbol of The Holy Grail . Sloping down to the lake at its foot , the hill climbs upward to the plateau where Thomas Worthington , the youth from Virginia , located his land - warrants in 1796 . From this beautiful level plain I looked down a ravine by the side of the road , to watch a dancing little stream chattering its story to the trilliums , anemones , and uncurling ferns ; such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a glad joy of Spring ; such a pride in being able to sweep over the rocks and through the ravine with its messages to the lake ! Above , in the trees , the birds tried to rival its song . I turned to the house , which stood silent , sombre , and sad ; but oh ! the joy , the transfiguration in the garden and the orchard beyond ! There was pictured the splendor of the dawn of the year . One could hardly believe that the snow-storm of a fortnight before had really passed . The tall lilacs were tipped with white and purple in feathery plumage ; the tulips and hyacinths were in bloom ; and now , those embryo white points that puzzled me a month earlier , as border to the star and oval and crescent shaped beds , disclosed themselves as small purple fleur-de-lis . Anything more quaint than these low-growing " flags " of our grandmothers I have never seen . Somehow I expected to see a figur. walking in the garden clad in a short-waisted gown , a poke-bonnet from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair , heelless slippers , and clocked stockings ; a scarf about the shoulders , the management of which was a fine art . For beautiful daughters had reigned there ; capricious beauty had been courted under those arching boughs ; rosy cheeks had rivalled the inner shell-like blush of the magnolia which was opening its buds beside me , and bright eyes had looked love and pride at stately lovers . Aaron Burr had wandered down those pathways and talked floriculture with Eleanor Van Swearingen , the first mistress of the home . He left more than memories there , for he sent , as an appreciation of the garden in the wilderness , the moss-rose , the yellow jasmine , and the sweet honeysuckle , which still bloom and flourish in the rich soil as a tribute to one kindly act of a man whose supreme thought was self . Only the chance visitor and the birds catch their fragrance from the winds of Spring . Few know that , once upon a time , a. very scheming , brilliantly fascinating , wicked little man , with delightful manners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he walked up and down the pathways and talked about seeds and . roots and bulbs , just . as if he were not plotting treason and planning his dream of empire . Henry Clay 's silvery voice cast many an echo among those old trees . Affiliation in taste and politics made him a frequent and welcome guest of the owner of " Adana , " the home upon the hill . Daniel Webster came in touch there with the great boundless West .. One could fancy the magnificent poise , the superb charm of the man as he paid tribute to the dignity of a life which was modeled upon that in old Virginia . Webster never did commonplace things , and he expressed his appreciation in no measured terms . De Witt Clinton ; Rufus King , whose son married a daughter of the house ; President Monroe ; General Macomb , who married another daughter many noted men and women of bygone years felt the pulsing life and the vivid charm of that spacious garden , which was laid out by a celebrated landscape-gardener in imitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the terrace steps , that sweet May day , my surroundings roused the sense of association . I looked at the old stone house , facing with sightless eyes the hills across the wide valley . Towering above the surrounding peaks is Mount Logan , named in honor of the Mingo chief whose pathetic lament rings in the ear of every school-boy . T saw in fancy the little group gathered in that house to design the Great Seal of the State . An aII-night vigil was unproductive of result ; but when dawn came , those who were met there , weary with effort , went out to watch the coming of the day . " Ah ! " said William Creighton , Secretary of State , pointing to the sun climbing up from behind Mount Logan ; " a new sun is rising upon the horizon . " Returning to the house , he drew from the picture before his eyes the design for the seal of the new-born State , and beneath it he wrote , " perium in Imperio " ? An Empire within an Empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little group that left a home in old Virginia for conscience ' sake . There was Thomas Worthington , who believed most firmly in freedom for all men . Like many another great man of his State , he had convictions on the subject of slavery . He knew that in the great Northwest Territory , then luring men with its promises , was a Canaan which offered freedom of thought . and action as a field for youthful ideals and imaginings ; a refuge for those who believed in his principles . For by the terms of that Ordinance of 1787 , whose primal thought was written by Thomas Jefferson , slavery there wasforever forbidden . With the leader was his young wife and her brothers ; Edward Tiffin , who afterward became the first Governor of Ohio , and his wife , who was the sister of Thomas Worthington . They went to join A. little group of Scotch-Trish settlers , who had migrated from the Elkhorn in Kentucky , to escape the restrictions of slavery , and founded the town of Chillicothe , in the Scioto Valley . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wilderness took with them roots and seeds , herbs and simples . One can fancy that eyes grew dim with tears when those same seeds in sprouting brought tender memories of an unforgotten home . Those wanderers who followed Godfrey de Bouillon to the I loly Land brought hack in return the seeds that caused Italy and the Low Countries to bloom into the first gardens that Europe knew . It was the development of ideas , stimulated to expression by travel of the Crusaders , that lifted the pall of the Dark Ages and civilized and hurrianized a western world . Who , then , can estimate the influence of that garden , " far from all voice of teachers or divines " ? How many people found there " priests , sermons , shrines " ? The lilies-of-the-valley rang fairy hells at the foot of the terrace walls , but the Spanish iris that used to flourish there is seen no more in the gardens of today . Its flower , with yellow petals heavily painted with lavender , its black centre and curving stamens set in sage-green leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a memory now , like the empire of Spain in the Western World . The old-fashioned grape-hyacinth grows near the tangles of " matrimony , " and the quaint little polyanthus hides itself against the columbine . Near by is the wild growth of a yellow eglantine rose . Against the low wall the leaves of the myrtleherry shine , reminders of wax candles that were made from the berries of the bush , to gleam in white radiance over a brilliant assemblage , or light the way to a discussion of state secrets above the mahogany . June days . The buckeye and locust blossoms no longer scent the air , the leaves are heavy on the trees , and the grass is seeding . Down in the valley the maize is waist-high and the wheat is ripening to the harvest . In the garden the calycanthus has dropped its scented blooms , the yellow corcoris flower is withered as it climbs over the low wall on the slope above the kitchen - garden ; the snowballs are dry and brown , and the June lilies are budding . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of acoming July and shield the tansy and thyme growing against the stone flagging . Here and there an old-fashioned rose hides itself against its leaves as if mourning lost sisters . The microphylla which once grew over the trellis is dead , and the damask and cabbage roses vanished long ago . Syringa - bushes are thickly set with white stars of perfume , and gorgeous masses of peonies give color to the scene . At the root of a dead tree the star of Bethlehem makes a spotless wreath ; . and close at hand the yuccas lift white-green cups to heaven . Yellow Nile lilies and flaunting tiger-lilies are opening to catch the color of the sun . and the wild-grape perfume is wafted from the woods . Giant fleur-de-lis shake out odor and color , and Canterbury bells ring a sweet entrancing tune . Swift-darting dragon-flies , drowsy bees , and lazy butterflies give motion to the soft sweet air ; and the sound of noisy bird mothers , teaching immature sons and daughters to fly , breaks the quiet stillness . It is not a modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is nothing but the bulbs and bushes and shrubs of a century ago ; nothing but memories and associations , and the fragrance of dead Summers . The Spring is past , the glory of the garden is gone , but " Ichabod " is not written above it . The walks and alleys echo no more to the sound of voices , and the footsteps have passed into silence ; but the romance of the past invests each stone with interest , each bush with a story , each bud and flower with the tender grace of a day that is dead . The message that is written in memories and associations and read in the flowers that have seen the Springs of a hundred years is the immortality of thought , the undying force of an accomplished purpose , the imperishable ideal which opportunity and America have given to youth .                     