@@474470

NAVAL officers who began their career in the fifties of the past century , as I did , and who have survived till now , have been witnesses of one of the most rapid and revolutionary changes that naval science and warfare have undergone . It has been aptly said that a naval captain who fought the Invincible Armada would have been more at home in the typical war-ship of 1840 than the average captain of 1840 would have been in the advanced types of the American civil war. * The twenty years here chosen for comparison cover the middle period of the century which has but recently expired . Since that . time progress has gone on in accelerating ratio ; and if the consequent changes have been less radical in kind , they have been even more extensive in scope . It is interesting to observe that within the same two decades , in 1854 , occurred the formal visit of Commodore Perry to Japan , and the negotiation of the treaty that brought her fairly within the movement of Western civilization . When I received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early part of the year 1356 , the United States navy was under the influence of one of those spasmodic awakenings which , so far us action is concerned , have been the chief charaeteristie of American statesmanship in the matter of naval policy up to twenty years ago ; since which there has been a more continuous practical recognition of the necessity of a sustained and consistent development of naval power . This wholesome change has been coincident with and doubtless , within the same period , has passed over the world at large . Between the day of my entrance into the service , - fifty years ago , and the present , nowhere is change more notable than in the national attitude towards the navy and the comprehension of its office . Then the navy was accepted without much question as part of the necessary lumber which every adequately organized maritime state carried , along with the rest of a national establishment . Of what use it was , or might be , few cared much to inquire . There was not sufficient interest even to dispute the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as late as 1875 an old-time tleffersonian Democrat repeated to me with conviction the master 's dictum , that the navy was a useless appendage ? a statement which the work of the War of Secession , as well on the Confederate as on the Union side , might seem to have refuted sufficiently and with abundant illustration . To such doubters before the war , there was always ready the routine reply that a navy protected commerce ; and American shipping , then the second in the world , literally whitened every sea with its snowy cotton sails . In my first long voyage , in 1859 , from Philadelphia to Brazil , it was no rare occurrence to be becalmed in the doldrums in company with two or three of these beautiful semi-clipper vessels , their low black hulls contrasting vividly with the tall pyramids of dazzling canvas which rose above them ; a distinctive mark at that time of American merchant shipping . They needed no protection then ; and none foresaw that within a decade , by the operations of a few small steam-cruisers , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Everything was taken for granted , and not least that war was a barbarism of the past . From 1815 to 1850 , the lifetime of a generation , international peace had prevailed substantially unbroken , despite numerous revolutionary movements internal to the states concerned ; and it bad been lightly asfumed that these conditions would thenceforth continue , crowned as they had been by the great sacrament of Peace , when the nations for the ' first time gathered under a common roof the fruits of their several industries in the World 's Exposition of 1851 . The shadows of disunion were indeed gathering over our own land , but for the most of us they carried with them no fear of war . The political condition and balance of the world now is very different from that of the period of which I have been writing . Of this universal change and displacement the most significant factor ? at least in our Western civilization ? has been the establishment of the German Empire , with its ensuing commercial , maritime , and naval development . To it certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the forces of sea and land ? an impulse for which , in my judgment , too great gratitude can not be felt . It has braced and organized Western civilization for an ordeal as yet dimly perceived . I do not think there is error or exagger , ation in this picture of the " environment " of the navy in popular appreciation at the time I entered . - ruder such conditions , which had obtained substantially since soon after the war of 1812 , and which long disastrously affected even Great Britain , with all her proud naval - traditions and maritime and colonial interests , a military service can not thrive . Indifference and neglect tell on most individuals and on all professions . The saving clauses were the high sense of duty and of professional integrity , which from first to last I have never known wanting in the service ; while the beauty of the ships themselves , quick as a docile and intelligent animal to respond to the master 's call , inspired affection and intensified professional enthusiasm . The exercises of sails and spars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they may have seemed to the uninitiated , to the appreciative possessed fascination , and were their own sufficient reward for the care lavished upon them . The result of all this had been a body of officers and of men-of-war seamen , strong in professional sentiment and admirably qualified in the main for the duties of . a calling which in many of its leading characteristics was rapidly becoming obsolete . There was the spirit of youth , but the body of age . As a class , officers and men were well up in the use of such instruments as the country gave them ; but the profession did not wield the corporate influence necessary to extort better instruments , and impotence to remedy produced acquiescence in , perhaps more properly submission to , an arrest of progress , the evils of which were clearly seen . The same conditions recurred afterwards . No administrative period of uur naval history since 1812 has been more disastrously stagnant and inefficient than that which followed closely the War of Secession , with its extraordinary and in the main well-directed administrative energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their followers , after exciting a moment 's enthusiasm , were powerless to sustain popular interest . Reaction ruled , as after the war of 1812 . To whomsoever due , in the decade immediately preceding the War of Secession there were two notable attempts at regeneration , which had a profound influence upon the fortunes of that contest . Of these , one affected the personnel of the navy , the other the material . It had for some time been recognized within , the service that , owing partly to easy-going toleration of offenders , partly to the absence of authorized methods of dealing with the disabled or the merely incompetent , partly also , doubtless , to the effect of general professional stagnation upon those naturally inclined to worthlessness , there had accumulated a very considerable percentage of officers who were useless ; or worse , unreliable . In measure , this was also due to habits of drinking , much more common in all classes of men then than now . Even within the ten years with which I am dealing , an officer not many years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this respect in his own experience ; and my contemporaries will bear me out in saying that since then the advance has been so sustained that the evil now is practically non-existent . But then the compassionate expression , " A first-rate officer when he is not drinking , " was ominously frequent ; and in the generation before , too little attention had been paid to the equally significant remark that with a fool you know what to count on , but with one who drank you never knew . But drink was far from the only cause . There were regular examinations , after six years of service , for promotion . from the warrant of midshipman to a lieutenant 's commission ; but , that successfully passed , there was no further review of an officer 's qualifications , unless misconduet brought him before a court martial . Nor was there any provision for removing the physically incompetent . Before I entered the navy I knew one such , who had been bedridden for nearly ten years . He had been a midshipman with Farragut under Porter in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A gallant boy , specially named in the despatch , lie had such aptitude that at sixteen , as he told me himself , he wore an epaulet on the left shoulder ? the uniform of a lieutenant at that time ; and a contemporary assured me that in handling a ship he was the smartest officer of the deck he had ever known . But in early middle life disease overtook him , and , though flat on his back , he had been borne on the active list because there was nothing else to do with him . In that plight he was even promoted . There was another who , as a midshipman , had lost a foot in the war of 1812 , hut had been carried on from grade to grade for forty years , until at the time I speak of he was a captain , then the highest rank in the navy . Possibly , probably , he never saw water bluer than that of the Lakes , where he was wounded . The undeserving were not treated with quite the same indnlgenee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will recall some half-dozen old die-hards who figured year by year at the head of the lieutenant 's list ; continuously " overslaughed , " never promoted , but never dismissed . But there were those also who , despite habits or inefficiency , slipped through even formal examination ; commanders whose ships were run by their subordinates , lieutenants whose watch on deck kept their captains from sleeping , midshipmen whose unfitness made their retention unpardonable ? for at their years to re-begin life was no hardship , much less injustice . Of one such the story ran that his captain , giving him the letter required by regulation , wrote , " Mr. So-and-so is a very excellent young gentleman , of perfectly correct habits , but nothing will make an officer of him . " The midshipman answered his questions , however ; and the board considered that they could not go beyond that fact , and passed him in the face of the opinion of a superior of tried efficiency , who had had his professional conduct under prolonged observation . I never knew this particular man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his captain 's opinion . Twenty or thirty years later I was myself one of a board called to deal with a precisely similar case . The letter of the captain was explicitly condemnatory and strong ; but the president of the board ? a man of exemplary rectitude ? was vehement even in refusing to act upon it , and his opinion prevailed . Some years afterwards the individual came under my command , and proved to be of so eccentric worthlessness chat I thought him on the border-line of insanity . He afterwards disappeared , I do n't know how . Talking of examinations , a comical incident came under my notice immediately after the civil war . when there were still employed a large number of those volunteer officers who had honorably and usefully filled up the depleted ranks of the regular service ? an accession of strength imperatively needed . There were among them , naturally , inefficients as well as efficients . One had applied for promotion , and a board of three , among them myself , was assembled to examine . Several commonplace questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now remember only that he had no conception of the difference between a ship moored and one lying at single anchor ? a subject as pertinent today as a hundred years ago . After failing to explain this , he expressed his wish not to go farther ; whereupon one of the board asked why , if ignorant of these simple matters , he had applied for examination . His answer was , " I did not apply for examination ; I applied for promotion . " Basil Hall tells an interesting story in point . When himself about to pass for lieutenant , in 1808 , while in an anteroom awaiting his summons , a candidate came out flushed and perturbed . Hall was called in , and one of the examining captains said to him , " Mr. who has just gone out , could not answer a question , which we will put to you . " He naturally looked for a stunner , and was surprised at the extremely commonplace problem proposed . From the general incident he presumed his predecessor had been rejected , but when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some years later he met one of the examiners , who in the conversation recalled to him the circumstance . " We hesitated , " he said , " ' whether to let him go through ; but we did , and I voted for him . A few weeks later I saw him gazetted second lieutenant of a sloop of war , and a twinge of compunction seized me . Not long afterwards I read also of the loss of that ship , with all on board . I never have known how it happened , but I can not rid myself of an uneasy feeling that it may have been in that young man 's watch . " He added , " Mr. Hall , if ever you are employed as I then was , do not take your duties as lightly as I did . " Sometimes Retribution does not assume this ghastly form , but shows the humorous side of her countenance ; for she has two faces , like the famous ship that was painted a different color on either side , and always tacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off their coast . I recall many of us recall ? a well - known character in the service , " Bobby , " who was a synonym for inefficiency . He is long since in his grave , where reminiscence can not disturb him ; and the Bobby can reveal him only to those who knew him as well and better than I , and not to an unsympathetic public . Well , Bobby after long indulgence had been retired from active service by that convulsive effort at reestablishment known as the Retiring Board of 1851-5 . The action of the board was afterwards extensively reviewed , and among the data brought before The reviewers was a letter from a commander , who presumably should have known better , warmly endorsing Bobby . In consequence of this and perhaps other circumstances Bobby was restored to an admiring service ; but the Department , probably through some officer who appreciated the situation , sent him to his advocate as first lieutenant ? that is , as general manager and right-hand man . The joke was somewhat grim , and grimly resented . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commander on a matter of duty . He received me in his cabin , his feet swathed on a chair , his hands gnarled and knotted with gout or rheumatism , from which he was a great sufferer . Business despatched , we drifted into talk , and got on the subject of Bobby . His face became distorted . " I suppose the Department thinks it has done a very funny thing in sending me him as first lieutenant , but I tell you , Mr. Mahan , every word I wrote was perfectly true . There is nothing about a ship from her hold to her trucks that Bobby do n't know ; but " ? here fury took possession of him , and he - vociferated , ? " put him on deck , and a trumpet in his hand , or handling men , and he is the d ? dest fool that ever man laid eyes on . " How far his sense of injury biassed his judgments as to Bobby 's acquirements I can not say ; but a cruise or two before I had happened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public after his restoration , as first lieutenant in charge of a deck . On the occasion in question he was to exercise the whole crew at some particular manoeuvre . Taking his stand on the hawse-block , he drew from his pocket a small note-book , east upon it his eye , and announced ? doubtless through that fatal trumpet , ? " Man the foreroyal - braces ! " A pause , and further reference . " Man the mainroyalbraces ! " Again a pause . " Man the mizzenroyal-braces ? man all the royal-braces ! " It is quite true , however , that there may be plenty of knowledge with lack of power to apply it professionally ? a fact observable in all callings , but one which examination alone will not elicit . I knew such a one who said of himself , " Before I take the trumpet I know what ought to be said and done , but with the trumpet in my hand everything goes away from me . " This was doubtless partly stage fright ; but stage fright does not last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very marked general ability , esteemed and liked by all , finally left the navy ; and probably wisely . On the other hand , I remember a very excellent seaman ? and officer ? telling me that the poorest officer he had ever known tacked ship the best . So men differ . OUR NAVY FIFTY YEARS AGO . 379 ' Thus it happened , through the operation of a variety of causes , that by the early fifties there had accumulated on the lists of the navy , in every grade , a number of men who had been tried in the balance of professional judgment and found distinctly wanting . Not only was the public ? the nation ? being wronged by the continuance in responsible positions of men who could not meet an emergency , or even discharge common duties , but there was the further harm that they were occupying places which , if vacated , could be at once filled by capable men waiting behind them . Fortunately , this bad come to constitute a body of individual grievance among the deserving , which counterbalanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted was drastic enough , although , in fact , only an application of the principle of selection in a very guarded form . rnhatmilY , previous neglect through a long series of years to apply selection had now occasioned conditions in which it had to be used on a huge scale and in the most invidious manner ? the selecting out of the unfit . It was therefore easy for cavillers to liken this process to a trial at law , in which unfavorable decision was a condemnation without the accused being heard ; and , of course , once having received this coloring , the impression could not be removed , nor the method reconciled to a public having Anglo-Saxon traditions concerning the administration of justice . A board of fifteen was constituted ? five captains , five commanders , and five lieutenants . These were then the only grades of commissioned officers , and representation from them all insured , as far as could be , an adequate acquaintance with the entire personnel of the navy . The board sat in secret , reaching its own conclusions by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not fit to be carried longer on the active list . Rejections were of three kinds : those wholly removed , and those retired on two different grades of pay , called " Retired " and " Furloughed . " The report was accepted by the government and became operative . This occurred a year or two before I entered the Naval School ; and , as I was ' already expecting to do so , I read withan interest I well recall the lists of persons unfavorably affected . Of course , neither then nor afterwards had I knowledge to form an independent opinion upon the merits of the cases ; but , as far as I could gather in the immediately succeeding years from different officers , the general verdict was that in very few instances had injustice been done . But no such system can work unless a government have the courage of its findings ; for private and public opinion will inevitably constitute itself a court of appeal . In Great Britain , where the principle of selection has never been abandoned , in the application the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fancy , would hardly be too strong a word ? by opinion outside . P. has been promoted , say the service journals ; but why was A. passed over , or F. , or K. ? Choice is difficult , indeed , in peace-times ; but years sap efficiency , and for the good of the nation it is imperative to get men along while in the vigor of life , which will never he effected by the slow routine in which each second stands heir to the first . In 1854-5 the results of a contrary system had reached proportions at once disheartening and comical . It then required fourteen years after entrance to reach a lieutenant 's commission ? the lowest of alL That is , coming in as a midshipman at fifteen , not till twenty-nine , after ten or twelve years , probably , on a sea-going ship , was a man found fit , by official position , to take charge of a ship at sea or command a division of guns True , the famous Billy Culmer , of his Majesty 's navy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at fifty-six , and then declined a commission on the ground that he preferred to continue senior midshipman rather than be the junior lieutenant ; but the injustice , if so it were , to Billy and to many others had put the ships into the hands of captains in the prime of life . Of the historic admirals of that navy , few had failed to reach a captaincy in their twenties . Per contra , I was told the following anecdote by an officer of our service whose name was ? and is , for he still lives -- a synonym for personal activity and professional seamanship , but who waited his fourteen years for a lieutenancy . On one occasion the ship in which he returned to Norfolk from a three years ' cruise was from there ordered to Portsmouth . New Hampshire ? to go out of commission . For some cause almost all the lieutenants had been detached , the cruise being-thought ended . It became necessary therefore to intrust the charge of the deck to him and other " passed " midshipmen , and great was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship was to run . If this were exceptional , it would not be worth quoting , but it was not . A similar routine in the British navy , in a dry-rot period of a hundred years before , had induced a like head-wagging and exchange of views when one of its greatest admirals , Hawke , was first . given charge of a squadron ; being then already a man of mark , and four years older than Nelson at the Nile . But he was younger than the rule , and so distrusted . The vacancies made by the wholesale action of 1854 remedied this for a while . The lieutenants who awed their rank to it became such after seven or eight years , or at twenty three or four ; and this meant really passing out of pupilage into manhood . The change , being effected immediately , anticipated the reaction in public opinion and in Congress , which rejected the findings of the board , and compelled a review of the whole procedure . Many restorations were made ; and , as these swelled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was established a reduced pay for those whose recent promotion made them in excess . For them was adopted , in naval colloquialism , the inelegant but suggestive term " jackass " lieutenants . It should be explained to the outsider ? perhaps even many professional readers may not know ? that the word was formerly ' used for a elass of so-called " frigates , " which intervened between the frigate class proper and the sloop of war proper , and , like all hybrids , such as the armored cruiser , shared more in the defects than in the virtues of either . It was therefore not a new coinage , and its uncomplimentary suggestion applied rather to the grudging legislation than to the unlucky victims . Of course promotion was stopped till this block was worked off ; but the immediate gain was retained . Before the trouble came on afresh , the War of Secession , causing a large number of Southern officers to leave the service , introduced a very different problem ? namely , how to find officers enough to meet the expansion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The men of my time became lieutenants between twenty and twenty-three . My own commission was dated a month before my twenty-first birthday , and with what good further prospects , even under the strict rule of seniority promotion , is evident , for before I was twenty-five I was made lieutenant-commander , corresponding to major in the army . Those were cheerful days in this respect for the men who struck the crest of the wave ; but already the symptoms of inevitable reaction to old conditions of stagnancy were observable , to those able to heed . It would be difficult to exaggerate the benefit of this measure to the nation , through the 5erviee , despite the subsequent reactionary legislation . By a single act a large number of officers were advanced from the most subordinate and irresponsible positions to those which called all their faculties into play . " Responsibility , " said one of the most experienced admirals the world has known , " is the test of a man 's courage " ; and , where the native fitness exists , nothing so fits for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lieutenant of the watch differs little from that of the captain in degree , and less in kind . To early bearing of responsibility Farragut attributed in great part his fearlessness in it , which was well known to the service before his hour of strain . It was much that the government found ready for the extreme demands of the war a number of officers who , instead of supervising the washing of lower decks and stowing of holds during their best years , had been put betimes on the deck in charge of the ship . From there to the captain 's berth was but a small step . " Passed midshipman , " says one of Cooper 's characters , " is a good grade to reach , but a bad one to stop in . " From a fate little better than this many promising young officers were thus rescued for the commands and responsibilities of the approaching war . 