@@438041

Po him who takes his politics seriously , and has perhaps attained his own political belief through many an hour of anxious reflection , and many a prayer for inward light which would guide to righteous judgment , the cheerful inability of other men to know why they belong to one party rather than another is very perplexing ; to him it seems incredible that any reasoning human being should be content to go through the world with his political faith resting on such shaky foundations . Most men seem to receive their politics meekly , through inheritance or environment . ( That is also , we are told , the way children become criminals . ) Most of the Republicans whom we know belong to that party primarily because their fathers were Republicans before them , ? either fighting in the Civil War , or perhaps from a safe distance cheering on those who did ; secondarily , because as youths they have " tagged on " after the quadrennial torchlight procession , cheering for Blaine , Harrison , McKinley , or Roosevelt ; or thirdly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party orators and newspapers , carefully avoiding all others . Then there is a considerable number of those who are simply turned by the tide ; like some acquaintances of mine who were formerly Democrats , but who , moving into a community where the other party was fashionable and dominant , and finding that most political favors and preferment were to be gained in that camp , saw . the errors of their former ways and were converted . VOL. 101 - NO. 5 I do not intend to cast reflections upon the good faith or the patriotism of these members of the other party ; for the ranks of the Democrats are recruited for the most part in just the same way . Inheritance , environment , heeding the arguments of only one side , will account for most of them also . If the Democratic party is somewhat short of time-servers it is only because its success of recent years has not been so marked as to attract them . In their view , society in the Democratic party is getting to be rather like the Presbyterian elder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means amusing ; and they would naturally prefer the more numerous society of the other place . But if the people who dislike to discuss politics or religion are irritating , what can be said of those who profess to see no real choice between parties ? " 011 ! I ca n't see any difference , " laughs a genial gentleman , " they both want to get in when they 're out , you know ; and to keep the other fellows out when they 're in . " And with a clmckle the speaker dismisses the subject as though he had solved the eternal mystery of politics with an original idea ; the truth being that he has got no farther in political thought than a vague remembrance of an annotated edition of Gulliver 's Travels . Considering , then , the prevalence of these two classes , it may be well , before attempting to ask a question as to the future of the Democratic party , to find out whether there is in reality any such thing as a Democratic party existing in the present . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or environment , and if there is really no difference between the two great parties , then it becomes a wholly useless thing to bother our heads about the future of either . 11 It seems a trifle fantastic perhaps , when faced by such a seemingly simple question , to suggest going back to the very dawn of history ; yet the nature and place of political parties in this Republic , as well as the nature and place of this Republic in the world 's affairs , are so frequently misunderstood that the suggestion is not by any means amiss . To understand the Democratic party one must understand Democracy ; and to understand Democracy one must understand what produced it and developed the need of such a " great experiment " as ours , ? what it was brought into the world to replace . There are many ways of looking at history ; among them is that view which sees always the struggle of the inextinguishable spirit of liberty against in-trenched privilege , ? the ever-renewed conflict of individual freedom with organized selfishness . This was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forever on the scaffold . Wrong forever on the throne Yet that scaffold sways the future ; and behind the dim unknown Standeth God within the shadow , keeping watch above his own . In the beginning the effort to secure some concrete system of human society a necessity for man ? assumes the character of a mere trial of brute strength ; the stronger man wins and the weaker is enslaved . Thus the oldest political relation of mankind ? of master and slave ? was developed ; and based upon this relation arose the first great organized system of human government , ? imperialism . Under various names , with much crudeness of experiment and many complications , this system was many centuries in reaching its most brilliant and complete development in the dominion of Rome ; but even as Rome attained the zenith of her power , the system , so long and pain . fully built up , began to fall to pieces . Rome had conquered all the material forces of the known world ; but the freedom of the intellect proclaimed in Greece , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the imperial legions were powerless . The Greek philosopher could be silenced , but Plato and Aristotle were immortal in their writings ; the IIebrew prophet could be slain , but the Golden Rule could never again be driven from the hearts , nor silenced from the tongues of men . Imperialism ? the rule of the strong over the weak , of the master over the slave ? could not stand the test ; the intellect rebelled , the soul revolted ; the human relations involved in slavery were contrary to the laws of nature , which are the laws of God . And with a mighty crash which shook the whole world loose from its moorings , the first great political experiment ? the first great organized system of human society ? collapsed , and confusion reigned again . Then , after more long centuries of travail , was slowly developed a second great experiment , ? feudalism . Loath to give up the essence of slavery , the domination of man by man , but forced to recognize the responsibility of man to man , feudalism rested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Imperialism had left God out of account ; the new system should satisfy both God and man . What was regarded as man 's dual nature was to be guided by two co-existent powers , the Church and the State ; and each of these was an elaborate social pyramid : in one reaching from the lower ranks of the priesthood up through the higher clergy to the Pope , and in the other from the serf up through knight and baron to King and Emperor . Each highest sovereign , Pope and Emperor , should be lord paramount over half of each atom of humanity . Has the Democratic Party a Future P .579 It was a most ingenious system , the most beautifully logical and complete scheme of society that humanity could devise . Its conclusions were irresistible , granting the premises ; but unfortunately the premises were vitally , hopelessly wrong . You can not vivisect society into two separate half-entities , one political and one spiritual ; neither is man fit to be trusted as lord over a vassal , any more than as toaster over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could rule jointly over mankind ( which , as both popes and emperors were human , they never could ) ; and that the higher the title the more fit to rule , ? an equally pathetic fallacy , for unrestrained power does not produce righteous conduct , but almost inevitably the reverse . So again organized society found itself driven against the sharp facts of human nature and met disaster . While Pope and Emperor quarreled for power , while the robber baron from his rocky fastness was grimly collecting tribute from the passing traveler , and the serf tilled the soil for his lord 's maintenance , the dwellers in the great free cities were laying the foundations of a new civilization of peace and commerce . Nor was that all : over in their little island kingdom the English were developing a race of sturdy yeoinen whose feudal bonds were of the lightest , and whose weapons were the home-made bow and arrow . The mail-clad nobles who fell before them at Crecy and Agincourt were not merely so many thousands perishing in a bad quarrel ; they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the signs and symbols of the failure of the second great organized system of human government . The unscrupulous ingenuity , ambition , and greed of the kings were quick to develop the third experiment . As monarch and people faced each other after the destruction of the feudal baronage , the former was quick to seize his opportunity ; the latter , confused , uncertain , ignorant , were slow to see theirs . Far less complex and interesting than feudalism , the system of paternalism , based upon the relation of a parent claiming divine right and his children seeking guidance , came to political development . But once again the clear and obvious facts of human nature were overlooked . Mankind will not long remain under the domination of an individual , whether he claim divine inspiration or just plain human dictatorship ; nor did it need great clearness of sight to see the wretched fallacy of a system which held up a Henry Tudor as God 's vice-regent upon earth , or a Philip of Spain as the benevolent father of a grateful people . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for even a full century after the unfortunate Charles Stuart had laid his head upon the block , France in her logical way still persisted in carrying the paternal system to a supremely logical conclusion , an absolute reductio ad absurdum ; for could anything be more ridiculous as a system of government than that of Versailles and the fifteenth Louis ! It is not so easy to trace closely the outlines of the fourth experiment ; but amid the confusion , if we look clearly we can see the new system  --  aristocracy ; not the nobility of feudal tenure , but the domination of a ruling caste , a nobility of material success ; sometimes of birth ? descent from ancient freebooter or sycophant ; sometimes of wealth ? landholders of longer or shorter tenure ; sometimes of intellect ? success in statecraft , commerce , letters , or beer : sometimes a mixture of all these . As we see imperialism typified in Rome , as feudalism reached its most characteristic development in France , and paternalism perhaps in Russia , so we find the clearest development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mankind but little better than the systems that went before . The rule of a privileged few , whether their claim be founded on birth , wealth , scholarship , or what not , is in practice a selfish and arrogant domination . It is the saute old story . " How much better the world would be governed if the ignorant many were only willing to be guided by the wise few ! " cry those who consider themselves the wise and aspire to be the few . It is a plausible argument . But the many always refuse , and always will refuse , to listen , when the few commit the grievous error of exchanging their intellectual influence for political domination . Moreover , the many have always shown that politically they are wiser in the long run than the aristocrats . For the judgment of the many remains in the mass unselfish , while the privileged few upon whom the gift of power has been bestowed have proved that with the gift of power go the fatal gifts of pride , luxury , ambition , greed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would defend the placing of man in power over his fellow-man. " man , " said Lincoln with deep insight , " is good enough to rule another man , without that other 's consent . " One by one , tested by the test of truth ? the Golden Rule ? these four systems have been tried and found wanting . Over and over again the variations have been rung on the four themes , with ever new rearrangements of their various elements ; organized selfishness always vainly hoping that at last the successful combination was achieved , and that the people would remain quiet and forever be ruled by Emperor , Baron , Priest , or King . But always , with the accompaniment of more or less violence , the fraud has been discovered ; the people have refused to be satisfied with the dry crumbs , while the favored few sat gorging at the banquet . Then at last , far away over the sea , where England , the island country which had been enabled to pursue most naturally its own development , had planted colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , in the new world , far away from the follies and failures of the past , arose tire fifth great experiment in human government . " Borne over the Atlantic , " cries Carlyle , " to the closing ear of Louis , King by the Grace of God , what sounds are these ; muffled ? ominous , new hr our centuries ? Boston Harbour is black with unexpected Tea ; behold a Pennsylvanian Congress gather ; and ere long , on Bunker IIill , Democracy announcing , in rifle-volleys death-winged , under her Star Banner , to the time of Yankee-doodledoo , that she is born , and whirlwind-like , will envelop the whole world ! " Democracy was no experiment ; it was simply the only course left , after every other system of government had failed to satisfy mankind : imperialism ? the rule of master over slave ; feudalism ? the rule of lord over vassal ; paternalism ? the rule of a claimant of divine right over obedient subjects ; aristocracy ? the rule of the privileged few over the unprivileged many ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people itself , of brother-citizens over themselves ? Here at last was a new system indeed ; yet like all new things it was in its essence as old as the hills ; forever , since the dawning of intelligence in the mind of man , the passion for freedom had stirred him to ever new protest against every new form of tyranny . But here at last was a new system of Truman government founded boldly upon the very rock against which all other systems had come to wreck . Here at last was what the world had been waiting for , the political expression of the Golden Rule . here was a proclamation that every man should he free , bound only by his obligation to his brother-man . Little by little the truth had forced its way in ; little by little the democratic idea had burgeoned into a political system . " We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal ; that they are endowed , by their Creator , with certain inalienable rights ; that among these are life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure these rights , governments are instituted among men , deriving their just powers from tire consent of the governed ; that whenever any form of government becomes de- structive of these ends , it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it , and to institute new government , laying its foundation on such principles , and organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness , " III Some individuals of later generations have discovered that the great Declaration is only an expression of " glittering generalities ; " but they have merely succeeded in proving their own shallow cynicism . " The authors of that notable instrument , " said Lincoln , " meant to set up a standard maxim for free society , which should be familiar to all and revered by all , ? constantly looked to , constantly labored for , and even though never perfectly attained , constantly approximated , and thereby constantly spreading and deepening its influence , and augmenting the happiness and value of life to all people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hope of Washington , as of sonic others of the great men of the Revolution , that partisan feeling would not exist in their new Republic ; that while differences of opinion of course must continue , they ought not to divide men definitely into political parties ; but he did not fully realize the great change which had been wrought in fundamental political conditions . In all other systems of government the formation of political parties , which must of necessity result in some organized opposition to existing conditions , tends to breed revolution . To question the will of the Emperor is not mere opposition ,  --  it is treason ; to oppose the demand of an overlord is to upset the very basis of feudal society ; to resist the authority of a divinely appointed monarch is damnable heresy ; to thwart the plans of an aristocracy is to sin against superior judgment . It follows therefore that under such governments , if the play of parties is vital , it becomes dangerous to the state . But in a democracy the healthy differences of parties form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; party differences , instead of unsettling the state , by forming a proper balance of conflicting opinions only make it more stable . It seems also natural that there should be two great parties . Men will always differ fundamentally in their way of looking at the world ; one will be always impatient to press forward , while another is equally inclined to hang back . Private Willis , from his sentry-box outside the House of Lords , has caught hold of a very profound truth when he sings : These are the two great inevitable parties ; and it is not necessary that your liberal should have any particular reason for moving forward , ? it is simply the impulse of his nature to feel a special interest in the future ; it is not conscious preference for things as they are that actuates the conservative , ? it is a natural instinct to hold fast to that which is good . Moreover , these two great principles , the progressive and the conservative , are both necessary to the safety of the Republic ; without the curb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fast , and taking no time for proper consideration of the way , find itself arriving with scattered forces at wrong destinations ; without the stimulus of the progressive , the conservative party would lag behind , becoming more and more stupid and reactionary , until it would ultimately find itself going backwards rather than forwards . A division into two political parties in the new Republic was thus entirely natural and healthy , and by no means a mere copy of English parliamentary in- stitutions ; and it was also natural that the people should look to Hamilton and Jefferson , the great conservative and the great democrat , for leadership . Washington 's dream of a Republic without partisan differences vanished as men ranged themselves under the banners of the rival statesmen ; and in the end Washington himself was reluctantly forced to make choice of parties and become a Federalist . It would take too long to detail the shifts and turns of American politics ; yet some few broad facts should be kept in mind to understand the situation of to-day . The development of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was also natural that in a new country and in a new system of government , the progressive spirit should assume some rather rough and unlovely forms . Jackson and his henchmen were true successors of Jefferson and his followers , because they too in their turn represented the same spirit of freedom and revolt against inherited conventions , and because in their confidence in the ultimate judgment of the people they expressed the democratic spirit . Then came the slavery question to confuse the natural alignment of parties . Slavery was a survival of the first great experiment in human government ? imperialism . Its existence in a country dedicated to the proposition that liberty is one of the inalienable rights of man was a hideous anachronism , a denial of the very basic principle of democracy . It is always a serious matter when parties get mixed and principles muddled ; but it is most serious when a party organization is seized upon by sonic special interest to advance its own material welfare and Wrench itself in power without consideration of party welfare , if not in flat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the Democrats ; Southern conservatives were forced into and Northern liberals were forced out of the party , as it was driv en more and more away from its natural course . Yet it is worthy of note , as bearing upon the general character of the parties , that the so-called Free-Soil Democrats were the first to raise a direct challenge to slavery in the field of politics . Both Whigs and Democrats tried hard to postpone the inevitable struggle ; but straight in the path of progress lay the foul obstruction , and no advance was possible until slavery was removed . It was not the proper task of the Whigs , for they formed the conservative party ; it was therefore inevitable that the Democratic party , failing in its duty , should find its place taken by a new party pledged to carry on the fight for trite democratic principles . The Republican party was formed for that purpose ; and those who recognize in Lincoln a great democratic leader in the broad sense judge truly of his career and his personality . There is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it was only natural that the Republican party , formed for the purpose of fighting slavery , should continue to flourish many years after slavery had ceased to exist . Then , exactly as the Democratic party before the war , its organization seized upon by the slave power , had changed from a party of progress to one of reaction , so the Republican organization , captured by certain powerful commercial interests , now became in its turn a party of reaction , Large amounts of money had to be raised to carry on the war , and much of it was secured by a tariff upon imports After the war was over , certain interests which were benefiting greatly by the high tariff were politically strong enough to continue , and even increase the duties , in order to afford protection to favored industries . The scheme was economically unsound and essentially unconstitutional ; it was forcing the many to pay tribute to the few ; it was " special privilege " of the most obnoxious description . But disguised under the title of the // " American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of saving the American workmen and the American markets from the " pauper labor " of Europe , it had a great and quite unmerited success . Against this prostitution of the party of Lincoln , men turned again to the Democratic party as the means of progress , only to find it still disorganized after the terrible experiences of the Civil War , and still forgetful of its old principles ? a poor organization with which to fight the growing power of privilege . The South was at once both its strength and its weakness ; for the party was so numerically weak at the North that it could win a national election only by the electoral votes of the Southern States ; yet it was morally weak at the South from the fact that , after the war , the Southern whites had to a man enrolled themselves in the party of opposition . Thus political lines were drawn geographically , always a great misfortune ; and the natural party of liberal ideas found in its membership a large number of men who were not Democrats on principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , neither with a policy that meant anything , and both with shattered reputations . The natural division between them had been forgotten . The election which , after twenty-four years , ! sought a Democratic President once more into the White House , ignored political issues and turned exclusively upon Ole personal character of the candidates . Vet in spite of its weakness , its faults and its follies , the force of momentum made the Democratic party still much more sensitive to popular feeling than its rival , which had now fallen irredeemably into the hands of the protected interests . Three years later ( 1887 ) came an act which changed the whole situation , which forms one of the epoch-making events of American history . The tariff message of President Cleveland was a great act of statesmanship ; it cleared the air and created once more a rational and logical division between the parties . Once again men divided along lines of political principle ; and enthusiasm for a moral issue rejuvenated the Democratic party . The splendid campaign of 1888 , ? splendid though unsuccessful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital issue , and the still more splendid and triumphant campaign of 1892 , gave to Democrats hopes of a long lease of power , and a new advance along the path of popular reform . These hopes were not destined to be realized . Never since Jefferson drove away from Washington after the failure of embargo has a president left office with louder voices of condemnation than Grover Cleveland ; yet no president ever earned a more solid and lasting respect from mature and reasonable men . Cleveland has earned something better than popularity . The leader who after thirty years of political turmoil and confusion could bring a great party back to the recognition of genuine political principles will not be overlooked by history . He will take his place among the great Democratic leaders of the nation , one of its few great presidents . The Republicans had left behind them an empty treasury , and a law which kept draining it for the benefit of the silver-mine owners , another group of the specially privileged . The administration was strong enough to bring the Sherman law to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the catastrophe . There ensued the panic of 1893 , the result of over-inflation and years of reckless financial legislation . Then followed the failure of the Democratic leaders to redeem their promises of tariff reform ; the years of bard times ; and finally the free-silver madness . Looking back from this distance upon the election of 1896 it seems strange that men can suffer such violent hallucination as to believe in a universal panacea like " free silver . " If there is one lesson of history that is well established , it is the misery of a depreciated currency ; and if there is one fact more sure than another 584 Has the Democratic Party a Future ? in that connection , it is that the misery falls most acutely upon the poor people . It is for their interest above all to have their monetary standard as stable as possible ; and for that very reason one of the traditional policies of the Democratic party bad been " Hard Money . " But these facts went for nothing in the outbreak that now occurred . Year after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity of the country under the Republican party ; but the mass of people felt , and rightly so , that somehow that prosperity had been very unevenly distributed . A wave of commercial development had occurred after the Civil War , and evidences of great increase of wealth were visible on every hand ; but everywhere arose also the cry of dissatisfaction . In truth the full results of the protective tariff upon the country were now beginning to be appreciated ; it had been the means of founding among us a new form of one of the outworn systems of government , ? a commercial aristocracy , ? the most greedy , domineering , unscrupulous , least admirable form of aristocracy the world has ever seen . First came the tariff beneficiaries ? the manufacturers of iron and steel and other protected industries ; then those who had studied the results of protection and had seen the pecuniary advantages of artificial monopoly ? to the monopolizers . These had deliberately set about to make the general public pay tribute to the privileged few , exploiting with this intent our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distribution of many of the necessaries of life . Thus had arisen that privileged class of millionaire and billionaire aristocrats who throng our summer and winter resorts and the steamers to Europe , whose luxurious palaces affront the eye and whose money and bad manners corrupt our social life at every turn . In so far as the Democratic outbreak of 1896 was a revolt against existing conditions it was justified ; in so far as it was a protest against the betrayal of the party by their leaders in the matter of tariff reform it was justified ; and it was perhaps only natural that they should hold the national administration responsible for all the faults of its predecessor as well as its own . Nevertheless the remedy proposed was wrong . It would have been worse than the disease ; and the violence of the movement defeated its own ends . A large number of . Democrats , many of them men of the highest character and influence , were driven from the party ; the victory went to the Republicans on the issue of the gold standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith by a further increase in the tariff ; and later embarked the country on a serious and dangerous experiment in imperialism . The election of 1900 should have turned on the question of the Philippines ? that was the burning issue . But unfortunately the Democratic party was still split asunder , most of those who had left it in 1896 refusing to return while the party still proclaimed the dangerous financial doctrines of four years before . Moreover the absurdity of trying to awaken enthusiasm over a fight against imperialism , with a candidate who was himself partly responsible for the ratification of the Philippines treaty , was patent to every one , and gave a hollowness to the campaign which was only emphasized by the readiness of the party orators to vary the leading issue according to the locality of their speeches . The campaign ended in another Democratic defeat . In 1904 there came a reaction in the Democratic party , and control of the organization passed into the hands of the so-called " safe and sane " who had opposed the radicals , yet remained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the support of the radical element , which showed its displeasure by remaining away from the polls , or voting for the Republican candidate , whose remarkable popularity blinded them to the fact that he represented nearly everything that as Democrats they ought to detest . // leaders adequately to back up President Cleveland in his fight for reform , and its frequent readiness to run off after strange gods . This has forced many young voters into the other party , depriving the Democrats of that new blood which is so essential to party health . The party is still further weakened by the direct loss which it sustained in 1896 , and which has not yet been made good . It is true that some of those who left the party at that time were in reality conservatives and had no proper place in the Democratic ranks ; it is also true that many returned in 1900 , and many more in 1904 . But there still remain a large number who are no longer regular members of the Democratic organization . No party can suffer such a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in character is even more serious than the loss in numbers , for that forfeits the confidence and respect of the general public , which is the strongest asset a party can have . As a direct consequence of the weakness of the party , the character of its leadership in some of the most important states is a heavy burden upon it : Tr , mention the words " political principles " in connection with some of the men who control the party organization at present brings to the mind a picture that would be irresistibly comic if it were not so tragically serious . For the destinies of thousands of our fellow creatures , the future of democracy itself , hang in some measure upon the action of these corrupt , ignorant , and unscrupulous men who thrust themselves forward as the guardians and exponents of Democratic principles . As only one instance of the result upon party fortunes , the New York governorship was lost in 1906 by a most shocking combination of corrupt and ho-proper methods in the election of delegates and conduct of the state convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of another party . The chief beneficiary of the infamous deal was repudiated by Demo. crats at the polls , but the men who were responsible for it still control the state machinery of the party , and the outlook for " harmony " while this situation lasts is not altogether bright . One might turn also to Massachusetts , where unseemly wrangling has lost the Democratic party its place upon the official ballot , and ask what chance there is in that state for a party led as the Democratic party there has been led of recent years ; or to Illinois where the party is still under the same control that was so eloquently assailed even on the floor of the National Convention four years ago ? a not very hopeful augury of immediate party success . There is also a deplorable tendency among Democrats , similar to that which has reached such serious proportions among Republicans , to make of a single leader the " boss , " trusting the party fortunes exclusively to him , abiding by his sole judgment , and accepting meekly his dictation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undesirable ; for a political party is strong in direct proportion to its number of wise , upright , and trusted leaders . But , most unfortunate of all , there has arisen this unhappy condition in the Democratic party , that if the judgment of one section of the party is followed as to platform and candidate , the other section will not support the ticket ; and if their judgment is not followed then they in turn will not support the ticket . UnlesS there can be found some common ground , therefore , it seems as if this seesaw might keep on forever ; and the party be kept from flying because its two wings are not willing to flap in unison . These are all reasons for doubting of the future of the Democratic party ; but looking at it from the other side there was never a brighter outlook for a true party of progress ; for dissatisfaction with existing conditions is widespread , and party ties never sat so loosely . The old and fallacious argument that the tariff produces prosperity , while tariff revision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been hopelessly damaged by the recent money strain and the present financial conditions . We shall not bear from Republican orators in the near future quite so much twaddle as we have in the past about " Republican prosperity , " and the " full dinner-pail ; " nor have quite so much credit taken for good harvests , with the implied suggestion that the Almighty is in political partnership with the " Grand Old Party . " Moreover , the people are looking with growing dislike and suspicion upon the commercial aristocracy bred by the tariff and other forms of special privilege ; state regulation of public utilities is under way , and that is well ; but the party of progress should force the fighting until the tariff , that stronghold of intrenched greed and selfishness , is reached and mastered . The fight against imperialism is more difficult , for that danger is a very subtle one and its immediate iniquities are so many thousand miles away . Yet the proposition laid down by Lincoln , that this nation could not endure half slave and half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a democracy can not continue to play the role of a tyrant master-nation owning subject dependencies , ? even although we disguise the word " slave " under the high-sounding phrase , " wards of the nation . " But the way of the transgressor is hard ; and the situation will react upon us more and more fatally every moment that we keep on denying to the Filipinos the rights we long since secured for ourselves , and have always claimed for other people , ? the right to decide our own affairs according to our own judgment , good or bad . be the issue what it may . We can not undo the past . We can not bring the dead to life , or erase from the pages of history those pages of our deep dishonor ; but we can give to the people of the islands our friendship and protec- tion and their freedom , not grudgingly And at a date generations hence ( which would mean never ) , but at once and forever . Against this miserable bastard imperialism the party of progress should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing on which the party of progress should place its mark of disapproval . It is nothing against the American people that they crave leadership : true leaders are even more necessary in a democracy than in any other form of government ; but we are too prone to idolize our leaders , ? not merely to overlook their faults , but to be absolutely blind to them . There is something inspiring , but pathetic as well , in the American people 's devotion to the ideal . But is it quite wise to fool ourselves into believing that any living man is a god ? Especially when we remember how often we have thrown our broken idols aside , when we have become tired of playing with them ! What is the moral of this ? That such indiscriminating adulation will sooner or later have a violent recoil . We must restrain ourselves from undue devotion to our heroes lest we find ourselves deceived . There is something better than a splendid theory , ? and that is the Truth . The party of progress should revere its heroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and the more it has of these the better ; but it should not tie up to any one man , no matter how good or how great he may be , ? or how well he talks . In a multitude of counselors , there is safety . The Democratic party has often shown wonderful powers of recuperation , and can again . Many times it has suffered disastrous defeat only to turn defeat into victory . Progress can be made with much less waste of energy and expenditure of labor under an old organization than under a new ; but will the party rise to the occasion ? That is the question which will soon be answered . If the leaders of the party would forget their quarrels and unite in strong and vigorous protest against resisting abuses , if they would put aside their personal ambitions and act only for the best interests of the party , does any Democrat doubt of the result ? Or if we grant that while such action would be magnificent it would not be politics , as it is played nowadays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything in a democracy does come back sooner or later to the people . If Democrats remain indifferent and discouraged how can they hope to succeed ? But if they will arouse themselves to the struggle ; realize their responsibilities ; forget former defeats and divisions and think only of the future ? of the chance to make their party once more what it was formed to be , has been , and can be made , the great party of progress , the party of democracy ; if they will do this , not only can they again place their President in the White House , to occupy the chair of Jefferson , Jackson , and Cleveland , but they can start a new wave of genuine and orderly progress which will uplift the people of this democratic republic to a higher place than has ever yet been reached .                     