@@430107

 | AT the present time , there are no less than nine companies prepared to build and install II cableless " telegraph apparatus ; these are the British Marconi 's Wireless Telegraph Corn1 ) any ( Limited ) , the Marconi 1 international Marine ) mmunication Company , the Canadian Marconi , company , the Marconi Company of the ' United states , the General Electric Company of Berlin , the Siemens &; Halske Company , of Berlin ; Queen &; Co. , of Philadelphia , and the De Forest Company , of New York City . The various Marconi companies have equipped six stations in the United States , including the most powerful one in the world , at South Wellfleet , Mass. ; their other stations throughout the world are at Table Head , Glace Bay , Nova Scotia ; three stations are in course of construction in Alaska ; five stations are in operation in Hawaii , while in Great Britain there are twenty stations , including the powerful one at Poldhu ; in Germany , there is a Marconi equipment on Barkum Island , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belgium and another in France complete their list of land stations . Of steamships carrying Marconi apparatus , there are eighteen vessels , represented by eight lines . The English Admiralty have land stations at Malta , Gibraltar , Tientsin , Hongkong , and Bermuda , and thirty-two men-of-war have Marconi installations ; the Royal Italian Navy has five land stations and twenty ships equipped with the same system , bringing the total num I for of sets of instruments purchased by this company up to one hundred and seventeen . In the course of 1902 , over fifty stations and vessels were supplied with the Slaby-Arco system by the General Electric Company of Berlin . the countries supplied including Germany , Sweden . Norway , Portugal , and Chile for the Marine ; in Russia , for the Postal Telegraph . and in Denmark for lightship purposes . The BraunSiemens &; Halske Company have over thirty installations in active service . The Fessenden interests have equipped several stations for the Weather Bureau , and the De Forest Company has land stations at Coney Island , Staten Island , Chesebrough Building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judith , Rhode Island ; 1 THE AMERICAN MONTHLY REVIEW OF REVIEWS .  | the United States navy has adopted their system , and equipments have been supplied to the United States Army and Signal Corps , Annapolis Academy , and the Washington Navy Yard , besides several vessels plying between the ports of New York City and Central America . All these systems are capable of holding communication with vessels at sea to distances ranging from fifty to three hundred miles . Some encouraging long-distance wireless telegraphy over land has been done , and as to its ultimate value there is no doubt . At present , however , there is little to warrant belief in the elimination of the network of wires spreading over every civilized land . In the field of telegraphing between ships , or between ship and shore , cableless telegraphy has , of course , an absolute monopoly . In telegraphing across intervening bodies of water , as the English Channel , cableless telegraphy is now a successful competitor of the cable system , not only in the initial cost of the apparatus , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onward cables will be entirely supplanted by the cableless method for distances up to three hundred miles . The cost of submarine cables is approximately a thousand dollars per mile , including the sending and receiving apparatus ; the cost of keeping cables in repair is enormous , while the only expense entailed for repairs in cableless stations is for an occasional mast damaged by storms . In transatlantic cableless telegraphy , the equipments cost very nearly half a million dollars per station , against two million dollars for an Atlantic cable . At present , transmission by cable is faster than by Marconi cableless , which is now thirty words per minute ; but when it is considered that the cable system has been in existence for fifty years , and the cableless system scarcely more than as many days , it must be admitted that comparison on this score is premature . The first cable systems were by no means commercially efficient : for example , when Queen Victoria sent her first message , consisting of ninety words , by cable . it required sixty-seven minutes to get it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent by Lord Minto , of Canada , to King Edward , contained thirty-two words , and was transmitted in sixty-four seconds . The cost of sending the first cable message across the Atlantic . in 1866 , was five dollars per word , tut in virtue of articles of agreement between the Marconi interests and the Canadian government , messages will be flashed to England at the rate of ten cents per word to the public and five cents per word to the press . The present rate for cable messages is twenty-five cents per word . What does all this portend for the future ? It is clear that every ship will be provided with means for communicating with every other ship or shore station , and thus the dangers of ocean travel will be minimized ; every liner will be in constant touch with either shore the entire time it is traversing its route , and daily newspapers will become as common a part of a liner 's necessities as her larders , and the writer believes that the cable will soon belong to the dead past and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ocean . Attempts to send messages over great distances without cables have been occupying inventors ever since 189 ! i , when the first tests were essayed . Attention has been given , too , to the development of a syntonic system , ? the tuning of the instruments . so that any one of a number of transmitters in the same zone or field of force c o u l d communicate with any selected receiver . to the exclusion of all others . The transmission of a cableless message analyzed into its component parts in- volves a source of electricity for operating an induction coil ; this coil is employed to transform the low-pressure current into an alternating current having a very high pressure . This , in turn , charges the antenna , or wire , suspended from a mast and its complementary wire leading to the earth to a sufficient potential to cause the opposite charges of electricity to rush together , thus forming a spark or disruptive discharge through a small air-gap ; and as a resultant , high-potential currents surge to and fro through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of times per second . These high-frequency , high-potential electric oscillations lose their energy by radiation from the antenna in the form of electric waves , and the waves thus emitted are propagated exactly as are light waves , and having all the characteristics of light , the waves spread out in every direction ; in fact , the whole process of transmitting and receiving cableless messages is not unlike the analogue presented in the emission of light and its reception by the retina of the eye . The reception of these waves is effected by means of a vertical wire or antenna similar to that used in transmitting , but the specific difference between the sending and receiving terminal lies in connecting the antenna and grounded wires with some metal filings inclosed in a small glass tube or coherer , instead of the spark-gap . When the electric waves impinge upon the antenna they are converted into electric oscillations , and these , acting on the filings , cause them to draw together , or cohere ; lessening the resistance they nominally offer to current electricity derived from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auxiliary circuit and registers the impulses on a ribbon of paper in readable Morse dots and dashes . The distance to which messages may be transmitted and received without wires depends upon a number of factors , the principal one being the initial amount of energy employed , the frequency of oscillation in the antenna or radiating system , the length of the electric waves emitted , the height of the antenna from the ground , the medium over and through which the electric waves are propagated , the sensitiveness , of the coherer or other wave-detecting device at the receiving station , and the precision with which the instruments are adjusted . Experiment has proven that long electric waves are radiated to greater distances than the shorter ones , on the principle that long sound waves emitted by a large bell travel farther than short waves propagated by a small bell ; that long-distance cableless transmission is an accomplished fact is due in no small measure to the employment of long electric waves . By long electric waves are meant those approximating a mile in length , and those waves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are assumed to be short ones . These are , of course , arbitrary terms , for waves a foot in length are exceedingly long when compared with waves of light ; for example , red waves measure only 271 tenmillionths of an inch in length . Electric waves may be produced of any desired length by decreasing the frequency with which ' the current surges through the antenna and ground wire , and this periodicity of oscillation . as it is called , depends entirely on the size or electrical dimensions of the antenna and grounded terminal . When the wire or wires forming the antenna are quite long , and are suspended from the top of a very high mast , and its complementary wire is connected to the earth , its electrical as well as its mechanical dimensions are very greatly increased , and a longer period of time or a " higher time constant " is required for the current to oscillate through it . The waves are therefore increased in length . By adding more wires to the antenna , the length of the waves is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher the antenna and the greater the number of wires of which it is composed , the farther the effective distance obtained . Marconi , in his first transatlantic test . it will be remembered , employed kites and balloons carrying the vertical wire , so that long electric waves could be obtained , and prior to that he evolved a law showing that with a given current , instruments of a specific size , and with a parity of all other factors , the distance to  | which signals could be transmitted increased as the square of the length of the antenna ; that is to say , if a vertical wire twenty feet in length would send and receive one mile , a wire forty feet in length would operate four miles , and one eighty feet in length a distance of sixteen miles , etc . The construction of the multiplex antenna at Poldhu . Glace Bay , and the new Wellfleet station in Massachusetts . where further experiments in transatlantic cableless communication are now being made by Mr. Marconi , is arranged with the object of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over and through which the waves travel determines largely the distance to which transmission may be made effectual , the factors being taken as constant ; for example , when the waves are propagated over the sea or other bodies of water , they are radiated nearly ten times the distance they are over land . This is largely attributed to the fact that the land offers many intervening obstacles which intercept , diminish , and in some instances annihilate the waves . Formerly , it was believed that the antenna of the transmitter and its complementary receiver should necessarily be in a direct visual line with each other , since electric waves , like those of light , are propagated in straight lines , and as a natural sequence it was also supposed that the curvature of the earth , ? which may be graphically stated to be a mountain of water rising one hundred and ten miles in height between England and America , ? would act as an absolute barrier to the transmission of messages . These ideas have been proven erroneous time  | and again during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Poldhu demonstrated practicability of transmission conclusively distances of two thousand miles , and , it may safely assumed , much farther , so new hyheses were formulated to explain the phenom ) n which to-day is as obscure and difficult of of as ever ; but while theorists are cudgeling brains of science to solve the mystery , elecwaves are traversing the omnipresent ether . king two continents , with the rapidity of light . I messages are clicked off merrily on either ire , ignorance of the laws notwithstanding . in this age of microscopic details as well as ; antic totalities , when it is possible to measure rave of light of the order of ten-millionths of inch or transmit a message across an ocean , s not surprising that the sensitiveness of the , ices for detecting electric waves has been ) ught to its maximum value , and that the ) cision of adjustment of other portions of the truments is as fine as human ingenuity can ke it . , ' onsidering the factors of transmission colfively , it is self-evident that to send messages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now resolved into one for . the electrical engineer rather than for the inventive genius , and consists of the most feasible method of transforming a large quantity of electricity at ordinary pressure into electric oscillations of enormous potential and high frequency , and the mechanical difficulties involving such a process . For distances of eighty or one hundred miles , energy equivalent to one horse-power is sufficient for transmission . Marconi employed only twentyfive horse-power at the Poldhu station in sending his first signals across the Atlantic , a year ago ; at the-Glace Bay station , the generator is connected with a forty-horse-power engine , while at the Wellfleet , Mass. , station , one hundred horse-power will be at the service of the inventor . In these great stations , the engines are coupled with alternating - current dynamos generating electricity at a pressure of 2,000 volts , which is then converted , by commercial transformers , to a potential of 20,000 volts ; a battery of oil condensers is constantly charged by this high-voltage current , and these discharge through a sparkgap formed by the terminals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of transmitting intelligence over a distance of two thousand miles , it is evident that the question of the practicability of long-distance cableless telegraphy is closed . Having brought long-distance transmission within the pale of the known laws governing the action of electric currents , the problem now to be attacked , and an infinitely more difficult one of solution , is that presented in syntonization . Lord Rayleigh , Dr. Trowbridge , Herr Lesher , M. Ferrie , Professor Siebt , and a host of other workers have taken up the purely scientific phase of selective signaling , or syntonic wireless telegraphy , and by their combined efforts ? though each has investigated independently ? not only the theoretical requirements but the  | experimental physics of such a system has been shown possible , while Mr. Marconi , Professor Fleming , and Principal Lodge , of England , Dr. Slaby and Professor Braun , of Germany , and Professor Fessenden and Mr. Stone , of the United States , have all bended their energies toward the fulfillment of a practical tuned system , and the time is now at hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegraphy such as these workers desire to produce may be likened to that of acoustic resonance as exemplified by the action of tuning-forks , organpipes , or other mechanically vibrating bodies . Thus , let two tuning-forks of the same size , tone , and pitch be arranged near each other ; now , if one is made to give forth its note , the other will be affected through the medium of the air and will respond audibly , the operation being termed sympathetic resonance . The principles involved in this , case are simple ; when the prongs of the first fork are made to vibrate , the mechanical energy imparted to it is damped out by transformation into sound waves set up in the air , and the waves , impinging on the prongs of the complementary fork , beat it into rhythmical vibration , when it responds to its greatest capacity and the original note is reproduced . But let a tuning-fork of any other size than one in syntony with it be made to vibrate , whatever its proximity may be to the second fork , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the waves and the resonator receiving the waves must he absolutely in tune , or resonance will not be possible . Now , the surging of high-potential currents in the antenna and ground wire forming the radiator system , and the reception of the emitted waves and their transformation into oscillations by the resonator system , as the receiving antenna and ground wire are termed , is an exact electrical analogue of the physical effect obtained with the tuning-forks . The great difficulty in syntonizing or tuning cableless-telegraph apparatus lies in proportioning the radiator and resonator systems so that they will be of the same dimensions . In acoustics , it is easy to determine when resonance obtains by the sense of hearing , but in tuning electrical circuits there may be a subtle variance in their relations that will he revealed only by the most patient investigation and overcome by the most persistent experimentation .  | As early as 1898 , Sir Oliver Lodge exhibited a mixture tuned wireless-telegraph system at the Royal Society Conversazione ; it worked with exceeding accuracy , which must be attributed , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground wires were employed . For ong-distance transmission , it has been found necessary to utilize the earth as a factor , for the purpose of giving to the transmitter and receiver equal electrical proportions ; that is to sav , the earth is surcharged to a certain extent with electricity , the latter varying constantly under the influence of meteorological conditions , as well as by the conditions prevailing in the earth itself , rendering it extremely difficult , if not , indeed , impossible , to obtain resonance over any considerable distance . Dr. Braun has evolved a syntonic system in which he eliminates the earth as a portion of the apparatus , but the effective distance is not great . Professor Slaby has developed a tuned system with which he received two messages simultaneously over the same wire , before the German Emperor ; Mr. Stone has had some fifteen patents issued to him for a resonance system of telegraphy , and Professor Fessenden has attacked the problem afresh by combining electrical resonance with acoustic resonance ; and , finally , Mr. Marconi has given his best thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of syntonization . It is therefore safe to assert that within the year communications will be flashed cablelessly across , not only the Atlantic but the Pacific Ocean , connecting all our newly acquired possessions in the far East with a system of transmission that is at once indestructible by the elements of nature or by the design of man , for the connecting medium is as endurable as time itself . and with . the perfected method there will be not the slightest fear of tapping a message , for secrecy is one of the characteristics of the ether , and messages will be transmitted between any two of a thousand stations without conflict or confusion .                     