@@474698

IN many of the manuals which set out to teach the student how not to use the English language there is one most exasperating injunction which constantly obtrudes itself upon the attention . It ordinarily takes the following oracular form : " Do n't say commence ; say begin . " Very rarely , if ever , is any reason vouchsafed why one should use the one word and refrain from using the other . The prohibition stands out austere in its naked majesty , all-sufficient in itself like one of the ten commandments , and equally awe-inspiring . Yet the unregenerate heart of the natural man persists in asking , Why should not one say commence , if he has the inclination ? The unfortunate youth , told that he must have nothing to do with the unclean thing , bears it used constantly by the educated men he meets . If , furthermore , he chances to be both a studious and observant reader of our best literature ? from contaminating association with which the compilers of these manuals often appear to keep sedulously aloof ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he meets the objectionable word . To limit the consideration of its occurrence merely to the great writers of the immediate past , he will find it employed unhesitatingly by Dickens , Thackeray , Carlyle , Cardinal Newman , Ruskin , Browning , Tennyson , Matthew Arnoldin fine , by every author worth reading . As a single instance out of many that could be cited , in one essay of Macaulay ? that on Frederick the Great ? commence is found five times , commencement twice . There is nothing peculiar about this . If , after all , the student continues to retain his faith in the correctness of the prescribed injunction , he is driven to the melancholy conclusion that these great writers , not having had the good fortune to possess his manual . have been betrayed by their ignorance into saying something . they have no business to say . This particular word has been selected for comment here because it chances to be the one of a large group which serves as the most common illustration of a species of linguistic cant which has apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers . Were they told that in the majority of eases it is better on the whole to use begin , no fault could perhaps be found with the dictum ; though even then to the unskilled there would be some danger in its application . But almost invariably the rule is laid down unqualifiedly . It is not infrequently accompanied with false assertions about the practice of the best writers . As no reason is offered for its adoption , so no limitation is placed upon its sway . Yet why should commence be everlastingly singled out for reprobation ? No one takes the pains to tell us that we must say ' yearly and not annual , understand and not comprehend , meet together and not assemble . Furthermore , the word is comparatively old . It came into the language as early as the fifteenth century . It has been in constant use ever since , and , moreover , in the best of use . It is not , indeed , a word which , strictly speaking , lends itself easily to highwrought expression . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prose , and in the best prose , it has been common from the time of its introduction into the speech until the present day . The peculiar hostility displayed towards this word and certain others of the same class seems to spring from the conviction on the part of their censurers that by the very fact of denouncing them they are manifesting a noble zeal for used on . appropriate occasions , but the duty is unceasingly enjoined of using them upon all occasions . The doctrine is hammered into us incessantly that we are to avoid , whenever possible , the employment of terms of Latin origin whenever any from native sources , resembling them in meaning , can be discovered . It is often the case that no undue amount of intelligence is displayed in the promulgation of this doctrine . A very worthy and excellent United States Senator , now dead , once addressed a school convention . In the course of his speech he took occasion to vent his disgust at the increasing use of what he called the newfangled word teacher . For himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schoolmaster . It can hardly be maintained that the illustration was happily chosen . Schoolmaster , it is fair to admit , does go back to the Anglo-Saxon period . But in no sense was it genuine AngloSaxon . It was an importation from the classics . The first part of it is Greek , the second Latin . if we judge words by their remote originals . Hence it has not only the disadvantage of being a derivative from foreign sources , but it has what to many will seem the additional linguistic atrocity of being a hybrid . On the other hand , teacher is a genuine native English word , with not the slightest taint of classical defilement about it . The example was therefore particularly ill-chosen . But had it been absolutely pertinent , it would have been misleading . The view implied in it , if not positively inculcated by it , is based upon the hoary superstition that there is some abstract innate superiority in the Anglo-Saxon element of our vocabulary , independent of the particular use to which it is put . The employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when others of native origin exist , is supposed to indicate somehow a fondness for inflated diction . To this belief we owe the creation of a body of doctrine whose leading tenet is that a word coming from Teutonic sources is to be preferred under all circumstances and conditions to one coming from Romanic . If one calls another on any pretext a " person , " the confidence of some in his linguistic virtue is at once impaired . Were he to speak of him as an e individual , " it would be ruined irreparably . It is hardly necessary to say that the general observance of rules of this sort : would directly impoverish the speech . The wealth of a language consists largely in its synonyms or its locutions nearly synonymous . These enable the speaker or writer to do more than impart variety to his utterance . They make it possible for him to bring out distinctly delicate shades of thought and feeling which could never be even indicated were we confined to a limited number of words and phrases upon which is imposed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in absurd pronouncements of this sort there is an element of truth . A veneer of cultivation tends to produce a fondness for what is termed fine writing , and this fine writing has for its chief characteristic its preference of sounding to simple expression . But a tendency of this sort is not due to the existence of long words of Romance origin ; nor would it be overcome were they to be banished entirely . The fondness for this so-called fine writing would none the less continue and find means of manifesting itself , while the language would be distinctly the poorer . For the biggest of these big words have their appropriate functions . In particular places they are the very best ones to be employed . The bad impression they may make in other places is not caused by anything lacking in them , but in the lack of sense of him who has introduced them improperly . To suppose that the disposition to resort to inflated diction can he held in check by the proscription of particular words is the conceit of the unreflecting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a man 's natural ability or by the growth of taste which is begotten of familiarity with the language of the great writers . Between these two main elements ? the Teutonic and the Romanic ? which have united to form the English vocabulary , no sharp dividing line can be drawn which , will not involve the intrusion of some words belonging to the one into the domain of the other . The principal distinction between them has been stated so often that one feels almost under the necessity of apologizing for its repetition . In a general way the two elements are complements of each other . They largely perform separate functions . The narration of common fact , even more the expression of intense feeling , seeks the simplest words . Therefore in passages embodying these the native element is sure to predominate . Consequently all poetry which gives utterance to deep emotion contains comparatively few terms of Latin origin ; of recent Latin origin , hardly any at all . But the moment we leave the domain of common life , the moment we come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to the heart , the inadequacy of the native element to express what we have to say forces itself upon the attention . In abstract discussion , philosophical disquisition , historic investigation , not merely the extensive but the preponderating use of the Romanic element becomes a necessity . Lowell somewhere accuses Wordsworth of having early proclaimed the gospel of simplicity in language , verging at times dangerously near to silliness , and of having later absconded into a thoroughly Latinized diction . There is a certain justification ? for the charge . But in general the poet 's course was something more than defensible ; it was actually necessary . A grave philosophic poem like the " Excursion " could not convey its idea with the vocabulary which was sufficient to give ample utterance to the primal feelings depicted in the Lyrical Ballads . These two extremes are well defined . There was just , as well as pointed , criticism in the observation of Goldsmith that . if Dr. Johnson set out to write fables , he would make the little fishes talk like whales . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired by the advocates of the exclusive use of the Anglo-Saxon element , and insist upon having the whales talk like little fishes . Between those two extremes lies a great middle literary domain in which the two leading constituents of our speech are more equally represented . But the extent of the employment of either in any given ease will depend not merely upon the nature of the subject , but upon the personality of the writer . Defoe could no more have written his Robinson Crusoe in the style of Dr. Johnson than could Dr. Johnson have written The Rumbler in the style of Defoe . In truth , not merely particular authors but particular periods tend more to the use of one element than to that of the other . These are essential differences which make hard and fast rules of little value . Great effects can be produced by great men with the disproportionate use of either Latin or AngloSaxon words . It is in the writings of those who imitate the manner but lack the genius of the master that the ineffectiveness of this undue employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now for the specific illustration . But a single phase of the various contributions of Romance words to the English vocabulary can be discussed in the limits of this paper . For us , however , the one selected is much the most important . Of all the descendants of the Latin , the French is the tongue with which the English has had from the beginning the closest relations . Two distinctly recog -- nizable periods there are in which words from that quarter have made their way into our speech . The first is the inroad which after a considerable interval followed the Norman Conquest ; the second is that which followed the Restoration of the Stuarts . It is important to keep in view the essential difference in the character of these two invasions . The French element which entered into the English tongue during the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries occupies a position entirely distinct from that which came later . English would not be English without it . Most of it has become as much an integral part of the speech of common life as is the native element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is absolutely essential to the communication of thought or the expression of feeling . To the large proportion of the terms then introdneed no sense of strangeness attaches . Few of us know the difference in their origin , none of us feel it . They call up no different associations . Not even to the educated man does the word face suggest the thought of the remote Latin original from which it is derived . To the uneducated the Romance color ismuch more familiar than the hue of native origin which it finally displaced as the general term . A not dissimilar statement can be made about flower and bloom . Dinner and supper are words of French extraction ; they are just as near to all of us as the Teutonic breal ? iwq . Accordingly it is not the mere introduction of French words into the speech which distinguishes English from its immediately allied tongues . It is their absorption as an integral part of it . Other Teutonic languages can get rid of whatever Romance element they possess , if they regularly set about the undertaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would . It was political conditions which brought about this early wholesale introduction of the French element . The important influence such conditions exert over speech can hardly be overestimated . Had the successors of Henry Ti. continued to hold under their sway , for all succeeding time the vast domains he ruled upon the Continent , there is little reason to believe that English would ever have become a language of literature . It would have sunk to the level of a popular dialect , like its sister tongue , the Plattdeutsch . All of us ? all educated men at least ? would be now speaking French or some closely allied form of it . It was the expulsion of the English from the Continent that compelled the coalescence of the two tongues spoken on the island , converted them into the composite speech of a homogeneous people , and made it ultimately the vehicle of a great literature . But the French words that have come in since this early time stand on an entirely different footing . They are usually a convenience , sometimes a fashion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resemble those which have made their way into the other Teutonic tongues . It was not until the seventeenth century that this new invasion began on any scale north mentioning . Here again political conditions concurred with other circumstances to bring about the result . France had then become the leading power of Europe . French . literature ? especially the literature of the stage ? loomed large before the eyes of men . The French language was to all appearance tending to become the common language of Christendom . These things affected every cultivated Continental tongue ; but peculiar circumstances strengthened the influences operating upon the English . A king had ascended the throne whose life from his sixteenth to his thirtieth year had been spent mainly upon the Continent . There he had come to think French thoughts and to imbibe French tastes . Many of the courtiers had been trained under the same influences . Accordingly it was inevitable that a crowd of French words should struggle for admission into the speech . But the conditions were altogether different in the seventeenth century from what they were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it took just pride . At the prospect of a large addition to its vocabulary from the French there rose at once into prominence the two parties which always spring up whenever a language becomes ennobled by the creation of a great literature . They hold opposite views as to the desirability of introducing foreign words . Hostility at once broke out between these at the period of the Restoration . It may be said to have continued ever since . The cne side , sometimes in argument , but constantly in practice , advocated a generous adoption of French locutions . The other side looked upon this course with marked disfavor . The prejudice against these terms might not go to the length of debarring them utterly from entrance , but it was disposed to make their entrance exceedingly difficult . Of the former class , John Evelyn may be taken as one of the best representatives . He discussed the subject in a letter written in 1665 to the chairman of the committee of the Royal Society appointed to consider the improvement of the English language . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word existed in a foreign tongue for which the English had no equivalent it should help itself to it without scruple . " Let us , " said he , " ( as the Roman did the Greek ) . make as many of these do homage as are like to prove good citizens . " Of the French he furnished a list of fourteen words desirable in his opinion to be adopted . To some it will be of interest for the evidence it furnishes of the comparatively late appearance in the speech of certain terms they use every day . To others it will be interesting for what the language selected from the number and for what it rejected . Out of these fourteen , six ? bizarre , concert in the sense of " musical entertainment , " chicaneries , defer , emotion , and effort ? have been received into full citizenship . Three others ? debouch , ennui , and naivete ? have held their ground , but have never become so thoroughly naturalized as to assume fully the English pronunciation . The remaining five the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , there were men who believed that the tongue had all the words it needed ; or if it needed any , it should develop them from its own resources . These views were championed by Dryden . In the dedication to the Earl of Orrery of his play of The Rival Ladies , published in 1fii4 , he disclosed the feelings he seems honestly to have entertained , though he did not always conform to them in his practice . " I wish . " he wrote , " we might at length leave to borrow words from other nations , which is now a wanton/1%9s in us , not a necessity ; but so long as some affect to speak them , there will not want those who have the boldness to write them . " But it was in his well known comedy of Marriage a la Mode that he gave the fullest expression to views cherished by large numbers . The fact that the play achieved distinct success shows that the satire upon the practice of interlarding speech with French words and phrases excited no resentment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the eharactersan affected fashionable woman named Melantha -- has in her employ a French maid whose business it is to furnish her with new words from that tongue for her daily conversation . These she carefully learns by heart to produce them at the proper time . On one occasion she reproaches her attendant for her neglect . She had permitted her . she says , to run the risk of speaking like one of the vulgar , and she had not a phrase Ieft in store which was not worn so threadbare that it was fit for nothing but to be thrown to the peasants On another occasion she tells her suitor not to embarrass her in the addresses she is paying to the princessShe is vexed at her waste of the word . " Embarrass me ! " she exclaims . " What a delicious French word do you make me lose upon you . " The large majority of the words which Dryden specified never succeeded in effecting an entrance into the language . On the other hand , no inconsiderable number of them were accepted with little or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chagrin , figure in the sense of " distinguished appearance , " foible , grimace , repartee , and ridicule . Nor are the expressions to be in vogue " and " to be in one 's good graces " to be . forgotten . Others , like billet-doux , penchant , naive , and naivete , have continued to remain in the region between partial and complete citizenship . The last of these words had so little established itself in the speech by the middle of the following century that Ilume , who was assuredly not unfamiliar with English literature , fancied at first that he himself had introduced it into the tongue . In his Essays he apologized in a note for its employment . Naivety he describes as " a word which I have borrowed from the French and which is wanted in our language . " So he said in the edition of 1742 and in later ones . But in that of 1758 the note disappeared . By that time be had either learned that he was not the first to uee the word or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excuse needed for its employment . The fortune of the examples given by Evelyn and Dryden shows how extremely sensitive language is to its own needs in the varied and varying treatment it bestows upon foreign words seeking admission . Some are received with little or no protest and are enrolled at once in the ranks of denizens . Others undergo a long and severe scrutiny before they obtain the privilege of full citizenship . Others again are held for a while in suspense , to be discarded at last . Still others occupy even for centuries a place on the border line between full and qualified admission . Take , for illustration , the words eclat and iclaircissement . Both belong to the number which crowded in during the period immediately following the Restoration . Both held their ground after a fashion ; but the extent of their uee has varied at different periods ; andthere has never been a period when they have gained full naturalization . For that it is essential , strictly speaking , that the English accentuation and the English pronunciation should take the place of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few exceptions . There is , for instance , the word trait . This came into common use about the middle of the eighteenth century . In America it has become fully naturalized . But in England , though their dietinaries authorize both ways of pronunciation , the final t is ordinarily not sounded . Accordingly there the uninformed American , when he at first hears a man 's traits spoken of . is apt to suppose there is a reference to the salvers he possesses for holding cups or other dishes . But there is one word , accepted everywhere , at least among the educated , which has nowhere conformed to the English pronunciation . It is perhaps because it has never descended below a comparatively limited class of persons who have leisure for the feeling expressed by it . This is , ennui . One would hardly have supposed that our race would ever have felt the need of going to another tongue for the word , when it has always had so much of the thing . It may be that the introduction of bore has stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplying some of its senses it may have prevented the wider extension of the employment of ennui , and thus indirectly contributed to the retention of the French pronunciation . It is a further proof , however , of how little any tongne contains all the locutions necessary to express its ideas and feelings , or how slowly it develops them , that though the soil of Englishspeaking peoples has been from the beginning everywhere fertile in the production of bores , it was not till the latter half of the eighteenth century that the language was able to give birth to a word which described them adequately . All through the eighteenth century controversy between the favorers and opponents of French words went on furiously . Hostility to the country of their origin was then violent . Naturally words and phrases from that tongue did not escape the opprobrium which fell upon their birthplace . They were constantly stigmatized as Gallicisms . This was a term of reproach which was supposed by many to indicate the lowest depth of linguistic depravity . Now there is nothing dreadful in itself about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of our ordinary speech is , ' strictly speaking , liable to that charge , it is conceivable that the addition of a few more locutions of the same sort would not work irreparable injury . The word is , in truth , a good deal more awesome , as the Scotch say , than the thing . It is , of course , offensive to have either speaker or writer interlarding his sentences with French words and phrases , still more with French constructions , when their places could be filled by as satisfactory English ones , if not more satisfactory . We justly feel that the practice is either a mark of pretension or of intellectual poverty ; that he who indulges in it has either not made himself master of the resources of his own speech or is led to resort to another by a pitiful affectation of displaying knowledge at the expense of taste . But this is something quite different from the employment of French terms for which there is no English equivalent . Not so , however , thought the opponents of the introduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to the thing itself , regardless of any use which could be made of it . Very amusing often was the manifestation of this feeling . That singular man of letters , or rather man of words , Aaron Hill , was filled with great indignation at the employment of the verb escort in the sense of accompanying one for the purpose of furnishing protection or manifesting civility . On one occasion he wrote to Mallett that he did not know whether he was in London or not , but sent out his letter on discovery . The phrase to " send out on discovery " gave him a pretext to unburden his mind upon the employMent of one of the French military terms which had come into general use during the war of the Spanish Succession nearly half a century before . It and several others ? such as carte blanche , defile , fascines , gasconade , maraud. and pontoon ? had been then attacked by Addison on the charge of adulterating the language . The English warriors , he complained , were as industrious in propagating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hill found the same fault , and expressed it in his usual forciblefeeble way . " A writer polished with the modern embellishments , " he wrote , " would have taken the opportunity to show his erudition in French by the word reconnoitre . Horrible affectation of jargon ! Such abominable insertions as this phrase , and tapis and eclaircissement , and all the frightful et cetera most in fashion , into a language they rather stick to than unite with , seem to inc as ridiculous an endeavor as an act for the naturalization of blackamoors . " In the eighteenth century , when hostility to France was very violent , the indignant Briton relieved his feelings on this particular grievance by sending protests to the Gentleman 's Magazine . In 1787 , Angles , after condemning certain Latin . terms , such as ultimatum , facsimile , factotum , put under the ban more than forty French words which , according to him , had lately been introduced into the speech . Many of them , in fact , had made their way into it long before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he desired to see barred from acceptance were , amateur , bagatelle. critique , chaperon , environs , etiquette , lieu in the phrase " in lieu of , " presentiment , piqn and spectacle . Fired by his example , A Plain Englishman , later in this same year , took the field to attack the Frenchified language so much in vogue . " Did those English writers , " he wrote indignantly , " whose works are reckoned among the best standards of the English language feel the want of these French phrases ? " Ear from it , was his answer to his own question . " I-fad the writings of Addison , Steele , Swift , Johnson , and many others , " he went . on to say , " been disgraced and deformed by the interlarding of hauteur , debut , naivete , entr ? e , outr ? , amateur , nonchalance , abord , etc. , they would never have risen to that rank of estimation which they now so deservedly hold . " Sentiments such as these are fairly certain to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all respect for itself ; but it springs from an absolute lack of discernment of the causes which bring about either the ruin or regeneration of speech . 