@@473603

OF all those relationships between man and elemental nature which alternate so singularly in character between strife and alliance , there is none which in its various phases is more humanly appealing than the bond , or battle , as momentary circumstances may have it , between the fisher and the sea . Between aeronaut and atmosphere , chemist and his elements , miner and his ore , the relationship , if intimate , is still strictly severe , often hostile , never imbued with anything akin to this other singular sympathy . The fisher 's life , overhung as it is with the shadow of potential unexplainable death , and invested with a myriad , as if reflected , moods of the great element with which he must be in daily , almost in hourly , touch , has provided much of the poetry , and perhaps more of the pathos , in the stories of many lands , but in none more than in that of coastwise New England . There is a singular lack of poetry , and almost of picturesqueness , in the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original States , founded and fostered by sectarians of a bigotry so extreme as to seem nearly akin to fanaticism , and the mark of his stern forebears is writ large in the character of the New-Englander of to-day . Even where , as a fisher , he is brought into close contact with the clement which in all time has been the most potent spur to human imagination , the trammels of ascetic ancestry are so strong upon him that we find in his conception barely a trace of the intensely vivid imagery , half superstition , half religion , with which association with the sea has imbued the fisher of other lands ? notably the Breton and the Sicilian . He is eminently shrewd , keenly observant , almost clairvoyant in his estimate of character , and surpassingly deft in every detail of his craft , but , beyond and above all , a Yankee ? that quintessence of practicality which may reasonably be regarded as the antithesis of romance in its any and every form . From your fisher of Gloucester or Cape Cod the realistic poetry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much a thing apart as the plaints of a Romeo or the imaginings of a Shahrazad . And yet that selfsame atmosphere of romance is as truly a part of the fisher of Finistere as his technical knowledge of sails and tides . Yet ? so pervasive is that subtle sea-charm which permeates all that is brought within its influence ? a romance as unmistakable as that which surrounds Plougastel or Capri , though of a different quality , lies about these little fishing-towns of New England , which contrasts them strangely with the bustling commercialism of the great mercantile and manufacturing centres , so near in actual measurement of miles , so infinitely distant in every other sense . Stranger though he be in thought and speech to aught that smacks of ideality , an influence beyond hit control , as beyond his perception , has clothed every detail of the fisher 's life , every most trifling accessory of his occupation , with a poetical significance unspeakably appealing to the imagination . " They that go down to the sea in ships " ? what an inheritance is theirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association , as new to-day as it was old in David 's time , is inevitable . No mere insensibility to romanticism is sufficient to lessen the permanency of its influence . The sea will infallibly mark its own , and is not to be eluded or denied . In such a village as those of which we have been speaking the sea is , in a material sense , the source of all good , and of all evil as well . It enriches or impoverishes , saves or destroys , robs or restores . Its will is the pivot on which existence revolves . So it is but natural , and far from being a fanciful supposition , that the life of the people should reflect faithfully certain broad , general qualities which may be said to he strictly characteristic of the element whereupon they are so intimately dependent . Pre-eminent among these we distinguish a vast and highly admirable simplicity , a freedom from conventionality , wherein much that is unworthily petty , suspicions , and unjust in human thought has givenplace to a kindly and tolerant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and things . It is a supremely sane attitude of mind ? sane with the clean , wholesome sanity of the sea ? when contrasted with the veritable labyrinth of prejudice wherein we , whose lives are necessarily more complicated , move and have our being . One rarely hears a New England fisherman indulging in petty disparagement of a neighbor . This is not . to say that . his tolerance is fatuously invariable , but only that his judgment , whether favorable or the reverse , is expressed simply and broadly , without a suggestion of either favor or fear , above all , without a hint of malice . " Them Harrises be' n't no good ! " said one such philosopher , and that was the expression of a simple conviction . Disapproval is as generous and as elemental as commendation . One is inevitably tempted to a reflection upon the pains which a less simple society would be at to adduce a multitude of trivial slurs in support of this amply self-sufficient statement . In the well-ordered regularity of life in a fishing-town the sea once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more elaborate conditions of existence , is less accepted as inevitable than totally disregarded in the sense of an objection . In dependence on the sun and the wind and the tide events move forward day by day , and men rise and retire , labor and take their ease , with machinelike orderliness . And this , their submission to the requirements of routine , is parent , no doubt , to the serene repose which is so noticeable in the older men . Long before it is possible for individual preference to point out an independent line of activity , the daily round of duty has been , almost imperceptibly , laid out , and the boy finds himself pledged to the performance of certain well-defined labors , the which he accepts without argument , if not without reflection . There are exceptions , as in all conditions of society ? lads who rebel and strike out for themselves . Every battle-ship in our navy has its tale of these . But for the most part , to an extent undreampt of in our larger cities , where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erratic , it is a case in the fishing-town of " like father , like son . " The latter takes up the work where the firmer drops it , sails the same boat , cleans fish with the same knife , mends and re-mends the same nets , and spins the same yarns in his hours of leisure . But where the fisher 's life is most appealingly in sympathy with the sea is in a respect which he of all men is probably the furthest from perceiving ? its profound melancholy . In this regard , if in no other , coastwise New England is nearly akin to that coastwise Finistere of which we have spoken , and which inspired May Fr ereYves and Pecheur d'Islande , There is lacking the fanciful imagination of the Breton , which has peopled every mood of the ocean with the personalities of saints and demons , and thereby achieved so great a degree of picturesqueness ; there is lacking , too , the extremity of devoutness which associates the woe or weal of the fishing-fleet with the direct intent of the Virgin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invocations to the sea , no little porcelain Notre , Dame de la Recouvrance , before which , when the fleet is out , the women of the village watch and pray , and tapers continually burn . But all these , indescribably pathetic though they be , are not , it must be remembered , intrinsically so , but only in such sense as they are the manifestations , the outward signs , of a great elemental undercurrent of tragedy ? the ominous , indescribably alluring relation between the fisher and the sea . Apart from the peculiar phenomena wherein this emotion finds expression under varying conditions lies the emotion itself , vast , majestic , large with infinity of suggestion , and identical , we may imagine , the sea-coasts of the world around . Here in New England the very severity of earlier conditions seems to have bequeathed an added force to the tragedy . It is , perhaps , not too much to say that these fisher families are exemplifications , as perfect as may be , of absolute adherence to a very high , if simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social relations more essentially righteous , of religious convictions more consistently followed , of a more rational or saner observance of hygienic and physiological principles . And , withal , from cradle to grave it is always the tragic aspect of the fisher 's life which is seen to be most heavily underscored , most unmistakably emphasized . Those most familiar in a sympathetic sense with the sea will realize that even in its gayest moods it is inseparable from this hint of melancholy . It is too old , too cruel , with all its kindness , and the custodian of too many terrible memories and awful secrets to be ever less than ominous . And it may almost be said that as the land approaches the sea it comes under this inflnence , and shows , even in its conformation , a reflection of the lurking grimness before it . The long swelling sand dunes of Cape Cod , rolling away in majestic emptiness , mile . on mile , and the gaunt , grim rocks of Maine , wrinkled , as are the faces of the fisher-folk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally suggestive of infinite loneliness , ageless endurance , stupendous power , and , more . than all , the pitiable littleness of man ? The fancy could be carried further , down to the blackened and mussel-covered piles of the wharves , where-under the tide rises and murmurs mystery , and retires as if to seek yet other stories from the informing deeps beyond . Above , the weather-beaten planking is strewn with en infinity of discarded rubbish ? spars , anchors , chains , sail-cloth , blocks , and cordage . Where they have been , whence they come , there is no knowing now . Only in two respects are all alike . In their time they have been new , strong , well fitted to their appointed uses . Now they are but mute additional proofs of the impotency of man 's device . The omnipotent and everlasting sea has laid hand on one and all , as upon those who made them , and they are as if they had never been . The seal the sea ! the sea ! To and from the wharves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and hear witness to the eternal struggle and the inevitable end . So , little by little , is born in the observer not merely a realization of the pervading melancholy inseparable from this environment , but an appreciation of the primary cause , the emotion which lies below . Every most trivial detail of this people 's life is instinct with the thought of facing an unknowable and invincible force , wherewith they may struggle for a little , may even seem to master or cajole , but which must inevitably stand victor in the end . Each year the sea claims its tithe , and this comes as no unexpected calamity , but as a duly calculated nemesis . One catches a trace of its abiding presence , now and again , in the eyes of a mother or a wife or a sweetheart as she watches him who is to her the fisher of all fishers , on his way toward the shore ? oftener , even , in a strange , unconscious glance of apprehension toward the sea itself , which , perhaps , has already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All this tends directly , one cannot. but think , to the formation and preservation of a very strong , albeit unobtrusive , nobility of character , as it so apparently induces an admirable simplicity of life . Beneath the evidence of these immaculately kept houses , these scrupulously tended nets and boats , these trim gardens , mid severe places of worship , and clear-eyed , sturdy children ; back of this spirit of fair dealing and clean living . and earnest , consistent endeavor : there lies a marvellous strength of conviction and an appreciation of duty which is not far from being the chief of our national moral sinews . The fisher-folk are , to a great extent , a people set apart , barred off by the peculiar conditions which surround them from participation in much of what we are wont to say makes life worth living . More than any other class of Americans they are forced into that close intimacy with elemental nature from which it is the tendency of civilization to wean us . They are part and parcel of the great universal system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature 's self , by magnificently broad and yet singularly simple laws . As a result , we find them unconsciously imbued in thought , word , and deed with nature 's own dignity and sanity and force . From conditions so elemental it would be strange did there not result the poetry and the picturesqueness which invest whatever is supremely natural , and that are lacking in all that smacks of artificiality or design . Just as there is no trace of intention in the attitude of the fisher himself , so is there nothing resembling studied effect in what , as the logical result of his needs , has come Lo be in his surroundings . Even the most sequestered inland villages of New England are not free , in these progressive days , from the reproach of atrocious architecture , made worse by glaring combinations of the unspeakable commodity known as enamel paint . Nature is foully wronged in the presence of grottos and rockeries which have not even the redeeming grace of utility , far less that of ornament , and incongruous iron stags profane the even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimes the fisher 's environment is guiltless before nature and nature 's God . The tints of his shingles and sails and wharves are those Lent by the fingers of the salt wind and water . Even where the work is that of his own hands it runs on broad unoffending lines of architecture , and in simple blacks and whites and greens and maroons unspeakably grateful to the eye long weary of gaudier hues . His flowers are the simplest , and while trained away from disorderly riot , yet grow naturally and freely , untrammelled by the intention of ornamental borders . And if he err in angularity of line or blatancy of hue , his omnipresent mentor , the sea , is at hand to correct , gnawing and rounding and moulding with busy teeth and fingers , till the sharp corners are made smooth and the gaudy tints softened and the sea 's great aim is once more attained ? the reduction of all with which it comes in contact to a gray in color and to a curve in form . Let us leave it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and white cottages nestling in a curve of wooded shore , and staring ingenuously from square , green-shuttered windows at the blackened wharves , eloquent of the comings and goings of the simple , brave men who go down to the sea in ships . Let us leave it with twilight settling down upon the gables , for this is of all hours the best . The schooners are in ; the daily work is done ; smoke from a score of chimneys spires skyward ; ? and there , beyond the laughter of the ripples on the peaceful shore , beyond the smooth gray stretch of harbor water , beyond the white foam of surf on the bar ? there lies a wide , unruffled calm . There is peace , and there is a truce declared between the fisher and the sea . 