@@485038

R. H. Russell 's enlarging list includes ' Characters of Romance , ' sixteen prints by William Nicholson ; ' Americans , ' by Charles Dana Gibson ; ' The Passing Show , ' drawings by A. B Wenzel ; Irving 's Knickerbocker illustrated by Maxfield Parrish ; R. L Stevenson 's ' Child 's Garden of Verse , ' illustrated by M. E. Squire and E. Mars ; ' Down South , ' photographic studies by Rudolf Eickemeyer , jr. ; and ' Mr. Dooley 's Philosophy ; by F. P. Dunne . The Macmillan Co. have in press ' The Men Who Made the Nation , ' by Prof. Edwin Erie Sparks , and ' The Clergy in American Life and Letters , ' by the Rev. Daniel Dulaney Addison . The " Harvard Studies in Classical Philology , " it is announced , will hereafter be published by the University . The eleventh volume is just appearing . The first complete edition of the works of the Danish philosopher and critic Soren Kierkegaard is announced by the Gyldendal Publishing Co. of Copenhagen . The text @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be accompanied by critical notes by specialists . In view of the fact that Kierkegaard was the most original thinker of his time in Denmark , it is strange that his works are now for the first time brought together forty-five years after his death . ' Christmas Carol ' have been issued in two companion volumes . prettily decorated without and well printed within , by G. P. Putnam 's Sons . The excuse for their reappearance is found in numerous designs by Frederick Simpson Coburn . These are much above the average , and are in two styles  --  vignettes in pen and ink , interspersed in text and border , and full-page wash drawings There is the usual want of harmony between modes so opposite , but there is mediocrity in neither , and the edition will commend itself to the gift-seeking and gift-receiving public . Some months ago we reviewed a. pleasant and singularly naive work by Mr. Clifton Johnson , entitled ' Among English Hedgerows . ' In his new book , ' Along French Byways ' ( Macmillan ) , Mr. Johnson entertains us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French country life as he envisaged it , camera in hand , in his solitary summer rambles . If the aim of travel be to know certain countries from within , Mr. Johnson has mastered the art . His book is a record of contemporary peasant life as interpreted by a sympathetic outsider with a wonderful eye for detail . As in the earlier volume , the excellent photographs lone half its distinction to the book . Mr. Johnson embarked on the discovery of rural France with the same open mind that he displayed in his English travels . He knew no French , and conceived of that fact as no drawback to research , and it is partly owing to his ignorance of their speech that he has a detached air in studying the peasant type ; it is as though he were describing to those who were unlikely to see for themselves the manners- and customs of some outlandish tribe . When he sees a Frenchwoman smoking a cigarette " in a manner that seemed to me quite scientific , " he records the fact as a genuine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That , I suppose , was fast life . " Fast life , however , figiires little in these sketches . Their claim to attention lies In a peculiar repose and a sympathy with the life of toiling France ; they are in parts a sort of prose commentary on the paintings of Millet . We meet with Mr. Johnson again applying his special talent to ' Lorna Doone , ' in the new Harper 's edition . His discriminating explorations of Exmoor give the story its topographical setting , and are worth many times over the imaginative figure illustrations still retained by the publishers . The book is gayly bound . It is William Martin Johnson who tries his hand at embellishing Charles Reade 's ' The Cloister and the Hearth , ' in two volumes ( Harpers ) . These are wholly in the line of border decoration ( chiefly with the pen ) , occasionally hitting the mark if one waives the fashionable intrusion of the margin upon the square of the printed page , but in general not reaching a high level of invention or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engraving to real woodcut illustration such as we meet with in the latest ( eighth ) edition of W. Robinson 's ' English Flower Garden and Home Grounds ' ( London : Murray ; New York : Seribuers ) . We passed a favorable judgment on this handsome and authoritative work five years ago , when it was in its fourth edition  --  a statement sufficiently indicative of the place it has made for it- con. vie . u.kay recall LDe Htui Hat we latter half is a dictionary of flowers available for the garden  --  in England ; only with reserves in this country . ' The Diary of a Dreamer , ' by Alice Dew-Smith ( G. P. Putnam 's Sons ) , is a. series of reveries written with the rather elaborate detachment from the cares of the working world which is characteristic of so much of the occasional literature of the day . Mrs. Dew-Smith writes with the deliberate air of isolation that we all know so well ; when this isolation is set off by a charming garden adorned with sun-dials , crimson ramblers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count on an audience . The great popularity of certain modern works on gardening among people who have the vaguest aspirations after a garden , is part of the reaction against town life that is as old as Horace and seldom more genuine than his hankering after the country . Mrs Dew-Smith 's reflections as she gazes up into her big chestnut tree or watches the birds take their bath , have the usual charm of skiing and the quiet humor that life in a garden invariably brings out . It is a book to be read as a sedative by the busy and overworked . The scene is laid in England , and is bathed in a peculiarly English atmosphere of peace and leisure . An oblong album of three-color prints on gray mounts constitutes ' Glimpses of the Grand Callon of the Colorado ' ( Denver , Frank S. Thayer ) . The views are , with two exceptions , from photographs made by Oliver Lippincott , Los Angeles , touched with water-color by J. P. Robertson of Denver , and then reproduced as above stated . Formally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenery in qu.eadon ; and the high coloring is not so excessive as to detract from the general fidelity to nature . ' The American Simon Kop , from " Grand View , " ' involves a transplanting of names which may or not become a fixity through this medium . In ' The Other Man 's Country ' ( Philadelphia : Lippincott ) Mr. Herbert Welsh presents a brief and forceful argument from the pro-Filipino standpoint . His book is , therefore , naturally , a sharp arraignment of the policy of the American Administration . The greater portion of the volume consists of a review of the steps which led up to and resulted in the outbreak of February 4 , 1899 , In supporting his argument , Mr Welsh quotes freely from various authorities and from official reports . He styles his book " An Appeal to Conscience , " and emphasizes certain features of an important question in which the American conscience has , as yet , played but a too subordinate part . He states that " the main purpose of the book is to indict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit , not-only of American Democracy , but Christianity itself " The main strength of this doctrine in America Mr. Welsh ascribes " to the active or tacit approval it has received from the moral and religious people of the country . " Those who desire to know both sides of - the argument , or to support an existing conviction , will find the book well worthy a careful perusal . Mr. H. Whates 's ' The Third Salisbury Administration , 1895-1900 ' ( London ? Vacher &; Sons ) is described by him as a kind of lapidary inscription , placed on the grave of a defunct Ministry , and Dr. Johnson has told us that no man is on oath in that genre . Accordingly , we find here and there in the bulky volume a too great fondness for saying nothing but good of the dead ; although Lord Salisbury 's failure in dealing with the Sultan , and his Government 's lamentable coming short of its promises of social reform , are fairly to be collected from these pages In the account of the ( for Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some incoherency , which are the sure betrayal of a writer not versed in American politics Still , the long review of five years ' diplomacy  --  a singularly momentous period in England 's foreign relations  --  has its value for reference , with the need of checking for unconscious bias always borne in mind ; while the appendix , with its list of treaties and conventions , petitions and dispatches , is elevated to the traditional importance of , a lady 's postscript . No one knows what new discovery of classical or theological interest may come from Egypt at any moment , and consequently collectors eagerly gather the papyri which are from time to time offered for sale in or from that country The most important private collection yet made is that of Lord Amherst of Hackney , which is now being edited by Messrs Grenfell and Hunt . Part I. ( ' The Amherst Papyri , ' Oxford ; University Press ; New York : H Frowde ) , containing the " Ascension of Isaiah " and other theological fragments , has just appeared . The names of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the thoroughness of the work There are nine plates , containing facsimile reproductions of the torn , worm-eaten , brown old manuscripts These are transliterated in full . The paper is heavy , with uncut edges , and the publication throughout is a delight to head and eye and hand " The Ascension of Isaiah " is a fragment of the original Greek of an Apocryphal work of the first part of the second century after Christ , which was known heretofore only in an Ethiopic translation and partial Latin and Slavic translations Outside of this , the volume contains a curious Christian hymn , from about 200 A. ID. , or a little later , a letter from Rome of the third century , two small liturgical fragments , probably " choir slips , " from the seventh or eighth century , two New Testament fragments , a few Psalms , one brief passage from Job , and another from Genesis The second part , now in preparation , is to contain ' the " classical fragments and the non-literary documents , which are much more numerous . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nutt ) , the second in a series of studies on Biblical subjects , Dr. A Smythe Palmer argues that the ladder of Jacob at Bethel was a ziggurat or stage-tower , and connects the old Hebrew traditions of Bethel and its religious rites with Babylonian religious usages . The book is full of suggestive comparisons . It is a curious combination of conservatism and radicalism . One minute we are following the Biblical narrative with a literalness which would delight the most orthodox The next minute we are , with ruthless radicalism , placing Hebrew traditions and Jewish uses on a plane with heathen rites and practices . The Stone at Bethel was a " menhir or standing-stone " of ' the same kind . as " the Arabic asnani , or rude blocks of stone worshipped as idols , and the Carthaginian deity , Abbadires ( Aug . Bp. 44 ) , said to be equivalent to nbaddiss a baetylian stone ( Hebrew , eben'addir , ' mighty stone . . . ' ) analogous to the great stone chair of the ancient Irish king , 011amh Fodhla ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meath " ( p. 124 ) . The book is an essay in comparative religion , and is chiefly occupied with the discussion of stone worship , comparing the Hebrew use of sacred stones and the ideas connected with them with the worship of sacred stones in other regions . To get a sober statement of the relation of Buddhism to Western civilization is not easy . The inquiring student who , unable himself to control the sources , asks for Information , is told by the Christian specialist that all the parallels between the lives and teachings of Christ and Buddha either are coincidences , or show that Buddhism has borrowed from Christianity . Less orthodox scholars maintain , on the other hand , that the coincidences are too striking to bear the name , and that the borrowing has been from East to West . Arthur Lillie , whose ' Buddhism in Christendom ' showed previously on which side he stood , has now contributed to the series of " The World 's Epoch-Makers " ( Charles Scribner 's Sons ) a similar volume , under the title ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several specimens of Parables translated freely and commented upon in a popular manner , the author reviews the history of Buddhism . He holds that the council of Ves'ali is a " simple fiction " ( p. 110 ) , which enables him to draw the inference that , down to Agoka 's time , third century B. c. , no Buddhistic literature existed except that - mentioned in the Edicts . So radical a view is scarcely for a hand-book , , but should be the subject of a lthorough essay . The author , however , is not careful to shun the expression of radical views . To him Christ was an Essene , the Essenes were Buddhists , and Christianity is Buddhism . But the reader may judge of Mr. Lillie 's ability to prove this when he learns that the Asas , the Norse hang , and at least Balder in Scandinavian mythology are also Buddhistic , and that the religion of Mexico too is an offshoot from the same root , Xaca , the " Mexican Buddha , " being " plausibly identified " by M. Paravey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is included among the world 's epoch-makers . But there is a proverb , ne quid nimis , and the ease with which one can prove that all religions came from Buddha must make still questionable the " proof " as applied to any one in particular . The ' American Jewish Year-Book ' for the Year 5661 , just published by the Jewish Publication Society of America , Philadelphia , is more than double the size of the first issue . With it is incorporated the annual report of the society under whose auspices it appears . The record of the past year , a statement on " Judaism in France , " by Rabbi Louis Levy , and , above all , a statement of the origin in 1860 , and the constant labors since then , of the " Alliance Israelite Umverselle , " by Jacques Bigart , must prove of value and interest to Jews , and will certainly widen the horizon and sympathies of all non-Jews . Among the new features in the book are lists of Jewish soldiers and sailors in the late war  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and biographical sketches of Jews who have served in Congress . A new epigraphical journal has been started by Dr. Mark Lidzbarski ( Giessen- Ricker ) , entitled Ephemeris fur Semdtsche Eptgrapha . The editor says in his announcement that scarcely a month passes without new discoveries in the field of Semitic epigraphy and the publication of new inscriptions , but the material is so scattered that it is difficult for the workers in that field to inform themselves of what is being done The object of this journal is to impart all new finds and notice all new publications and articles The new inscriptions in the first number of the journal , which seems , by the way , to be written from cover to cover by Dr. Lidzbarski himself , consist of some " old Semitic " seals and weights in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford , and five Mandman magical texts on clay bowls in the Berlin Museum and the Louvre A good part of the space in this number is devoted to Carthaginian and Punic inscriptions already published , principally by Berger and ClermontGanneau . The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assistance of facsimile reproductions , are a Carthaginian ex-veto to Ashtoret and Tanit , the longest and most complete yet found , and a Punic tubella devotion 's , the first of the sort discovered . One very interesting article deals with two small Aramman inscriptions from Cappadocia . These had already been noticed by Clermont-Ganneau , but Dr. Lidzbarski has procured new and apparently more accurate photographs and squeezes , and also fuller information as to their provenance . One , assigned by him to the 2d century B. C. , reads in part thus . " Den-Mazdwantsh , " that is , the Mazdman religion , " snake thus : ' I am the wife of King Bel . ' Then snake Bel thus to the Mazdman Religion ' Thou , my sister , art very wise , and more beautiful art thou than goddesses , and therefore have I made thee the wife of Bel , ' " If the transcription which gives this translation be correct , we have here a written record of the amalgamation of two religions which is , to the best of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , owing , apparently , to the fact that Aramman letters have been used for the writing of some foreign language . For many years the need has been felt by students of a new English-Danish dictionary . S Boeing 's work , which in its time met all ordinary needs , has long been antiquated in consequence of the unfortunate determination of its compiler that no changes should be made in it after his death The only additions made to the sixth edition , published in 1887 , were those found in Rosing 's papers , and the seventh edition , published two years ago , is a reprint of the sixth . The appearance , therefore , this summer of the first instalment of an English-Danish dictionary under the editorship of J. Brynildsen and Johannes Magnussen , with the scheme of pronunciation by Prof. Otto Jespersen , could not fail to rouse general interest and satisfaction among Scandinavian students Three parts have already been received , reaching the word case , and amounting to 114 two-column pages with sixty-eight lines to the column Allowing for the difference in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size of the corresponding portion of Booing 's work . This increase is in part the result of the careful treatment of the Norse element , which was not included by Hosing . But it is not merely in the number of the entries that the new work shows an advance The mechanical makeup is perhaps the best that has yet appeared in a Danish international dictionary , the treatment of idioms is as nearly perfectly correct as can be expected from foreign observers , and the selection of words and illustrations shows , as a rule , rare discrimination The modern character of many of the quotations deserves special commendation . The large number of proper names included is undoubtedly a valuable feature for Danish readers In many cases biographical notes are added to the pronunciation and the Danish form Some slight attention is given even to Americanisms , among which , however , should have been included " buggy , " which is incorrectly rendered " gig , trifle " The work , when it is completed , will be a worthy companion to the last edition of A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Gyldendals ? The State Historical Society of Wisconsin , which first opened its Library Building on October 19 , has had a unique career Starting during the first session of the Legislature in 1849 , its local habitation was till 1856 a corner in the old Capitol . Needing elbow room , it then removed with 1,050 books to the basement of a church , and remained there till 1867 , when it brought its books , already over 20,000 , into three halls prepared for it in the new Capitol . A dozen years afterward , its jewels having outgrown their caskets , Capitol extension was largely brought about in order to enshrine them in befitting settings Within two decades its collections had become so ponderous that they threatened ruin to walls and floors , as well as too precious to be imperilled in a capitol which was far from fireproof . , Accordingly , soon after the burning of Pennsylvanian rarities at Harrisburg , the State of Wisconsin set about rearing the structure just now completed . The new quarters , which have cost the State $575,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and aboueas many pamphlets , often more rare and of some historic value , with card catalogues of everything , even to the tiniest primer , and such a shelf arrangement that no particle can be hard to locate The catalogue of Its 10,000 newspaper files is of more than interstate reputation , having been found of national usefulness . The books are mainly stored in a wing ( 45x63 feet ) , reverted at right angles from the chief edifice In all the six stories the stacks and shelves are iron The facade of 200 feet has a central dodecastyle porch upward from the second story . Back of the porch is the reading-room ( 120x48 feet ) , with skylights and ceiling electric lights , and around the walls 180 shelves of reference books Tables and chairs suffice for 240 readers , that is , two-thirds as many as the British Museum accommodates Separated from the reading-room only by pillars are card catalogues and delivery counters . ? We lack the space for details concerning other features of a building which is , perhaps , the most costly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HistoriCal Society . The name Historical , however , though legal and legislative , is partly a misnomer . In truth , the Library is not a complete building , still lacking a second wing to hold the books of the University , which now , numbering 50,000 , find a temporary lodgment in the wing of the Historical Society . This Library Hall marks a new educational departure . It has been erected on ground furnished by the University . The accumulations of that institution and those of the Society clasp hands together under one roof . Thanks to this felicity of position , whatever the people , out of the abundance of their hearts , have bestowed on the Society as trustees is spread as daily food before their sons and daughters who here chiefly congregate for the bettering of their minds . The address delivered by Mr. Charles Francis Adams , at the dedication of the new building , on which we commented last week , will be published entire in the January number of the American Historical Review ? The fifth volume of the series entitled " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to illustrate , for English readers , the oratory of Continental Europe , from Mira-beau to Bismarck , France alone supplying fifteen out of the eighteen examples . There is little to be objected against the results of this selection from an enormous wealth of matter , save in the case of Victor Hugo , who is here represented only by the bad logic and gasping sensationalism of his speech against the death penalty . Nearly half of the volume is devoted to revolutionary speakers of various types and qualities ; and the majority of readers will doubtless frankly admit that the almost vanished effervescence of such orations is not restored by indifferent translation . In this particular the work of editing appears to have been done an galop . Taking an example at random , we find the following markedly Gallicized sentence from Gambetta ( p. 262 ) : " Let us show to those who examine us our morality , our interior power , our might , and not , as has been shown up to now , the spectacle of dynastic quarrels or discuSsions concerning mere chimeras . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haste . Did SainteBeuve not know how to spell his own name ? In this work it appears at St. Beuve ( p. 204 ) . And we fail to find on the map of Italy a river not altogether unknown in the annals of history , here disguised as the Tessino ( p. 167 ) . An introductory essay discusses the form and changes of modern oratory , with occasional lapses , of which that art furnishes so many- examples : " It was a saturnalia of death , and oratory was used but as the weapon by which to glut the maw of the guillotine , the Moloch of the time " ( p. 15 ) " The orators of the day are sowing a whirlwind which they may reap in tears of blood " ( p 20 ) . Has the spirit of Castlereagh been made reincarnate ? ? Historical Jurisprudence , ' by Dr. Guy Carleton Lee ( Macmillan ) , is an excellent , and for readers of English the only general , summary of the astonishing results achieved by that historical school of which Savigny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Law , being regarded as the only ancient system in which the growth of highly developed legal conceptions could be traced , has been the chief object of historical study ; and thus , as Revillout complains , the yilS gentium of the PrmtorsMaine 's " Roman Equity " ? has far too generally passed for an original product of the legal genius of Rome Dr Lee 's work reminds us that such notions are out of date . Before approaching the civil law of Rome , he surveys the far older legal systems of Babylonia , of Egypt , of Phoenicia , of Israel , of India , and of Greece , and shows us that these were in some respects highly elaborate , and that Rome had much to learn from them For a knowledge of the ancient civil law of Egypt we have few materials , but as to the early law of Babylonia our information is now both varied and minute . To students like Oppert or Peiser , who can read the will of Sennachenb , or the group of original documents executed in Babylonia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal records of Rome must indeed seem absurdly juvenile After a clear account of the growth and maturity of the Roman Law , Dr Lee traces its influence down , to the present day , as shown in the Canon Law , the Barbarian Codes , the early history of the law of England , and the Continental COdes . The book is accurate , as well as interesting . Its statements are at times over-positive , but this is scarcely avoidable in a work so condensed Its usefulness for students is impaired by the omission of a bibliography , and by the meagreness of the footnotes . With these exceptions the form is on a par with the substance , though we can not see why the adjective " Justinianean " should be docked of its last two syllables . ? " The early voyage of the Vikings to Vineland , as they named America , has illustration in a Runic epitaph cut in a rock on the Potomac . ' Here lies Syasi , the fair one of Western Iceland , the widow of Koldr , sister of Thorgr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be merciful to her . ' " This statement , from p. 202 of Edward Clodd 's ' Story of the Alphabet ' ( Appletons ) , would be very interesting if true . If by " story " one means " romance , " the book is not inaptly entitled , except that it does not  |p05-  sees the literary qualities of ordinary flatten . Apparently the author crammed for his subject , and , - if we-may be pardoned the metaphor , vomited forth his material undigested Small aS the work is , a little more than 200 pages of primer size , much of it has absolutely nothing to do with the Story Of the alphabet . In etc place the author rails against Egypt for having given to Christianity the Trinity , " mariolatry , and Monasticism " ( p. 143 ) ; in another , he spends pages in cinutations from the ' Mimes ' of Herodas and translations of the Logia from Oxyrhynchus . He seems to have filled up his pages with such miscellaneous scraps of information as he gathered in his " reading up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under some pretence of connection with the subject assigned to him . We skip from country to country and rush from theme to theme , more or less generally connected with the story of writing , and particularly of the origin of writing signs , but the story of the alphabet is not told in this volume . Mr Clodd did read , however , Taylor 's ' History of the Alphabet , ' and uses it freely He does not accept Taylor 's theory of the Egyptian origin of the alphabet , but reaches a happy compromise between all existing theories , thus " The Phoenician alphabet was a compound from various sources , the selection and modification of the several characters being ruled by convenience , and that , primarily and essentially commercial " ( p. 177 ) The book is part of a " Library of Useful Stories , " but this particular " useful story " must be pronounced worse than useless . ? Horace is an author of perennial interest to every man of culture , and no civilized tongue is or ought to be without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not follow- , however , that labor in this field may not be misdirected and unprofitable . To make it profitable , its results either should have a literary value of their own , or should render new and important aid to our understanding and appreciation of the poet 's work . Literary value certainly can not be claimed for the ' Study in the Satires of Horace ' put forth by A Cartault , professor of Latin poetry in the University of Paris , and there is ample room for question as to its utility . It is no light task to read three hundred and sixty-five large pages of matter put together without any pretension to literary form , and we can not discover that the author has made sufficient contributions to Horatian criticism to repay that task . His absolute exclusion of the Odes from his studies is not justified by his statement that the Odes were later and did not in any way condition the production of the Satires , for an author 's later work will always throw much light upon his earlier efforts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , purpose , or internal construction . And within the Satires themselves Professor CaftanIt 's method is dry and mechanical in the extreme . The work appeals toy no one not capable of reading the original text with comparative ease ; and to any one who is so capable , at least half the " results " are obvious at sight except in their comparatively unimportant arithmetical aspects . One could not tell at sight , for instance , that there is one proper name , satirically employed , for every fifteen and two-thirds lines of the two books , and whatever it be worth to know this we may set down to the credit of the professor of Latin poetry in the University of Paris . But whether the professors in that university can best discharge their duty to the memory of the great writers of classical antiquity by furnishing such information , is another question .                     