@@486847

Those persons who professed fear that President Roosevelt 's message on the Japanese situation in San Francisco would be full of threats and extra-Constitutional remedies , must confess themselves agreeably disappointed . Mr Roosevelt says that if the San Francisco and California authorities fail to protect the persons and property of the Japanese , " then the entire power of the Federal Government , .2inthin the limits of the Constztution , " will be used promptly and vigorously . Again , he speaks of using the Federal forces which he could " lawfully " employ . From the report of Secretary Metcalf , transmitted by Mr. Roosevelt , it appears that the labor unions , the curse of San Francisco and the Pacific Coast , are at the bottom of most of the trouble . It was they who , through the Japanese and Korean Exclusion League , induced the School Board to shut out Japanese children , and it was they who organized and carried on the boycott against the Japanese restaurants . More than that , this boycott was easily terminated by the payment of $350 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have tried to make us believe that their civilization and industries , their whole standard of living , are in danger of being subverted by the Japanese . San Francisco still has over 325,000 people ; the subjects of the Mikado there number only 6,000 , a mere handful . Altogether shameful is the police record of assaults by the more highly civilized Americans upon the Japanese , 281 within the period from May 6 , 1906 , to November 5 , 1906 ; during that time only nine breaches of the peace by Japanese were reported Fortimately , there is a President in the White House who is not afraid to stand up for our good name and describe properly the San Francisco outrages . President Roosevelt has endorsed the plan of the Personnel Board for a reserve list in order to secure younger captains and rear-admirals in the navy . The Board was instituted because there is prospect of a " hump " or block in promotions similar to that after the Civil War . To remedy this threatened congestion , the Board considered two plans ? first , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , second , elimination of certain officers by taking them from the active list in order to create the vacancies necessary for rapid advancement . The Board wisely decided on the second plan . Army and navy officers are convinced that no scheme of promotion by selection of the best can be devised which will not be marred by political or social considerations . The safer way is to eliminate those less fit . The Per . sonnel Board 's plan calls for the consl itution of a board of officers whenever , on June 30 , the ten senior captains average fifty-five years of age , or the ten senior commanders forty-eight years of age , or the ten senior lieutenant-commanders average forty-four years of age . This commission is then to select 15 per cent , of the captains , or 10 per cent . of the commanders , for transfer to the reserve list , and thus force a number of promotions On behalf of its scheme , the Board urges that it is automatic , yet elastic . In some years there may be enough casualties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that the adoption of the Board 's report as a whole would increase the number of officers below the rank of rear-admiral , from 992 , as at present , to 1,500 , by adding seventy-five a year The proper action for Congress to take , as we view the problem , is to go to the root of the trouble and decrease the size of the corps of midshipmen at Annapolis , or resort to the old plan of discharging with a year 's pay the surplus graduates There should be retrenchment rather than enlargement . With the decrease , the necessity for elaborate schemes to regulate promotion will diminish . But if something of the kind should then still be deemed necessary , the report of the Personnel Board contains excellent suggestions as a basis to build on . In publishing the full correspondence relating to our intervention in Cuba last September , the Administration has not added much to our knowledge , but has certainly proved to all the world that action by our Government was absolutely imperative . The President shrank from intervention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and acquiesced in it , finally , only as a dire necessity . Secretary Taft 's cablegrams set forth conclusively how impossible were the people with whom he had to deal in Cuba , and how inextricable the situation The freedom of his dispatches , and of the President 's replies , is probably unexampled in diplomatic correspondence ; but the net effect of their massing and publishing is to free this country from the suspicion of meddling officiously in Cuba for selfish advantage . President Roosevelt 's message about work at Panama reports nearly everything on the Isthmus absolutely perfect . No doubt much of his high praise is deserved . A vast amount of money has been spent upon sanitation , buildings , paving , water-supply , etc. , and there is a good deal to show for it . Indeed , the health-record has been so good on the Isthmus in recent months that , as the President says , we probably ought to count upon more sickness , on the average , and a higher death-rate . The President confesses frankly that three days ashore was too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering problems His references to them are , accordingly , meagre . Such as they are , however , they are not reassuring . Take , for example that part of the message in which the President deals with the engineering crux of the whole canal Plan  --  the Gatun dam and the location V the three locks in flight to reach the eighty-five-foot level . This , Mr. Roosevelt admits , yet offers " a serious problem , " and he freely grants that " there will be some little risk in connection with the work . " The unpleasant truth L. that the engineers are by no means satisfied with either the feasibility of this great earth-dam , or the location of the locks . The repOrt of the Chief Engineer shows that further borings are being made in order to allay the grave doubts about the rock bottom ; while the location of the locks is so far from being fixed that , Mr. Roosevelt announces , the whole thing is deferred to April next , when Secretary Taft and three engineers will go down to " make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for each lock . " Thus it is upon engineering plans confessedly in a state of great uncertainty  --  for this Gatun dam is vital to the whole project  - -  that contractors are asked to bid , and Congress to vote hundreds of millions . The President announces that a " badge " is to be given to every American who works on the Isthmus , as a sort of membership in a Legion of Honor . This is well enough for those who want it , but the real decoration ought to be reserved for ' the man who can prevent the waste of money at the Isthmus on ill-considered and ever-changing and possibly unworkable plans . In deciding to court-martial the senior officers of the Twenty-fifth Infantry battalion , accused of rioting in Brownsville , the President has at last taken the proper military procedure . The officers of a regiment must be held responsible for the conduct of their men . Failure to do so in this , as in many other eases in the past , would make officers still more indifferent to their duty to control their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Penrose and Capt . Macklin should have been tried at least two months ago  --  before any of their enlisted men were punished . We welcome this movement now as a sign of sober second thought . There is every indication that before long most , if not all , of the discharged soldiers of the Twenty-fifth Infantry will be reinstated , one by one . Secretary Shaw 's explanation of his " Prosperity speech " of last Thursday , at a Washington banquet , is marked by great subtlety . He did not , he replies , give any such advice as " Get down on your knees to-night and pray God to save this country from its prosperity . " What he did say was , " We who pray should ask God to save us from any increased prosperity ; we have all we can stand . " Whether there is or is not any difference , economic or theological , between those two pious sentiments , we imagine that many , even of the Secretary 's admirers , have already reminded him to speak for himself in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are always Jerry Crunchers with an ill-natured objection to people suspected of " prayin ' agin them . " The further exposition by Mr. Shaw , that " we are growing more crops than we can harvest , and harvesting more than we can haul to market , " would appear to mean a hint , in the nightly petition , that a little adversity be granted us . Even in this somewhat grotesque view there is a substratum of reason . That our " boom " has not only overtaxed the labor and transportation facilities of the producing districts , but has drawn in an exhaustive way on the supplies of capital usually absorbed in industry , is admitted by all competent observers . Justice Brewer touched on one vital consiaeration in this matter , when , in his speech of Sunday , he declared that " our great expansion and rapid growth in population and resource are developing a habit of extravagance , " and that " we have been most unwisely discounting the future . " Justice Brewer was speaking primarily of increase in public debts ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incurring of private debt for purpose of outright speculation Precisely how large a part this form of extravagance has played in causing the " money stringency " and " scarcity of capital " of which one hears so much , it would be difficult to say ; every intelligent financier recognizes it as a factor of importance . Regarded from this point of view , Secretary Shaw 's prayer to be rescued from greater prosperity may be intelligibly translated into a prayer to be spared a wilder speculation , and in such a petition sober-minded citizens would unquestionably join . The embarrassing part of a check to expanding prosperity , - as a check to the habit of gambling on it , is that the speculators would then turn out to have " discounted " a future which did not come , and to have done so with borrowed money . The " rich men 's panic " of 1903 gave us some experience of what sometimes happens under such conditions Memory triumphed over hope in the vote of the House , by 188 to 107 , not to increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arguMeats for this advance in pay  --  and some of them are good ones  --  were swept away in the vivid recollection of that Congress which was . dubbed the " Salary-Grab Congress , " and which was visited with the sovereign displeasure of the people . Yet - the chief offence , in that historic example , was the " back-pay " feature of the legislation . That was not imitated this time . The increase proposed would have been entirely prospective . Yet the yea and nay vote was decisively against it . If the vote had been affirmative , the Representatives might have excused themselves on the ground that they are of the class  - -  the salaried class  --  who have most felt the pinch of prosperity . While the cost of living has risen . enormously , while wages have gone up and profits in business have increased , salaries have , as a rule , but slightly advanced  --  in Congress , not at all . Bradstreet 's figures showed last week that the average increase in prices since 1896 has been 55 per cent . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up 10 or 20 per cent. , but not 50 . The working and salaried classes know that there is a seamy side to our apotheosized prosperity . When pension order No. 78 , after a year and a half of anomalous existence , was made into law , some may have supposed that it disposed of the question of old-age pensions for veterans By no means . A " vigorous effort " is to be made at the coming session , under the leadership of Senator Porter J. Mc-Cumber of North Dakota , to pass the " general service pension bill under material limitations " The " limitations , " however , are not the features of the bill to arrest attention . The Ware-Roosevelt edict gave every veteran of 62 the one-half disability pension of $6 per month , whether he proved such disability or not . Senator McCumber would make this $12 a month . The order gave veterans of 70 the full disability pension of $12 a month . Senator McCumber would make this $15 , with an increase of $20 at the age of 75 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not been - so accurate in the past as to inspire great confidence , but it is safe to predict a large bill from the fact that over half the pensions now paid are at rates of $10 per month or below . If Congress decides to discontinue entirely the sifting process as between deserving and undeserving Civil War veterans , there will remain the consoling consideration that perjury will be unnecessary when in order to obtain the new rate of pension no evidence will be required except an honorable discharge . Simplified spelling was likened by some one to a vigorous tree which , beginning as a hardly noticeable shoot , was destined to spread its branches gradually until a whole nation should be comforted by its shade . In the climate of Washington , however , it has proved only a tender annual . Planted in the rather arid soil of the Congressional Record , with all the care of most competent gardeners , it did blossom once on December 4 , when such verbal posies as " a thorogoing child-labor law " and " repeatedly past legislation " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was its last . It wilted even while it bloomed . In all seriousness , the outcome of the spelling controversy should give satisfaction . The threatened squabble was avoided . Congress acted with promptness and dignity , and without a trace of partisanship . The President , meanwhile , has realized , what he might have perceived before he touched a pen to his order of last summer , that reformed spelling would not receive unanimous acceptance , and that a double standard in the Government Printing Office would be both ridiculous and vexatious . " The Episcopal Church has turned out its last heretic . " That has been a common remark among clergymen and others , since the deposition of Dr. A. S. Crapsey , and it is borne out by the extraordinary action of the diocese of Southern Ohio , last week , in the case of the Rev. George C. Cox . That clergyman had publicly announced himself a sympathizer with Dr. Crapsey and a sharer cf his views , as well as the holder of others equally revolutionary , and he had asked the judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of his own statements , he was " presentable for trial , " but then proceeded to record the decision that , " having regard for the highest interests of the Church , " they would recommend no action . The inference is unmistakable . In casting out Dr. Crapsey , the Episcopal Church exhausted itself , soto speak , , straining the loyalty of many of its clergy and members to the breaking-point , and is capable of no more such efforts . In this light ; Dr. Crapsey may have won for his - brother clergymen the authorized ' liberty- which was denied himself The Rev. Mr. Cox can , of course , remain in the church with perfeet honor and good conscience , after his manly avowals , and their condoning by his diocese ; and as soon as such actions become widespread , a new rule will be practically established and troubled consciences made easy . Chancellor E. B. Andrews of the University of Nebraska is the latest student of philanthropic problems to join in that criticism of the Salvation Army which began publicly at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he says in an open letter , " are vicious and pauperizing , and are calculated to make your so-called relief work a plague . " He also censures the Army for its failure to make a satisfactory statement of the disposition of its funds , or to submit its accounts to the inspection of any outside commit . tee Here are two distinct lines of criticism . That much of the Salvation Army 's activity is efficient and praiseworthy , critics would probably concede . Its industrial homes , " rescue work , " and farm colonies appear to embody the " self-help " principle quite as well as most private charities , and better than many . But an organization which appeals for and receives wide public support ought to be conducted on the soundest principles It may be recalled now that a wealthy Englishman once offered to endow Gen. Booth 's work with a large sum of money on condition of the late Thomas H. Huxley 's approval of methods , but this approval was withheld for much the same reasons that Dr. Andrews and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be more welcome as Ambassador to this country than James Bryce , for no Englishman has a similar understanding of our institutions , and the problems which this nation is trying to solve None of his countrymen has performed a more valuable service for the United States than Mr , Bryce in writing " The American Commonwealth " Moreover , Mr Bryce has an extensive acquaintance among American public men of both parties He could take up his duties with a clearer comprehension of the elements of our political life than most Americans themselves possess . Aside from all this , on the personal side Mr Bryce 's appointment would be most popular . We can well see , however , that , tempting as the proposal must be , lie would find it hard to give up his work as Chief Secretary for Ireland . As he has repeatedly stated in public of late , he is as devoted- to the Gladstone Home Rule principle as any man in England , and he would naturally like to have a hand in the putting through of any Heine measure Put his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do constant trips to Irelands long house of office work , and still longer hours at night in the Commons . Hence a chanie to the comparative quiet ' of the British embassy in Washington might appeal to him not a little , as would the opportunity of renewing his American friendships and continuing his American studies Neither James Bryce nor John Burns , the two members of the British Cabinet who have most to do- with the question of the unemployed , favors unproductive or unnecessary labor schemes on the part of the Government . Mr. Bryce has declared , in reference to the Irish problem , that he will have no public works simply for the purpose of affording relief That would be , in his view , a " most dangerous thing " ; if there were any works of permanent value industrially needed , he might recommend them But against the building of roads where no roads are necessary his face is set . John Burns takes much the same view . If he receives money , for instance , to reclaim land which is slipping into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting projects for afforestation , or improving grades merely to afford employment , this is not in his mind . The various distress-committees have difficult tasks before them to care for the unemployed Not only is this an unusually trying winter , but the rapid deterioration of the unemployed makes it difficult to use them to advantage After a man has been without work for some time he is incapable , according to the Rev. W R Wakefield , chairman ot the London Central Unemployed Body , of earning more than 60 per cent . ot what it costs to keep him until " after a period of reasonably good feeding and the discipline of labor . " To do a $10,000 job with unemployed labor , necessitates an expenditure of $15,000 : that is , large expense , with a comparatively small return , is the true characterization of relief work such as the Government is undertaking But some families are permanently saved , and so ' become lasting assets , The new Constitution for the Transvaal which was fully outlined last summer by Winston Churchill in the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World 's Work The suffrage is conferred on all adult males ( not colored natives ) who have resided in the Transvaal for six months . Representation is based not on population , which . would have assured complete Dutch predominance , but on the number Of voters For the first Assembly thirty-four seats have been apportioned to the Rand , with Johannesburg , these being assuredly English ; six seats , to Pretoria , which - are regarded ' as doubtful , with-the chances favoring the Dutch , and tWenty-nine teats to the rest of the country , which , possibly with one or two exceptions , will be likewise Dutch . The non-Afrikander parties , according , to Mr. Churchill 's statement , include the Transvaal Progressive Association , which is the party of the great mine owners ; the Responsible Government Association , which has advocated successfully the cause of autonomous government ; the Transvaal Political Association , standing midway between the two ; and the Labor Party The balance of power will be held by " Het Volk , " the Boer party , and Mr. Massingham 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boer party , in coalition with liberal English elements , seems , according to the latest reports in the London Tames , destined to prove true . The programme of " Het Volk , " as published at Johannesburg on December 4 , calls for the repatriation of the Chinese , extensive labor legislation , the establishment of a land . bank , the construction of agricultural railways , a new education law establishing local control in the appointment of teachers and " the selection of the medium of instruction , " and the recruiting of the civil service from among residents of South Africa . Evidently , the Boers have accepted the fact of the British conquest without reservation , and are preparing to assert themselves in ways parliamantary . Following closely on the reported efforts to secure the consent of the great Powers to the neutralization of Denmark and Norway , comes- news of a movement for welding together the three Scandinavian countries . A tri-natonal interparliamentary conference is proposed , to be held next summer at Copenhagen . The impetus to this step seems to have'come- from within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will meet early in 1907 . The plan is to have the Danish Rigsdag , the Swedish Riksdag , and the Norwegian Storthing take simultaneous action on the proposition . If this be favorable , a committee of three members will be appointed by the popularly elected branches of each one of those three bodies . The committee will probably meet in the city of Gothenburg , on the Swedish west coast , which is equally accessible from all parts of the two peninsulas . The members of the larger conference would number about 400 , which would mean a not inconsiderable expense . But the money , it is understood , may be appropriated by the three nations represented . It would he rashly optimistic to expect an immediate federation of the Scandinavian sister countries , ' but it is very likely that a standing interparliamentary committee may be established for the furtherance of a good understanding and coin eration betWeen them .                     