@@473538

How have the works of the great authors of the ancient world , of Homer and Thucydides , of Virgil and Livy , been preserved ? It needs but a moment 's thought to see what issues are involved in this question . If they had not been preserved , if the literature of Greece and Rome had been blotted out , what would have been the position of the literature of Europe and America to-day ? To some , perhaps , the question presents itself in a different form : Why should the works of ancient literature not have come down to us ? When works of great genius had been produced , such as the Iliad or the Aeneid , surely it was natural that they should be preserved , so long , at least , as there was any one who could understand their language , just as Hamlet and Paradise Lost have been preserved . But another color is put , upon the matter when we remember that the resources of print were not at the disposal of ancient writers . This year is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aeschylus , the masterpiece of the Greek stage ; but it is only 384 years since the plays of Aeschylus were first printed . For nearly two thousand years , therefore , they were exposed to the manifold perils that attend hand-written copies ; for less than four hundred years have they enjoyed the security of print . What this means will be seen if we consider under what circumstances books were produced in ancient times . Print , in addition to the facilities which it gives for the multiplication of copies , guarantees that all the copies of any one edition shall be identical . Before printing was invented , every copy had to be separately written by hand ; and , as experience amply proves , even the most careful copyist is sure to make mistakes in a long piece of work . And if the careful copyist VOL . CV .. ? No. 627 ? 38 makes mistakes , how much worse is it when the copyist is not careful ! and we can not expect copyists , doing hack-work at so much a line , always to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So mistakes creep in ; and when once they have crept in , it is far from easy to eradicate them . A scribe is given a manuscript to copy which already is full of errors ; some of them he will not recognize as such , and will reproduce them in all good faith ; others he will recognize , and he will try to correct them by guessing what the true text was . Sometimes he will guess right , and then an error will have been removed : but sometimes he will guess wrong , and then the error will have been made twice as deadly , because its obvious erroneousness will have been obscured by an attempted correction . So long , however , as the earlier copies are in existence , the mistakes of the later scribes matter but little , since we can always refer to their archetypes . We have the original autographs of Ariosto and Milton , and if we doubt the accuracy of any edition of their works , we can test and correct at once by a reference to the originals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor any copies nearly contemporaneous with them . The intervals which separate the composition of the great classics from the date of the earliest extant manuscripts of them must be measured by hundreds and sometimes by thousands of years . The plays of Aeschylus were written between 485 and 430 B.c. , and the earliest extant manuscript of them ( a few unimportant scraps excepted ) was written in the eleventh century ? an interval of some 1500 years . For Sophocles , for Thucydides , for Herodotus , the interval is substantially the same ; for Pindar and Euripides it extends to 1000 years . For Plato we have interesting fragments of two of his dialogues written only about a century after his death ; but for the greater part of his works we are dependent on manuscripts eleven hundred years later . Aristotle ( except for his recently recovered history of the Athenian Constitution ) is in similar case ; the earliest manuscript of the Ethics was written in the tenth century , while for the Politics we have nn complete copy earlier than the fourteenth . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers . Virgil , who died in ? . C. 19 , is represented by several manuscripts which may be assigned to the fifth century , or even to the fourth ; considerable portions of Livy exist in copies of the fifth and sixth centuries ; there is a precious ( though badly damaged ) manuscript of Plautus which belongs to the fourth century ; while there are fragments of Cicero which may go back to an even earlier date . But for Taeitus we have an interval of some 750 years before we reach our earliest copy of him ; for Horace and Lucretius , 900 years ; while in the case of Catullus , the most spontaneously poetic spirit in all the literature of Rome , we are dependent upon a few manuscripts written nearly 1450 years after his death . It is worth while to note , in passing , how greatly superior in respect of antiquity of attestation is the Greek Testament . The shortest interval which separates any classical author from any substantial manuscript of his works is some 400 years , while in the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but of the New Testament we have complete copies within 250 years of the date at which many of the books composing it were written . The destruction of manuscripts of the classics has consequently been enormous . The reasons for this will appear if we consider in what manner books were produced in antiquity . A Greek book of the age of Pericles , or a Latin book of the age of Caesar , was very unlike the books to which we are accustomed nowadays . The material on which it was written was papyrus , a fabric made out of the pith of the Egyptian water-plant of that name . This gave a smooth and pleasant surface for writing on with the soft reeds which were then in use ; but unfortunately it was not tough enough to withstand the disintegrating influences of time . In every country but one the ordinary trials of books ? use , neglect , damp , insects , and the like ? have caused its complete destruction . It is only in the wonderfully dry climate of Egypt that it has been able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and increasingly during the last twenty-five years , researches in the buried cities and cemeteries of Egypt have yielded great quantities of manuscripts upon papyrus ? mostly fragments , it is true , but yet sufficient to restore to us several works of ancient literature which had been supposed to be hopelessly lost , and to show us by actual examples , dating as far back as the ' beginning of the third century B.c. , what an ancient book was like . In another and more noticeable respect than material , ancient books differed from modern . The papyrus was not cut up into leaves and bound into volumes , like a modern book , but was manufactured in long rolls , which the reader unrolled as he progressed through the work he was reading . The length of these rolls might be anything up to about thirty feet , but rarely exceeded this limit ; the height would normally be about nine or ten inches . A roll of these dimensions would contain , in moderate-sized writing , an ordinary Greek play , or two books of the Iliad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible , except in the deleted material it must be remembered that all the papyri which the discoveries of the last century have given to us came from the Greek settlements in Egypt , and often from very insignificant places , where accurate copies must have been difficult to obtain . Nevertheless we owe an enormous debt to these obscure Greek colonists , since to them is due the recovery of several works of Greek literature which were believed to be wholly lost . Six orations ( though only one is quite complete ) of Hyperides , the contemporary of Demosthenes. the treatise of Aristotle on the Athenian Constitution , the poems of Iterodas and llaechylides , smaller portions of Sappho , Altman , and Menander , and many unidentified fragments of prose and verse , exist for us only in papyrus copies recently excavated in Egypt . Of authors otherwise known , Homer is by far the most fully represented , there being many papyri of the Iliad extant , ranging from large rolls containing two or three books down to small fragments of a few lines . Of Aeschylus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Thucydides and Euripides rather more ( including a considerable fragment of the lost play of Antiops ) ; of Plato and Demosthenes and Isocrates there are papyrus ' MSS. of some size and importance . Of Latin literature there is practically nothing , since the Roman colony in Egypt was small . When we come down to the uncial period , matters are not much better ; for , while the Bible and theological literature are amply represented in it , not many classical manuscripts of this age have survived . Virgil is the only classical author whose text is on the same footing as that of the New Testament , in being based mainly upon uncial manuscripts . There are three substantially complete manuscripts of Virgil written in capitals ( which differ-from uncials only in being of squarer and stiffer formation ) ; one of these , the Codex Romanus , is shown on a reduced scale in Fig. 2 . Besides these there are three imperfect MSS. in the same style ; and though this amount of uncial evidence is incomparably less than in the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for any other classical writer . There are uncial copies of parts of Homer and Euripides in Greek , and of Cicero and Plautus in Latin , and on a more complete scale of Terence , ' ivy , and Prudentius ; but this does not go far towards giving us the classical literature as a whole . Even these fragments largely owe their preservation to a curious practice which prevailed at times when vellum was scarce . This was the practice of washing or scraping off the original writing , in order to use the vellum again for some other work . Manuscripts so treated are called palimpsests ; and since the original ink is seldom wholly obliterated , it is often possible to recover much of the earlier text . Au example of such a MS. is shown in Fig. 3 , where a copy of Homer , written in uncials of the sixth century , has been covered with Syriac writing hi the ninth century . In this case the Syriac scribe was not content with a Homer alone , as he has also used portions of manuscripts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plautus , and Cicero manuscripts referred to above are also palimpsests ; and the works of the great Roman jurist Gains and the historian Licinianus have been preserved solely in this form . Consequently it is to the latest or minuscule period that we have to look for nearly the whole of the classical literature which has come down to us . The earliest MSS. of Plato , of Horace , and of Tacitus ( Fig. 4 ) are in minuscule hands of the ninth century ; those of Thuudides and Aristotle , of Demosthenes ( Fig. 5 ) , and of Homer apart from the papyri , belong to the tenth ; of Aeschylus , Sophocles , and Aristophanes , to the eleventh . Even now the classical manuscripts of so early a date are comparatively rare . The scholar engaged in editing any of the great classical authors is fortunate if he has one or two manuscripts of the eleventh century or earlier as the main evidence for his text , while for subsidiary testimony he has to look to copies of the fourteenth or fifteenth century . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recover the ancient literature of Greece and Rome . Greek manuscripts were imported from the East , where the continued existence of the Byzantine Empire had kept alive the knowledge of the Greek language and some faint interest in its literature ; Latin manuscripts were recovered from the monasteries of the West , where the Latin authors had not been wholly neglected in favor of medieval theology . So from these later centuries some scores of manu-scripts may he found for most of the more important classical authors who have survived at all , while for a popular author like Virgil they may be reckoned in hundreds . Each of these is descended , no doubt , from ancestors of great age , and ultimately from the author 's autograph ; but in the course of their long descent the accuracy of the tradition has inevitably suffered much , and the editor who has a tenth or eleventh century copy of his author to rest upon will seldom find that he has much to learn from scores of copies of the fifteenth century . For nearly all the works of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rests upon a slender and somewhat precarious basis . We may be satisfied that we possess the substance of them intact , but doubts as to their precise words must be frequent , and many a corrupt passage must be left to the very questionable resources of conjectural restoration . Some authors , indeed , we have nearly lost altogether . Of the greater part of Tacitus we have only a single manuscript ; for Catullus we have only three which are of any independent value , and even these arc descended from a single copy , probably not very much earlier than themselves . Still worse , many authors and many works have wholly perished . Sappho , universally judged the supreme lyric poet of Greece , and perhaps of the world , is known only by quotations and a few tiny scraps of MS. ; one of these containing a scanty gleaning of precious lines , was recovered only a few months ago from an Egyptian rubbish heap . Of Alcseus we have still less . Stesichorns , Simon ides , Phrynichus , Cratinus , Aga-then , and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fragments . Fortune has been kind to us during the last half-century , and we can read to-day much classical literature which our grandfathers regarded as hopelessly lost ; yet , with only the substitution of Egypt for Herculaneum as the land of hope , we can still echo the lines which Wordsworth wrote in 1819 : O ye who patiently explore The wreck of fierculanean lore , What rapture , could ye seize Some Theban fragment , or unroll One precious , tender-hearted scroll Of pure Simonides . The historians Theopornpus and Ephorus have perished . Even writers so comparatively late as Livy and Tacitus are but imperfectly preserved .                     