@@486592

Who was E. H Harriman that he should threaten T. F. Ryan with " legislative action ' " ? He held no office . He was not , so far as known , a member of any political committee What , then , was that " political influence " with which he menaced Ryan , in order to frighten him into surrendering half the stock of the Equitable ? No names were mentioned in Ryan 's testimony ; none was uttered directly by Mr. Hughes in any of his questions , yet everybody knows who was meant It was perfectly ? understood by all concernedunderstood at the time by Messrs Ryan , Root , and Cravath , understood at the inquest by witness , counsel , committee , and spectators  --  that Mr Harriman claimed to have such power over the party boss , Benjamin Odell , that he could , through that agent , get anything he wanted out of the New York Legislature . Hence his threat to Ryan Had he not , six months previously , got a United States Senator out of the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extorted from him by Harriman At least , that was open , ly asserted and not denied On December 31 , 1904 , Senator Brackett made a public statement that Odell had given as the only reason for deserting Black and going over to Depew that " it would break one of the dearest friendships of his lifetime should he persist in his support of Gov . Black " That was the excuse he gave to six of Black 's protesting friends To show that they kneW the secret of that " dearest friendship , " they objected that " when the bargain was struck by which he was made the chairman , and by which Gov Black was to become the Senator , it was not made conditional upon approval by Mr. E H. Harriman . " But that gentleman and what ' Depew called " optimism " carried the day ; Odell threw over Black , and Depew smiled  --  for a time . There was every reason , therefore , to suppose that Harriman 's threats were based upon his hold on Odell . Now let us see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time when Harriman was assuming power to do with the Legislature what he liked Mr. Ryan testifies that he bought the Hyde stock on Friday , June 9 . The angry interviews with Mr Harriman were on following days down to Tuesday During that period , therefore , there were , as the Sun remarked at the time , " subterranean efforts to thwart " Ryan Now Odell returned from Europe on Saturday , June 10 ? just in the nick of time On Sunday he went to Newburgh . At that place , on Monday , the Tribune reported the State Superintendent of Insurance , Mr. Hendricks. " in consultation with ex-Gov Odell . " On Tuesday , the latter came to his headquarters in this city , where he saw " many visitors . " Among thew wag Senator Depew  --  a fit errand. boy- for- Harriman  --  who talked with Odell " nearly an hour " Later on , Odell parried questions put to him by the reporters , and said he " did n't know whether anything other than the Hooker matter would be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So here - we have a violent suspicion that Harriman was pulling the Odell wires in those critical days . We know , as a fact , ' that Odell came out openly later to demand an investigation by the Legislature , although Gov . Higgins was against it . Was not this Harriman 's " political influence " visibly at work ? " Some good lawyers have argued that the questions put to Ryan were not " material and proper , " and that he should not - have been compelled to answer them . Perhaps not , if it were a regal issue joined in court ; but in a Proceeding under the subpoena of a committee of the Legislature , with broad powers to inquire into all the ramifications of the insurance business , we do not see how there can be two minds about the propriety and relevancy of the questions . One of the chief subjects of investigation was the corrupt alliance between insurance magnates and politicians To bring out the truth about Harriman 's threats was just as material as to elicit the facts about illegal campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made ' by the companies to " Judge " Hamilton and other ldbbyists , and to expose the whole set of political leeches fastened upon the insurance treasuries . Harriman 's claim that he could checkmate Ryan , or ruin the property which the latter was buying , by using at pleasure the Legislature of the State of New York , was simply part and parcel of the whole nefarious system of secret compact and unlawful undertaking which it was the committee 's business to expose . Ryan 's testimony on this point was of the last public importance It shows us to what a pitch of effrontery and recklessness the corrupt alliance between high finance and low politics had reached . The political bearing of Harriman 's statements on the stand fills all minds . Even at Washington it is dominating . Republicans are said to have gone to the President and told him plainly that it is now a ? question of life or death for the party in ' New York ; being no longer the scandal of Platt 's control or Depew 's lobbying for ' corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjection of the Republican party to Harriman and the interests which he represents . Mr. Harriman himself , with the most splendid naivete , assumed to be the monarchof all he surveyed . He appeal to Odell for that politician 's support ? Really , the inquiry was a little too much to make of the owner of 16,000 Males of railway He would have the committee know that whatever political influence Odell possessed was due to Harriman . The contrary supposition was almost insulting , - and the witness proceeded to inform the committee that . when he wanted things done at Albany , he was in the habit of giving his orders direct to the Governor and Speaker . No useless go-between was employed , snoh as a Senator or Assemblyman whose constituent ' Harriman happened to be ; he dealt with Higgins and Nixon at first hand . tAnd when the chairman of the committee anxiously endeavored to make it appear that this was only the ordinary appeal of bothersome constituents , by which all members of the Legislature are afflicted , Harriman proudly said that he must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed that he was running or telephoning to Albany about every trifle . He did not move unless he had some big thing of his own on hand , and then he moved straight upon headquarters . The effect of Mr. Harriman 's calm revelation of the true hiding of Republican power in this State , during recent years , will be either a party revolution or an unexampled party disaster . Things can not go on like this . The Government of New York can not be run by telephone from the Stock Exchange . We have had Platt 's confessions of where he iot his bribe-money . Odell 's shame is completed by Harriman 's cool announcement that the ex-Governor is simply a " kept " politician . An end must be put to these leaders and their methods , or the voters will put an Pnd to the party that endures them . " MYSTERIO ( 78 INSTRUMENTS . " One of those " mysterious instruments of Providence , " of which good people have been telling us , is just now appearing less mysterious , and much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time Past . We refer to Thomas Lawson . For nearly four months he has been conducting a huge gambling pool in a stock speculation . Into it he publicly invited his " friends " to go He did so on the strength of the most positive " statement of fact , " not " surmise " or " manipulation " ; and resorted to all know what shameless and deceptive means to induce credulous investors to give him their money , and also to compass his ends on the stock market The net result was his announcement of December 14 that the subscribers to his pool had lost 36 per cent. , or $3,600,000 . Whether Lawson himself lost proportionately , no one knows . Apparently , powerful interests have been " gunning " for him , but he is quite capable of joining the hunting party himself , and leaving his " friends " to stop - all the shot . After what is known of him , any man who would trust his word or his honor would be a fool . To place your money in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What the precise facts are in this case , we do not know , and it does not matter . Law- , son has been terribly hurt in prestige , whether he has been hit in pocket or not But a few weeks since , men spoke of him in awed tones as a man of almost prophetic powers . " Well , he was right about the insurance business , he told the truth about Rogers , and he knows what he is talking about when he says there is going to be a fearful crash in Amalgamated and a panic in the market . " That humbug is , at any rate , thoroughly pricked . The heavy facts have crushed the blown pretence . About Lawson 's financial legerdemain , however , we care little . What does interest us is the bearing which this latest disclosure of his moral character has upon the notion recently current that he had been providentially raised up to lead Americans out of the evils of which they , have been so acutely conscious . Many a saintly person has propounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that we could wish , but God often employs strange instruments , and Lawson has certainly been the one to show this country whither it is drifting and how to escape the peril threatening it . " In this respect Lawson was regarded something in the light of Hearst The more unlikely and even incredible a vehicle of reform he might seem , from his known life and methods , the more disposed were certain people to regard him as a messenger of Heaven . So bad a man , allowed to become so conspicuous , must indicate a divine plan . It was the old triumph of faith over again  --  credo gum impossibile. - Now a little reflection , a little discrimination and a slight knowledge of human nature are all that we need to see this matter aright . It is undoubtedly true that dark things have important moral uses in this world . Knowledge may come to as from the confessions of dishonest men , just as justice may be furthered by a criminal turning State 's evidence That , hoviever , does not make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of society . It is not necessary to dispute the claim that Lawson had much to do with preparing the public mind for the insurance explosion . Doubtless his trumpeting abroad of nefarious financial activities , which he knew about from having shared in them , predisposed people to believe that all he said was true because a part of it proved to be Similarly , we may concede that the cries and contortions of Hearst may have had a good effect in rousing dormant attention But to admit that , is simply to admit that the wrath of man may be made to praise the Creator . An explosion of foul gases may clear the air , but the gases were foul all the time . Our sole point is-that we must differentiate the evil and-untrustworthy man . as informer , as betrayer , as clamorer , from the evil and untrustworthy man as reformer . In the former capacity he may enlighten the public , in the latter , it is preposterous to suppose that he can lead it . Heaven moves in a mysterious way its wonders to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even atheism by confounding good with evil , vice with virtue . From corrupt and selfish men we may get Useful information , but we never can get wise or safe leadership To quote that master of political philosophy whom , now that he has been cited in a Presidential message , even an editor may feel emboldened to adduce " When men , " says Burke , " whom we know to be wicked impose upon us , we are something worse than dupes When we know them , their fair pretences become new motives for distrust . " And it is his further dictum : " There is no safety for honest men but by believing all possible evil of evil men , and by acting with promptitude , decision , and steadiness or that belief . " , FEDERAL CONTROL OF INSURANCE . Senator Dryden 's testimony before the insurance inquiry relative to Federal control of insurance , fell in with reports from Washington that efforts would be made to try the experiment in a purely tentative way . Himself the author of a measure pending in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , protection of the foreign business of American insurance companies ; second , protection of the people against fraudulent insurance companies , third , the unifying of the code of insurance law , which now varies widely in the different States , and places very divergent restrictions on- insurance methods Mr. Dryden did not lay stress upon the argument lately- developed by Mr James M. Beck on this question , that Federal supervision would be preferable because of the saving in fees and taxes as compared with what is involved in the system of State supervision . Nor did he touch on another familiar argument in its favor , based on the presumption that Congress , in its dealing with insurance questions , will be less subject to corrupting influences than the State legislatures , and that Federal supervisors would similarly fall less under the influence of insurance officers striving to evade the law than State Commissioners notoriously have done at times . President Roosevelt 's recent message spoke , on the whole , very guardedly of the plan for Federal supervision He recommended that " Congress should consider whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with respect to domestic transactions in insurance - of an interstate character , " adding " That State supervision has proved inadequate , is generally conceded . " The President 's caution , in refraining from any definite proposal , was undoubtedly prompted by the constitutional difficulties in the way of compulsory Federal control of insurance The Supreme Court 's dictum in the well-known leading case of Paul vs . Virginia is that " insurance contracts are not articles of commerce in any sense of the word . They are not subjects of sale and barter , offered in the market as something having an existence and value independent of the parties to them . They are not commodities to be shipped or forwarded from one State to another , and then put up for sale . . . . Such contracts are not interstate transactions , though the parties may lie domiciled in different States " We see no reason for supposing that this decision would be reversed by the present Supreme Court , and , indeed , even if the reasoning therein contained were to be abandoned , there would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C F. Randolph in the Columbia Law Review , namely , that , compulsory Federal control of insurs ante , if it involved the right under the interstate commerce clause to debar from business a company which did not take out a Federal charter , would thereby assume that the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States includes also the right to prohibit it . This question would be of much importance , and could hardly fail to impress the naiad of the Federal courts . The situation ' created by such legislation would not be , like some other considerations involved , analogous to the case of the national banks , because Congress in the bank legislation merely intervened ' to place a discriminating tax on note ' circulation of other than national banks With their ' business activities in other directions it did not interfere . Banks with State charters went on exactly as before , save for the issue of circulating notes . It is these considerations which have led to the more general adoption , by advocates of Federal supervision , of purely permissive legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocate in a special message legislation for a Federal insurance bureau which shall supervise companies in behalf of the District of Columbia , where the national jurisdiction is unquestioned . Bills have already been introduced in Congress with this experiment in view . Such legislation would obviously not go very far The additional proposition has been made that Congress endow with the title " national " all companies which voluntarily submit to the rules and supervision of the Federal insurance- bureau This plan , again , resembles the lately much-discussed project for Federal incorporation of the Trusts ; the argument in both cases bemg that the national charter or title would serve as a species of guarantee of soundness and ? good faith which would lead all respectable companies , in their own behalf , to resort to it . To this experiment , applied in a purely permissive way to the insurance companies , we can see no objection save that against the multiplying of offices . To the plan of Federal charters which shall supersede and replace existing charters there are many objections , quite outside of the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , has been bitterly opposed in Massachusetts , on the express ground that it provides less protection for the ' policyholder than do the State insurance laws . " The bill , " asserts Mr. L. D. Brandeis , counsel for the Equitable policyholders ' protective committee , " omits very many of the provisions which , for instance , in Massachusetts , have been inserted for the protection of the policyholder ; it adds not a single one by which he may ' be better protected . " Senator Dryden 's bill , no doubt , might ' be amended ; but the argument of the law officers of the State of Massachusetts challenges its fundamental principle , affirming that " State supervision is good or bad according to the merits of the best of the commissioners , " whereas " Federal supervision must be good or bad according to the qualities of one man who is unchecked by the work of coordinate officials . " It will possibly be replied that the existence of several excellent State bureaus for insurance supervision did not prevent the practices which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it must be remembered that the questions of solvency , financial soundness , maintenance of a proper reserve , are those which have chiefly occupied insurance bureaus in their supervision- of companies chartered in another State . The generally admitted solvency of the companies , in the face of the corruption and misuse of funds by some of their officers , may be fairly accepted as witness to the adequacy of present State supervision in at least this regard . UNCERTAINTIES AND CERTAINTIES ABOUT RUSSIA . The difficulty of arriving at a clear notion of what is going on in Russia , not to speak of what the future has in store , is confessed not only by foreign spectators . Russians admit themselves equally at a loss . " We have all gone crazy " ( nous sommes tons nous ) , said a Russian long resident in Paris to the editor of the Temps . It is a confession echoed everywhere . Russians in this country , with every means of private as well as public information , and with every motive for following events in their native land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the actual situation than does the average newspaper reader . And as to what is to take place , they refuse to prophesy even a day ahead . The confusion so closely approaches chaos , the uncertainty and fear are so great , the reports of massacre and pillage and universal snapping of the bonds of social order are so alarming , that we seem to be witnessing something like the fulfilment of Motley 's forecast sixty years ago . Writing to his wife from St. Petersburg he said : " It seems to me that just as this city may at any moment , by six hours ' too long continuance of a southwest wind , be inundated and swamped forever , so may Russia at any moment , through a succession of half-a-dozen bad Czars , be submerged in its original barbarism . " It is not surprising that the fall of the old governmental edifice in Russia should have been with such a tremendous crash . History may not repeat itself so precisely as some fondly believe ; but the old teachings of history are al-Ways applicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it is foolish to try to make the French Revolution go on all-fours with this Russian upheaval , we can see in the break-up of the ancien regime in France a working of human passion . not unlike that which the Russian peasaiits and artisans are ' displaying to-day . Taine traced with endless detail - the- effect of long years of absolutism and oppression upon the psychology of the French people ; and the terrible revenges they took upon the seigneurs almost seem to be the instruction which the Russians have bettered . Their Work has been - *lid , bit it has not been unnatural Given dangerous gases under a constantly increasing pressure , and an explosion is inevitable . The wreck and terror of it are still making the news from Russia too much like the mad outcries from an insane asylum to be really intelligible or guiding . We are yet in the period of immense uncertainty , when any day may bring forth anything in Russia . Some things may , however , be set down as certain . An end must somehow be put'to violence A reign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being what they were , but it is necessary , too , that it be brought to a close , and order established . If the thing be not done by the muzhiks and the workingmen coming to their senses and allowing the moderate Liberals of intelligence to set up in peace a representative governMent , then some man of iron among the reactionaries will arise to put down the disturbers of public order with a merciless hand . The alternative to rational and orderly reform , after the tempest shall have pasSed , is a dictator . If things are too long abandoned to the mob , the " whiff of grapeshot " will do the business again , and do it with the approval ' of the civilized world , - and of all in Russia who have property . Amid all the uncertainties , that is a certainty Revolutionaries themselves admit that they have not intelligence or cohesion enough in their ranks to form and conduct a government . Then it is madness for them to get in the way of the men who can do it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Witte 's orders to enable him to cope with mere anarchy , and to make possible the carrying out of the great experiment of a government in which the people have a voice That there is a body of educated and solid citizens in Russia , ready and able to bring their country into a new pe- , riod safely , if freed from mob terror , the evidence is ample . We have reported from time to time the signs of hope and progress in the doings of the Zenistvo Congress . There has but now come to us a French translation of the programme recently put forward in the name of the " Democratic . Constitutional Party . " It was adopted at Moscow by the Liberals who have long striven for a Russian Constitution Their sketch of what they think that fundamental law should be , shows them apt students of modern democracy . Guarantees of the elementary rights of the citizen ? liberty of conscience , freedom of the press , the right of public meeting and of petition , with others  --  they would see writteninto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their Article II. , they provide for a representative government , with universal suffrage , annual budgets , and a responsible ministry . The judicial power is defined and safeguarded ; the land question put in the way of legal solution ; public instruction provided for . All told , such a project for modernizing and liberalizing Russia would he full of promise if there were hope of the country 's soon settling down so as to permit trial of it to be made . At the adoption of this " platform , " as we Americans should call it , by the convention at Moscow , some of the men who had long struggled and suffered for Russian liberty were overcome with emotion . They thought their dreams about to come true . But a condition precedent is the restoration of order . If the Liberals can not restore it , the autocrats will . FOREIGN OBSERVERS OF MODERN GERMANY . Time was when the French could be justly reproached with wilful ignorance of their German neighbors . To-day , however , Paris papers and reviews abound in articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied Goethe 's encomium , as expressed to Eckermann : " It is remarkable how these writers the Paris Globe grow steadily in stature and importance , and how unanimous their aim and purpose . " One of the most valuable summaries of recent French impressions of Germany may be found in a paper by the Vicomte Eugene Melchior de - Vogiie in the Revue des Dense Mendes , on " The New Germany . " M de Vogue revisited Germany after a lapse of twenty years , and found that " the good old woman has become a young giantess . " Smiling fields have been transformed into bustling factory towns ; the economic progress is prodigious . Two words , " colossal " and " Imperial , " are the keynote of the Germany of to-day . Postoffices , railroad stations , stock exchanges , theatres , restaurants  --  all bear the impress of an architecture " striving after a double ideal  --  that of Rome and Chicago . " Art has adapted herself to the new conditions . There is a wealth of statuary , almost exclusively of military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down with a mighty thought . " The bronze man on horseback meets the gaze at every step . " Thirty years ago , if one espied a statue in some small German town , he was safe in saying : ' Here stands some scholar , philosopher , or musician . ' To-day it is one of the three founders of German unity . " The perSonality of William II . pervades all Germany . He sets the national pace . In - Bremen , M. de Vogiie 's guide excuses himself for walking so rapidly . " It is the Emperor 's gait . " But the modern Empire , nevertheless , has its charms for the Frenchman . The Hanse towns are of particular interest to him . Hamburg is a true republic , where equality is not an empty sound -M .. de Vogue found there not a trace of the friction between France and Germany , of which the papers of both countries were so full . He was much struck with the proud independence of the merchant princes of Hamburg and Bremen . " We want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told ; : they kill private initiative and , paralyze freedom of action . " But amid all the evidences of material prosperity the French observer detects signs of evil augury ? " the laziness of the younger generation rolling in the wealth acquired by the older ; the laxity of morals , so noticeable in Berlin ; a general weakening of the former discipline It is interesting to contrast with these impressions an article by Prof. Kuno Francke of Harvard on " German Ideals of To-day , " , in the December Atlantic . He naturally devotes much attention to modern educational standards , and , on the whole , regards with approval that tendency which , to quote Morley , " mightily exalts science " He is full of enthusiasm for the new literary and artistic movement , which he considers " in : every way a worthy counterpart " to the great era in German literature at the end of the eighteenth century , m as fie deplor  --  s the fact that " but few of the ideals that swelled the breasts of Schiller and his contemporaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ robust faith in the superlative future greatness of Germany . Deipite her bitter political antagonisms and the unbending rigidity of a church which " is doing her best to Make religious life to the great majority of the people appear as a prodigious lie or mockery , " he concludes , in a strain of glowing optimism , that . with undistuibed political conditions , the way is open to " a golden age of German achievements in every domain of higher inspiration . " It is curious to trace in the calm , philosophic skepticism of the French academician as in the exultant tone of ' the German-American professor , the influence of the forces which have transformed both France and Germany since the great struggle of 1870-71 . In comparing these writers , so widely different in their points of view , one is often tempted to deplore , with Lowell , " that German tendency to bear on too heavily where a French critic would touch and go with such exquisite measure . " Probably no one can be less conscious of a desire to disturb international relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join in the cry of narrow German patriotism that " the beginnings of German sea-power are grudgingly watched , denounced , and , as much as possible , thwarted by cousins across-the Channel . " Not thus do men like Professor Paulsen endeavor to win their countrymen over to saner views of Anglo-German relations . These relations have grown less cordial in pro-poi tion as the French have drawn closer to the English . Few students of the comparative psychology of nations have dwelt on the fact that English influence on many of the greatest French writers has been deep and far-reaching , while very few German writers of similar rank have come under its direct ispell . Montesquieu , Voltaire , Rousseau . ? to mention only the greatest- all visited England and gained some insight into that country To these names can be opposed , among Germans , only Lichtenberg , Heine , and Grillparzer . And Heine wrote : " Send a philosopher to London , but , for Heaven 's sake , no poet " - - The French of to-day are learning to understand both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vogue and Professor Francke show in a strange way the shifting of some of the standards of national greatness in both countries since the Franco-German war In his conclusion , M. de Vogde wishes for his country a future " rich in the moral lessons to be drawn from the fate of Germany , though , her wealth in- ! crease a hundredfold , even at the expense of France herself . " In contrasting the modesty of this forecast with Professor Franclie 's triumphant pasan , one is reminded of two poems characteristic of the martial poetry of 1870- 7I ? Freihgrath 's " Trompeter von Gravelotte " - and Deroulecle 's bugler , in one of his " Chants du Soldat . " Both poems treated of the Caine subject  --  a dying bugler 's last trumpet call ; but while the Frenchman 's last note was one of proud defiance , that of the German was one of humanitarian sadness . Have France and Germany changed roles since then ? 