@@473373

THE fact that literature represents the thought of a limited class , and in certain past ages of a very small class , has led the investigator to seek other sources of information concerning the opinions held by ancient peoples about a future state . In architectural and artistic monuments he finds an imperfect witness ; for the monuments , when they date from ages of slavery and inequality , have been erected by a limited class of the people ? a class somewhat more extensive than the literary one , but only a small proportion of the whole community . Makers of monuments , however , are much more conservative than are writers . And accordingly by observing the monuments we find views and ideas expressed that are much more common and nearer to the ordinary man than are those found in the books . Large cemeteries rich in noble monuments have been discovered in other partsof the old Greek world , as in Asia Minor and Sicily and Mykence , but the one of greatest interest is the Kerameikos cemetery at Athens , just outside of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road from Pirmus . Here the monuments are both numerous and beautiful ; and those that still remain in their ancient site are supplemented by the numerous specimens that have been gathered into the great National Museum of Athens . The survival of this old Kerameikos cemetery in its pristine shape is due to the fact that at some unknown time a good portion of it was intentionally covered up by an artificial mound of earth . A French savant , Charles Lenormant , has declared that the Roman general Sulla , who , eighty-six years before Christ , stormed the walls of Athens exactly at this point , must have caused the earth to be piled up here in order that from its top his soldiers might scale the city wall . In this Kerameikos cemetery the Athenians used to bury both private citizens and public men . The monuments erected by the state to mark the graves of the public men , especially of those who had lost their lives in various celebrated battles in defence of their country , were costly and magnificent . Unfortunately these stood in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial mound , and probably most of them have perished . There are preserved , however , a few private monuments erected to brave men who died in arms . One of these , now kept in the museum , is that of Aristonautes , a hoplite soldier from the suburb called Hake , who is represented in the act of charging against the foe . It is characteristic of all Greek sepulchral art that when the deceased is represented on the tombstone he is . usually portrayed in not unpleasant or inglorious circumstances . In the entire great collection in the museum of Athens there are only one or two monuments on which a person is represented as in the painful moment of dying . Often family surroundings or other sacred or characteristic circumstances of the deceased 's past life are idealized and portrayed . Thus the monuments , when visited by the friends of the departed , recall happy memories , sober and sweet recollections , rather than inconsolable sorrow . These representations may correctly enough be called portraits , but yet the sculptor made no attempt to individualize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist never learned to individualize . When the form of the departed person is sculptured an the tombstone , he is often represented in company with relations who-have outlived him . He is usually placed in the position of honor , sitting down , while the other persons stand . The deceased is very often represented as holding the hand of one of the other persons portrayed . This represents the love which bound the members of the family together . It explicitly recalls neither the pain of departure nor the joy of expected reunion . Nevertheless there was a certain reference to the future , and to the continuance of this love of parent or wife or sister in the after-life , be- cause , according to the conception then in vogue , the entire monument stood not for the body , but for the soul , which was to live on in some way or other . According to the vague notions which they had about the soul the Greeks formed their conceptions as to its future life . That the soul was a kind of airy double of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dreamlike existence after the body had died , that it was a kind of living shadow Or umbra of the body , and that it was a spiritual existence similar to what Christianity has conceived the soul to be , were successive views that prevailed at different times . But the last-named doctrine never became the property of th common people in olden days . It was confined to certain schools of philosophers and their disciples . The surviving part of man after death , the umbra , was honored by the monument played over the grave , while the grave itself was destined for the body . After the burial of the body certain honors were paid to the monument as to the representative of the umbra . These honors consisted in certain rites performed at the grave in at the monument on the third and ninth and thirtieth days after the funeral , and subsequently at the monument on the anniversary of the death for an indefinite number of years . ? There have been found in graves a number of beautiful vases , called " lelcythoi , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark colors ; and most of these illustrations are scenes connected with funerals and funereal rites , so that from these vases we learn much about what took place in this regard . On many of thorn are depicted scenes in which the relatives of the deceased are adorning the monument on these memorial days . On these occasions they often brought to the grave various small household objects that had been dear to the deceased while on earth , and left them near the tomb . This practice gave rise Co a beautiful story , which , if not entirely true , is probably not wholly unfounded . In the winter a young girl had died in Korinth . Some time afterwards her maid gathered together various trinkets and playthings which the girl had loved , and brought them to the girl 's grave . There she placed them in a basket near the monument , and placed a large square tile upon tho basket to prevent the wind from overturning it . It happened that under the basket was a root of an acanthus - plant . When spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to pierce the basket , and accordingly they grew around it , having the basket in their midst . Such of the long leaves as grew up against the four protruding corners of the tile on the top of the basket curled round under these corners and formed pretty volutes . Kallimaehos the sculptor , walking that way one day , saw this , and immediately conceived the notion that the form of the basket with the plaque on top of it , and surrounded by the leaves and stalks of acanthus , would he a comely heading for columns in architecture . He from this idea formed the beautiful Korinthian style of capital . Such at least is the story as the architect Vitruvius told it nineteen hundred years ago . Just . as the notions of the Greeks about the soul really were very hazy , so also were those concerning its abiding-place after leaving the body , and the mode of its existence . The common opinion was that the country of the umbras , the gloomy world over which the unfriendly Pluto and his consort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below the surface of the earth , CI11. ? No. 618 . ? S8 and therefore they called it the " under world . " The guide to this region was Hermes , the " soul-escorter , " as he was called , who led the umbras down through the meadows of asphodel until they came to the river Acheron , where the ferryman Charon stood ready to carry them over to Erebos , or the Dark Country . I t was in many parts of Greece custom:try to place a coin in the mouth of the corpse , so that the umbra might have the means of paying the ferryman , and thus avoid becoming forever a wanderer in the marshes on the murky shores of the Acheron . After crossing the river , the umbra came to the gates of Persephone 's kingdom , where stood the triple-headed watch-dog Kerberos , who never prevented any one from going in , but never let any one out . Although certain rites , developed and established by long custom , were performed at the tomb , it can not be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sameness on every occasion as to constitute an accepted funereal ritual . Nor is it clear that any fixed formulas of prayer , or even any impromptu supplications , were said or recited on such occasions . Literature has nut recorded any such prayers , and none are preserved in the inscriptions on the sepulchres or on the white funereal lekythoi referred to above . On the day of the funeral the friends and relations brought and put into the grave various gifts for the deceased ? vases filled with precious unguents and perfumes , terra-cotta figurines representing gods nr mortals , lumps of baked clay in the form of loaves of bread , and sometimes much more valuable articles . The clay gods were perhaps amulets ; the figurines representing ' human beings were simply mementos ; and the terracotta loaves of bread were a ritualistic survival of the more ancient custom of placing real food in the grave or near it for the needs of the departed . In earlier tombs we find that it was customary to place in the graves of heroes and wealthy chiefs costly articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , were the rich treasures found by Schliemann in the tombs of the ancient kings of Argos at My-keno ; . Among the vases which archeologists now find in the tombs of Attika , a frequent type is the lekythos already mentioned . Similar vases were placed at the grave on the various occasions on which the relatives visited the tomb after the funeral . Larger vases were sometimes set upright over the graves , to stay there till the permanent monument of stone could be prepared . This practice occasioned the idea of making marble gravestones in the graceful shape of these vases . Accordingly there stood in the Kerameikos cemetery a number of monuments shaped like a lekythos , and others shaped like a still larger vase , or water-jar ? the so-called " loutrophoros . " The loutrophoros was a large earthenware jar , which , according to old Athenian marriage customs , was always needed in the preparations that immediately preceded the nuptial ceremonies . In this loutrophoros water was brought from some favorite fountain , and with this water the virgins bathed and prepared their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young man or woman happened to die without being married , and without leaving a name and personality to posterity -- a calamity which among the Greeks , just as among many other ancient peoples , was regarded as the greatest that could befall a mortal ? then a loutrophoros vase which had been destined to hold water for a nuptial toilet was sorrowfully carried to the grave of the unmarried dead , and placed upright upon it as a monument . So strong and so constant was this custom of marking the graves of unmarried young people with the loutruphoros vase that often the marble monument later erected had a loutrophoros vase sculptured on it , or , in accordance with the artistic idea referred to , the monument was itself modelled into the shape of a loutrophoros . The Athenians were at one time very lavish of expense in their sepulchral monuments . The monument of lieges ? HEGESO : TN THE KERAMEIKOS is an example . It is thought to be one of the best pieces of sepulchral sculpture ever made . But yet it is probable that if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many another group equally excellent . Hegeso 's monument was made at about the time when the Athenians began in their high pride of success the long and disastrous war against Sparta , which , after nearly thirty years ' duration , ended in humiliation . It shows a style of art and technique that has become familiar to connoisseurs through the celebrated Parthenon sculptures . lieges() is represented as a seated lady ; before her stands her maid , holding a toilet-box or a jewel-case ; from this Heeeso has taken a ribbon or sonic other precious object , which she holds in her hand and looks at . She is clothed in a fine Tonic chiton , her maid in a simpler dress . The whole representation is in the pure beauty of noblest Greek art . In consequence of the prodigal propensity to erect these expensive works of art as tombs , the state finally decided to interfere , and a law was passed forbidding such sumptuous monuments . Nothing was allowed more costly than a simple column three ells high , or a flat slab , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No monument was permitted that could not be constructed by ten men within three days . Along with the belief in some kind of immortality , the Greeks gradually formed clear and positive notions about rewards and punishments in the next world . This belief , at least in an undetermined form , was as old as Homer , and older . But in. the early ages of the belief more stress was placed upon the fact that the wicked run the risk of being cruelly punished than that the good and virtuous have a respectable chance of being rewarded . For any indication of a belief that the after-life is one of joy and pleasure for such as had been virtuous on earth , one must pass on to a time at least two or three centuries later than the Homeric poems . It was in the mysterious rites performed at Eleusis in honor of the earth-goddess Demeter and her daughter Persephone that a more elevating and worthy doctrine of future rewards for the good was widely promulgated . But a natural result , of the teachings at Eleusis was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtue and uprightness might be of no avail . According to this teaching it was necessary to be " initiated " in the mysteries , or to be attached in some special way and by special rites to some deity , in order to insure bliss after death . This gave occasion to the cynic Diogenes to complain that the noble Epaminondas would have to take a place among the neglected spirits because he had never been initiated while on earth , but that the thief Panaktion would have a very happy time because he had taken care to he initiated .                     