@@474780

A the pieces which made up the Phceniziana of Captain Derby ? whose too early death deprived America of one of her most original humorists ? was one entitled " A New System of English Grammar . " It seems never to have attracted much attention ; but though there are in the volume containing it articles more broadly amusing , there are none in which wit and wisdom are more fully blended . After the lapse of years the exact words and the particular illustrations employed escape me in part ; but the line of reasoning adopted will not vary materially from what is about to be given . The great object , according to the humorist , which man should hold before himself is not merely to tell the truth , but to tell the exact truth . But in his efforts to reach this ideal be is handicapped by his language . That unfortunately lacks the requisite precision . Especially is this true in the case of the adjective . We have in that only three degrees of comparison . But it is evident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences in the nature of the objects described . Still less can they express the widely varying shades of feeling about these objects which exist in the mind of either speaker or writer . As if this were not enough , the words employed in any given case convey to one man ideas dissimilar to those conveyed to another , if not indeed absolutely distinct . Hence arise ambiguity , misunderstanding , and all the frightful charges of misrepresentation which do so much to disturb the peace of society . This is not necessarily the fault of the men themselves ; it is due to the imperfection of the language . As a consequence of it the speaker suffers in the estimation of the hearer , and the hearer who repeats the words which he supposes he has heard suffers in the estimation of him who has uttered them . To make this point perfectly clear to the common mind the author resorted to one of the most commonplace of incidents . You walk out some pleasant morning and say to the friend you meet that it is a very fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replies , in full agreement with you . But later in the week you meet him again , and though the morning is sufficiently pleasant , it is totally unlike the one on which the previous interchange of views about the weather had taken place . You nevertheless feel yourself justified in repeating the remark made on that occasion . To this he again obligingly assents . Manifestly all such general observations lack definiteness even when they do not lead to confusion . It is obvious that one day can not have had the precise degree of pleasantness which belongs to another , and that in consequence the epithet employed does not apply unqualifiedly to either . The result is that au unsatisfactory if not actually false impression is given in each case of the actual fact . There is still one further hindrance in the way of attaining the ideal held in view . The adjective applied to the weather does not convey to either colloquist the precise state of mind of the other . The feeling about it would differ with the mental attitude of the speaker or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a perfectly fine day would not seem to another strictly entitled to commendation so high . Yet both resort to the same formula . The poverty of language with its consequent lack of precision gives no opportunity for the expression of the varying shades of thought or feeling on the part of the two speakers . Everything about the weather is accordingly left vague in any report of it which can be made to a third person . Take another familiar illustration . A lady is spoken of as beautiful , or as very beautiful , or as perfectly beautiful . To him who has never met her these are really no descriptions at ail . He , let us hope , has seen scores of beautiful women ; but he has never found any two of them equally beautiful . Consequently no adequate idea of the woman eulogized is given . To the student of the exact sciences these vague generalities of expression are peculiarly painful . He wants to know things , not as they seem to be , but just as they are ; and the inability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annoyance . Nor is it any consolation to him , who unites the desire of exactness with an ardent love of truth for its own sake , to be told that this same insufficiency on the part of the adjective is far from being confined to his own tongue ; that , in fact , it exists in all . This defect of language the humorist ? or , as I prefer to call him here , the satirist ? proposed to remedy by having all descriptions and epithets marked on a sufficient scale of comparison ? not the beggarly three to which we are now limited , but to a number large enough to indicate every variation of character in the object under consideration and every possible degree of human conception in regard to its nature . The lowest conceivable amount of any human quality consistent with its being at all would be indicated by one . Its maximum would he represented by one hundred . Here , then , would be a wide range between the per -- fection of the idea expressed by the one number and its bare existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings of the speaker about it , in which all shades of thought and feeling would be fittingly represented . By prefixing to each epithet a figure between one and one hundred the precise truth in regard to it , as it appears to him uttering it , would be conveyed to him hearing it . For example , you are asked about your health . Instead of replying pretty welI , tolerably well , very well , or some other ambiguous expression , you would say , bearing in mind that one hundred indicates perfect health , I am 15 , or 50 , or 75 , or 90 well , or any other number , as the ease may be . By this means the inquirer learns definitely what he wantsto know . He has not been put off with formulas of speech whose general applicability to different conditions of bodily health conveys nothing precise to the mind . The moment this method of expression comes into general use we shall speedily become exact , mathematical , truth-telling in the highest degree . How well the rule would work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident of news communicated by a man to his friend in some such words as these : " On a 75 fine morning I was 55 slowly walking down the 32 clean avenue , when I chanced to meet the 22 young and 85 charming Miss Smith about whom you ask . We at once exchanged the 91 usual meteorological observations . ' It is a 75 beautiful day , ' I remarked . ' Indeed , it is a 95 beautiful day , ' she replied , ' and T am 97 glad to have met you , for it is a 99 long time since I have seen you . ' I felt 77 flattered by words like these coming from a 79 lovely girl , but proceeded to make the 71 usual inquiries about her health , for I knew that on that point you had been 89 anxious . She told me in reply that it had been 78 poor , but she was 100 glad to say that it was now 87 good . " There is no need to go further . Such a communication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It lets us into the exact thoughts and feelings of the two parties in the interview . It will he observed ton that by this method not only individual character but masculine and feminine characteristics will be indicated . For instance , the generally much higher numbers used by the young lady will convey to the keenly observant mind a delicate suggestion of the feminine addiction to superlatives . Accordingly , by this improved method of designating the actual feelings we acquire hitherto unsuspected means of knowing accurately what our fellow men seek to say , while giving to the knowledge we impart a certainty which it has never hitherto possessed . The irony contained in the idea underlying this essay is manifest to all ; but to the student of language much more manifest is its wisdom . It brings out in. sharp relief the fundamental error of one of those rules which are constantly danglcd before the eyes of inexperienced writers . This is that certain adjectives are incapable of comparison . They represent an absolute quality which can not he exceeded . This has been proclaimed over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All during the latter half of it the doctrine was constantly preached . As a single illustration out of many , the Critical Review of October , 1780 , took the pains to inform us that adjectives which have in themselves a superlative signification do not admit of a comparative or superlative form superadded . Consequently the Lord was made to speak ungrammatically when He told His disciples that " whosoever of you will be the chiefest , shall be the servant of all . " As an . offset to the attack on the language of the Bible the infidel Hume was censured for having described a quarrel as having " become so universal . " These expressions , the Review magisterially declared , " are ungrammatical . " Many are the adjectives which have at times been brought under the operation . of this rule . The choice of examples , indeed , has been determined largely by the state of mind of the graininariait . But the victims most commonly selected are cAief , complete , infinite , perfect , and universal . There seems , indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular adjectives should be singled out to be refused their share in the blessings of comparison . A strict application of the rule would deprive of the privilege a number so much larger that it may justly be called large in itself . Not merely individual adjectives , but whole classes of them would disappear . If , for instance , the ending full was made to denote what it properly means , the absolute completeness . of all the qualities implied in the words to which it is affixed , and in a similar way the ending less their absolute negation , out must go comparison of that numerous list of terms which are formed by the addition of these two suffixes . We should all have to be equally hopeful or hopeless ; in no two of us would there be any variation of feeling denoted by our use of either word . But there is further no small share of the most common adjectives in the speech which would also be shorn Voz . CAVII. ? No 700. - 67of their power of denoting comparison . Were the rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal of difficulty in talking at all . What , for instance , CM be truer than true , falser than false , safer than safe , correcter than correct , sincerer than sincere , emptier than empty , straighter than straight , sounder than sound , exacter than exact , diviner than divine ? It would be easy to go on enumerating scores of other words which the users of language are in the habit of comparing without thought of the exhibition of linguistic frailty which they are displaying . But even the very small list given above indicates that there must be a fallacy lurking somewhere in this rule so confidently proclaimed as obligatory . The error , in fact , has already been specified . It is the notion that there exists a certain absolute quality denoted by the adjective beyond which it is impossible to gn and up to which it is necessary to ascend before the word itself can be used with propriety . Now no language has ever possessed or ever can possess words carrying any such mathematical preciseness of meaning . In any and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which characterizes it . These will vary both with the mean -- ing of the speaker or writer and with the understanding of the hearer or reader . When one in conversation with another calls a third person " good , " there is no well defined abstract quality termed " goodness " which each has in his mind . A like statement can be made of almost any other epithet employed in every-day life . It is this recognized lack of definiteness in ordinary speech that leads to the creation of scientific terminology . In that the exact meaning is imposed upon the word . It ? is restricted to the expression of one idea and of but one idea . He who is made acquainted with that knows , with sufficient nearness at least , precisely what is sought to be conveyed ; whereas a common word would be understood differently by different men , if not misunderstood altogether . Accordingly , the botanist does not tell you that a leaf is smooth or rough ; he says it is glabrous Or hirsute . He says it because these same words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different minds , convey mE=OlOP , nevertheless a conception of the nature and extent of the smoothness or roughness of the object described accurate enough to prevent any misunderstanding of the actual fact . The use of language would indeed be practically impossible were we not to concede that there exist gradations of meaning in the meaning of words which abstractly considered imply absolute theoretical completeness . Evidence may be called convincing . What more can you ask ? Yet we all know that some evidence ; is more convincing than other , though each may be entitled to the epithet .. There are as many grades of convincement as there are grades of conviction . But as illustrations drawn from material objects are much more easily comprehended than conceptions purely intellectual , let us take as an example the adjective full . Is there involved in that word some idea of a quality which has reached a completeness so absolute that it can suffer neither the slightest increase nor diminution ? When we say a glass is full of water , do we mean that not a drop can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual life , so far from thinking of such a theoretically perfect condition of things , very few have ever seen it even as a matter of experiment , and no one so speaks of it . All the words of this class represent an ideal conception which practically never exists in reality . In the instance just cited each one of a dozen men might properly describe his glass as full of water . Each glass would have a different quantity from that contained in any other , and yet an observer called upon to report would be justified in speaking of them all as full . He could also say that some of them are fuller than others , and that some one of them is the fullest of all . In the same way we recognize that there are grades of perfection . When Shakespeare tells us that " silence is the perfectest herald of joy , " we all comprehend the fact that there may be many perfect heralds of joy , and yet some of them may be more perfect than others . The rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the side of our intelligence . On the side of good usage it fares just as badly . The slightest examination of the works of the greatwriters reveals the hostility on this point which prevails between them and the advocates of this restricted employment of the superlative . Take the case of this same word perfect , already mentioned . Certainly if any adjective ought to be deemed incapable of comparison , this one has a fair claim to the distinction . Let us see how the classic authors feel about iL . " Custom , " wrote Bacon in his essay on that subject , " is most perfect when it beginueth in young years . " In his fifty-first sonnet Shakespeare speaks of desire being made " of perfectest love . " Milton represents Satan in tempting Eve as declaring that having tasted of the forbidden fruit he hnd attained " life more perfect . " The stern grammarian may perhaps insist that the English of the arch-fiend is of no more authority than his theological views . But , unfortunately for the contention , the poet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposition to specify various grades of the noun perfection as well as to compare the adjective perfect . In his Tetrachordon he contrasts " grievous observance of wedlock " with divorce , and attributes to the latter " most perfection . " In his Apology for Smectymnuus he gives vent to his peculiar prejudices by describing man as " the perfecter sex . " " What , " he observes in another book , " is more or less perfect we dispute not , but what is sin or no sin . " In such methods of expression he is not in the slightest degree singular . " Our sight is the most perfect and most delightful of all our senses , " is the beginning of one of Addison 's most noted essays . Macaulay , who not unfrequently qualified the noun perfection by the phrase " the highest , " speaks , in his review of Ranke 's History of the Popes , of the Greeks of the middle ages as being " still able to read the most perfect of human compositions . " Very few of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States gives as a reason for the creation of that instrument that it was done " in order to form a more perfect union . " The truth is that the moment we examine the writings of the classic authorities in our speech we find that they agree in comparing the words which we are told are incapable of comparison . There is nothing peculiar to English in this usage . It is found in the must cultivated tongues both ancient and modern , and in the writings of the great authors who make the study of these tongues desirable . It needs , for illustration , nothing more than the consultation of en ordinary Latin dictionary to discover that the Romans were as much in the habit of employing this method of expression as are the English . There it will be found that one of the titles of honor given to the later emperors was the superlative perfectissimus . Or take the practice of Cicero , so generally regarded as the consummate authority upon usage in the language in which he wrote . In one place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eloquence which is most to be approved , and to which nothing can be added , as MAMMU711 , et perfectissimum ? that is , " the highest and most perfect . " It may , however , be a consolation to the purist to learn that the ancient grammarians found the same fault with the usage as do the modern , displayed the same ignorance of the conditions which had brought it into being , and had their remonstrances treated with the same indifference . Servius in his commentary upon Virgil tells us that perfectos can not have a comparative perfectior , though great writers like Cicero , Horace , and even so celebrated a critic of language as Quintilian , employed it without hesitation . But at this point one important caution is needed . It is liberty which is contended for , not license . There is not perhaps a single classic author in our tongue who has not employed the superlative of some or all the adjectives specified as not entitled to comparison . But he has employed it sparingly . The usage in question is subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon its infrequency . Of this none are so well aware as are the great masters of speech . Hence they are not inclined to lug in superlatives of any sort uselessly or at random . Such are almost invariably introduced by them either to indicate a subtle distinction which is felt to exist in matters theoretically of the same grade or to impart added force to expression . They are therefore employed sparingly because the conditions which make their use desirable do not often occur . But the mistake must not be made of regarding the superlative form as necessarily carrying with it always the ordinary superlative meaning . There is a somewhat jocose illustration of this misapprehension which has frequently been called upon to do service in the way of suggesting the existence of error where it does not exist at all . A man in writing to a woman begins by addressing her , for example , as " my dearest Mary . " " So you have a number of dear Marys , " exclaims the objector given to hypercriticism . Now it really does not follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a number of persons with the same Christian name , or that she is the dearest of them all . The cavil is due to lack of comprehension of the nature of the superlative . That has two distinct functions . One of these is to express the highest possible degree of the idea or quality indicated by the positive ; the other is simply to denote a particularly high grade of that idea or quality . In most eases this latter usage is indicated by prefixing to the simple adjective the adverb very ; but the superlative form is also not unfrequently employed . Accordingly , while " my dearest friend , " found at the beginning of a letter , may mean that the person so addressed is the dearest of the writer 's friends , it ordinarily means no more than that he is one of those specially dear . In Latin a similar usage exists of the superlative carissimus of the adjective caries , having this same signification . The comparative degree discharges likewise this double function . It is occasionally equivalent to the positive accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said of Prince Arthur in his rescue of the Redcross Knight from the filth of the noisome dungeon ? that is to say , that perfect love disdains hands too nice , too fastidious to do the mean and often disagreeable duties which love is at times required to perform . Spenser , it may be added , is distinctly addicted to this use of the comparative , though it can hardly be called common in our tongue . There is still another rule regarding the superlative which has the distinction of being pretty regularly enjoined by those who write about usage and very regularly disregarded by those whose writings constitute authority for usage . It , like the one first mentioned , has been steadily proclaimed since the middle of the eighteenth century . A fairly satisfactory idea of it and of the ordinary assertions about it can be found in a treatise of the small poet and smaller philosopher , James Beattie , whose later years were largely saddened by persistent dwellnag upon the degeneracy and decay which . in his opinion was overtaking English speech . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tallest of the two . " We must restrict ourselves to the comparative and say , " the taller of the two . " This is a rule constantly in the mouth of that class of verbal critics who disdain to have conclusions agreeable to their beliefs disturbed by the intrusion of disagreeable fact . Space is not sufficient to consider here this injunction upon its abstract merits . An that is necessary to say of it is that the practice of using the superlative of two objects compared is one which the best writers are unanimous in following . They are indeed in the habit of employing both degrees in such eases ; but it is safe to assert that where with them the comparative is found once , the superlative is found at least twice . It would be easy to fill pages with examples of this latter usage drawn from the great authors belonging to our literature . Here we purposely limit ourselves to that specially restricted field in which the duality is rendered almost obtrusive by the introduction of the word two . This necessarily throws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the construction is not reinforced by the numeral , as , for instance , in Tennyson 's " Princess , " where inquiry as to the merits of Lady Blanche and of Lady Psyche as tutors is put in the words , " Which is the prettiest , best-natured ? " or in Browning 's " Colombe 's Birthday , " where Valence asks , " Is love or vanity the best ? " But without entering this larger field a satisfactory number of examples can be supplied out of the much more limited one , and taken from a body of authors who represent various periods of our literature and various sorts as well as grades of intellectual achievement . We could go back to the fourteenth century at least ; but let us begin with Spenser . In coming to the help of Sir Guyon , Prince Arthur is represented as fighting with his single spear " ' T was never merry world , " says one of Shakespeare 's characters , " since of two usuries the merriest was put down . " Milton declares that the double @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join itself to what is good and acceptable and should turn aside from what is disagreeable and displeasing . " Of the two , " is his comment , " the latter is the strongest . " " Which is the most tolerable of the two ? " writes Richardson in Sir Charles Grandison , and in his Amelia Fielding observes , " Of two evils choose the least . " In the account of his journey to the Western Islands , Dr. Johnson described the contest that was wont to go on between " two powerful lairds " in the Highlands as having been regularly de ? Bided by force , " and right attended the strongest . " In her novel of Emma , Jane Austen described the heroine as " the youngest of two daughters of a most affectionate , indulgent father . " In the tale of the " Governor and the Notary , " contained in his volume entitled The Alhambra , Irving remarks that " the smallest of two neighboring potentates is always the most captious about his dignity . " In Contarini Fleming , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least foolish of the two . " In Thackeray 's Dennis Duval the hero observes of one of the Weston brothers that he " was the most good-natured of the two . " In his Kidnapped , Stevenson , in mentioning two courses of conduct which had been followed , describes one of them as " the worst of the two . " One might go on almost indefinitely in furnishing examples of this usage from authors of every rank in English literature . But there is a limit to the patience of readers and to the space wrung from editors . Nothing further need be said than that the so-called rule forbidding the employment of the superlative in the comparison of two things or persons is merely a figment of grammarians and not a fact of good usage .                     