@@473544

THE problem of how the continent of North America came to be peopled is easily solved if we accept the popular belief that the Old World creation antedates. the New , which is based on the Biblical record of Genesis . But Scriptural testimony is not at all controverted by the hypothesis of autogenous and contemporaneous groups of men , with their associated flora and fauna , inasmuch as the results of any explorations or intercourse which may have extended across the Atlantic before the Noachian deluge must have been lost sight of after the Flood , and so been unknown to writers of the Mosaic period . Abundant proofs have been exhumed from buried cities in Central America by Stephens , Le Plongeon , and other archeeologists of intercontinental and in teroceanic communications in prehistoric times , and added proofs are constantly accumulating . If these testimonies are accepted ( and they are given on tablets of stone ) , it is the easiest thing in the world to admit a primitive congenital relationship between the people of America and the people of Asia and Africa ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and architecture , physiognomy , mortuary and religious customs , dress and particles of speech , are quite satisfactorily accounted for . As to the antiquity of mankind , in either hemisphere , his birth and beginning must necessarily have been subsequent to the several formative periods outlined in Genesis and declared by archaic geology , though long anterior to the second glacial epoch . During the natural processes of terrestrial adaptation for man 's abode great climatic changes took place in all parts of the globe , involving corresponding fertility or sterility , with their natural concomitants . When regions were habitable they were inhabited ; when they would not support life , it departed . So it came to pass , during the second glacial epoch , when the great boreal ice sheet covered one-half of the North-American continent , reaching as far south as the present cities of Philadelphia and St. Louis , and the glaciated portions were as unfit for human occupation as the snow cap of Greenland is to-day , that aggregations of population clustered around the equatorial zone , because the climatic conditions were congenial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the temperate climates and thrives there best , we are not surprised to learn that communities far advanced in arts and alaitecture built and occupied those great cities in Yucatan , Honduras , Guatemala , and other Central-American states , whose populations once numbered hundreds ? of thousands , Explorations have opened out the secrets of these mural wastes , and archLuologists have coincidently been excavating their desert counterparts in the Old World to verify their relationship . Anaglyphs of a long - forgotten people have been deciphered , and the revelation is like an open book . An approximate date when this civilization was at the acme of its glory would be about 10,000 years ago . This is established by observations upon the recession of the existing glacier fronts , which are known to drop back twelve miles in one hundred years . How many centuries previously this civilization had endured is a problem hard to solve , because it is not within mortal ken to know how long the ice sheet remained in bulk before it began to melt faster than it accumulated . Hence the popular assumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is erroneous on the face of it , though within the past 1500 years racial injections from Europe and eastern Asia have largely overspread the higher latitudes . Ethhologists have made a mistake in drawing inferences from superficial signs which sequentially must be recent . If we wish to learn ancient history , we must dig . Ruins of sufficient antiquity to be considered ancient by comparison with recent architecture overlie mural and ceramic deposits of ages long forgotten , the excavation of which discloses dates , events , notable names and places , and monuments of art , which the practised archologist could interpret with a considerable degree of accuracy , even if graven tablets and monumental inscriptions did not invariably turn up to assist and confirm his deductions . So whether we work at Ur of Chaldea or at Chichen-Itza of Central America we are not liable to err if careful and consistent . It is by some such intelligent adjustment of coefficients that we are enabled to solve the racial problem of the Western Hemisphere , not only as respects the origin of the American Indigenes ( miscalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose ruined and silent cities , like those of Asia Minor , long since passed out of history , and whose massive pyramids , temples , and palaces vie with those of the Old World , and are Mferentially not only coeval with them , but closely related . The nicety with which the parts fit is proof of the correctness of a thesis which not only indicates the birthplace of the people from which the early inhabitants of North America sprung , but locates their point of departure ( in Central America ) , and the several divergent routes of exodus therefrom northward , which eventuated in the distribution of the population over the greater part of the continent . And it is able to trace and establish these designated routes by mural inscriptions , petroglyphs , stone tablets , writings , and traditions , the authenticity of which is self-evident and self-contained . Pictographs and painted rocks to the number of over 3000 , all located and listed , are scattered all over the country , from the Dighton Rock in Massachusetts Bay to the Kern River Canon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mouse River in Manitoba , which , if translated , would give us a current history of migrations and events which have transpired since the glacial sheet was uncovered . The identity of the Indians with their ancient progenitors is further proven by relics , mortuary customs , linguistic similarities , plants and vegetables , and primitive industrial and mechanical arts which have remained constant throughout the ages . And not only is the progress of migration and distribution intelligently traced , but also the incidental metamorphoses and degeneration* which , in the course of the " ' Phis theory of degeneration from the high civilization of ancient Central America to the breech - clout Indians of the Plains , which is not popular with evolutionists , is manifested in the case of negroes on long period of transformation , ultimately touched the level of savagery in many instances . With the gradual withdrawal of the glacial sheet the climate grew proportionately milder , and flora and fauna moved simultaneously northward . Coincidently the solar heat at the equator , which had before been tolerable , became oppressive ; large areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : the overcrowded population grew restless , and an impulse of extradition supervened which has probably had no parallel . Some emigrants went to South America and settled there , carrying their customs , arts , ceremonial rites , hieroglyphs , architecture , etc. ; and an immense exodus took place into Mexico and Arizona , which ultimately extended westward up the Pacific coast . Coincidently a northward migration took place through New Mexico to southeastern Colorado , and another exodus still more direct across the Gulf of Mexico in flotillas from Yucatan to the mainland , and thence due northward between the nth and the Pith meridians , extending at last as far up as Lake Superior , the progressive trend being punctuated at succeeding stages by defensive earth-works , whose construction the sea islands along the coast of South Carolina , whose gibberish in the course of only three generations has become unin ? telligible , and it is further illustrated end strengthened in modern history by the mountaineers of Kentucky and West GIP ginia , who arc the descendants of some of the best Virginia families since only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trans planting to establish with their homes the schools and churches which their forefa there had considered indispensable to men tal and moral culture . And this barbarian is in the heart of an educated and progres sive country . was attributed until recently to a hypothetical people termed Mound-Builders . Great numbers of emigrants also went to the Antilles , the Bahamas , and other neighboring islands , where colonies had already been planted , and thence to Florida , and from there were disseminated all over the eastern part of the continent as fast as it became habitable . These initial migrations took place in the early history of the glacial period . In subsequent epochs , when the ice sheet had withdrawn . from large areas , as far at least as up to the latitude of the Great Lakes , there were immense influxes of people from Asia via Bering Strait and the Kamtchatkan Peninsula on the Pacific side , and from northwestern Europe via Greenland on the Atlantic side ( that subarctic tract being hospitable then ) , and these continued , peri passe , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by available watercourses , which were then larger and more numerous than now , until large communities occupied its most attractive uplands , notably the region south of Lakes Erie and Ontario , as is made evident by the abandoned copper-mines of Lake Superior and the many mounds and defensive earth-works in Ohio and contiguous territory . Early migrants from Central America into Mexico and beyond were able to maintain the high civilization of their forebears as long as their basic relation and environment remained unchanged , a postulate which is abundantly attested by archeological evidence , as well as by the enduring testimony of petroglyphs . But finally came those stupendous terrestrial dislocations , upheavals , emergencies , droughts , denudations , and associated dynamic phenomena which punctuated the lapse of geological time and changed the contour of the continent By the same great cataclysm which broke up the " fountains of the great deep , " according to the Scripture , and inundated so large a part of the globe and its antediluvian fauna and flora , the fructifying rivers of Central America were engulfed , and the acequias @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useless . Some disjointed records of this overwhelming catastrophe are inscribed upon pyramids , temple walls , monoliths , and porticos of those massive ruins which attest to their extinguished greatness , - while oral traditions , next in historical value to the libraries which Cortez destroyed , have been transmitted down the centuries , even to Southwestern Indians of the present day . Drought , famine , malignant diseases , persistent internecine wars , and ultimate depopulation supervened , and after efforts to maintain themselves on the home sites , the discomfited survivors scattered . For many centuries large communities tarried in Mexico , New Mexico , and Arizona , sections of which were populous up to the arrival of Coronado in 1540 , but finally aridity of the soil , caused in large part by forest denudation , frequent tidal waves , the deflection of surface waters into subterranean rock fissures , the merciless raids of the Spaniards , and internecine wars scattered them over the lava beds and alkaline wastes of sage-bush and cactus , to eke out a precarious livelihood with their starveling flocks . The remnants ultimately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortified , and attempted to subsist on crops forced from scantily irrigated gardens on the arid plains below . This for a distressful period , and then northward again to more peaceful and fertile localities in eastern Colorado , where melting snows from the uplifted continental divide afforded perennial moisture . Here they maintained a long-protracted status as agriculturists and shepherds , establishing thrifty towns and villages , of which a few remain to this day as " pueblos . " Records of their vicissitudes anddire extremity are pecked upon many a neighboring rock ? of the continued attacks and defences , and how the cliff-dwellers were finally cut off by their enemies , and haw few escaped . The advent of the Spaniards and their ruthless quest for gold broke into the bucolic life of the pueblos . Many were exterminated , while others , harassed and impoverished . abandoned agriculture in despair and took to the chase for a livelihood . From that to semi-savagery the lapse was easy . The introduction of horses by Coronado at this juncture was a godsend to the afflicted people , for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rocky Mountain foot-hills , but it made long journeys possible . It enabled them to follow the erratic movements of the buffalo into the Great Plains , whose interior until then had been unoccupied by men . Eventually they reached their eastern border , where they encountered the forest Indians , who had also followed the migrations of the buffalo westward from Ohio , Virginia , and Illinois , which were its favorite habitat at the period when America was colonized by England . The collision of these nomadic horse Indians with the more sedentary forest tribes , who clustered in villages and had no horses , and have not had to this day , and the continuous struggle for territorial possession and hunting prerogatives which followed , account in large part for the suggestive zone of mounds which spans the width of ten meridians , and extends from the Gulf of Mexico to Lake Superior . Outside of this zone there are no similar mounds east of the Rio Grande . For three hundred and fifty years this broad territorial strip was disputed ground , the principal seat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of pitched battles having been fought in front of intrenchments , and in whose vicinity there are still great tumuli where hosts of the slain were buried . Distributively the mounds show quite exactly the area of territory fought over , their sinuous or waving lines or series indicating the varying fortunes of the combatants . Mounds are of diverse sizes and shapes , from five to thirty feet high , and were used for burial and sacrificial purposes , for dykes , as sites for temples and dwellings , as refuges from inundations , as amphitheatres for ball games , and for ornamental purposes , as in public parks and gardens of the present day . Many in the semblance of elephants , leopards , turtles , rats , snakes , deer , and the like , were copied from the Aztec and Toltec gardens , and from others extant in the Zuni and Mohave country . They were reproduced just as we copy patterns from the Old World . Memorabilia of permanent occupancy in bass-relief , sculpture . and hieroglyphs occur everywhere among the ruins of the exhumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America and parts of South America , while pictographs and rock inscriptions of later periods mark the exodus and advances of the emigrants along the trails which diverge from the point of departure through Mexico and Arizona , and thence northwestward up the Pacific , or due north to Colorado , and thence eastward along the Arkansas River across the Great Plains , or northeasterly across the Rio Grande throughsouthern Texas to Arkansas . The hieroglyphs* include outlines of animals , clan marks , totems , secret - society insignia , challenges , defiances , taunts ( since practised by all Indian tribes ) , cautions against ambuscades and natural obstacles , directions to water - holes , camping-grounds , and rendezvous , as well as mention of skirmishes , forced marches , misadventures , and special events , practices which were in vogue in Palestine and Egypt in Biblical times . Every new archaeological discovery adds testimony to establish the more than hypothetical origin of our American aborigines , and the close relationship between their ancestors of Central America and the peoples of Egypt and Asia . The Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and walls of cations were made from canoes when the permanent stage of water at all points was thirty-five feet higher than now . This is illustrated at Red Bock on Lake Superior , the level of all the Great Lakes being at one time in the past that much higher than it is now . the identity of certain American hieroglyphics in form and significance with those of Egypt and the East . The calendar of Mexico duplicates in essential features the calendars of India and Arabia ; some social customs of America resemble those of Africa and Australia ; and the beliefs and ceremonials of the American aborigines simulate and sometimes exactly repeat those of India , China , and other countries . The sandal/cc of the plains Indians is a relic of the sun-worship of Peru and Mexico and back to the worship of Baal Peor ; and all the altars and sacrificial stones , the human sacrifices , the passing through fire , and those horrid abominations which were bewailed and denounced by the Bible prophets in Asia Minor 5000 years ago , were doubtless contemporary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Spaniards and the overthrow of the MonLEZ11111aS . They obtain even now in isolated regions of this continent . The entire proposition contained in this paper may be synoptically stated as follows : The primeval peoples of both North and South America originated from a civilization of high degree which occupied the sub - equatorial belt some 10,000 years ago , while the glacial sheetwas still on . Population spread northward as the ice receded . Routes of exodus diverging from the central point of departure are plainly marked by ruins and records . The subsequent settlements in Mexico , Arizona , New Mexico , Colorado , Utah , and California indicate the successive stages of advance , as well as the persistent struggle to maintain the ancient civilization against reversion and the catastrophes of nature . The varying architecture of the valleys , cliffs , and mesas is an intelligible expression of the exigencies which stimulated the builders . The gradual distribution of population over the higher latitudes in after-years was supplemented by accretions from Europe and northern Asia centuries before the coming of Columbus . Wars and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and degenerating population with different dialects . The mounds which cover the mid-continental areas , isolated and in groups , tell the story thereof . The Korean immigration of the year 541 , historically cited , which led to the founding of the Mexican Empire in 1325. was but an incidental contribution to the growing population of North America . So also were the very much earlier migrations from Central America across the Gulf of Mexico .                     