@@486748

The appalling ' statistics of crimes of violence in the United States , collected by the Chicago Tribune and pliblished with comment in the December McClure 's , have provoked wide discussion . Those social philosophers who are ready to reform a commonwealth " while you wait " have proposed various remedies . One would rigorously punish corporate lawlessness , another would rouse public opinion against police blackmail . " Gentlemen in this respect , " as Burke puts it , " will be led to their choice of means by their complexions and their habits . " S S. McClure himself , one secret of whose success is a passionate interest in whatever he undertakes , would start a crusade for " a new righteousness which shall become a new passion  --  the Love of Country . " The result , Mr. McClure is sure , will be " obedience to the law because it is the law ; a . . and the briber , and the grafter , and the traitor who steals from his neighbors and poi , lutes the law will be unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London Spectator indulges in no visions of a millennium , but it hopes for blessed results from an improvement in the character and standing of American judges . It would give them larger pay and a longer tenure , so that they might - scorn the power of our corrupt rich . - Before proceeding too far in this patriotic undertaking we shall do well to scrutinize the facts with some care . - According to the figures , the number of murders . and homicides in the United States was 1,266 in 1881 , 10,652 in 1896 , and 8,834 in 1902 . That is , in 1881 the ratio of murders and homicides to population was one to 40,534 inhabitants ; in 1896 , one to e , 658 ; and in 1902 one to 8,955 . We are now behaving better than in 1896 , but we are yet more than four times as bad as we were in 1881 . The first question is , Where do these figures come from ? The answer is , " The statement of the number of murders and homicides includes all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States ' and Territories " ; in other ' Words , the value of the . statistics depends , first , upon the accuracy and completeness of newspaper reports , and , secondly , upon the thoroughness of exchange reading A failure in either Point would vitiate the results . We hardly need to point out to any man who has been familiar with newspapers for twenty-five years , that the Associated Press and other reporting agencies cover the country far more completely to-day than in 1881 , or even in 1890 . In the South add West , partieu'arly , the number of newspapers serving and served by the Associated Press has largely increased ; the gathering of news by carrier , telegraph , and particularly by telephone , has been enormously extended ; practically revoltitionized . More than that , the plan of ' exchange reading ' for the Chicago Tribune must in the nature of things have developed in the last two decades . The readers have received more papers aid handled them more skilfully . Doubtless , then , 1,266 is far below the total number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first decade of the Chicago Tribune 's inquiry are a third below the actual fact , and that the country is not growing wicked so rapidly as might at first appear , the record is still black and damning . After all allowances and deductions , we must still admit that crimes of violence are increasing faster than the population . - For some reason we are losing our respect for law , our self-restraint . In searching for causes Mr. McClure asks . " Can a body of policemen engaged in blackmail , persecution , and in shielding lawbreakers make a community law-abiding ? Can a body of policemen engaged in criminal practices prevent others from committing crimes ? Can a board of aldermen who for private gain combine to loot a city , govern a city well9 " He lays the blame in part on " saloonkeepers , gamblers , and others who engage in businesses that degrade ; contractors , capitalists , bankers , and others who ' can make money by getting franchises and other property of the community cheaper by bribery than by paying the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office with the sad and endorsement of the classes already mentioned . " Possibly the operations of criminal rich and criminal politidians contribute to a general disregard for ' law that manifests itself in murder and homicide McClure 's has been printing articles that do not- excite admiration either for the Standard Oil Company or for the bankers , bribers , and legislators of Missouri and elsewhere . Yet we doubt whether the knowledge that Trust managers are recovering a normal appetite in the stoneyard at Sing Sing , rather than on the golf links , would lessen the number of highway robberies even within sight of the University of Chicago ; or whether final convictions- of Col. Edward Butler and all of his friends would make life safer in the Mississippi Valley . But the connection of murder with saloons , houses of prostitution , and gambling-hells is direct and conspicuous . Wherever the police or a political organization back of them affords protection to these agencies of vice , there we can expect nothing but an increase of crimes of violence . In ' so far as the corruption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wyck of odious memory has infected Philadelphia , Cleveland , Chicago , in so far the cause for which Mr. McClure Seeks lies before the eyes of everybody . Although drunkenness , prostitution , and gambling , springing.from weaknesses inherent in humanity the world over , are certain to be al-ways with us and always fruitful of evil , " there are three other causes which may ; we trust , prove local and limited in duration , viz , foreign immigration , strikes. , and race hatred in the South . From some ' countries we certainly get a class that is below the average in morals and intelligence , and Until ' these newcomers have gone through our schools and learned our ways , we must expect trouble from them . The Sidilian brings here his feuds , and scarcely forgets them within a generation . Closely related to the immigration problem is the strike problem , with such lawlessness as ! spread-terror in Pennsylvania in 1902 and in Colorado in 1904 . A single great strike is enough in itself to raise the average of violence for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most serious of all , however , is , in the South , the recrudescence of barbarism against which the best element in that region is now striving valiantly . In 1903 South Carolina was credited with 222 homicides out of 8,976 for the whole country ; roughly , one-sixtieth of the population Commits one-fortieth of the murders . No marvel that a Southern observer remarked that his region was becoming " accustomed to homicide . " BALLOT LAWS AND THE ELECTION . The demand for better ballot laws which always follows an election is , backed this year by an unusual amount of specific evidence about the effect of statutes carelessly or unscrupulously drawn . The principle of the secret ballot is very generally accepted , though it is not yet everywhere adopted . The needful thing now is to study after each election the workings of the vari ? cus laws at present in force , with a view to finding out just how this detail or that has affected the real purpose of all balloting  --  the accurate registering of what the voters really want . After assuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballot reform has been to give the voter a fair chance to make his selection independently for the several places on the ticket . Massachusetts does this , after the fashion of the Australian commonwealth from which our ballot was borrowed , by requiring a separate marking for every candidate voted for . Thus the hidebound party man was compelled to expend just the same amount of effort in voting as the eccentric who supported Roosevelt , Douglas , a Prohibitionist for the Legislature , a Populist coroner , and a Socialist Congressman . Of all ballot laws in the country , this is the one which is supposed to put the greatest premium on independent voting , and it is true that it enabled the voters this year to choose a Democratic Governor and Republican electors , yet the same result was attained in Missouri under a statute which , perhaps , makes the voting of a split ticket more difficult than any other in the country . The Missouri farmer who voted for Folk and Roosevelt had to select from a bundle of long , narrow ballots handed him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then , finding the appropriate space , cross out the name of Walbridge for Governor and write in that of Folk . When the voters , East or West , have made up their mind to stand by a particular combination of candidates , they will do so , whether the law makes it easy or difficult . Aside from the State and national tickets in ' Massachusetts , the official returns there show some rather curious results . For instance , in the Eleventh Congressional District , where Eugene N. Foss and John A. Sullivan were making a campaign of exceptional activity , there were 2,500 voters who voted for neither one , and left that part of the ballot unmarked . Meanwhile , in the Eighth district it is estimated that 40 per cent of the Democrats , who had no candidate of their own , took the trouble to vote for Mr. McCall . Likewise several thousand voters expressed no preference for President while voting for Governor . The laws of most States , New York among them , assume practically that , when the voter does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office , it is as well to encourage him to plump for assumption that most of the 2,500 Boston voters who declined to choose between Foss and Sullivan had voted for Roosevelt . Under our law they would have been counted for Foss . The proposition that they should have been might be defended on the ground that , when the voter has no preference to the contrary , he naturally wishes a Congress to be chosen in harmony with the President he has helped to elect . That is the best that can be said for the theory of the party column . Maryland and Pennsylvania furnish two examples of laws passed for a bad purpose which have almost ludicrously defeated the popular will in the present election . The so-called " trick ballot law " of Maryland did not accomplish the defeat of Congressman Mudd , who actually established schools to teach the ignorant negroes how to mark the ballot correctly , but it did divide the State 's electoral vote  --  a result which no one intended Mr. Bonaparte , Republican , was chosen with seven Democratic electors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list is considerably larger than that of Brown , who headed the Democratic column , over the second Democrat . He had a larger vote than any other elector , and apparently more voters tried to vote for Roosevelt than for Parker . But more Republicans than Democrats erred in cross-marking . In a vote of about 106,000 ; the difference between the highest and lowest elector on the Democratic side was more than 4,000 . Even in New York , the first elector on the list always runs a few score ahead of the last , owing to confusion of the space opposite the first name with the straight-ticket circle In Maryland , the ignorant voters found the ballot a hopeless puzzle , and thousands of them solved it wrong . " The Democratic party in this State , " says the independent Baltimore News , " naturally contains a preponderance of the best elements in our citizenship ; but it is precisely these elements that are alienated by offences against the principles of fair play in elections . " The ballot which the Pennsylvania machine invented would have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the two parties . There is a square at the left hand end of the ballot in which a full straight ticket can be voted , and another square at the head of the party column by putting a cross in which all the - thirty-four electors may be voted for at once . The Philadelphia North , Aln , erscan reports that from 5 to 20 per cent . of the voters throughout the State mistook this electoral square for the regular party square . Moreover , as in Maryland , so many voters thought the square for the firSt elector was the straight-ticket square that the first elector will have more than 500,000 pluralleagues . " Independence continuing to flourish , " says the North American , " the ballot manipulators seem to have lost their heads . Their latest efforts to complicate the election machinery have produced a ballot so puzzling as to discon . Cert even their own trained voters  --  a , ballot which , if not reconstructed on sane and honest lines , will involve certain defeat for many local Republican ' tickets in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any validity has been made to the operation of Voting machines , namely , that it is sometimes possible for a sharp-eared party watcher to tell by the sound whether split or straight tickets are being voted . Even that does not hold when a ballot similar to that of Massachusetts is used . But there is no better argument for machine-voting than the story of the Indiana Democrats who scrawled the word " Bryan " across their ballots , and thus invalidated them in a futile protest . In a similar way many voters whose intent was unmistakable lost their votes in our municipal election three years ago ' through their irresistible impulse to wrote uncomplimentary remarks about the " Iceanan " on their ballots . FOREIGN VOTERS IN NEW YORK . Just before sailing for England , Mr. James Bryce publicly bore testimony to the intelligence and sobriety of the foreign voter in the United States . Mr. John Morley , afterspending a few hours in the Chicago election booths , was similarly impressed . The mere intricacies of the ballot , he said , would seriously tax the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time when our foreign-born population is coming in for a good deal of criticism . The growth of immigration from Southern Europe has revived something of the old Knownothing spirit . Word comes from Washington that Commissioner-General Sargent has collected damaging evidence against Jewish and Italian immigrants , on the strength of which the Lodge bill , enforcing an educational test , may be urged again . A good test of fitness for citizenship is the intelligent use of the franchise . New York city is an excellent field for study , as our population is largely of foreign stock . In testing the intelligence of foreign voters , two points should be kept in mind : We should inquire , first , the extent to which they exercise the suffrage ; and , secondly , whether they are slavishly bound to one party . In the first respect , the districts of New York where foreigners are most numerous acquit themselves at least , as creditably as those where native blood predominates . According to the latest Federal census , the percentage of the foreign-born population of Manhattan Island is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average percentage or aosentee voters  --  that is , those who registered and then stayed at home  --  was 6.3 . ' On the whole , these indifferent citizens were about equally distributed between the foreign and the native-horn . In fourteen Assembly districts , in which ' the foreign population averages 51 per cent. , - the stay-at-homes averaged 7 per cent . In twenty districts in which the foreign population averages only- : 33 per iient. there were a few more of them , or - 7.8 . The district in which there were the fewest absentees ? the Thirty-third , where only 3.5 per cent . kept away from the polls -- is 44 per cent . foreign , or above the average . The next best showing is that of the Eighth , which is the most densely populated foreign district , its percentage being 67 per cent . Here only 4.6 of the registration was missing on election day . The most discreditable showing was made by the Thirtieth , where 14.2 of the registered voters did not go to the polls . This is only 38 per cent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most representative " American " district , the Twenty-third ? where the population is only 28 per cent foreign  --  the absentees were 6.5 , or slightly above the average . In such " kid-glove " sections as the Twenty-fifth and Twenty-seventh , the stay-at-homes were 8 and 9 per cent . To the Twenty-ninth , however , should be given more credit , for here only 5.6 per cent . failed to cast their ballots . clear , then , that out Jews and Southern Europeans do vote.A more important question , however , is whether they vote with discrimination . Do they Always support the same parties ; do they ever vote split tickets ? A study of the returns for the last four years  --  including those for the November elections  --  shows that there are only eight Assembly districts in Manhattan which , in both local , State , and national elections ; do not invariably go one way : They are Manhattan 's " doubtful districts , " which are apparently influenced by argument , and which may be expected to split their tickets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Sixteenth , the Twenty-first , the Twenty-third , the Twenty-ninth , and the Thirty-first . Some of these are only slightly independent ; the Twenty-ninth , for instance , gets into this good company simply because , this year , it voted for Roosevelt and Herrick . The average foreign population of these independent districts is 42 per cent. , or just about the average for the whole island . Chiefly important , however , is the fact that this list includes the Eighth , the Tenth , and the Sixteenth Assembly districts . These are also situated south of Eleventh Street and east of the Bowery . By all odds the most interesting is the Eighth . This is the district with the largest foreign population , and its population is very largely Jewish . It has such well-known Ghetto ' streets as Hester , Delancey , Eldridge , and Allen . Yet politically it is one of the most uncertain sections ; the majority of the winning candidates is always small . It voted for Bryan in 1900 ; for Roosevelt in 1904 ; for Coler in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany is alternately a Republican and a Democrat . The Tenth District , which also shows unmistakable signs of independence , is strongly Jewish . This year it voted for Roosevelt and Herrick . The Sixteenth , which also divided on State and national lines , is populated almost exclusively by Jews from Austria-Hungary . Similar independenceis evidenced in districts largely native , such as the Fifth , the Twenty-first , and the Twenty-third ; but at least it is plain that the Jewish localities , chiefly recruited from immigration , are not lacking in the first essentials of good citizenship . The bulwark of the unswerving Democratic vote in Manhattan is indisputably foreign ; it extends all the way up the East Side to One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Street , east of Lexington Avenue , and up the West Side , west of Seventh Avenue , as far as Sixtieth Street . But these are the great Irish and German strongholds  --  races whose adaptability to American conditions is no longer in dispute . THE PRODIGY OF LAWSON . The articles on " Frenzied Finance " which Thomas W. Lawson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printing in a magazine , have become a literary and social phenomenon of extraordinary interest . They are devoured with avidity in all parts of the country . Go into the backwoods of Michigan , and the first question you will be asked is , " Have you read Lawson 's last article ? " Look out of the car window when the train stops for water in Arizona , and the inquiry will be fired at you by a native , " What do they think of Lawson in New York ? " In sage-brush and mining camp , as well as in brokers ' offices and Old Ladies ' Homes , Lawson is the chief purveyor of matter for reading and infinite gossip . If Macaulay supplanted with his history the latest novel on the boudoir table , Lawson has displaced the sensational prints and the flashy journals in barber shops and bar-rooms , penetrating to the lowest stratum of readers as well as piquing the - Curiosity of the highest , and making of himself in a few months a veritable literary prodigy  --  or terror , Yet this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so suddenly acquired , his clean sweep of the field , should not lead professional writers to renounce a craft in which any upstart may appear and carry off the laurels . The wonder is explicable . Lawson has taking literary qualities . Leaving out the prime requisite of truth , which is neither here nor there in his articles , he has nearly all the elements which the big-wigs declare necessary in a popular style . His frank and pungent slanginess is the precise medium for his tale . It yields a splendid touch of verisimilitude . Then he abounds in minute detail . Defoe did not surpass Lawson in the art of buttressing incredible romances with an amount of apparently veracious incident which makes unbelievers ashamed of themselves . The close observer who noted an angry magnate 's eyes pass through all the colors of the spectrum can not be altogether wrong , one out . Places and dates are set down with the accuracy of extracts from a detective 's note-book . A society novelist could not exceed him in faithful description of the surroundings of his ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None of the tedious oratio obliqua for him . Everything is in the first person , or direct discourse . His articles bristle with quotation marks , and racy dialogue fills his pages . Neither Aristotle nor Horace , Quintilian nor Sainte-Beuve , could have laid down more infallible rules for attaining immense literary vogue than those which Lawson has found in his mother wit . To so lucky a style , Lawson has added the further advantage of a theme which ever lies near the heart of themasses in. a democracy . Vast wealth is the subject of his story ; and the editors of popular magazines long since discovered that no topic is dearer to the- great body of ten-cent readers . An account of " How the Crcesuses bring up their Children " will be read with eagerness in hundreds of thousands of poverty-stricken homes ; while a huge edition will be carried off by an article , supposed to be a solution of the servant problem , on " Mrs. Fitzboodle 's Eighty Servants , and How She Manages Them . " We do love a lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found out that the most interesting man in this country , to judge by the way rumor and small talk played about him , was the rich Robert Morris of Philadelphia , so ever since has Dives been a national admiration . President Roosevelt , in his sermonette of Tuesday week , spoke of " the brutal envy and hatred felt by a poor man towards a rich man " ; but our observation is that gaping curiosity , fathomless toadying , and silly aping make up the commoner attitude of the poor in the presence of those having great possessions . With a subject thus as broad as human folly , Mr. Lawson has also the good fortune of being able to add crime to great wealth . If the very rich are interesting per se , the criminal rich are doubly fascinating . And Lawson pitched upon a public , predisposed to believe . The sublime fervor of faith is nothing to the credulousness of a loser in Wall Street . Credo gum vapossibtle . Thousands all over the land had been bitten in the financial operations which Lawson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no fault of their own . Every innocent who " takes a flyer " in a blown speculation is certain that his own judgment is excellent , his financial shrewdness beyond dispute , and that nothing but the machinations of wicked men could have parted him from his money . Lawson shows him the millionaire schemers at their nefarious work . The victim pores over the story of the unscrupulous manipulation of stocks and the heartless fleecing of investors , and takes comfort to his soul . Now he sees it all . He was taken in by a set of villains . Thus , besides the agreeable fillip to a morbid imagination which Lawson gives in his narrative of crime in seven figures , he makes his appeal to the multitude which no man can number of luckless investors and ruined speculators . In such circumstances , instantaneous literary fame and circulation above 600,000 are no longer a mystery . The serious part remains . Mr. Lawson may be the most prodigious liar that ever put pen to paper . His lies may be like the father that begat them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing which really signifies . People do hot greatly care whether his ' particular stories are true  --  whether this and that plunger in the market actually played the infamous part alleged ; whether brazen promoters really bought a legislature in the , way described ; they believe that other stories of the kind are - true , if Lawson 's are not . He gains the credit of a millionaire turning State 's evidence . - The impression made is as unmistakable ' as it will be indelible . That there is a class of rich men who carry into enormous operations the methods of the sneak thief and the card sharper , that they rob the widow and take away the portion of the orphan with no more scruple than a burglar ; that honor and good faith are as unknown among them as among jail-birds ? this is the popular conviction upon which Lawson has so skilfully played . He has heightened it , but he did not create it . Now the existence of such men is the great social menace . They are the blackest embodiment of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , and which it is our immense task to-day to resist and drive from us , if we would not see it drag our whole civilization into the pit . ANOTHER NAVAL WAR . The marine architects and engineers in annual conference in this city a fortnight ago almost came to blows over the question whether the modern battleship should be a Noah 's Ark crammed with all kinds of machines and mechanisms , or revert to a simpler type . The proper answer to this problem is , however , of trifling importance in view of the terrible feud which has broken out again among our naval defenders resident in Washington . The Line and the Staff , enemies ever since the first marine engines were installed on an American warship to destroy the romance of the winged cruisers of Cooper 's day , are at each other 's throats again , because of an issue not merely of national but of international significance Rear-Admiral Upshur , who has danced and led more cotillons at Bar Harbor and Washington than any other man of his age ( not excepting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the officer who has performed a great public service in unearthing one of the lowest and most discreditable schemes to disgrace the navy within OUT recollection . He discovered Civil Engineer Asserson using a visiting card inscribed " Rear-Admiral , United States Navy , " and at once performed his duty by preferring charges against Mr. Asserson of " conduct unbecoming an officer and a - gentleman , and of conduct to the prejudice of good order and discipline in violation of law and of the navy regulations . " This only half begins to describe the enormity of the civil engineer 's offence . The real , Simon-pure rear-admiral is he alone who treads or trod the quarterdeck , and bore or bears upon his shoulders the responsibility for the condition of his men 's clothes , the table manners of his officers , the navigation of the ship , and the safety of the nation . Yaur builders of battleships , your engineers who lay out a grimy dockyard , may be all very well in their places , but when compared to a real and salty admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Davises . Undoubtedly , staff officers have their uses ; nautical engineers are needed , at times , and So  --  on pay days  --  are paymasters ; medical men , too , have been known to come in handy in tropical climates ; even a marine officer may be admitted to have some excuse for existence now that he has become more of a bluejacket and mans the main batteries , and is by so much less a soldier . Moreover , the marine officer is content with his own designation , but the trouble with the Staff is an , insane desire to ' borrow , beg , steal , or appropriate the titles - which have belonged for centuries only to the naval " men who do things . " To have paymasters and - doctors signing themselves as captains and rear-admirals is bad enough , even if they have been to sea . But the service is certainly " going to the dogs " now , if every mere civil engineer who for a brief apace has had the pay and relative position of a rear-admiral is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and powder-reeking man of war , quite as capable of leading a ball as stopping a bullet . How , indeed , can your fighting officer hereafter impress either a social assembly or his fellow-sailors if every doubting Thomas may stop to inquire whether the distinction accorded him was earned on the quarterdeck or in the hold ? Manifestly , all respect for authority is at an end if this state of affairs is to continue . Marryat 's famous ship 's carpenter , plain Chunks , became Caunt Schucksen and commander of a Swedish frigate because he was left in the enemy 's hands apparently mortally wounded with a captain 's epaulettied coat to cover him . But as long as Admiral Upshur stands like Horatius to guard the navigating bridges from the invasion of those who would disguise their second-rate activities under falsely assumed cloaks of authority , the navy 's honor is safe . In Germany they have severely punished an officer for sarcastically describing his comrades as " First-Class Beings . " But who can donbt that our fighting naval and military officers deserve this appellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was the wife of a colonel who assured us that the only genuine aristocracy In this country comprises the officers of our army and navy . Naturally , this aristocracy , like all others , must fight to keep itself from contamination by unworthy intruders . It was bad enough When Congress a few years ago allowed the ships ' engineers to crawl out of their stoke-holes , abolished their titles , and gave them genuine rank and powers of command . This large increase of our true aristocracy was acquiesced in with much the same feeling with which the English families patented by William the Conqueror receive the latest tea-baronet created by a grateful king . But our Annapolis-trained navy officers have never resigned themselves to that law - of a barbarian Congress which decrees that as many as twelve gunners , sailmakers , bo'sans , machinists , and other graduates of the forecastle may annually be commissioned as ensigns and put in line for advancement to the halt ' of a rear-admiral and not merely of a rear-admiral of the junior but of the senior grade . Plainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixty-seven retired rear-admirals  --  old sea dogs who served with Farragut every one  --  and their embittered wives are solidly lined up behind the flag and Upshur ; the same Upshur Who first donned a midshipman 's uniform sixty-three years ago last month . Aided by five commodores and - dozens of veteran captains and commanders , they are advancing upon the medical and pay directors , the chaplain 's , the professors of mathematics , and the civil engineers ' who would make an actuality of What is merely an imaginary rank . Their superior knowledge of fleet , squadron , and division tactics will , we doubt not , bring them to victory at the daors of the White House . But whether they ' succeed or not , they are contending for a glorious principle . They are once more reminding a sluggish , peace-loving people that actual titles are the su.m.nvitm bon , im to be sought in a dembcracy ; that it is rank , not services , which counts , and that the defender of the nation is an 03 --  jest , spiritless apology for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a class set apart from the common people by the blue of his clothes and the glitter of his epaulets . A MUSEUM AUXILIARY . - While art-lovers are congratulating each other upon the election of Mr. Morgan to the presidency of the Metropolitan Museum , it will have occurred to many that the uneven development of that great institution inf the past has been due in part , at any rate , to lack of an effective public opinion supporting the trustees Mr. Morgan 's unusual qualifications , both from natural taste and varied experience , will doubtless be directed towards popularizing the work of the Museum . Meantime , we have the anomalous condition of a city containing many connoisseurs and patrons of the arts who have practically no relations with its chief art institution . Thus the Museum has been bereft of its natural aids and counselliirs , and the burden has fallen too heavily upon a devoted minority of a board , the majority of which had no especial competence in matters artistic As a result , deplorable but natural , those who should have been most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nc ; very friendly critics . Happily , the time is ripe for a change . One may count upon Mr. Morgan for such liberal and enlightened conduct of his trust as to win the confidence of his fellows in the love of art . But much might be done by a proper organization of the friends of the Museum . At present some of them , far too few , are annual subscribers . Such members receive certain courtesies and privileges in the way of free entrance , etc. , but they have no way of being heard in the management . In other countries , auxiliary societies have been formed which bring together the connoisseurs and amateurs of a nation in aid of its galleries . On this matter Mr. Hermann Paull writes interestingly in the November Fortnightly Review . The first auxiliary , it appears , was founded at Amsterdam in 1883 , in order to keep the De Vos collection in Holland . But the organization was continued , and the society has subsequently added many notable objects to the Rijks Museum . About six years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid the greater part of the price of an extraordinary Baldovinetti , and has made other important gifts . The Berlin Society , of more recent date , has had even more striking success . Through its advice and with its aid pictures by Jean Fouquet , Van Eyck , Memling , Rembrandt , Holbein , and Guard ' have been acquired for the already rich gallery on the Spree Last of all , in England , the National Art-Collections Fund has been started under distinguished auspices . Such societies generally exact a very modest annual contribution of their members , and , practically , they are the intermediary between wealthy givers and the museums . Probably few sympathetic tears are shed over the pathetic case of openhanded but uninstructed millionairism ; yet it is easy to see that where a somewhat haphazard liberality is common , an authoritative body that will indicate possible gifts and guarantee their value and their welcome is not without its uses An important element in the work of such a society is cooperation with the Museum authorities It does not press donations ill-advisedly , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , the auxiliary society buys in conjunction with the Museum , eking out its funds where they are Inadequate . This introduces a very welcome flexibility , for it allows the curators to take advantage of such exceptional opportunities as may occur , and it enables a single department to make timely purchases , such as even a prosperous department can not ordinarily afford without deranging the general budget . A very valuable feature of such cooperation is the effect upon the Museum staff of a body of keen yet friendly criticism . This makes against the deadening bureaucratic tendency that so frequently overcomes directors and curators . To such officials it is a very wholesome stimulus to know that their work is scrutinized closely by experts , and such surveillance loses its sting when it is exercised by those who do it by right of helpfulness in the past and desire to aid in the future . It would be short-sighted , then , to measure the usefulness of an auxiliary society simply by the objects of art it is instrumental in securing . Quite as valuable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the sense that organized and influential opinion applauds every improvement . Such volunteer organizations have even shamed the parsimony of governments , as when the Berlin " Kunstfreunde " paid ? 30,000 for the two Van Dycks in the Peel collection  --  knowing the opportunity was unique  --  and were afterwards reimbursed by a special vote of the Reichstag . It might be said that the Metropolitan Museum , with more than $200,000 annual income for acquisitions , is beyond the need of such assistance . But , first , no museum can be so rich as that , and , next , the directive value of such a fund would be out of all proportion to the money ccntribution made . For directors , and even trustees , have their idiosyncrasies . It was understood , for example , that the late General Cesnola , an enthusiast for classical antiquity , fairly grudged all money spent for objects of the Christian era . However that be , outsiders frequently see the gaps in a collection better than its curators . At present , for example , it is amazing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handful of good examples of the Italian school of painting . Its agents should to-day be scouring Europe to bring together at least a few representative panels before it be too late . A society which could give not only good advice , but a money contribution , to this cause would hardly fail to get a respectful hearing . In fact , there are a hundred and one ways in which the art lovers of the town so leagued together might substantially further the growth of the Museum  --  might liberalize and democratize its policy , without in any way impairing its present admirable organization .                     