@@430297

 | THE House of Commons has just had its attention turned away from the reorganization of schools to the reconstruction of the army . The Education bill has not vet run its course , and can not indeed accomplish that feat during the present session of Parliament , but will have to stand over until the autumn session . In the meantime the Secretary of State for War , Mr. Haldane , has just been introducing to the House of Commons his new scheme for the construction of England 's military force . Mr. Haldane delivered a speech which lasted for nearly three hours , and he appears to have been completely successful in holding the attention of the House during this prolonged exposition . This result is all the more surprising , because Mr. Haldane 's previous personal history would not have led us to look to him as a proficient in the business of war . He is a barrister by profession , and is the author of " Essays in Philosophical Criticism , " a " Life of Adam Smith , " and translator of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two universities in which he studied , that of Edinburgh and that of Gottingen , we do not expect much special training for the business of war . Mr. Haldane , however , seems to have found time from his professional occupations to study the whole subject of army construction , and he certainly made a strong impression on the House by his statement delivered there last evening . The object of his new scheme appears to be that a small reduction should be made in the actual numbers of the army , but the military force is to be rendered much more efficient in every sense and more readily adaptable to its actual purposes . The English military force is at present formed of three constituent parts ? the actual army itself , the militia and the volunteers . The business of the militia is somewhat undefined , and it certainly can not be described as in any sense constituting a part of England 's fighting power : Its effect seems to me to be mainly the providing of a certain number of military titles for some local magnates everywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captain , " but do not care about the rough duties and the perils of actual military service ; and also to find a sort of employment for humbler subjects of the empire . Mr. Haldane 's scheme proposes to convert the militia force into a distinct and working part of the army and to leave to it and the British navy the task of securing the kingdom itself against invasion . The volunteer force he proposes to convert into a supplementary part of the army , which is to be called upon to undertake actual service in the field whenever the occasion may require and be sent to supply any sudden wants in the standing army itself . These seem to me reasonable and acceptable propositions , but I need perhaps hardly say that I do not profess to be an authority on military arrangements , and we have not yet had any opportunity of knowing what arguments are to be urged against the measure by some who claim to have such authority . We all know that Lord Roberts and Lord Milner have been at work for some The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strength of the army to an immense extent , but then I do not think that the recent career of these noblemen in South Africa is likely to make the British public very confident in their authority . Lord Roberts and Lord Milner are both impassioned advocates of what is commonly called imperialism , while the object of Mr. Haldane and his Government is to make the British army with the navy the means of defending England and all her possessions against invasion and not of effecting new conquests abroad and acquiring for England new foreign possessions to be maintained for the glory of imperialism at the expense and to the discredit of England and her people . We may expect some vigorous and exciting debates . The death of Sir Wilfrid Lawson has removed from the House of Commons one of its most distinguished and most honored members . Sir Wilfrid was a great and genuine philanthropist , and he was known all over the world as a most resolute advocate of the teetotal principle . But he had qualities which we certainly do not associate in general with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was gifted with a marvelous sense of humor , which proved itself in verse as well as in prose . and he was one of the most amusing debaters who ever sat in our representative chamber . He never seems to have prepared his good things ? they came to him by inspiration at the moment when he wanted them . It was his peculiarity to champion every great cause which he advocated by the weapons of wit and humor and to make his opponents seem for the moment at least absolutely ridiculous . I had the honor of his acquaintanceship , and I believe I may say his friendship , during many years . I sat with him , and usually sat near him for a great part of my working lifetime in the House of Commons , and even when I did not agree with him in his advocacy of some particular cause , an event which did not often happen , I could not but be delighted by his noble spirit and enlivened by his inexhaustible resources of wit and humor . He was a devoted friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland 's demand for home rule . In his advocacy of the cause of temperance he went farther than some of his friends could follow him , and he sometimes gave offense to his opponents by his unsparing ridicule of themselves and their arguments . His sarcastic conversion of the familiar phrase " moderate drinker " into " moderate drunkard " is always likely to be remembered . But he had , none the less , a most genial and sympathetic nature , and even the moderate drinker was ready to forgive him for the perversion of the phrase , because of the great and good qualities of the man who invented it . The debates of the House of Commons must suffer sadly by the loss of Sir Wilfrid Lawson . For myself I do not think that House could seem anything like the same assembly as it was when I knew it , since it no longer displays the sparkling drolleries of Sir Wilfrid Lawson and of Henry Labouchere . Labouchere indeed lives yet , but he has withdrawn from Parliamentary life altogether , and makes his home in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just now , if any reminder were necessary , by the fact that he has been paying his public tribute thru his  | newspaper to the noble character and career of Sir Wilfrid Lawson . The House of Commons has , I am glad to say , some witty and humorous debaters coming up among its present members . One of the most promising and gifted among these is Herbert Paul , historian , essayist and journalist , who has lately often displayed in the House of Commons that bright humor and pungent sarcasm which we who are his friends have long known him to possess . Herbert Paul is , however , like Sir Wilfrid Lawson and Henry Labouchere , something much more than a mere humorist in Parliamentary debate ; he is a man of strong political convictions , of high purpose and of most enlightened views . He remained out of Parliament for some time , because he could not stoop to propitiate the imperialism which was then displaying itself ostentatiously amongst some even of the Liberal constituencies . Now that he has returned to the House and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to give no manner of encouragement to imperialism , I think it might be taken for granted that Herbert Paul will find an important political career opening up before him . The House of Commons has of late been so continuously and closely occupied with the details of the Education bill that it has not given much chance to its new members for distinguishing themselves on any other field if debate , and the House in Committee on many an important clause has been a strictly business assembly occupying itself with practical details quite unintelligible to the ordinary listener in one of the galleries who has not followed closely the new arrangements proposed by the measure . The House on such occasions has been but thinly attended by even its members , most of whom are content to wait until the bill comes back from Committee , and do not in the meantime care to sacrifice their amusements to such practical but not enlivening occupation . Most of my American readers , I feel quite sure , have been interested or amused , or both interested and amused , 1w @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the subject of women 's suffrage . A considerable number of energetic ladies have made themselves prominent by initiating and conducting an entirely new system of campaign on behalf of the movement for giving the vote to women qualified on the same terms as those which give the vote to men . These ladies appear to have become convinced that the only sure way by which to hasten the accomplishment of their desired reform is to make life as nearly as possible intolerable to their leading opponents . With this object in view they have occasionally made demonstrations in the Ladies ' Gallery , have endeavored to shout or scream down the Parliamentary opponents of woman 's suffrage , and have actually thrust the banners of the movement thru the railings of the Ladies ' Gallery and flourished them in the face of the astonished House . The Speaker has , I believe no official control over the Ladies ' Gallery , for the reason that it is not technically within the domain of the House , and does not therefore come under his jurisdiction . Only the ordinary police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Ladies ' Gallery for the purpose of preventing disturbance there . Some of the ladies , however , have taken other and Richard Burdon Haldane  | more direct measures to impress their claims on the minds of their leading opponents . American readers have , of course , long before this been made acquainted with the manner in which a certain number of these ladies attacked the house of Mr. Asquith , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , in Cavendish Square , with the object of terrorizing him into an acceptance of their demands . Mr. Asquith very prudently , I make no doubt , preferred to escape thru a back door rather than come into a personal argument of any kind with these devoted champions of woman 's suffrage . the Suffragettes , as they are now commonly called in the newspapers . Now I should say at once that I am myself a strong advocate of the suffrage for qualified women , and have been so since and even before the clays of my acquaintanceship with the late John Stuart Mill , one of England 's great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a woman who is qualified like a man by the payment of rates to hold citizenship in the community should be denied the right to give her vote for the election of members to the House of Commons . Women are now allowed to take a part in the management of much of our public business and to have seats on various boards and in many municipal chambers . I can not see , for instance , why an educated woman should not be allowed to have a Parliamentary vote , while her coachman or her gardener is held qualified to exercise the suffrage . But my convictions on this point do not incline me to admire the recent demonstrations made by women on behalf of the proposed reform . On the contrary , my very sympathy with the cause of woman 's suffrage only makes me the less disposed to feel any admiration for these recent demonstrations on the part of the Suffragettes . I do not think that slapping policemen in the face is the most likely method for convincing the British public of woman 's capacity for conducting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reason to doubt that the suffrage will before very long be conceded to woman on the same terms as those which qualify a man for its exercise , and I even think that the time will come when women may be elected to sit in our representative assembly , as they are already held to be thus qualified in some of our colonies . Even the recent somewhat violent proceedings of the Suffragettes can hardly be given as a conclusive argument against women 's right to vote when we read the accounts just published of the riot which took place in Manchester when a great openair public meeting was held to advocate the cause of woman 's suffrage . There the riot was entirely started and carried on by the men opposed to the scheme . and the women were hustled and jostled and thrown to the ground in a manner which called for the forcible interposition of a great body of police in order to prevent more serious acts of violence on the part of those who desired to show that only men are qualified to be the makers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all events , I think the riot at this Manchester open-air meeting is likely to prove propitious to the cause of woman 's suffrage . It will show at least that woman is the lesser man only when she sets about to enforce her political opinions by slaps and blows and that if man can use that same kind of argument and yet be held qualified for the vote there is no reason why the suffrage accorded to the wearer of pantaloons should be denied to the wearer of petticoats .                     