@@473629

HOWEVER interesting in itself may have been the application of the Darwinian hypothesis to the study of the lower forms of life , it is not amongst these , but in human society , that we have the most important theatre of the operation of the law of natural selection . It is in its application to human development that the doctrine of evolution must be expected in the end to give its most significant . results . The increasing importance of the doctrine of evolution by natural selection in the study of society , and more particularly in the elucidation of the principles underlying- the development of peoples , of institutions , and of types of civilization in the slow , long - sustained rivalry in which they are matched against one another as the cosmic process unfolds itself in history , renders it not unfitting that some endeavor should be made to give a brief account of the current position of the doctrine and of the modifications of it which have taken place since it left the hands of Darwin . The principle of natural selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals of each species are born than can possibly survive , and as , consequently , there is a frequently recurring struggle for existence , it follows that any being , if it vary , however slightly , in any manlier profitable to itself , under the complex and sometimes varying conditions of life , will have a better chance of surviving , and thus be naturally selected . From the strong principle of inheritance , any selected variety will tend to propagate its new nod modified form . " One of the first matters to he noticed in considering the later developments of the theory of natural selection is the character of the cause which first suggested it to the minds of its authors . Darwin had been reading Malthus on the struggle which goes on amongst savage races , and on the natural checks , such as war , pestilence , and famine , which tend to keep population within fixed limits . Being well prepared , as he said , to appreciate the struggle for existence which everywhere goes on , from long-continued observation of the habits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under these circumstances favorable variations would tend to he preserved , and unfavorable ones to be destroyed . " Here , then , " said Darwin , " I had at last got a theory by which to work . " Wallace , the co - author of the theory of natural selection , formulated it almost simultaneously under the same stimulus of the speculations of Malthus . It was in Ternate in 1858 . " I was lying , " said Wallace , " on my bed ( no hammocks in the East ) in the hot fit of intermittent fever when the idea suddenly came to me . . . . I was led to the theory itself from Malthus ? in iny ease it was his elaborate account of the action of ' preventive checks ' in keeping down the population of savage races to a tolerably fixed but scanty number . This had strongly impressed me , and it suddenly flashed upon me that all animals are necessarily thus kept down ? the struggle for existence . ' ? while rariationg on which I was always thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those varieties to increase , while the injurious variations diminished . " In taking account of these events it is important to notice two things . The doctrine of evolution by natural selection thus in reality took its origin from a study of the facts of human society . But that study , it has to be observed , was largely concerned with society at a low stage of evolution . It is now generally admitted that Malthus 's grasp of the principles of social development was to a considerable degree elementary . deleted material of natural selection itself , and when the mechanism of the evolutionary process is closely regarded it will be seen how far the principle in reality carries us . For the law of progress in life can not , it would thus appear , be stated , as the early Darwinians imagined , simply in terms of qualities connected by the principle of utility with current or past environment . What appears to he in view is the fact that in the evolution of life toward higher forms natural selection itself has been , as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of projected efficiency . When the principle here stated is applied to the evolution of human society the method of its working is readily perceived . When Darwin proceeded to apply the principle of natural selection in the form in which he had conceived it to human society , the result was in many respects remarkable . For instance , when the evolutionary process in society came to be viewed principally through the medium of qualities which contributed to success in the present or in the past , it may be observed that Darwin found himself confronted with a difficulty which was radical in character . In the evolution of life as he had conceived it among lower forms natural selection was regarded as weeding out with great stringency all qualities but those which contributed to success in the current struggle for existence . In the Descent of Man we see him therefore struggling with the fact that , as he says , " we civilized men do our utmost to cheek the process of elimination : we build asylums for the imbeciles , the maimed , the sick ; we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill to save the life of every one to the last moment . " As we see the matter now , these facts have to be regarded as controlled by a far deeper and more organic principle of social evolution . But we do not observe that Darwin as yet has such a principle clearly in view . With regard to 7. thilthus 's principle of population a similar note of perplexity may be said to be evident . It is impossible , he says , not to regret bitterly , but whether wisely is another question , the rate at which man tends to increase . The facts of human society did not , in short , fit in with therestricted view of the principle of natural selection which had so far prevailed . In the absence of any clear view of a larger controlling principle we see Darwin , therefore , actually finding himself driven to the partial abandonment of his own theory of natural selection in the study of human society . The remark , it may be observed , is repeated more than once in the Descent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advanced society . " With highly civilized nations , " he continues , " progress depends to a subordinate degree on natural selection . " As the development of the evolutionary theory continued , the same result was to be witnessed in the case of Mr. Wallace . who had been from the beginning one of the most strenuous supporters of the theory of the direct relationship between all qualities in life and the principle of utility in regard to current environment . In the last chapter of his book , Darwinism , published in 1889 , we see him similarly confronted by the fact that human faculties could not be all accounted for by the theory which had thitherto prevailed . According to his view , qualities , at all events , like the artistic , metaphysical , and religious in the human mind could nut be explained by the Darwinian theory of natural selection . Mr. Wallace therefore also proceeded to the remarkable alternative of practically abandoning the principle as regards these qualities in human society , going on to assume that man , as regards these portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes different from those that had operated elsewhere in life . The effect of this departure was marked . As the present writer has put it elsewhere : * It is no injustice to Mr. Wallace to say that the effect produced on the minds of the younger school of evolutionists at the time was not so much to convince them that he was right as to make them feel that the theory of natural selection that he had endeavored to apply In um-man society was still in some radical respect incomplete . Finally , in England , Huxley , the last of the leading group of early Darwinians , reached in the Romanes lecture of 1893 exactly the same ? Eneyclopredia Britannica , 10th edition , Vol . XXIX. crux in endeavoring to apply the Darwinian doctrine , as it had hitherto been held , to human society . Huxley reached at last the extreme position of asserting that the ethical process in society was irreconcilable with the theory of the struggle for existence and the principle of natural selection . These both belonged , he considered , to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress , " on the contrary , he continued , " means a checking of the cosmic process at every step and the substituting for it of another , which may he called the ethical process ; the end of which is not the survival of these who may happen to be the fittest in respect of the whole of the conditions which obtain , but of those who are ethically the best . " The weakness of all these positions is now fully apparent , and would probably have excited keen discussion at an earlier stage if it bad not been for the prestige of the names associated with them . For thus to remove human society as regards its most characteristic features from the operation of the principle of natural selection could only have one meaning . It must have involved some fundamental and far-reaching incompleteness in the theory of social evolution which had so far prevailed . When the centre of significance in the evolutionary process in society is regarded as not in the present at all , but in the future , the change which is effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident in the study of the evolution of society is that , just as in the evolution of life , the highest efficiency is not simply that which includes only the qualities necessary to maintain a place in the free fight in progress in the present . but rather those which are identified with the still higher interests in the future . The evolution of society from the beginning has thus centred round the function of socialization , in the development of which progress has necessarily been towards a more organic type of social order . In this development the characteristic feature is that the mean centre of the life processes of society is undoubtedly tending to be projected ever farther and farther into the future . It is in this supreme rivalry that the great systems of society arebeing continually matched against each other , and that races , nations , and eventually great types of civilization , have their principles tested in a process of natural selection the principles of which extend far beyond the consciousness not only of the individuals concerned , but even of the political systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first rudiments of social organization must be considered to have arisen under the sternest conditions of natural selection , the elements of strength which they possessed leading to the disappearance before them of other groups of men with which they came into competition . In the earlier stages of social evolution , as amongst the lower types of life , efficiency in the struggle for existence would be nearly always efficiency in the present ? that is to say , it would be military efficiency in the development of society . As military evolution continued , societies liable to be resolved into their component elements on the death of the chief or leader would give place to others of a more organic type in which ideas permanently subordinating the individual to military efficiency prevailed . In this stage social systems , in which authority was perpetuated by ancestor worship , in which all the members were therefore held to he joined in an exclusive citizenship to the deities who were worshipped , and in which all outsiders were accordingly ? as in the civilizations of the ancient world ? treated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military potentiality . Where , however , as throughout the whole of this military stage , all human institutions rested ultimately on force , the full limits of the organic principle in society in this phase also must in time be reached . The basis of the industrial and even the intellectual life of society would he slavery ; all human institutions would tend to become closed absolutisms within the state ; the state itself , as in the old classic civilizations , would know neither legal nor moral limits to its power ; and the ultimate tendencies in ethics , in politics , end in religion must be to ultimately culminate in an ideal of universal conquest and of absolute dominion . In the next stage a further and still 