@@486666

Notes . Still further publications by Messrs . Scribner are ' Through Hidden Shensi , ' by Francis H. Nichols , and ' Cross Country with Horse and Hound , ' by Frank Sherman Peer . ' Pictorial Scotland and Ireland , ' illustrated , and ' Lays for Little Chaps , ' by Alfred J. Waterhouse , are in the press of the New Amsterdam Co . William R. Jenkins will publish directly a ' Comprehensive French-English Dictionary . ' The next volume of the " Oxford History of Music " to be issued will be . ' The Music of the Seventeenth Century , ' by Sir C. Hubert H. Parry , and this may be expected immediately from Henry Frowde . The season of reprints has set in , and a high standard is raised in Houghton , Mifflin &; Co ' s revised and enlarged edition of Mrs. Alice Mabel Bacon 's classic ' Japanese Girls and Women . ' The additions are considerable , being two chapters or 64 pages . The interest of that entitled " Within the Home " culminates in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Progress " deals with the movement for the advancement of women  --  in education at home , in study and travel abroad ; Japan being to-day in this respect " where England and America were in the first half of the nineteenth century . " A. revolutionary book by the late eminent reformer , Fukuzawa , in refutation of Kaibara 's ' Great Learning of Women , ' is summarized in this chapter . The illustrations , by a native artist , Keishfi Takenouchi , some in color , are a capital adornment to this instructive volume . The frontispiece shows us a " cherry-viewing . " Little , Brown &; Co find in illustrations by Henry Sandha.m a pretext for reissuing Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson 's ' Glimpses of California and the Missions . ' These drawings are of both scenery and people , and certainly enhance the reader 's interest in the narrative . Macmillan 's new Thackeray proceeds with the ' Paris Sketch-Book ' and ' The Irish Sketch-Book ' in one volume , with the writer 's own illustrations , including a caricature of O'Connell as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her ' Literary Boston of To-day ' ( L. C. Page &; Co ) , takes leave in her dedication to rate herself " a small fraction " of that Boston , she does not actually celebrate herself m the succeeding biographical sketches . Mrs. Julia Ward Howe 's portrait serving as frontispiece is a frank reminder that a large and the weightiest part of the " Literary Boston of To-day " is the " Literary Boston of Yesterday " The face of the new editor of the Atlantic , Mr. Bliss Perry , fitly closes this portrait gallery , of which the text is written with sobriety if ( as a matter of course ) " genially " and in the journalistic vein . Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead 's book on ' Milton 's England ' ( Boston : L. C. Page &; Co. ) shows a pleasant commingling of literary and antiquarian interests , with just a flavor of the summer holiday . It may be commended as a satisfactory pilgrim 's guide-book to the places in which Milton lived ; and its picture of the life of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not made a special study of that period Mrs. Mead also takes note , in passing , of the local associations connecting some of the towns and buildings she describes with famous Americans , such as Penn , Franklin , and Roger Williams . The illustrations , which are mainly reproduced from old engravings , represent many churches and houses as Milton must have seen them . When the publi , shers of Esther Singleton 's ' London , as Seen and Described by Famous Writers ' ( Dodd , Mead &; Co ) announce that it " will appeal to the thoughtful reader as well as to the tourist , " they draw a distinction which is not flattering to those of our compatriots who crowd the Atlantic steamers every summer . But a book which lays under tribute the work of such a variety of writers as Charles Dickens , G. W. Steevens , Augustus Hare , Charles Lamb , Thdophile Gautier , Austin Dobson , and Washington Irving might safely challenge the attention of many more than two classes . It is arranged topographically ? after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the docks and work our way westward as far as a charitable bazaar in the Albert Hall . Perhaps this order was better than the chronological , but such transitions as that from Justin McCarthy to Leigh Hunt are somewhat jerky . Even a flying leap from the Monument to Whitehall would scarcely have put a greater strain upon the imagination Whatever the arrangement , the extracts should certainly have been dated , for it is important to know , in the case of any particular article , whether it is the London of the Crimean War or of the Diamond Jubilee that one is reading about . Except for this oversight , the compilation has been well made . The photographs with which it is accompanied are excellent . A. reader for school use has been compiled by Katharine Lee Bates and Matharme Coman under the title , ' English History Told by English Poets ' ( Macmillan ) . These editors frankly admit that to save the incident  --  or stage of national evolution and reform  --  they have had to compromise sometimes on indifferent poetry ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is any gain over the prose item which precedes each piece and fixes the chronology William Morris 's " poet 's dream , " " The Day is Coming , " introduced towards the end , is scarcely in place in an historical selection . James Lincoln 's closing sonnet , " England , " might well have been supplemented by Professor Woodberry 's better yet kindred Gibraltar sonnets . J. C. L. Clark , Lancaster , Mass , publishes a little book , ' The Alcotts in Harvard , ' written by Annie M. L Clark . It does not contain much in substantial addition to its avowed sources , Sanborn 's ' Life of Alcott , ' Mrs Cheney 's ' Life of Louisa M. Alcott , ' and Miss Alcott 's ' Transcendental Wild Oats . ' The last-named account of Fruitlands was so delightfully absurd that Mrs. Clark 's is bound to suffer in comparison . But to her written sources she adds a modicum of personal recollection touching the Alcotts after they had left Fruit-lands for the house called " Brick-Ends " in the village of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the township of Harvard is divided . The author 's tone is the now hackneyed one of depreciation of MT . Alcott , and sympathy with his much-enduring wife and children . But that was not all failure which bore such fruit as Alcott 's comment on his Harvard experiment . " That is failure when a man 's idea ruins him , when he is dwarfed and killed by it ; but when he is ever growing by it , ever true to it , and does not lose it by any partial or immediate failures  --  that is success whatever it seems to the world . " Young people who delight in Miss Alcott 's stories will be grateful for the facsimile of her rollicking letter of 1841 . Several photographs are Mrs Clark 's best excuse for the publication of her brochure . That of the house at Fruitlands shows it to have been bare and ugly to a degree that could not be surpassed . From the press of Macmillan &; Co we have received a volume of attractive appearance , dealing with the ' Experimental Study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been associated with Professor Ramsay in the investigation of argon and the other gases of the helium group , and is thus eminently qualified for the task which he has undertaken As a complete treatment of the subject would demand more than a single volume , Professor Travers has confined himself to descriptions of such methods as may find application in re-search , and of investigations which involve new principles or lead to important results . The methods developed during the study of the gases of the helium group naturally occupy a considerable portion of the book , and the description of the apparatus employed  --  sometimes omitted from the original papers  --  is fully given . The first part of the chemistry volume in the first annual issue of the Ihternational Catalogue of Scientific Literature , published by the Royal Society , contains an author-catalogue of 112 pages , a subject-catalogue of 284 pages , and a 17-page index to organic substances The scheme of the International Catalogue , we may remind our readers , is the development of three international conferences It involves the publication of seventeen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , under the immediate responsibility of an international equncil , with the cooperation of regional bureaus , twenty-nine of which are already established . The details of classification , cross-references , etc , have been worked out with admirable success . The prompt and complete cataloguing of scientific literature which is thus assured will be of inestimable value to scientific research . At present , financial considerations restrict the number of subject-entries , and forbid the issue of a card catalogue as originally contemplated This is a pity , and it is to be hoped that the necessary funds may be speedily provided . It would seem to be an object which might properly be eared for by the Carnegie Research Fund The only criticism of the work we have to make , is the repetition of the schedule of classification , and the index in four languages . In a publication of this character this seems quits unnecessary . A ' Dictionary of Dyes , Mordants , and other Compounds used in Dyeing and Calico Printing ' is published by Griffin of London and Lippincott of Philadelphia . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. F. Laycock , who have prepared it as a companion volume to ' A Manual of Dyeing issued by the same publishers . The 372 double-column pages of rather small type contain a general description of the many substances employed in dyeing , with their properties and uses and the methods for their examination and assay Some of the longer articles , with - the number of pages given to each , are Cotton 9 , Silk 5 , Wool 11 , Indigo 30 , Logwood 5 , Madder 5 , Soap 12 , Analysis of Textile Fabrics 6 , Action of Light on Dyes 10 , Water 12 , Analysis and Recognition of the Coal-Tar Colors 13 The task which the authors set themselves appears to have been performed carefully and creditably , and the book will be an acceptable reference volume to all engaged or interested in the industry of dyeing The Commercial Press , Bombay , has published a curious and interesting volume of 352 pages on ' Reporters and Reporting , ' by an Indian admirer of Sir Isaac Pitman , whose portrait faces the titlepage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present Chairman of the Bombay municipality , contributes a preface ( one-fifth of the volume ) on the requirements of effective reporting , and the dignity of the profession . The bulk of the work is made up of extracts  --  grave and gay  --  from various authors bearing upon the subject . To those not engaged in reporting , the volume will be found amusing as a col-lection of anecdotes upon the subject treated " The largest and most varied body of Irish Folk Music in existence was gradually got together by George Petrie , the famous Irish antiquary , with whom its collection had been a passion from his seventeenth till after his seventieth year . " The entire collection numbered about 1,800 airs Only about one-tenth part of these had seen the light at the period of Petrie 's decease in 1866 The Irish Literary Society of London has undertaken their publication , and Part I , containing 500 airs , edited by C. V Stanford , has just been issued by Boosey &; Co , London and New York It will be welcomed by all lovers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have their attention called to a series of reproductions from paintings , bronzes , and masks , accompanying the article by Dr. Ingo Krauss on " Das Dantebildniss vom Beginn des Quattrocento his Raphael , " in Afonatsberiate Aber Kunstioissonschaft , Heft 9 . Municipal socialism , according to Mr. H D Lloyd 's account in the National Geographic Magazwie for September , has reached its highest development in New Zealand Its success is , in his opinion , complete . Here is " the most homogeneous , the most compact , the most energetic , and the most manageable democracy in the world . " The picture of the economic conditions , however , must be received with caution . Take . for instance , this assertion that , of a loan of fifteen million dollars made in 1893 , " not one dollar of principal or interest remains unpaid . " This is Mr Lloyd 's only reference to the public debt of the colony , which amounts to the enormous sum of $320 per head of population , - or - relatively more than twenty times as great as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the public debt per head of Great Britain , France , or Italy The debt has increased twenty-five million dollars in the last five years , while the increase of the population has been only 69,359 The fact is , that the growth of municipal socialism , as the experience of England also shows , means an alarming addition to the public indebtedness . Brief abstracts are given of the papers read at the recent meeting of the American Forestry Association at Lansing , Mich . A letter from Washington to Geo . Wm . Fairfax , dated September 29 , 1763 , is the most interesting of the historical manuscripts printed in the Boston Public Library Bulletin for September It is mainly a request that Fairfax would sign certain artiL cles in case he had examined " our Mississipi sic Scheme , " and is " Inclined to be an adventurer . " There are also letters from business houses in London to John Hancock , in 1770 , which throw light on the foreign trade of that day and the difficulties attending it , and a long letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religious conditions of New England in 1764 . ? The October Century has a few pages of highly interesting recollections of American poets , by Wyatt Eaton , who , after returning from his studies in France , made portraits for the Centel ' y of Bryant , Longfellow , Whittier , Emerson , Holmes , and Holland . Bryant came to his studio on Monday mornings , walking from there to the Evening Post building , forty or fifty blocks away , when the sitting was over . The artist found his presence so overpowering that he was obliged to have a friend present to engage him in conversation . The two were not adapted to Sympathetic coinPanioliship , as the artist says , " I felt myself as much a stranger to him at the end of the sittings as at the time of my first meeting him " With Longfellow , he felt the necessity of a certain reserve , fearing , for instance , to take off his coat while at work , although the weather was excessively hot . While Bryant seemed old , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant impression of youth . Whittier was rather hard to approach , and wished Eaton to make his portrait from an exceptionally bad photograph , almost unrecognizable The poet himself seemed to Possess at the start " a general look of commonplaceness and lack of character , " but he improved on acquaintance , and the sittings became quite enjoyable Emerson Was rather indifferent at first , and hurried the artist along . " You must get through with this work as quickly as possible , for I am very old , I have but a little longer to live , and so much to do " As the work proceeded , however , Emerson became so talkative and interesting that progress was practically impossible without the presence of some third party . A short sketch of the artist and his work , by Charlotte Eaton , precedes the recollections , and his portrait , from one of his own drawings , comes at the close The notorious Mr. Dowie of Zion City is " analyzed and classified " by Dr Buckley , who finds him most probably first a sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he himself believed , and driven by failures into sophisticating his reason and conscience in search of explanations for these failures Lured by self-confidence and ambition into schemes requiring large sums of money , he found it necessary to manipulate men , and his natural shrewdness soon developed into cunning Intoxicated by prosperity in these schemes he has actually come to regard himself as the special messenger of God . John Swain gives a study of Dowie and his work from another point of view , indicated by the title , " The Prophet and his Profits . " ? The almost simultaneous publication of the second and fourth volumes of the " Indo-Iranian Series " draws especial attention to this meritorious undertaking on the part of Columbia University The general editor of the series , Prof. A. V. W Jackson , has in preparation volume i , ' A Sanskrit Grammar for Beginners , ' and Mr Montgomery Schuyler , jr , according to the announcement made by the Columbia University Press , will shortly bring out his completed ' Bibliography of the Sanskrit Drama , ' some chapters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the American Oriental Journal The latter scholar has now published , as the fourth volume of the series , an ' Index Verborurp of the Fragments of the Avesta ' ( 1901 ) , a complete and useful contribution , which will be appreciated by all specialists in this department of research . Volume n which has just appeared ( 1902 ) , is also a technical work , but more ambitious in design , being an ' Indo-Iranian Phonology ' ( with special reference to the middle and new Indo-Iranian languages ) . The author , Dr. Louis H. Gray , has devoted himself for some years to the collection of material , which has been so sifted in the pages of this book as to show at ii glance which phonetic changes occurring in Indian dialects have their counterpart in Iran , and which are peculiar to only 0110 of the two groups of languages . ? As will be seen by the Sanskrit and Iranian scholar , the chief contribution made by this book is in the phonology of the middle and the new dialects , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this regard . And as this is the chief contribution , so it is the main aim of Dr. Gray " to prove that the later Indo-Iranian dialects are still closely akin , and have had in many cases analogous developments . " Previous works have been freely drafen upon , but with due citation of authority . The body of material here presented is of the utmost value to the Indo-Iranian phonologist , but it has also a wider Importance . The general student of Aryan phonetics can not but be impressed with the numerous analogies between the changes here recorded and those in other related fields , some of which , such as the loss of an internal g in Indian and Iranian compared with Sas's=13ceatian ids , Latin rcgem , Old French i ei , are widespread . Under section 360 , where the change of I to Is is recorded , it might have been said that , when initial , they change is almost universal Throughout India to-day every gamin who has heard of Lucknow calls it Nuklo . Dr Gray 's volume certainly augurs well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will apparently be a worthy rival of the earlier Harvard Oriental Series . ? ' Historical Sources in Schools ' ( Macmillan ) is a painstaking and valuable report which has been prepared by a select committee and submitted to the New England History Teachers ' Association The Chairman of the committee , Prof C. D Hazen , and his four colleagues have regarded their function seriously , and , like other members of similar committees , deserve warm thanks for labor gladly given to help forward the good cause of teaching There are two things which this volume shows very clearly , to wit , the widespread acceptance of the view that history should be studied , even at an early stage , from original materials , and secondly , the existence of a considerable apparatus which has been called into being with the purpose of making sources available . The old way of teaching the beginner from a text-book , and from a textbook exclusively , was doubtless bad The new gospel , that documents should be brought upon the scene without delay , supplies an admirable stimulus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history everywhere are trying to hit the goldea mean between the desiccated exactness of an epitome and the somewhat desultory attractiveness of sources A volume like the present report has the merit of showing how things stand After a general dissertation on the usefulness of sources , a series of annotated bibliographies is furnished . The design is practical , and so the lists cover those fields of history which are most often taken up in American schools . Thus , ancient history , ruedival and modern European history , English history , and American history are singled out from all other departments of the subject . Of course numerous subdivisions are made , and in each case the great movements and periods are ac centuated . An account is given of the sources most suitable for the use of beginners , and of the best excerpts from sources which can now be had in English On the whole , the bibliographies are better than the critical notes Of the latter , a few are too long according to the scale of the volume , while others are thin . Narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper value  --  for instance , that on the Church in the Middle Ages But the shortcomings of this report are slight when compared with the carefulness of its bibliographies and its judicious division of subject-matter It is one of the best gifts which have been offered by college professors to teachers in the preparatory schools Besides the Chairman , the committee consisted of E. G Bourne , Sarah M Dean , Max Farrand. and Albert Bushnell Hart . ? Mr. John Phin 's ' Shakespeare Cyclopmdia and New Glossary ' ( New York : Industrial Publication Co. ) is meant to provide the possessor of any copy of Shaftspere 's text with a body of comment and exposition , alphabetically arranged , that shall serve the purposes of an annotated edition and something more . It is addressed , we are told , " to the ordinary reader rather than the profound Shakesperean scholar , " and the suggestion is made that this fact " will excuse many features which might otherwise appear puerile in a work of this character " The alphabet includes words needing definition , names of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on The explanations are for the most part compiled from accepted sources , with due credit to the authorities utilized A great deal of valuable material is thus made accessible in moderate compass and at small expense It is easy to find errors , but to enumerate those that we have observed would give a wrong idea of the book For , when all deductions have been made , there can be no doubt that Mr. Phin 's volume stands the only test that can justly be applied to it It is a handy compendium of useful knowledge for the kind of " ordinary reader " that he has in mind . We ought to add , however , a word of caution : Mr Plum must not be regarded as an " authority , " either in linguistics or in textual criticism ; when he is most original the reader should be least credulous Finally , we must protest against the extraordinary tone In which he speaks of Schmidt and Steevens , neither of whom he can abide . ? There died in Bremen on August 26 , in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talents and great eminence , esteemed the foremost daily journalist in Germany and the first among poetic translators . His university life had no bread-and-butter aim , and he dropped naturally , on graduation , into the service of a new paper , the Weser-Zeititag , of which he quickly became chief editor . His two articles per week amounted in the gross to some 5,700 They were written in a clear hand with few erasures , from a mind that knew its own thought , and in independent advocacy of liberal principles regardless of the opinion of the mob When his townsman , Dr. Barth , founded the Berlin Nation , Gildemeister wrote for it also in friendliest sympathy under the signature of " Giotto " this anagram for Otto Gs ? ) . Gildemeister was a free-trader before the days of the Anti-Corn Law League across the sea , and therefore ( rightly says his biogripher ) a German Federalist and Constitutionalist . His political preoccupation consisted further in his having been call ed to the Bremen Senate , first as secretary , and then as Senator , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His congenial role was that of a minister of finance . But public affairs could not absorb him wholly Though he strayed as seldom from Bremen as Kant from KOnigsberg , he reached out into foreign literatures , and , suppressing every temptation to become a poet on his own account , he translated with marvellous skill and fidelity Byron , Ariosto 's ' Orlando Furioso , ' Dante 's ' Inferno , ' and Shakspere 's Sonnets . Of the others we can not speak , but his version of the Sonnets is masterly . These translations will keep his memory green . His editorial writing must needs undergo the fate of its kind ; and his two volumes of Essays will no doubt cease to be read , though Bamberger pronounced him the most eminent of German prose-writers . But it must be long before equal gifts of expression in such opposite lines as journalism and poetry will recur , even in men devoid of the political capacity which ensured to Gildemeister the highest local usefulness and distinction . 