@@486832

For an " off-year , " the campaigns of 1905 have roused unusual public interest . In four States ? Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Ohio , and Virginia ? Governors were to be elected . In Pennsylvania a State treasurer was to be chosen , and in Maryland a suffrage amendment , which led to a fierce campaign , was to be submitted to the voters . Georgia IN as the scene of an exciting canvass for the Democratic primary nomination for Governor , and in a number of States legislatures were to be chosen that would have the election to a United States Senatorship . Among these is New Jersey , where a successor to Senator Dryden must be considered , and Tennessee , where Senator Carmack and ex-Gov Taylor have been fighting for control of the Legislature . Various municipal campaigns also developed into contests of country-wide importance , like the three-cornered Mayoralty fight in this city , Jerome 's independent appeal , the City Party revolt in . Philadelphia , the Johnson-Boyd contest in Cleveland , and the anti-Schmitz campaign in San Francisco . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rhode Island , in Ohio , and in Georgia seemed likely to turn upon the success or failure of a candidate 's attack on corporation influence . Clark Howell emphasized , in his appeal to the Democrats of Georgia for support at the primaries , the charge that his opponent , Hoke Smith , had been a railroad attorney , and was presumably under the control of Morgan and the Southern Railway . Ex-Governor Garvin of Rhode Island based his claim for preference over Governor Utter this year , as in previous years , upon his desire to revise the little State 's antiquated Constitution  --  a Constitution that has facilitated the ownership of the corporation of Rhode Island by the street-railway interests , the Aldriches , and the Bray-tons . The Democrats of Ohio found a number of vulnerable spots in the Herrick candidacy , among them the Governor 's close connection with large corporation enterprises . The Republicans , to be sure , retorted that John M. Patti-son , the Democratic candidate , is the president of an insurance company . On both sides in Massachusetts taunts as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Guild on the Republican side , and Henry M. Whitney , Democratic candidate for Lieutenant-Governor , on the other . The fact that no national issues were before the people led to ' a thorough and ' wholesome discussion of local party organizations . State bosses like Gorman of Maryland , Lodge , and Cox of Ohio became distinct issues . In his struggle to force the Poe disfranchising amendment upon Maryland , Senator Gorman laid himself open to attack bath from I opponents in his own party , like Senator Rayner , and such ' aggressive Republican leaders as were headed by Secretary Bonaparte . It was shown that the suffrage amendment was merely a device for fastening an the State indefinitely an organization that had done Gorman 's will , and which he would bequeath to his followers . The shadow of George B Cox of Cincinnati has been over the Ohio Republican campaign . It was charged against Gov . Herrick that he had been under the influence of this ambitious gutter-product , and that the " boss of the worst-governed city in the country " would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ffn Pennsylvania , too , where the only State office of any consequence to be filled was that of Treasurer , the issue clearly defined itself ? Should the old Quay machine , already loose-jointed , under the management of Senator Penrose , control the State Treasury as it has owned the Governor and the city of Philadelphia , or should a beginning be made in independent government ? Here city and State campaigns oddly merged . A. sheriff , a coroner , and two city commissioners were to be elected in Philadelphia ? not a contest to excite general interest throughout the country in ordinary years ; but the hint had gone out that this election was to be the first trial of strength of the ' champions who , under Mayor Weaver , have set out to destroy the Durham ' organization that has lined up behind a national party banner . The attempt to inject national politics into local campaigns failed altogether in Philadelphia . It succeeded only partially in Ohio , ' and in Massachusetts Senator Lodge 's plea for Republican support for Guild and Draper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Roosevelt and ' his policies , met with no enthusiastic response Gorman 's argument that the Poe ' amendment was necessary to insure white supremacy , and that white supremacy meant the continuance of Democratic rule , the continuunce of an effective Opposition , failed to awaken the old-time spirit . Everett Colby 's successful primary fight against Major Lentz in . New Jersey has attracted the country 's notice as professedly the first skirmish in the battle to redeem the State Legislatures from the corporations that have named and owned United States Senators . The extension of the primary to the selection of party candidates for the Senate in . States like Virginia , Illinois , and Tennessee further emphasized this desire to puf back into the peoples ' hands the power wrested from them by the consolidation of the machine system . From this brief review it appears that though the campaigns of this year were limited in number , they served admirably to point the growth of independence in local affairs . THE WORK OF STATE RAILROAD COMMISSIONS . In the prolonged agitation over the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said regarding the experience of those States whose railroad commissions have long enjoyed substantially the same powers which Congress is now asked to confer upon the Interstate Commerce Commission . Some of them have a much longer history than that body , and most of them were granted their comprehensive - Dowers in response to popular movements  --  the Granger agitation , for instance  --  similar in character to that of which the so-called Interstate Commerce Convention is now the head . And it may ' be remarked in passing that , while the demonstrations of last year were not sufficient to secure the passage of the Esch-Townsend bill at Washington , they did result in the establishment of three new State rate commissions  --  in Indiana , Washington , and Wisconsin  --  and the passage of a railroad commission bill in Montana as well , though this was vetoed by the Governor . Since legislators have avowedly declared their purpose of doing within the boundaries of their own State what they would like to see done over the whole country , the history of the rate-making agencies so created ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . The State commission 's jurisdiction extends , of course , in any case , only to shipments which both originate and end within its territory , but what proportion this bears to the entire burden of traffic , neither the railroads nor the commissioners know . They could not know without collecting every bill of lading from every station for a year . This was illustrated in the Wisconsin legislative hearings last year , where the business within the State was variously estimated at from 2 to 16 per cent of the total . From a review of the reports of the so-called " strong " State commissions ? " regulative " as distinguished from " supervisory " ? two facts stand out strikingly . The number of complaints made to them of unjust or discriminating rates is astonishingly small , and an overwhelming proportion of these are settled out of court without even a formal order . The State Commission of real life , in other words , is neither the tireless and conscientious guardian of the people 's rights , ever alert , as the advocates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oppression , nor the crazy group of aggrieved theorists running amuck in the delicately balanced rate-structure , - as the other side has described . This may be illustrated by citing a few figures from various State reports for the year 1904 Of 5 complaints to the Illinois Commissidn , none related to rates , nor did any of the 58 made to the North Dakota Commission . Of 95 in South Dakota , 2 were on rates ; of 135 in Minnesota , 7 ; of 241 in Kansas , 14 ; and of 335 in North Carolina , 26 . Everywhere grievances regarding the running of trains , the erection of new stations , the building of side traaks , the failure of companies to supp'y cars , and similar operating matters greatly outnumber the rate cases . According to Frank Haigh Dixon 's table , given in his ' State Railroad Control , ' the Iowa Commission , between 1888 , when it was granted the rate-making power , and 1894 , received 92 complaints ot station facilities and service to 37 on rates  --  a smaller average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission was only advisory . But , eliminating this greater bulk of other business , we may summarize the year 's work of some it the more important " strong " commissions as regards rate adjustments alone , in a few lines each : " Alabama ? Hearings on application for general reduction of rates . Denied . Made ' material reduction ' in rates on grain , hay , potatoes , syrup. etc . Ordered 10 per cent deducted from sums of local rates " Georgia ? Ordered general revision of ' standard tariff . ' Enjoined by railroad companies Commission withdrew its orders on promise of the railroads to reduce interstate rates " Illinois ? No action on rates reported " Iowa ? Hearings on twenty modifications of rates requested Embodied sixteen in amendment to classification . Also settled many cases by correspondence . " Kansas ? Complaints on rates 14 , relief granted by Commission 3 , relief denied by Commission 3 , adjusted 7 , withdrawn 1 " Missouri ? Promulgated maximum distance freight schedule , abolished toll on grain inspected , reduced switching charges . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of railroads granted 4 , denied 1 , ot shippers , denied or dismissed 6 , granted 3 , adjusted 5 , no jurisdiction 5 " North Dakota ? No action on rates reported . " South Dakota ? Two rate complaints , both adjusted " Texas ? ' Many reductions ' ; held 97 hearings , issued 270 circulars , 375 ' special authorities ' Among reductions , icing charges on cabbages , excess baggage charges , rates on stone , sand , pig iron , wire , rough logs , and rice " Lack of uniformity in arrangement makes detailed comparison impossible , but is is manifest that . whatevLr the moral effect of the drastic rate-making powers of these commissions may be , they have very seldom exercised them . Not only are the vast majority of complaints adjusted without a formal order , but , in all States dealt with above , there was only one instance of a railroad company contesting an order in the courts , and that was to avert a general reduction . The so-called " strong " commissions , where they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked on substantially the same lines as a purely adv:sory Commission might . So their most useful function has been , not the summary correction of abuses by their own authority , but the bringing together ' of railroad and shipper in an amicable relation . GOVERNMENT EXPERTS . Our readers will recall that last May the Bureau of Manufactures at Washington sent out Mr. Lincoln Hutchinson as a special agent to report upon the condition of our trade with South America . It will be remembered , also , that Mr. Hutchinson speedily discovered and reported to the Washington authorities that there was no reason for thinking that American trade with Brazil would be aided by the establishment of additional steamship lines  --  of course , by means of a subsidy . It appeared , indeed , that there was no lack of steamship facilities , and that the countries which have worked the hardest to establish connections with Brazilian ports have not improved their trade by such efforts . In ' fact , , Mr. Hutchinson had the presumption to suggest that what was needed was not more steamships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now very slow and uncertain on account of the unbusinesslike methods of the New York Post-Office . When his report appeared , we suspected that his conclusions would cause a commotion among the subsidy-hunters at Washington , who seem to have the ears of the officials in the departments . That something had gone wrong with the machinery for disseminating official misinformation seemed to be recognized uneasily by the editor of the Daily Consular Reports , who took occasion to insert an editorial paragraph to the effect that Mr. Hutchinson 's opinion " does not agree with a very common belief in this country . " We have waited with interest to see what action would be taken to counteract the dangerous heresy that trade with any country can ever increase and multiply unless the Government gives somebody a subsidy . How such a pernicious doctrine ever found its way into an official publication of the United States Government , is hard to conjecture . A recent number of the Consular Reports supplies the needed refutation of Mr. Hutchinson 's dangerous teachings , and offers the aneencle honorable to the subsidy-seekers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has found a newspaper correspondent who has recently been travelling in South America , and who has become convinced that the only hope of extending our trade with Brazil and other countries is to establish direct steamship connection with their ports . That there is no laclof transportation facilities at present counts for nothing with this patriotic investigator : trade would increase by leaps and bounds " if fine steamers were seen in the Brazilian ports flying the Stars and Stripes . " What shall go into the ships is , of course , a matter of secondary importance , provided only that a subsidy form a part of the cargoes ; the main thing is to familiarize the people of South America with the sight of the flag . Let the subsidy-grabbers take new courage . Compared with the patriotic sentiments of this " recent traveller , " the opinions of Special Agent Hutchinson seem impotent and sordii indeed . All this suggests certain serious reflections concerning the position and functions of the " expert " who undertakes to investigate economic problems for the United States Government . Like Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably , he has been trained to observe facts , record patiently the results of his observation , and reason soberly upon the evidence he has gathered . But little does your expert realize how poorly his university training has fitted him for the practical , rough-and-tumble work of the official investigator . The first thing that 1 -- must learn is , that , to the politician , scientific truth means not conformity with hard and sober fact , but availability for the purpose in view at any particular time . In all things the expert must consider the purpose and policy of the party which happens to be in power , and must guide his researches accordingly . This is the first and greatest commandment for the expert ; and the second , third , and all the others are like unto it . To give these general remarks a practical application , and to furnish a model for Mr. Hutchinson and other inexperienced experts , we may point with pride to the work of the late Industrial Commission . There was a body of experienced investigators who understood precisely what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1898 over the growth of Trusts and the manner in which they abused the privileges accorded them by the tariff . There even seemed to be danger that something might be done to remedy the evils of which the people complained , and so Congress decided to bave the matter investigated . The members of the Commission , realizing the delicacy of the situation , deliberated until the country had had time to cool off , and then brought in a nineteen-volume report which nobody would , or could , read except under compulsion . The Commission concluded that Trusts were dangerous affairs which had proved a great boon to the American people , and that the tariff was responsible for none of their abuses and most of their benefits . Whenever any of the more untutored experts employed by the Commission were in danger of unearthing some significant and important fact , they were promptly called off and directed into " safer " avenues of investigation ; while if their final conclusions ever gave disrleasure , the disagreeable passages were conveniently lost somewhere on the way to the Government Printing-Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endangered no " business interests , " and never threatened to cut off contributions to the Republican National Committee . Inexperienced investigators , fresh from the university , may learn much from the nineteen portly volumes in which the work of the Commission is entombed . Indeed , if Mr. Hutchinson had merely read the first volume , he would not have committed such a faux gas as to run foul of the subsidy-grabbers during the second month of his labors . For whose benefit does he suppose that the commercial policy of the United States is now directed ? THE " PATENT MEDICINE " CRUSADE In order to reduce the " patent " proprietary medicine business to its legitimate field , it is necessary to accomplish only two things : First , the public must be made to understand what these " remedies " are in themselves , and , second , legislators and well-meaning citizens generally must be brought to realize that the " demonstrations of popular sentiment " in favor of these nostrums are purely factitious , being inspired solely by the manufacturerers themselves and those who profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harassing , perhaps , that the proprietors of the celebrated cure-alls have ever passed through  --  has seen so much accomplished by educational work along both of these lines that one might almost declare tae whole face of the question to be changed . The initial difficulty in dealing with this subject is , of course , that the vast majority of so-called " patent medicines " are not patented . If they were , their formula would be matters of public record . As it is , those engaged in the fight may easily discredit their cause by such mistakes as that of the editor who some months since described one popular mixture on the basis of an old analysis , and was compelled to retract by the demonstration that the composition as now on sale was something quite different . Concealment of the facts regarding a medicine , combined with the widest publicity for its claims , has been the requisite for success in this business . The facts have long been accessible to any one with but little trouble . Yet when some of the ten-cent monthlies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disrespect the patent-medicine-taking classes , began to publish them , more genuine consternation and horror was never aroused . Loyal members of temperance societies learned for the first time that the healing fluids they had been taking with such confidence and in such quantities contained percentages of alcohol carrying from twice that of lager beer to that contained in the most fiery whiskey , brandy , or gin . Many , if not most , of the " tonics " and " bitters " advertised are , what the secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Health called " Peruna " ? " cheap cocktails . " Without the agita tion of just such publications as the Ladies ' Home Journal , Leslie 's Monthly and Collier 's Weekly , it would have taken a very much longer time to hammer home this fundamental fact . Official agencies have been more than usually active , too , in the past year . The - Commissioner of Internal Revenue 's recent ruling , requiring the payment of a retail liquor dealer 's tax for the sale of the highly alcoholic preparations , is important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withholding the use of the mails from actually fraudulent medicine concerns . Finally , one State has at last enacted the law ? equiring the publication of formula on all packages or bottles of proprietary remedies . This law , which ought to be in force throughout the , country , has thus far been fought successfully by the " patent-medicine " interests everywhere except in North Dakota , which State is thereby entitled to head a roll of honor . As to the means by which an apparent expression of public sentiment is secured adverse to these salutary statutes , the article ' on " The Patent Medicine Conspiracy , " in the current issue of Collier 's , presents a greater amount of detailed information than has ever ' before been brought together . It has long been known by those who have looked into the subject that the crude method of buying Legislatures to head off unfriendly legislation has been succeeded by a more effective system of controlling the press through advertising . The credit for the invention is freely accorded to Mr F J. Cheney of Toledo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent. ) , who explained it a few years ago at a session of the Proprietary Association at Del-mamma 's . The writer of the article referred to shows by facsimiles of the advertising contracts of various leading companies that his hint has been taken . This is one clause found an substance in the advertising contracts of all the leading companies : " It is mutually agreed that this contract is void if any law is enacted by your State restricting or prohibiting the manufacture of sale of proprietary medicines " And the second bears a strong family resemblance to it : " It is agreed that the Munyon 's H. H Remedy Co. may cancel this contract pro rata in case advertisements are published in this paper in which their products are offered with a view to substitution or other harmful motive , also , in case any matter otherwise detrimental to the Munyon 's H. H Remedy Co ' s interests is permitted to appear in the reading columns or elsewhere in this paper . " These are brief clauses , but they are potent . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labelling bill " in the Massachusetts Legislature last spring went unreported by every paper in the State except the SpringfieldR- e-publican , . Because of them , it was found impossible to procure ' the publication of one of Mr. Bek 's articles , even at advertising rates , in the press of the country generally . Because of them , every /dollar of advertising has been with drawn from North Dakota . Because of them , editors have brought their personal influence to bear on legislatarsCollier 's prints one threatening letter to a Wisconsin ' Senator  --  and have written uncounted ' columns ' of " editorials " praising the wares of the nostrum makers . Details are given ad nauseam . We have seen , in an advertising journal not long ago , a report of the action of an Ohio newspaper publishers ' ' association , whose members voted that if a hostile bill pass-led the Legislature , their papers would adopt the policy of printing the attending physician 's name as a pant of every death-notice . We have said above that general enlightenment on two points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper place . If any one prefers somebody 's Nerve Cure to any other tipple , that is his own affair . The essential point is that no one shall be wheedled into buying it while ignorant of its real nature . Similarly , an editor , like ' anybody else , has a perfect right , under the Constitution , to shout himself hoarse in the praise of a patticuler cough syrup But , " when next is member of a State Legislature arises and states , as I have so often heard , ' Gentlemen , this label bill seems right to me , but I can not support it ; the united press of my district is opposed to it ' ? when that happens , let every one understand the wines that have moved the united press of my district " ' THE YOUNG MAN AND THE WORLD . Senator Albert J. Beveridge 's book , The Young Man and the World , ' renews one 's faith in human nature . Here is a member of the United States Senate advising beginners in the great business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at the careers of his distinguished colleagues and then utter the exhortation . " Go thou and do likewise . " The Senate is indubitably made up of men who have achieved what is commonly regarded as success . Consider but a few of the more prominent names : Morgan G. Bulkeley of Connecticut , Joseph R. Burton of Kansas , Arthur Pue Gorman of Maryland , Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts , William A. Clark of Montana , John F. Dryden of New Jersey , Thomas Collier Platt and Chauncey Mitchell Depew of New York , John H. Mitchell of Oregon , Boles Penrose of Pennsylvania , Nelson W. Aldrich of Rhode Island . From the conduct of these men an ingenious philosopher might deduce a compact and undeniably practical code of morals . The first and great commandment would be to get on ; and the second would be like unto it , to sacrifice everything to that end . If you want money , serve the interests of the corporations which can pay you handsomely . If you have money , debauch the electorate of your State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a man bred in the gutter . If you have education , devote your accomplishments to demagoguery . Exert every effort to make politics corrupt and disreputable . But this kind of cynicism is not for Mr. Beveridge His advice might fitly fall from the lips of any preacher or /Sunday-school. superintendent in this virtuous land , or it might , without arring the context , be incorporated in the volumes of Dr. Samuel Smiles himself . When there Is so much that is sound , it seems almost invidious to make selections . For the benefit of our more depraved readers , however , we venture to summarize briefly the main points of Senator Beveridge 's doctrine . We hope that our imperfect statement will serve to whet curiosity and increase the sale of the book , especially among professional politicians of all parties " Be honest with the world , and the I world will be honest with you . " This is the opening sentence , the keynote , so to speak , of the whole twelve chapters " I do not mean , " says the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you keep your hands clean of another 's goods or money . I do not mean that you shall not be a ' grafter . ' . . . Of course , you will be honest in a money sense . " From Mitchell , Burton , Penrose , and Depew oomes a hearty chorus of assent But we listen not to them , but to the sage of Indiana : " You must Je intellectually honest . Do not pretend to he what.you are not . . . . For example , never try to look wise . Many a front of gravity and weight conceals an intellectual desolation . " This is all very true , but , we submit , the honorable gentleman has transgressed the rules of Senatorial courtesy . Can Lodge read these words and yet refrain from rising to a point of personal privilege when the Senate convenes , and chastising the guilty author ? What is mores Senator Beveridge is attacking a former Member of the Indiana delegation , Charles Warren Fairbanks , now Vice-President of the United States . The phrase " intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fairbanks is not to try to look wise , what in Heaven 's name is there left for him to do ? We should like to dwell on the details of Senator Beveridge 's counsel about the choice of a profession In brief , he would have a youth pick out the thing he can do best and then set for himself " the ideal of perfection " in his calling . " Dream of yourself as the best civil engineer of your time , or the ? soundest banker , or ablest merchant . " / This suggestion , some hypercritical persons may say , is not novel  --  is even older than Solomon . It is . But Senator Beveridge is not so old as Solomon ; ibis private life is six or seven hundred ( times more exemplary ; and his words are as true as ' Proverbs ' What more can may one ask of a man of forty-three ? " He who worries , not only pm-sons the very fountains of his own strength , but arouses in the world 's attitude toward him a sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if an author iworries because Solomon or any other dead and forgotten dealer in maxims may have said the same thing before , that author will never write such a stimulating book as ' The Young Man and the World . ' The pages which discuss reading Should be reprinted entire , but space forbids . The Congresstonal Record is not , we learn with surprise and gratification , Senator Beveridge 's conception of a vade-mecum . Nor does he offer us a selected last from the voluminous issues of the Patent Office , the Bureau of Navigation , or the Agricultural Depart-Meat . These ponderous tomes , good though they be in thotr way , are not , in the opinion ? or the Senator from Indiana , food for the soul . He vastly prefers the Bible , Shakspere , Burns , Emerson , Plutarch , and Omar Khayyam We trust that the Senator is favoring his constituents with copies of these classics rather than with Government reports , though on this point he is not explicit . Perhaps he will pardon a suggestion from personal experience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we found that the Government publications were as good as the Bible or Shakspere for pressing autumn leaves For making scrap-hooks they were far superior . An agricultural report , with two out of every three sheets neatly cut out , was a scrap-book to be proud of . With the Bible and , Shakspere we were not , for some mysterious reason , allowed to take such liberties . The binding of Mr. Beveridge 's ' The Young Man and the World ' is so strong that the book will not suffer in the least from such cutting . In some ways the process would be beneficial ; for  --  to quote the . Senator 's own dictum ? " after a while one wearies of the endless repetition , the ' damnable iteration , ' contained in the great mass of books . " 