@@430396

 |p891  ON August 20th , the Belgian Chamber of Deputies voted to annex the Congo Free State to Belgium as a colony . On September 9th , the Belgian Senate followed suit . The double-monarch , Leopold , King-Sovereign of the Independent State of the Congo and King of the Belgians , has , in both capacities , set his official seal to this legislative action by consenting finally to give away the Congo with one hand and receive it back with the other . Thus , after years of public agitation and governmental negotiation , the so-called " Belgian Solution " is proposed as an answer to the Congo Question ; proposed , but as yet not finally and authoritatively accepted , for , though Belgium and the Free State are the immediate bargainers , the transaction contemplated is one in which the fourteen Powers signatory of the Acts of Berlin and Brussels have in fact the last word if they choose to say it . The Congo Question has forced itself upon the world in two chronological stages ? the first stage concerning a fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the middle nineties , as a consequence , on the one hand , of the reports of travellers , missionaries and Government officials to the effect that the most inhuman cruelty and butchery were being practised upon the natives of the Congo Free State , in central Africa ; and , on the other hand , of the out-and-out denials of Leopold and his agents : Between the accusations and the denials , the public was at first puzzled and sceptical . But from 1895 onward the charges came in with such increasing frequency and from such an ever - greater variety of trustworthy sources as finally to compel belief , and the " Congo  |p892  atrocities " became stock for common conversation . These atrocities , related in detail by those who had witnessed them , and given added vividness by actual photographs from the scene , made such an indelible impression on the popular imagination that to this day many people , of the class whose knowledge of events is gained from newspaper headlines , vaguely identify them with the entire Congo Question . But , even at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such specific outrages were only accompanying symptoms of an underlying disease to which the whole system of administration in the Congo had fallen victim . This disease was not at once fully diagnosed , but very soon it became clear that at the core it was a case of " rubber " and " profits . " Nearly all the accounts of atrocities made the attempts of the officials to force the natives to bring them more rubber for export the root of the trouble . As early as 1895 , so well-qualified an observer as Mr. E. J. Glace , the explorer , wrote , after an extended journey over the State , that the basic cause of the prevailing wretched conditions seemed to him to be the " frantic efforts to secure a revenue . " His insight was increasingly confirmed as time went on , and as the mass of evidence which accumulated month by month and year by year was analyzed , there gradually arose a public demand throughout the Western world , but most vigorously in England and the - United States , in which countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impartial and authoritative investigation of affairs in the Free State . The essential issue had ceased to be one of " atrocities " and had become one of the fundamental system of Congo administration . And in November , 1905 , approximately ten years after the accounts of misgovernment began to circulate , that issue was disposed of once and for all by the publication of the Report of the Congo Commission of Inquiry . The appointment of this Commission in July , 1904 , had been forced upon Leopold by the increasing manifestation of public indignation , and by urgent representations from the British Government . Its three distinguished members , Edmond Jansens , Giacomo Nisco and E. de Schumacher , spent four and a half months in the Congo , holding hearings and taking testimony in different localities . As , after their return to Europe , month succeeded month and the  |p893  findings were not announced , the public began to surmise that a crushing verdict of guilty had been brought in . And so it proved when at last , after eight months ' delay , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exaggerate . Not only did it substantiate the gravest of the charges which had been made , but it went further , and reduced these various charges to their common denominator , so to speak , in an underlying Congo " system " of merciless commercial exploitation of the natives . In a word , it proved that Leopold had established not a State , in any true sense , but a gigantic trading company . with all other considerations subordinated to profits . This Report has been the Gibraltar on which the Congo Reform Movement , now grown to such proportions , has rested firmly , needing no additional foundation . Leopold and his agents have , it is true , continued to reiterate denials , and in uninformed quarters have gained some credence ; but , in the light of the decisive evidence at hand , these denials are ridiculous . The conclusive character of the Report has not been more impressively put than by one of Leopold 's most distinguished Belgian subjects , Professor Felicien Cattier of the University of Brussels , who is probably the leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preface to his recent book , " A Study of the Situation in the Congo Free State , " Professor Cattier said : " The publication of the Report of the Commission of Inquiry transformed , as if by a stroke from a magic wand , the nature of the Congo Question and the direction of the discussions to which it gave rise . For a heated dispute as to the existence of abuses , it has substituted a calmer consideration of the necessary remedies . " Since the autumn of 1905 , therefore , the Congo Question has been in its second and present stage , in which the vital issue has been not the facts , but the remedial action to be taken in view of the facts . Four possible remedies have presented themselves : the institution of thorough reforms by Leopold himself ; the taking over of the Congo as a colony by Belgium ; some form of international administration ; partition among the Powers holding contiguous territory in Africa . Inasmuch as the Commission 's Report had proved that Leopold had torn to tatters the Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natives and the amelioration of their moral and material conditions , " it may well be urged that the only right course open to the Powers was immediate intervention to enforce respect for the humanitarian guarantees of these Acts . The failure of the Powers to take such immediate action can only be interpreted as equivalent to a declaration to Leopold that first he would be allowed the opportunity to set matters aright himself . He might have saved his Congo throne by at once putting into operation the fundamental changes recommended by the Commission . Instead , he appointed a Committee to study the Commission 's Report . The report of this Committee has not been published , but in June , 1906 , Leopold issued a list of decrees which , he made it clear , was his ultimatum so far as reforms were concerned . At the time , the press and public regarded these decrees , even should they be enforced , as merely superficial and palliative , and not reaching deep enough to affect the Congo " system . " And now comes conclusive evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent to the State Department last November by our late Consul - General in the Free State , Mr. James A. Smith . Said Mr. Smith , seventeen months after Leopold 's decrees were proclaimed : " That the obligations of the Congo Government toward the natives , as provided for in the Berlin Act , ' to care for the improvement of the conditions of their moral and material well-being , ' are being openly violated there is not the shadow of a doubt . The present conditions are those existing under the operations of the so-called reform decrees , promulgated as a result of the report of the King 's commission of inquiry of 1904 . If they are an improvement over former conditions , it is natural to ask what those former conditions must have been . The remark of a State official , made in my presence , ' My business is rubber , ' tersely expresses the attitude of the entire administration toward the native . The latter , so long as the present system is allowed to continue , can expect nothing from an administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forget the obligations it has assumed toward him . Briefly , the tendency of this system is to brutalize rather than civilize ? to force the native into such a condition of poverty and degradation that his future is a hopeless one , and to keep him there . " Such unquestionable testimony as this has been accepted by the two Powers who have most bestirred themselves in the case , the United States and Great Britain , as final proof of the necessity of interventionary action . In an official communication sent to the Belgian Government last April , Secretary of State Root  |p895  said , in diplomatically restrained language , but of sufficiently definite import , " The present situation is not that which was contemplated or foreseen when the Free State was called to life by the Powers . " And Sir Edward Grey , the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , declared in the course of a debate on the Congo Question in the House of Commons last February that , " The present existing authority i.e. , in the Congo is perfectly hopeless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of the hopes and aspirations with which consent was given to the founding of the Free State , you can not but come to the conclusion that the State , as it exists to-day , has morally forfeited every right to international recognition . " There is no room for doubt . therefore , that the situation in the Congo remains to-day essentially as it was described by the Commission of Inquiry , and that the first remedy proposed for the abuses , namely , the institution or reforms by Leopold himself , must be dismissed as having proved utterly impossible . The remedy of next resort is the taking over of the Congo as a colony by Belgium . This way out of the difficulty has come to be known as the " Belgian Solution . " Though it was not as King of Belgium or in behalf of Belgium , but in a strictly individual capacity , that Leopold ingeniously established himself in central Africa and subsequently obtained recognition from the Powers as ruler of the vast territory which he dubbed the Congo Free State ; yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted to have a closer relation to the State than any other Power , and even to possess the privilege of annexing and administering it , provided due regard is paid to the Acts of Berlin and Brussels and all other relevant treaties and laws . The single fact that the same person has happened to be KingSovereign of the Congo and King of Belgium has caused a close sentimental tie to exist between the two countries , which has been made stronger by the preponderant service of Belgians in the Congo army and administration . A more apparently legal bond was created by Leopold 's will , executed in 1889 , by which he bequeathed the Free State to Belgium . The publication of this document presented a spectacle amazing in the light of twentiethcentury constitutional and parliamentary government the spectacle of one man deeding away , as his goods and chattels , the persons , liberties and property of 1.5,000,000 people , and a region  |p896  nearly 1,000,000 square miles in extent . In 1890 , as compensation for a loan , Leopold gave Belgium the option of annexing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this option that Belgium is now acting . But a factor in the situation stronger than either sentimental ties or quasi-legal arrangements between Belgium and Leopold has been the disinclination of the Powers to jar the always delicate " balance " by attempting or even discussing any other disposition of the Congo ( after it became certain that Leopold could not be allowed to retain it ) than its passage to diminutive Belgium , itself a " neutral " State , created by the Powers in 7 830 from scraps of territory which had been battered back and forth in sorry style between Frank , Spaniard and Teuton since the Middle Ages . For these reasons the " Belgian Solution " has been regarded with most favor as a remedy for the ills with which the Congo is sorely afflicted . It is toward the application of this remedy , in genuine and thorough form , that the British Government has been working for several years , and our own Administration since the winter of 1906-7 , when it became publicly known through the press that Secretary Root had reconsidered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Denby , of Michigan , in March , 1906 , that the United States had no rights of intervention in the case on account of not being a signatory of the Act of Berlin of 1885 , and had taken the position that powers of intervention essentially as complete were accorded by articles 2 and 5 of the Act of Brussels of 1890 , to which the United States is a party , guaranteeing the protection and development of the Congo natives . But in exerting their influence to secure a transfer of the Congo to Belgium , both Mr. Root and Sir Edward Grey have made it clear that such a transfer , to be recognized , must involve a fundamental reform of existing conditions in the Free State . Sir Edward Grey said in the House of Commons debate already referred to : " We agree that it must be a condition precedent to any transfer of the Congo to another authority , that that authority should take it over on terms which will place it in a position to give assurances , and to guarantee that those assurances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Congo would be fulfilled . " The attitude of our own Administration is known to be equally rigorous . The vital query , then , as affecting the final acceptance of the articles of transfer  |p897  which have , on August 20th and September 9th , been favorably voted on by the Belgian Legislature , is : Do the proposed terms of annexation and the provisions for the future administration of the Congo , and the past , present and future circumstances which closely affect the transaction , guarantee the necessary re-forms ? According the fullest reasonable interpretation to the clauses of the three articles of transfer voted by the Belgian Legislature ? namely , the Treaty of Annexation , the Additional Treaty and the Colonial Charter ? and the fullest reasonable charity to the intentions of Belgium , as expressed particularly in her Government 's replies to the recent American and British communications , the reply that must be given to this query is an unequivocal ? No ? It has been shown , particularly by quotations from the report of the American Consul-General and from deliverances by Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congo to-day remain essentially the same as they were described by the Commission of Inquiry in November , 1905 . In view of this authoritatively recognized fact , one single provision of the Colonial Charter , which elaborates the regime that Belgium will institute in the Congo if annexed , is in itself sufficient to condemn the transaction . Article 32 of Chapter VI of this Charter declares that : " The decrees , regulations and other acts now in force in the colony shall still remain in force , except such rulings as are contrary to the present law and as are abrogated . " But such existing Congo regulations as are either contrary to the provisions of the proposed Charter or expressly abrogated by it or the other documents in question , are not the fundamentally pernicious ones which are accountable for the worst abuses , and the doing away with which public opinion has so long demanded . Therefore , the conclusion is inevitable that the worst abuses will be perpetuated if Belgian annexation of the Congo on the proposed terms is consummated . The strict and actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident when the Congo system as it operates to-day and the terms of the articles of transfer are analyzed in conjunction . The Report of the Commission of Inquiry shows that the great underlying iniquities in the Free State are : first , the wholesale  |p898  theft by the " State " of all the land except the merest hutspaces , leaving the natives landless in their own country ; second , as a necessary concomitant of the theft of the land , the seizure of all the produce of the land with which the natives might and should engage in legitimate trade for their own betterment , and by the almost total lack of which they are rendered possessionless in their own country ; third , the enforcement upon the natives of a so-called tax in labor ( that being , as the Congo officials naively contend , the only commodity left to the natives with which to pay taxes ) which is so enormous , as actually enforced , that it keeps the natives at work for the State almost incessantly , making of them at last slaves in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Report which describe in details these workings of the Congo system have been often quoted and are easily accessible to the public . Permission has been gained to incorporate in this statement evidence to the same effect from an equally reliable and still more recent source , which is not yet accessible to the public ; this evidence being that contained in the official reports to the State Department of ConsulGeneral Slocum , his successor Consul-General Smith , and ViceConsul-General Memminger . Mr. Smith wrote in his report of last November , referring to the theft of native land : " The ordinance of July 1st , 1885 , declared , in part , that the vacant lands were to be regarded as belonging to the State . The vacant lands were considered as all those not actually occupied or under cultivation by the natives ; their proprietary rights in and over their own country were ignored . " Then going on to speak of the consequent theft of all produce , he said , " The State , in continuation of this policy , has proceeded , under the guise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its benefit , and that of a number of concessionary companies , the natural products of those lands , consisting , for the most part , in rubber , ivory and gumcopal . " Finally , passing to the third point , the tax in forced labor , he states that on the basis of an actual experiment he made in having rubber collected under the most favorable conditions , with the native collectors the best that could be selected by one of the State 's officials , and the locality one of the richest in rubber , he found that given such conditions the payment of the State 's tax would require " nineteen days and five hours each month , or practically two hundred and thirty-six days each year . "  |p899  This under ideal conditions ! With natives less skilful in collecting , and laboring in localities where rubber is less plentiful , it can easily be conceived that the wretched Congolese must work for the State almost every day in the year . Summing up these conditions , Consul-General Slocum wrote from the Congo in December , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I find the Congo Free State , under the present regime , to be nothing but a vast commercial enterprise for the exploitation of the products of the country , particularly that of ivory and rubber . " And Mr. Memminger wrote last November : " In general , the condition of the people in the upper Congo seemed unhappy , and led to the conclusion that the system of government under which the natives must live does not promote their welfare . In its operation , the system seems to be one in which considerations of humanity and benevolence are least important . " Now there is not a clause in the Colonial Charter , the Treaty of Annexation and the Additional Treaty which restores to the natives the land formerly held by them in communal tenure according to native custom ; not a clause which puts them in possession of the fruits of the soil ; and not a clause which abolishes the labor-tax that now amounts to slavery . Instead is the provision already instanced to the effect that all existing regulations preserve full force of law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ documents may be relied on , they perpetuate by their omissions all the worst abuses . More than that , they positively specify that the abuses shall be preserved . Article 1 of the Treaty of Annexation provides that Belgium shall respect " the existing foundations in the Congo . " This means that the vast areas granted to so-called concessionary companies ( estimated by Sir Edward Grey to include three-fifths of the total area of the State ) shall continue in the possession of these companies , and that this much land at least , and its produce , will be kept out of the possession of the natives . Article IV of the Additional Treaty provides that immense sums of money shall be paid to King Leopold and his heirs , annually . This means that the natives will have to collect enough additional rubber to make these payments . Finally , the Colonial Charter stipulates that the entire staff of present Congo Officials shall be retained ? which means that the same men who have under Leopold perpetrated the abuses are under Belgium expected to carry out sweeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion , but on implicit citation of the actual terms of the three articles of transfer concerned in the proposed passage of the Congo from Leopold to Belgium . These documents are published in full in the reports of the Belgian Parliamentary proceedings . There are many high-sounding phrases dispersed through them , and many vague generalities which look good at first glance . But when all this ornamentation is stripped off , below in its full ugliness will be discerned the same old Congo sore . If the articles of transfer themselves offer no guarantee of a fundamental amelioration by Belgium of conditions in the Free State , where shall such guarantees be sought ? Certainly the contention of the Belgian Government that it does not care to discuss regulations involving the fundamental reforms until the annexation is an accomplished fact seems hardly fair in view of the issues at stake . But even should the Powers be willing to rely on the mere professions of intention of the present Belgian Cabinet ? professions not only unbacked by definite laws , to which legal recourse may be had , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and still more sub-Leopoldian Cabinets ? they could not find in these simple professions assurances that the demands of civilization would be fulfilled . The Belgian Cabinet , in its replies of April 24th and July 12th to the American and British communications , has said definitely that the concessions are not to be abolished . In answer to the demand that all land rightfully belonging to the natives be restored to them , it is stated that King Leopold 's decree of June , 1906 , assigning to the natives three times the amount of land previously allowed them , will be enforced . This is an enlightening admission that the decree in question has not yet been enforced , but as an adequate remedial provision it amounts to little ; for , inasmuch as the natives now possess only the scantiest hut-spaces , to give them three times as much would net them but a minute fraction of the lands formerly held by them in communal tenure , and over which , Consul-General Smith has reported , " their proprietary rights ... were ignored . " Finally , regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , which under the mildest conditions , Mr. Smith has stated , compels the native to work 265 days a year for the State , the Belgian Government goes only so far as to say that a very gradual reduction will be made .  |p901  But why , one may now be impelled to ask , is Belgium so unwilling to undertake the administration of the Congo on terms involving thorough reforms and giving effect to the humane provisions of the Berlin and Brussels Acts ? This innocent query strikes down to the very root of the evil . The answer may be given in brief compass . King Leopold has achieved world-wide repute as a promoter and financier of extraordinary ability . The Congo Free State is his supreme business success . The profits yielded by the merciless rubber system to Leopold and his co-partners , in their non-official capacity as chief shareholders in the concessionary companies , are , as is proved even by the published figures , enormous . The Belgians have won fame only as a nation of keen merchants and traders . Leopold 's business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens of Belgium . Undoubtedly the institution of genuine reforms in the Free State would appreciably diminish the profits from the colony and might even necessitate temporary grants-inaid . Leopold and his fellow stockholders in the rubber companies are averse to any reduction in their present profits . Leopold 's dividend-loving subjects are not only disinclined to be money-out in the Congo bargain , but see in it no contemptible opportunity for increased income . The net result of this hearty accord between the business king and his business people is that Belgium , unforced , will not introduce reforms in the Congo . On the contrary , as the " Catholic Mirror " of Baltimore has pithily expressed it , " It is wholly unlikely that the Belgium administration will spare any efforts to maintain the highly lucrative status quo . " This quotation from a weekly paper of Leopold 's faith is incidentally important as helping to remove a mistaken impression in certain quarters that American Roman Catholics have aligned themselves solidly in his defence . A complete contradiction of this erroneous notion , and at the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it stands at the moment . is afforded by an extract from the October number of one of the leading Roman Catholic organs in the United States , " The Catholic World . " After branding Leopold 's administration in the Congo as " a most dismal career of misgovernment , " it continues : " Started as a philanthropic attempt , under the auspices of the chief Powers , it soon eventuated into a sordid oppression . It will have served  |p902  one good purpose if it affords yet another demonstration of the impotence for good of autocratic methods of government . The Powers who signed the Berlin Treaty , under the provisions of which the Free State was inaugurated , will have to pass upon the annexation before it can be brought into effect , and , if necessary , may require such modifications and securities as may be essential for securing the rights of the natives . " As already pointed out , Secretary Root has taken the position that as a signatory of the Act of Brussels , the United States possesses rights of intervention in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . Will the Powers , but particularly the United States and Great Britain , be satisfied then with the taking over of the Congo by Belgium on the present terms ? This query is the key to the situation as it now stands . So far as is publicly known , neither Mr. Root nor Sir Edward Grey has as yet replied to the most recent communication of the Belgian Government , received on July 12th , nor have these statesmen yet spoken in approval or disapproval of the conditions of annexation which the Belgian Legislature has voted . If Sir Edward Grey maintains his position stated in the House of Commons last February , that any authority taking over the Congo must " give assurances " of the introduction of the fundamentally necessary reforms , and " guarantee that those assurances shall be carried out , " and if Mr. Root preserves his no less rigorous attitude regarding the issue , then it must be believed that these two Powers at least will refuse to recognize the terms of annexation proposed by Belgium . Such action would either induce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American and British demands , or would compel an international conference . If , even after the deliberations and dispositions of this conference , Belgium should still be unwilling to undertake the administration of the Congo on conditions consistent with humanity , either some form of international control , carrying out the ideal expressed in 1885 , when the Free State was founded , or partition among the Powers holding contiguous territory in Africa would have to be adopted as a remedy of last resort . But whatever the final outcome , one thing is certain : The " Congo Free State , " and all that this ghastly misnomer hen come to mean , must go .                     