@@485008

The Army Bill , so mangled that it bore little resemblance to the poorly drawn measure so hastily introduced on Monday week , passed the House on Thursday by a vote of 166 to 133 , a number of Dem-ocrats voting in the affirmative . It is not often that the Congressional spoils-men have such a glorious opportunity , and they made the most of it by giving the army merit system worse blows than those dealt to the civil service by President McKinley . As it now stands , volunteers and civilians can find more than one loophole to get into the service for which they may or may not be fitted , without examination ; and finally , the age limit for lieutenants was removed . Any incapable volunteer officer of fifty years or so with the requisite pull can now be sure of getting a place next to or - ahead of the latest batch of West Pointers fresh from four years of careful training , and , after a few years ' service , can go upon the retired list with a comfortable pension for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appoint Gen. Shafter a major-general on the retired list , and for declining to retire Gene . James H. Wilson and Fitzhugh Lee , little else can be said to its credit . The infliction of another highly officered staff corps  --  of horse doctors  --  and of a department of dental surgeons upon the abused army establishment would alone condemn the bill . Such disorganization as this is the sole reward meted out to the faithful , gallant , and capable little regular army which fought and won the battle of Santiago , which bears the brunt of the Philippine struggle , and whose merits were but yesterday trumpeted so loudly . Fortunately , the Senate may yet insist upon some measure of decency before the bill becomes a law . When the retired list of the United States army was established , it was for the express purpose of pensioning de -- serving officers of long service who had attained the age of sixty-four years . It was also intended to relieve the highest grades of worthy but superannuated officers and to insure regular promotions . There never was the slightest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting foul-mouthed , incompetent , or insubordinate officers off the active list For this purpose there was established -a regular system of courts-martial , and a corps of official prosecutors known as judge-advocates-general . Such a courtmartial tried Brig-Gen . Charles P. Ea- gan , Commissary-General of the army , for language , unb'ecOming a fish-Wife , used towards his superior officer , the commander of the army , at a time when American and foreign attention was particularly centred upon . our military . For this grossly scandalous conduct the court-martial sentenced Gen. Eagan , in February , 1899 , to dismissal from the service  --  the only punishment commensurate with the offence . A weak and temporizing President commuted this sentence to six years ' suspension from duty on full pay . Now , in order to do tardy justice to the officer who has been filling Gen. Eagan 's place with less rank and pay , the President has restored to duty and retired Gen. Eagan at his own request , with three-quarters pay for life , no other method of getting rid of him being open . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list , while his failure to mete out justice when the case was first submitted to him has now caused him to put an indignity upon every officer of the retired list who is on it for meritorious reasons . It is surely a cause for satisfaction that the House of Representatives has gone on record against the army canteen in such a way that its will can not again be inisundersteed or misinter preted . This may be said whcilly aside from the question of the advisability of the institution . Nearly two years ago . Congress declared opposition to the sale of intoxicating liquors on Government reservations , but its action was nullified and its will disobeyed by a most extraordinary legal decision of Attorney-General Griggs , with which the public at large is familiar . That a high law officer should be able deliberately to thwart the wishes of the highest legislative body in the land is neither a desirable nor a fitting thing , and Representative Littlefield deserves much credit for his success in getting the House to stand fast and repeat its action . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the discussion of the value of the canteen will continue unchecked . Army officers , following Gen. Corbin 's later judgment of 1899 will declare in large numbers that it is better that soldiers should drink Government beer than privately owned liquor in the infamous dens which surround most army posts . Army officers opposed to the canteen , like Gen Corbin in 1892 ? and there are such  --  will most-1 e continue to keep silent , in view of the obvious bias of their superior officers , and of the doubt whether their letters would ever see the light of day after reaching Gen. Corbin . Meanwhile some facts should not be overlooked . In navies the world over , the trend has been distinctly away from serving liquor to the crews , as used to be the custom in our own fleet . As for armies , the canteen , being in the post , offers numberless attractions to the soldiers passing and repassing all day , and the " light beer " is often but a stimulus to the desire for more alcoholic drinks . Thanks are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican of Massachusetts , for his speech on the Army Bill . He resorted to no subterfuges and made no apologies , but struck directly at the war in the Philippines as an attack upon human liberty , for which a permanent increase in the army was demanded . Then he called for action by Congress to put an end to the war by the simple process of telling the Filipinos that we intend to give them self-government . To this , Mr. Hull of Iowa replied that the President was obliged under the Treaty of Paris to maintain the sovereignty of the United States in the islands , and that in order to do so he must have soldiers . This was not responsive to Mr. McCall 's argument , since no embarrassments beset Congress in this particular . It has always been open to Congress to make a declaration respecting the Philippines similar to that made concerning Cuba , and no time could be more appropriate for making it than the present , when an army bill is pending . Mr. Hull evidently perceived the weakness of his reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that the Philippines would remain under our sway as long as our Government lasted . So the cat is out of the bag . There is to be a permanent increase of the army to 100,000 men for the purpose of holding in subjection a distant and alien people who have so little in common with us that we are not willing to make them our fellow-citizens This increase of the army is to be put in the discretion of the President in order to avoid responsibility on the part of Congressmen who vote for the bill , and who seek to avoid all other responsibility by refusing to pass any bill to settle the government of the Philippines Senator Frye has spoken for two days in favor of the Ship-Subsidy Bill , and has thus set an example , in the way of talking against time , of which the opponents of the measure may possibly avail themselves . He reiterates the ad captandum , phrase so often repeated , that we have paid and are paying millions of dollars to foreigners which we ought to save by carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean by saying that " we paid " this money ? It is a fact well knOwn that the greater part of all shipments of American products to foreign countries , especially of the bulkier ones , are made for foreign account , and are arranged for , and paid for , by foreigners who have bought our products here and have made their own arrangements for shipping . In the selection of vessels for carrying these shipments , sentiment plays no part . It is merely a question of rates , and unless the United States is prepared to pay its citizens to engage in the foreign shipping business at a loss to such an extent as to reduce the entire ' international freight rate , this bill will not prevent those who buy and export our products from employing foreign ships ; and until the whole international freight rate is reduced , producers here will obtain no more for their goods than at present . Moreover , in the case where an American merchant buys goods for export and en gages his own freight room , he gets the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American ship or a foreign one ; consequently there is no loss either to him or to the country . Chartering an American ship to do the same work at a higher price is a loss of the difference to the American merchant , and hence to the country of which he is a part . The theory of the Subsidy Bill is that the United States Treasury shall make good this difference , and that then it will be a net gain to the country instead of a loss , and not merely a gain of this small difference , but a gain of the whole amount of the freight . Senator Frye 's notion of amending the Ship-Subsidy Bill into a semblance of decency is evidently that of making a fairer division of the swag . By nicely adjusting the booty between Pacific and Atlantic , between American-built and foreign-built steamers , he thinks to obviate all reasonable objection . It apparently never occurs to him that the offensive thing is not the manner of dividing the spoil , but the fact that there is any spoil to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cool insolence of a committee of interested persons , who meet in Washington and instruct Congress in just what proportions to give them $9,000,000 a year . This impudent exhibition of greed , however . with its open assertion of ownership of the Republican party , is what is making Western Republicans shake their heads , and is the main obstacle in the way of the bill . Another obstacle is taking shape in the evident preparations of foreign capital to invade American ship-yards and so be ready for a share of the largess . As the chief announced object of the Subsidy Bill is to do away with the monstrous crime of paying any money to foreigners , we do not see how a measure which would pay one cent of interest to English or German capital invested in American ship-building can be looked , upon with aught but horror . " Senatorial courtesy " has long been responsible for offences of various sorts . What may be called Representative courtesy is now invoked to justify a legislative outrage . Charles A. Boutelle went to Congress from Maine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his health broke down last year , with steadily increasing efficiency during the latter part of the period , particularly as Chairman of the House Committee on Naval Affairs . Last summer his Republican constituents renominated him for another term , to which he was elected in September , although his condition at the time was such as to justify small hope of his recovery . Indeed , the chief argument for giving him this nomination was that his mental state was such that it might kill him to learn that he had been set aside for disability . Everybody now recognizes that he can never resume his duties at Washington , and as he has no private income , some one proposed that a bill should be passed authorizing his appointment as a captain on the retired list of the navy upon his resignation from Congress . The Committee on Naval Affairs on Friday reported this bill favorably , and it is pretty safe to predict that their action will be ratified by the House , and then endorsed by the Senate as a matter of comity between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it does not warrant such injustice to others as will be involved in the passage of the pending bill . A captain in the navy who goes on the retired list , receives for the rest of his life one-half or three-quarters of the sea pay ( $3,500 ) of his rank , and the placing upon this list of a man from civil life would mean that he would be put upon the same plane with the man who has been serving steadily in the navy since the Maine Congressman left it , nearly thirty-five years ago . This would be grossly unjust in itself , and pernicious as a precedent . A private pension act in Mr. Boutelle 's behalf would at least not involve such injustice to others . But in truth his case is not one for Congressional legislation at all . Mr. Boutelle has a host of personal and political friends , and it should be an easy matter to raise the moderate sum required to secure an annuity which would render his last years comfortable . While our bankers and brokers are complaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news comes from Berlin that the oldest association of merchants in that city has memorialized the Imperial Chancellor for relief from similar taxes levied upon them by the Imperial Government , and has asked for a general reform of the law regulating stock-exchange transactions . The memorial declares that the movement against the banks and the exchanges , and the legislation of late years , have been based upon an entire misconception . Aside from absolute prohibition of legitimate speculative buying and selling of stocks and grain , taxation . on all transfers has been disastrously burdensome . This has greatly embarrassed the banks , and the evil consequences have been far-reaching . The memorial declares that the thrifty laborer-and handicraftsman and the small - investor have suffered equally with the-great merchant , manufacturer , or landowner , and that agriculture , trade , and , industry , national and international .. have been seriously handicapped . It seeks a remission of taxes on stock transfers , which , it insists , are unjust , since they are collected irrespective of the amount of profit or loss involved in any given sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legitimate speculation in futures . Sunday 's dispatches - make clearer than ever the evils of the European occupation of China , and the demoralizing influence of the great and irresponsible powers wielded by the provisional government . At Tientsin , we learn , there are eight department heads , who draw a salary of $8,000 apiece , their eight , deputies receive $6,000 , and numerous officials are paid as much as $3,000 . These positions are sinecures , and any one can see how odious this exploitation must appear in the eyes of the Chinese . It is most gratifying that we as Americans have had no part in this sorry business . Whatever may have been the terms of Gen. Chaffee 's " offensive " note protesting to Gen. Waldersee against the looting of the Imperial Observatory , its spirit was that of every right-feeling American . In protesting against the incurring of future and permanent obligations by the provisional government , he acted with a soldierly sense of honor that has been rarely shown in the whole Chinese business . In instructing the American representative in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he refuted the taunt of commercialism so often made against Americans qua Americans . Minister Wu Ting Fang , who spoke some Interesting words in this city on Sunday an Confucianism and Christianity , would , we believe , in considering the attitude and the acts of the other Christian Powers in China , be inclined to distinguish between Gen. Chaffee and the other commanders , finding in him that kind of practical recognition of man-to-man duties which is the essence of Confucian ethics . It is really a tremendous victory for public sentiment to have forced Platt into giving up every feature of his original State Constabulary scheme except the suggestion that the Governor shall have the power to remove summarily the single Police Commissioner who is to be appointed by the Mayor . The plea for this exception to full acceptance of the home-rule principle in the matter is that an emergency might arise in which the interests of the State would suffer irreparable harm unless its Executive could interfere immediately . It is argued , for example , that a bad Police Commissioner might threaten the fairness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his action by the Mayor , so that the only remedy would be his instant displacement by some higher power . But the experience of the city in the recent election shows that it is not at all necessary that the Governor shall have the power to remove the head of the Police Department in order to insure fair play at the polls . Gov . Roosevelt 's letter to the Mayor notifying him that the Executive would hold him responsible if anything went wrong , served the purpose perfectly . The great objection to such a division of power as is now proposed is that it gives two officials , generally representing two parties , authority over one man , and that is almost sure to work badly . In the course of one of his speeches during the anti-Quay campaign of 1898 , Mr. John Wanamaker publicly criticised and denounced one of the Quay schemes for the plunder of the State Treasury . This was the publication and printing of a State poultry book for the information of farmers . Originally intended as a pamphlet to be sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large volume with expensive colored plates of game birds , deer , and other animals , the whole issue costing the State $56,000 , or about four and one-half dollars a copy . The State printer , one Robinson , had the effrontery to sue Mr. Wanamaker for slander on the ground that no one could show that any of the spoils had stuck to his fingers . Judge Wilson of Beaver County on Thursday n on-suited the plaintiff , thereby not only upholding the Bill of Rights , but also the principle that public criticism of public officers which does not involve intentional or malicious misstatement of fact is not libellous . In this respect the case was not unlike the Butler-Holt indictment in this city a short time ago , and any other verdict , would have been an inspiration to bosses the country over . Mr. Chamberlain is a first-class fighting man , and the battle always rages fiercest in his vicinity ; so that the bitter personal attacks upon him in both houses of Parliament on . Thursday may be taken by his friends as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Lord Rosebery 's summing up of the charges against the Colonial Secretary  --  that , while he had not been proved to be personally corrupt , " the pride of England in the purity of its public men " had suffered in the spectacle which Chamberlain presents  --  will long remain to plague him As usual , Mr. Chamberlain is on record as having taken the highest moral ground against the very practices in which he has now been caught . When Sir Hercules Robinson was named High Commissioner to South Africa , Chamberlain attacked the appointment , on . the ground that Sir Hercules had held shares in the South African Company . It was not that he expected the Commissioner to be " improperly influenced , " but a person chosen by the Queen for high office must be , like Caesar 's wife , not only pure , but beyond suspicion . This sounds grandly coming from the man who , as Colonial Secretary , has been shown to be connected , either in his own name or through his family , with five different companies having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them pretty fully occupied the House of Commons on Monday . It was Mr Chamberlain 's oratio pro demo sup that must have been most painful to make . He made it most adroitly ; appealed to his own record and that of his family for commercial honesty , repudiated indignantly the charge that he personally had profited , or his family ( who were plain business folk , with their fortune to make ) , unduly , by Government contracts , while as for those unfortunate investments , it was simply heartless to persecute an honorable man for an indirect interest in Government contracts amounting to a few pounds , or perhaps shillings only . It is in the morally impotent conclusion that the Brummagem note sounds full . Probably no one seriously charges Mr. Chamberlain with deliberate corruption . What Mr. Chain . herlain only too clearly shows of him self is this , that the " honorable and sensitive " man who writhes under these charges , was not sensitive enough to drop investments , however small that might expose him to Monday 's humiliation . For a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was defeated by what , with the abstaining Irish members present , would have been a bare majority of the House . Mr. Balfour had an easier time in his plea for the Salisbury family in the Cabinet . It was a Conservative , to be sure , who proposed a resolution of regret that Lord Salisbury had appointed his own relations so freely . But Mr. Balfour had only to say , waiving any punctilio of false modesty , that the appointments were excellent ones , and that in such case " the unhappy accident of birth ought not to be a bar to public service . " The House assented by a handsome ma jority . A moralist might well ponder the advantage of a family with no Government pounds , shillings , and pence to explain away , over one with a few to account for . Mr Chamberlain never displayed his personal and political adroitness to greater advantage than in his statement in the House of Commons on Friday regarding the future of the Boer republics . The cat-like agility with which he always falls on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the object of the bitterest attacks . On Friday the session closed in universal applause for the Colonial Secretary , whose conciliatory and statesmanlike declaration concerning the Transvaal and Orange River Colony delighted even his opponents . What they cheered most of all was his intimation that the Rand gold-miners , who did their best to bring on the war , were to be taxed smartly to help pay for it . This will wring the souls of those gentry , who have already begun to complain that they are going to be mulcted more heavily by the English than they were by the Dutch . But Chamberlain was famous of old for his doctrine of " ransom " to be paid by . the rich , and he evidently now means to apply it in Johannesburg .                     