@@430438

 | FROM the time Liberia was founded in 1822 by the American Colonization Society , up to the outbreak of the Civil War , she had a prominent place in the mind of the American public . Since this war healed the breach which threatened to sever the United States asunder , there has been a most wonderful and rapid jump in material prosperity . During this unparalleled period of national evolution , Liberia was almost forgotten ; at least she dropped out of sight as far as the average individual is concerned . In the meantime the colonial possessions of France and England in West Africa began to assume a more significant place in the national life of these countries , as markets had to be secured for their surplus products . Both of these nations have territory contiguous to Liberia , and consequently they became directly concerned in the affairs of this little republic . France has been secondary while England has played a most important part either directly or indirectly , in the activity and destiny of Liberia since 1871 , when the ill-fated loan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less indiscreet loan of 1906 so involved England and Liberia that the former has arrogated to itself almost the power and right of a suzerain . The Liberians are intensely patriotic and will loudly , if not effectively , resent any attempt at encroachment upon their autonomy . If the Liberians are super-sensitive as regards the action of Great Britain ; if they are suspicious of her when she virtually begs this republic to permit her subjects to help put her house in order ; if they fear the English after they are once in Liberia ; the facts may justify their apprehension and dread , especially when the recent actions of the representatives and subjects of England are considered . England . as well as every one of her subjects in the employ of the Liberian Government or who is doing business in Liberia , protests that she has no ulterior motive in her relations with Liberia ; tha : her desire is simply to assist the republic in organizing and maintaining an orderly and stable government ; that she already has enough territory to control . The English press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberian Frontier Force , offered to organize a well-disciplined police force for Monrovia , to fix and clean up the streets of the city , all for nothing . He had actually been appointed Police Inspector , Street Commissioner and Tax Collector by the Mayor and Common Council of Monrovia . This was a little too loving on the part of the Major . The people protested ? and loudly , too ? so the Mayor and his advisors thought it safe to revoke the commission of Cadell . All the while protesting no designs upon Liberia 's standing as an independent state , England has been gradually absorbing her territory on the northwest . In the last boundary treaty , when the Alamo River was made the dividing line between Liberia and the British colony of Sierra-Leone , England claimed the right of possession of the whole of this river , notwithstanding Liberia 's protests and the precedents established by international law that when a river forms the boundary between two countries the right to the use of the stream belongs alike to each country . Contrary to treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground that Liberia is unable to control the natives of that section . These natives claim allegiance to Liberia and have been peaceful and law abiding . Kanre Lahun is an important gateway to the trade of that part of the interior and for this reason England is anxious to have this section annexed to Sierra Leone . England knows she has no right to this territory and has offered to give to Liberia in ex-  | change for it a large , barren and less thickly populated section southeast of Kanre Lahun . France has usurped Liberia 's territory as well as England . She forced Liberia to give up the San Pedro country on the southeast , has taken some in the north , and in the last delimitation , which has just been completed but not ratified , has appropriated about one-third of Liberia 's total area on the north and southeast . In all these cases Liberia has given tip her rightful territory under duress . The Liberians are placated ; they are deluged with courtesy and honeyed words ; their commissioners and delegations are kindly treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all the while Liberia is being cupped and bled and told that it is only for her good . If France is allowed to take Liberia 's territory , England is determined to get her part . In view of these facts the Liberians are justified in being apprehensive about their independence . When Liberia contracted the loan of 1906 England tightened her grip on this country . She then assumed the role of a suzerain and began to make demands for certain reforms . France in a sort of indefinite way seconded these reforms . The British Consul-General at Monrovia , Braithwait Wallis , reminded the executive government of those reforms in an open letter in January , 1908 , recapitulated by him as follows : ( a ) The appointment of a financial expert who will place the finances of the country on a sound footing and will advise the Secretary of the Treasury on financial matters . ( b ) The establishment of an efficient , well armed , and well disciplined police force under competent European officers ; and one that will command the respect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least three more European customs experts . ( d ) The reform of the judiciary . " European " in the above must be interpreted as meaning " English , " as only Englishmen have been employed in the service of the Liberian Government under the acts creating the reform organization . His Majesty 's Consul-General demanded that these reforms be carried out within six months after date of the letter . If they were instituted His Majesty 's Government would be glad to suspend the pressing of its monetary claims against Liberia and to settle also the long disputed question of the navigation of the Mario River . Moreover , His Majesty 's Government would be pleased to lend Liberia the necessary officers to successfully execute the reforms . If they were not instituted , however , within the time set , England would not think of further guaranteeing Liberia 's independence . The financial adviser was appointed in conformity with the demand . The organization of a police force for the frontier was undertaken and three British officers employed to drill the soldiers and construct barracks . The three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were seven British subjects in the employ of Liberia , two of whom were drawing a larger salary than the President of the Republic ; It was in the execution of the duties of these men that trouble arose which culminated in the dismissal of two of the British officers in the frontier and the falsely circulated rumor of a revolution . When the barracks had been nearly completed Major Cadell , who was in charge of the barracks , began to act as tho he were in the service of the British Government , instead of Liberia , and obeyed orders from the British Consul-General rather than from the proper officials of the Liberian Government . He disobeyed orders of the President of the Republic in that he enlisted , contrary to instructions , a large number of British soldiers other than the few drill sergeants from Sierra Leone which were allowed him as help . Major Cadell had a free hand in the organization and management of the barracks , and spent nearly $75,000 , much of which is unaccounted for . The customs department has had a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was much dissatisfaction , however , among the people when Mr. Lamont , as financial adviser , attempted to assume his duties . This resulted in the resignation of the Secretary of the Treasury , which was subsequently withdrawn . The duties of the financial adviser appeared too comprehensive and were interpreted as virtually absorbing all the functions of the Secretary of the Treasury . Customs duties were made payable only in English , American and German gold and English  | silver . Liberian silver was not acceptable which fact has served to depreciate the Government 's money . The demand for a reform of the judiciary was based upon the plea that Liberian judges were corruptible and unfit for office , and that foreigners could not obtain justice in the courts . The records of the courts do not indicate that such a charge is a just one . During the last twenty-five years there have been fiftytwo cases in which foreigners have been involved ; twenty-nine of these were decided in favor of the foreigners , fifteen in favor of Liberia ; the remainder were either remanded for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a question as to whether British subjects are capable of executing the necessary reforms in this , a republican form of government . Trained as they are in a monarchical country and in colonial service of the same , they do not comprehend thoroly the principles of a representative democracy . They are dictatorial and autocratic and therefore fail to understand institutions where the people rule . This has been verified in the actions of Englishmen on the ground . Their reform methods smack of the British colonial policy , and will not do for Liberia . Liberia has now turned to America , after whom she is modeled . American institutions are reproduced here in miniature . The American Commission recently appointed by President Taft is in Liberia investigating conditions . The members will see the needs of this Republic and make a report . No one knows exactly what the American Government will do for Liberia . That depends upon the findings of the commission . The people know what they want and have asked for those things . The average individual would like for America to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out a circular letter to most of the leading men of the Republic requesting opinions as to what was best and most needful to ask of America thru the Commission . The replies vary in length and detail , but the consensus of opinion may be particularized under the following heads : To ask the Government of the United States : ( a ) To guarantee Liberia 's independence . ( b ) To secure the consent of the other nations to submit all questions of an international character to arbitration . ( c ) To advise the Liberian Government in all important matters which might entail international complications . ( d ) To establish a coaling station somewhere on the Liberian coast . ( e ) To lend Liberia experts who will develop all the departments of Government along the best and most modern lines . ( f ) To float a loan which shall wipe out all the indebtedness of Liberia , thus consolidating her debts Capitalists are asked to invest money in this country in order to develop its resources . Many would like to see Liberia taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba was helped . The work needed here is reorganization and construction . The people are ready and eager for reforms but they need leaders who are in sympathy with their institutions . America is their last hope , and if nothing can be done by her , the old patriots will despair and forsake the ship of state . They have said so . For then English occupation would be certain . They could not bear to see the Lone Star hauled down unless more stars went up in its stead .                     