@@430323

 |p645  GOING abroad , are you ? Well , I congratulate you ! You will enjoy it , yet , I imagine you will be somewhat disappointed with what you sea . The European landscape will seem small and artificial in comparison with our own country . In contrast with our magnificent rivers , the Rhine will seem like a rivulet , and its castled hills are dwarfed by the sentinel rocks of the Hudson . The Thames and the Seine are about as large as the nameless creeks that wander across almost every county in America , while the waters of the blue Danube could be poured into the boiling flood of the Mississippi without changing its colors a single shade . What ! You have never seen the Mississippi ! Then postpone your trip abroad and see your own country first , for one of the most awe-inspiring sights in nature , greater even than the roaring falls of Niagara , is to watch the silent , majestic and resistless sweep of the Mississippi at its flood . To a person who has never beheld one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clouds , seems the most wonderful sight in the world , and consequently many travelers not only waste precious time gazing with awe upon comparatively commonplace sights , but also make themselves ridiculous by their extravagant comment thereon . Now , the chief pleasure in travel is derived from seeing things from the proper perspective anti in having a broad basis for comparison . And so you will make a great mistake if you go abroad without seeing America first , for what has the world with which to match our Yellowstone Park with its wondrous geysers gushing from fountains of strange and grotesque shape , carved with nature 's own hand , or the towering cliffs of Yosemite , veiled with the mists of falling rivers and guarding within their lofty ramparts , our giant trees , that stand the oldest of living things upon the earth today . The Alps are beautiful , but they are no more accessible than the Canadian Rockies , which in rugged splendor and exquisite beauty surpass anything that Switzer- land has to offer . If all the glaciers of Switzerland were packed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice which pours down the valley of the Illecillewaet , nor of that other immense glacier which hangs over the head of the Yoho valley . No Alpine lake can match the gemlike setting of Emerald lake or the sparkling frame about Louise , nor can Como or Maggiore equal the magnificent wildness of Pende d'Oreille and Cmur d'Alene in northern Idaho , whose crystal waters fill the great valleys between mountain ranges , and whose islands are other mountains that have just managed to hold their rugged peaks above the flood , while the cloud-hung cliffs along the Kootenai and Arrow lakes are unsurpassed . The trip from Vancouver to Tacoma , dodging the islands in the Gulf of Georgia , through the straits beneath the snow-capped range of the Olympic mountains and down into Puget sound , with the white cone of Mt Baker standing like a watching sentinel for the continent , can only be compared to the trip through the Inland sea of Japan , which it surpasses in every respect , and not the least in the magnificent panorama with which it ends . As you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mt Rainier dominates the landscape and presents a spectacle which not only can never be forgotten , but which you will treasure in memory as one of your most precious possessions . Most mountains run up to points more or less sharp , so that the highest peak stands thin and spire-like in the sky . Not so with Mt Rainier . Its great , bald dome rises like a giant hump into the sky and you are surprised to see such a tremendous mass so high above the earth . Most high mountains are viewed , of necessity , from places themselves of considerable altitude ; for instance , Pike 's Peak , which is of almost the same Night as Mt Rainier , is best seen from Colorado Springs , itself at an elevation of about six thousand feet . Bnt the view of Mt Rainier is remarkable not only for the great mass of the mountain , but for the fact that you see it from the level of the sea , and it rises almost from the ocean 's edge to the great elevation of fifteen thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountains rise out of ranges with other peaks near by approximating them in hight , while Mt Rainier stands solitary and alone , without a rival near , with a bulk so great that one can almost believe that all the Alpine peaks would have to be rolled into one to equal it . If you wish a vision to treasure through life , sit and watch this great mountain at evening just after full moon . As the sun sets , the mist and darkness creep over the base of the mountain , hiding it from sight , while the glistening summit hangs as if suspended in the heavens . As the sunlight fades , the shining snow turns from white to pink , while the shadows creep higher up the mountain , until , as twilight grows dim , the great cone looks like a glowing red cloud . Just then the rising moon casts the shadow of the great mass across the plain to the west and the outline of the mountain appears again . Rising , the pale orb seems to roll up the slopes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moment before had glowed with the deep red of the setting sun . Had we the sentiment or imagination of the Greeks , we should make this mountain a modern Olympus , from whose storied crest the spirits of these times would descend to work their will among men . For beauty of location and picturesque surroundings no cities of the world can match those of our own country . Seattle with its piers in the deep waters of the Pacific , rises over the fern-crowned hills to the picturesque shores of that great freshwater lake which lies behind , and along which are the city 's parks and pleasure resorts and its most beautiful homes . Westward across the sound , stand the cloud-wrapped Olympics , while east , behind the lakes , rise the forest-clad stores of the Cascades . North and south the great sentinel mountains , Baker and Rainier , tower fifteen thousand feet above the city . A ride more inspiring than that from Seattle to Portland can hardly be imagined . Southward you go through great forests of cedar and fir , the fragrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glory of Mts Rainier and Saint Vincent , along the banks of the majestic Columbia , and up the picturesque Willamette to Portland . The city stretches from the river 's edge up through the narrow valley to the summit of the terraced hills to the west , while east , beyond the valley , towers the ice-crowned summit of Mt Hood . San Francisco is rising pheenix-like from its own ashes on the hills that lie within that Golden Gate , through which is pouring the trade of the orient . There are Denver and Detroit and several other cities , but it would take too long to describe them all , besides , you are probably longing for vineyards and citron groves and cloudless skies . If so you can enjoy them all in southern California with all the conveniences and comforts of our civilization , with none of the inconveniences and discomforts of Italy . The shores of the Mediterranean are more than matched by those of Santa Cruz , Monterey and Santa Barbara , while the Riviera has no beauties that excel Playa Del Rey , Catalina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Salton Sink , a new inland sea , whose rising waters are remaking the climate of a territory as large as the German Empire . What can you hope to see abroad to compare to the Grand Canyon with its wondrous deeps , its deceiving distances , its painted rocks , its brilliant natural mosaics , and its remains of cliff dwellers so well preserved though their builders were contemporaneous with the lake dwellers of Switzerland ? If you long to study social problems , stop in Utah , beside the Great Salt lake , a single arm of which would encompass the Dead sea , and there beside a modern Jordan , study the remarkable industrial system of the Mormon church . Here , under the guise of a new religion , the most extensive socialistic experiment of history has been tried . Still eastward through the deserts you can see everywhere the wonders of irrigation and can see how our tireless race is working out the reclamation of the desert by wresting moisture from a cloudless sky and richness from sunbaked sands . Around Colorado Springs and Cripple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nature 's great cataclysms . Up from nature 's laboratory , beneath the sea , mountains of molten rock have been forced high to crystallize into gold-bearing quartz , while along the foot of the mountain an ocean bed has been set on edge and out of it have been carved those mysterious monuments and fantastic figures that fill up the Garden of the Gods . From the foot of the Rocky mountains eastward , sweep the great plains upon which has occurred the most marvelous  |p647  movement of human population that the world has ever seen . The discontented of the world have poured into this great valley , there to establish conditions of their own making . And as you come eastward over this plain you will see in panorama all stages of development in civilized life : the hut of the prospector and pioneer , the cattle ranges and cowboys of the frontier , the lingering Indian , the occasional farm , the unpainted houses of the boom town , the smaller farms and better buildings of older settled communities , the substantial brick of established cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great ant hills where burrowing men bring forth the precious black rock which other men turn into power and distribute through vast hives filled with millions of workers , while the waste blackens the sky and obscures the sun . Have you ever sailed our Great lakes , huge oceans of fresh water which float a commerce greater than that which sails any foreign sea and whose myriads of islands rival in picturesqueness any others in the world ? Have you walked the white beaches along ? the Gulf of Mexico or lolled in drowsy ease beneath the shade of the palms iu Florida ? Have you climbed the southern hills or ridden through their forests of soughing pines ? Have you seen the battlefields of the republic and do you know Washington , the city beautiful , and its place in our national life ? Do you know New York , the metropolis of our country and the richest city that the world has ever seen ? The city of perpetual day to which night with its rest and quiet never comes ? A city in which the most marvelous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towering spires out of one of the most beautiful harbors in the world ? A city of wonderful engineering achievements ? When you have seen all this and realized something of its meaning , then you will be prepared to travel and to view life in other countries , with understanding . Do you realize what a land of magnificent distances our country is ? From London to Constantinople is about as far as from New York to Kansas City , yet there are only five trains a veek between them . From London to the coast , across the English channel , through Belgium , through Germany , up the Rhine , through Switzerland , over the Alps , down through Lombardy and lengthwise through Italy to Rome , is only about the same distance as it is from New York to Chicago , though even now it takes over twice as long to make the trip . If you went there without seeing America first , you would wonder how so many different people , speaking different tongues , with totally different traditions , institutions and forms of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will all become extremely simple to you when you realize that the populations there grew up and developed their languages and institutions in an age when our present means of communication and our present methods of transportation were undreamed of ; when London was farther from Paris in point of time ; thougn the distance is only two hundred miles , than we are today , though the ocean rolls between us . But in this country of ours the process of national growth has been reversed ; the means of transportation and communication were developed in advance of population , and our people have swarmed into the valley of the Mississippi , across the great plains beyond , over the Rocky mountains and down to the shores of the Pacific , following the lines of our great railways . And the result is a miracle . Our population , as large as that of France and Germany combined , spread over a country larger than the entire continent of Europe , speaks a single language , retains one system of government , maintains identical institutions and preserves its peculiar national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the comparison of different civilizations and social standards , and when you have seen America first you will have a basis upon which to form your own comparisons and judgments . The one thing we . lack in this country is ruins , and these we are rapidly making . After all , what you want to visit Europe for is to see its art treasures and its historical places and monuments , and having seen in your own country so much of nature that surpasses anything that you will find in Europe , you will have your attention less distracted by mere landscape and scenery , from those other things which make a trip abroad worth while .                     