@@486872

Our escape from Hearst does not free us from the duty of weighing rightly the forces which alone made him formidable . Recognition of this is general . Major Henry Higginson of Boston observes that in Massachusetts , too , corporations and the rich at ease in Zion had their fright . On this , Major Higginson remarks with point . " It is the old story about a larger and wider philosophy and religion which have got to come to the front and choke such nonsense as Hearst and his followers put out . " Governor-elect Hughes gives gratifying proof that he is alert to the demands of the hour . Frankly stating that many who voted for his opponent did so in an intense desire to " end abuses , " Mr. Hughes asks their support in the task of " squaring the administration of the Government with the interest of the people . " But what can he or any man do ? Well , Mr. Hughes can apply with great advantage his rare business talent to the business of the State . He can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sorely lacking Useless commissions , the surplusage of employees , dawdlers fattening on the treasury , he can cut away The Railroad Commission he can make a really effective instrument to bring railway corporations to their senses and the people to their rights . Above and beyond all this , however , something must be done to satisfy the deep craving for a more perfect establishment of justice in our public affairs . It is the rankling sense of injustice somewhere that lends to the Hearst movement its real significance Wild impossibilities will , no doubt , be demanded Hearst promised them freely ; Hughes will be asked to execute them . But the State can guard no man against the consequences of idleness and vice There are economic laws , and especially moral laws , beyond reversal or even tinkering by the Legislature . Yet there is a root of dissatisfaction and suspicion which can be torn out by an upright Governor and an honest Legislature . It is the special privilege , the bought favor , the sinister influence , the corrupt alliance which have so often made Albany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevalent feeling that wealth and political power can freely work their will at the seat of government that Mr. Hughes should bend his best efforts . President James J. Hill 's address before the Merchants Club of Chicago on Saturday evening , a re-statement of the case for reciprocity or , if possible , free trade with Canada , is marked by a powerful grasp of fact and a prophetic sense of inevitable business developments . No one can question his mastery of the commercial problems of this continent The demonstration of his knowledge lies in his past achievements in the Northwest ; and his present large projects across the border attest his faith in the speedy coming there of a vast production and immense markets . With a fine sweep of business imagination , Mr. Hill showed how nature had indicated a unified growth of agriculture and industry and transportation on this continent . Stupid national policies for a time hinder progress . But a mighty development in western Canada is impending , whether laws favor it or hamper it . The question for Americans is simply whether they mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by it , or to keep up the foolish tradition of isolation and antagonism . The same idea is urged by that veteran champion of close political and commercial relations between the United States and Canada , Prof. Goldwin Smith : " Reciprocity is the voice of nature , and her dictate to all whom she has made partners in her bounty on this continent . " Thus the wide-awake business man agrees with the philosophical writer and publicist ; even if a protective tariff attempts to expel nature with a fork , she is bound to come back . Politically , Mr. Hill 's speech serves to point afresh the lost opportunity of the Democrats in the recent campaign . They threw away a winning issue of statesmen to chase after the false and losing issues raised by demagogues But it is not yet too late to move upon Congress and the President . Mr. Roosevelt would doubtless sympathize with appeals from New England and the Northwest . Secretary Root would be more than favorable to reasonable proposals of reciprocity President Roosevelt has decided upon a punishment of the colored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annals of the army . Because some of - their number , under great provocation , " shot up " the town of Brownsville , Texas , killing one man and seriously wounding a policeman , three companies of this brave regiment are to be dishonorably discharged by executive order , the innocent with the guilty . The special reason for this action is that , when threatened with this fate , the soldiers still refused to tell who were the guilty ones . That many thus summarilytreated are innocent of any wrongdoing , or even of knowledge of the original intention of the McKinley Administration was to make a mere recon , n.oissance about Santiago , with perhaps five thousand men in all . For the command of this expedition , Gen. Miles named Gen Shatter as an excellent brigadier . Subsequently , as the Santiago expedition became of dominent importance , Gen. Shafter was forced into a part for which nature had never intended him . How he bore the responsibility is well known . That the expedition did not turn out a complete failure was not his fault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy for him to ? say that he had in one hundred and thirteen days done what President McKinley had asked  --  take Santiago and end the war . Fortunately , however , the sense of humor of the American people prevented any such hero-worship of Shafter as later marked the career of Admiral Dewey . Neither President McKinley nor Secretary Alger could make a great man or great soldier out of Gen. Shatter . With admirable sanity , the public estimated him at his precise worth , and felt that the major-generalcy which Congress subsequently bestowed upon him was sufficient reward for what were at best painstaking and honest services . From fighting bosses , Secretary Bonaparte has gone through the stages of being something of a Maryland boss himself , and finally of coming to believe that a party boss would be a pretty good thing if only he got his office by election , not bribery . Mr. Bonaparte just " throws out the idea " for others to work up . Most such ideas are just as well left " thrown out " ? upon the rubbish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party is capable of one supreme act of virtue and wisdom in choosing a boss , but that thereafter it must confess itself unable to pick out intelligently so much as a candidate for sheriff . In effect , this is much like calling upon a man to exercise his ' reason long enough to choose an infallible guide , and then never to trust reason again But the theoretical objections to Mr Bonaparte 's plan are no stronger than the practical . Bosses can not , in fact , be made in the way he suggests , nor will men cease trying to prove their powers in the rough and tumble of party contests . Instead of producing harmony , it would only multiply strife to have an elective boss parcelling out all the offices . The Secretary 's scheme , which is , so far , as outlined , pretty vague and dreamy , falls singularly ill with the greatly heightened power and importance of party primaries , under the direct system . Just when voters are having more to do with nominations than ever , Mr. Bonaparte tells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . and should call upon a Hercules in the form of a boss to relieve them of it . A - cynic might find a certain amusement-in the suddenness with which this city annually becomes artistic . After a six months ' torpor there is an explosion . The dealers - wake up on -- Fifth - Avenue , the artists ' exhibitions begin , the clubs start their periodical shows , and this year , as if the fixtures were not enough , the Metropolitan Museum founds a department of Egyptian antiquities , and the National Arts Club formally opens commodious new quarters , especially dedica , ted to the cause of industrial art . Surely , if art languishes , it is not for the lack of delicate , or at least expensive , attentions It is very evident that on the commercial side  --  always an ' important one  --  art depends on the handful of people who can and do spend lavishly upon the furnishing of their houses of upon collecting in the stricter sense Doing something for art means , at bottom , attracting the dollars of this class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet , or lack clients If art is at a low ebb among us , it is because such patrons usually have no personal taste of any sort . Their har-liana love of simple acquisition is directed by the flattery of dealers and furnishers . The result is that the mansions of this country present an aspect that recalls the imperial days of Rome . There is an indiscriminate mixture of the best " and the worst . Beside - the Renaissance bronze stands the modern forgery . In the same room with the priceless carpets of old Persia are base imitations of ancient tapestries Throughout such houses or collections the story is the Same ; and frequently the intrinsically poor or fraudulent object has been paid for at the highest price , and is correspondingly valued by the infatuate owner . Anything like personal quality is of the rarest . There prevails a frightful monotony of expensiveness  --  the same rugs , the same porcelains , the same portraits by the same fashionable painters Everywhere one witnesses . merely the focussing of a little group of commercial interests upon a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that the collectors of Roman times and of the Renaissance were in a humbler attitude towards art . They sought the aequa5ntance of artists , and trained their taste by discourse with the competent Their pride was in the beauty of the work they possessed , not in the price they had paid for it . The bitter- cry of ' the- ill-paid college professor is filling the land . In report after report our university presidentsSchurman of Cornell and Butler of Columbia have just spoken  --  have pictured the unhappy lot of the occupants of-professorial chairs These teachers and investigators are compelled to see the bills of prosperity go on mounting while salaries remain stationary . From the point of view of organized labor , the cause of the trouble is as clear as the remedy is simple . College professors have no unions . They neither keep clown the . number of apprentices , nor - shift out " scab " competitors . We sometirties-hear of college students going on strike  --  for this is what a " student rebellion " really is  --  but the hard-worked professors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smash the windows of the college treasurer . ' While the Erie Railway employees are vigorously demanding more pay , and threatening to tie up the road , the non-unionized professors are being driven to such desperate expedients as marrying rich wives . With a book agent the nearest thing they know to a walking delegate , they suffer on in helpless ' patience . They can not dig , but their presidents are not ashamed to beg for them . - - The founding of the Atlantic Monthly , with James Russell Lowell as editor , was a notable event in American letters . In celebration of its fiftieth year ii . 1607 the magazine promises a series of papers by living ex-editors , William Dean Howells , ' Tliothas Bailey Aldrich , and Walter H. Page . To one long familiar with the Atlantic perhaps the most striking thing is its consistency of character ; the motto of its jubilee number might well be qUalis ab incept ? . At tiines'it has leaned a little to that ultra refinement known to mockers as Cambridge weak tea . Again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasty a reflection of the problems of the da-y . But in general it has been remarkably successful in combining refinement and ' strength  --  a diffi- - cult ideal . It is the ablest of our monthlies , standing on a level ' above even the most attractive of the New- York illustrated magazines , whose aim is to flatter the taste of l'homme inoyen , sensual Taking all things into consideration , we are inclined to regard it as the best of the general - magazines published in the English language to-day . And we regret that its home is not in New York . The influence of such a magazine in the centre of our publishing business would do much to counteract the tone of flashy commercialism that is the mark of New York in literature ? Various heroic clergymen , in this city and elsewhere , are resorting to extreme Pleasures to induce people to come and listen to them preach Meanwhile , the sermon-problem is being attacked - by others in a different way . Arthur C. Benson , himself the son of an Archbishop of Canterbury , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he argues , not for increasing the supply of hearers , but for diminishing the supply of sermons . One a Sunday is all , he thinks , that weak'human nature ought to be-expected , to endure . Moreover , he would havethene of the clergy who cannot-even in.the considerate judgment of mothers in Israel , preach in an edifying or . even tolerable manner , frankly give over the attempt , and read a discourse by a great preacher . Mr Benson writes in full and charitable perception of the enormous difficulty of preaching acceptably to the same congregation twice a Sunday , year in and year out , What is really demanded of a preacher , if he is to minister successfully to the same flock . for a decade or two , is that he should be an orator , a literary Man , a saint , and a man of the world , all rolled into one . That ' such a combination is rarely found , - is not surprising By way of comfort- to the minor prophets , Mr Benson declares : If I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or Bossuet , m Newman , twice a week for the rest of My life , and never hearing them at all , I should not hesitate to choose the latter alternative ' Weariness with sermons is common , and apparently deepening , but people hear a born preacher as gladly as ever Truth made living and instant through a personality is still the greatest source of inspiration in the world  --  in church or out . When the rare genius is found who can stand up before the great ' congregation and ' catch up their vague aspirations after a better life into the soaring utterance of a Robertson or a Liddon , a Beecher or a Brooks  --  to name only the dead  --  it is a erfiel pity that the church has not home division of labor by which such men could be set aside exclusively for the work of preaching . To make them grow haggard over church finances , or to dissipate their energies at bazaars or in the multiplied business of the modern " institutional church , " is little short of a crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not be enforced against the Church until a year from December 11 next indicates that the Government sincerely wishes a settlement with the Vatican . During that interval , associations may be formed agreeably to the law , failing which , confiscation by gradual legal process will begin . This respite leaves in a rather ridiculous position the ultra-clericals , who have represented the Government as desiring persecution and courting civil warfare . The truce should give a good opportunity for revising the Papal interdict on the associations . The protests against them have been based upon the assumption that the Government would not observe good faith in the matter . It was even said that fraudulent or anti-religious associations would be allowed to obtain control of the churches . M. Briand 's decision is a quiet but-effective yebuke to insinuations so intemper , ate and ill-founded . Unless , the Vatican.is wholly implacable , the year should bring forth a modus vcvendi acceptable alike to the Government and the Cath7 flies of France The old SlaVophile party in Russia is apparently moribund . The movement has almost come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary Propaganda . Drake Pan-Slavism , Slavephilism was originally not a political , but a romantic and mystical theory . It was late that Slavopbilism assumed a determinate political form Its earliest exponent was Kircevsky , who , during the earlier part of the nineteenth century , sought to combine Russian mysticism and romanticism with the thought of Western Europe . But Kircevsky set his face in opposition to the institutions of the West . Like the , anti-Napoleonic romanticists of Germany , he clung with almost bigoted devotion to the Russian throne and religion The French Revolution had wrought a reaction against the idea of universal empire , the dread of Napoleon increased this reaction The Slavophiles , - besides their romanticism in literature , dreamed of a future golden age , under a theocracy . They also looked for the subjugation of other nations , and for their conformity to this holy ideal . No . Russian , Kircevsky maintained , could feel pride in exotic institutions He saw a religious halo above the crown , and maintained that the way to the establishment of a theocracy lay through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about him . Thus Slavophilism was like a survival of medievalism , in the midst of the rapid progress towards democracy Its strength has been in the cro y-ants and the reactionaries ; but it will die , or , rather , reappear transformed in reconstructed Russia The fall of the Prussian Minister of the Interior , Von Podbielski , is announced . Since the discovery that he was connected with the firm of Von Tippelskirch , the army contractors who have been growing rich out of the war in Southwest Africa , he has been subjected to volleys of ridicule and denunciation almost without parallel in the history of the Empire , coming , indeed , from all sections of the press . - The Emperor 's persistent refusal to remove him led to the rumors of a Chancellor crisis , and to astonishingly frank complaints that the court " camarilla " kept the Empero ? in ignorance of the feelings of the people , Even such strong Government supporters as the Berlin ILreuzzeitung and Post recently published severe criticisms The Emperor 's - impulsive and personal direction of - the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment of Bernhard Deriiburg , as director of the Colonial Office , is cited as an example . Itis a selection which deeply offends the merchant class , as well as the ' aristocracy , and the Chancellor is supposed to be by no means pleased by it . As yet , however , there is nothing definite to show a breach between the Emperor and Von Bulow . M. Santos-Dumont , by a flight of more than 200 metres in his airship , becomes the first skipper of a flying machine who has risen from the level , flown for an appreciable distance , and landed without serious mishap . The latter part of the performance is the most remarkable , for , as the falling Irishman remarked , " It 's the landing that hurts " ; and Santos-Dumont 's landing was made under circumstances of unusual confusion . Still , Monday 's experiment ramains rather of scientific than of practical value . At least , its practical applications seem at present remote . The bold young Brazilian has done successfully what the late Professor Langley tried in vain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has produced a motor-driven aeroplane that can be controlled in a limited course , and near the ground . Evidently , it is a far cry from a performance of this sort to deserving the proud title of the " Bird of Prey . " One of the darkest spots on the chart of modern civilization is the high rate cf infant mortality . How largely this is preventable is shoWn by an experiment of the Mayor of Huddersfield , England . He offered a prize of $5 for every child , born during his term of office , which lived at least twelve months Though several epidemics occurred , the mortality was reduced from 122 per thousand to 44 , largely by the aid of women who instructed mothers in sanitary matters . While maternal ignorance and carelessness are thus shown to be important factors , another of prime importance is the source and quality of milk . It has long been established that intestinal troubles caused by improper food ( chiefly cow 's milk ) account for the largest number of deaths of infants under one year . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be effected by substituting the milk of goats for that of cows . A plea for goat 's milk is contributed by Dr William Wright to the London Lancet . He points out its great superiority in the three essential points of cleanliness , digestibility , and freedom from disease germs . Among the 130,000 goats and kids brought to Paris for slaughter every year , the meat inspectors have failed to discover a single case of tuberculosis . Weight for weight , the goat yields twice as much milk as the cow , and if the animals are properly fed , their milk has no flavor to - distinguish it from caw 's milk .                     