@@430284

 | A SECULAR writer may be pardoned for expressing regret that one of the great churches of America has recently assumed a reactionary policy on the subject of divorce , frowning upon the right of an innocent , as well as the guilty , party to remarry . From a temporal standpoint it is to be deplored that ecclesiastical influence can not unite , to an extent at least , with that of the civil law in establishing a general standard of sexual morals . At the same time , the American spirit is to accord , not only liberty of conscience , but absolute personal respect , to one living up to his religious convictions . Reciprocally , our brethren in the church , whatever their personal scruples , should aid in , and not impede , the adoption of a workable basis of marriage and divorce for the government of the community at large . There is no subject which at the present time more imperatively calls for consistent application of the American theory of separation of church and state . Churchmen who are opposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any movement to liberalize divorce laws , even though communicants are left entirely free to observe their particular rules . The writer believes that it would be a comparatively simple task to frame a divorce law for operation throughout the United States , which would conserve public morality and general happiness and be acceptable to average sentiment . We need look no farther than Massachusetts for its model , if not , indeed , for its final form . Bagehot and other foreign observers have singled out that State as offering the most successful example of popular government in America . It is safe to say that , in the estimation of Americans themselves , no other State would be ranked above it as a well-governed , law-abiding community ; certainly  | no one would venture to regard the Bay State as a land of easy morals . Yet its statutes prescribe , in addition to adultery , many other grounds for divorce ? as , for example , cruel and abusive treatment ; utter desertion for three consecutive years next before the filing of the libel ; gross and confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intoxicating liquor , opium or other drugs ; on libel of the wife , that the husband , being able , grossly or wantonly and cruelly refuses or neglects to provide suitable maintenance for her ; sentence to confinement at hard labor for life , or for five years or more . After a divorce for the last cause no pardon restores conjugal rights . All divorces are absolute ; either party may marry again , but the guilty party not within two years from the entry of the final decree . The general distinction between the Massachusetts and New York policies is that the former State grants absolute divorces for what may be termed the secondary causes cruelty , desertion , etc. ? while as to them New York authorizes a limited divorce or separation . ( Both States provide for absolute annulment or divorce for certain grounds affecting the marriage in its inception , such as impotency . ) A recent decision of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts emphasizes its attitude towards the most important of the social relations . In Franklin vs . Franklin ( February , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared that the plaintiff , a skilful mechanic , emigrated to this country from England " to better his condition in life , " leaving behind him in England his wife and children . Having concluded to remain , and some of his children having joined him here , he endeavored to induce his wife also to come and resume their matrimonial life . She refused to do so , although provided with the means , for no other reason than disinclination to leave her native land and the friends of her youth . On this state of facts the Massachusetts Court held the wife guilty of desertion , entitling the husband to a divorce . A portion of the opinion may well be quoted : " The fundamental fact to be considered is that the husband , as head of the family , legally responsible for its support , has a right to choose and establish a domicile for himself and his wife and children . A refusal of the wife to stay with him in that domicile , without a sufficient reason for her refusal , is desertion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state or country in which the parties live at the time of  | their marriage , but in these days of easy communication between different countries , and different parts of the same country , he may exercise it reasonably , in a way which will change his citizenship and allegiance . So far as he personally is concerned , if his duties to his wife are left out of consideration , this right is doubtless absolute . But in reference to the rights , duties , and liabilities of the parties in their marital relations it is not absolute . It should be exercised with some reference to the welfare of the wife . We can conceive of a choice of a domicile so plainly unreasonable and improper , in reference to the health and welfare of the wife , that the selection of it , and an attempted enforcement of his general marital right to have her share it with him , would be extreme cruelty , such as would justify her in declining to accompany him or follow him to such a place of abode . His wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come in conflict with the exercise of his general right to choose his own domicile , if he attempted to exercise the right in such a way as would be utterly and grossly unreasonable because of the peril to her life and health , and perhaps because of her deprivation of other things essential to her welfare . But the determination of such matters must , in the first instance and ordinarily , be left to the husband , upon whom rests the legal duty to provide for his family , as well as for himself . The wife can not legally refuse to accompany him in a change of domicile unless such a change is plainly unreasonable . " It is of interest to the State that the average citizen be monogamous and subjected to the responsibilities and restraints of domestic life . Which conduces more strongly to that end , the law of Massachusetts , or the civic sacramentalism of New York that condemns thousands of persons , whose legal spouses are impossible partners , to practical celibacy or sexual outlawry ? Of course , divorce laws , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is no justification of purblind adherence to a system which ignores human nature and the very ends of civil matrimony . Let the State first set itself theoretically right , and it may then trust its courts to frustrate attempts to set aside or evade its laws . Viewing the comparative legislation of the country , it will be found that the majority of the States approximate more or less closely to the Massachusetts policy . Very few of them restrict the causes of divorce to a single one , and not very many , on the other hand , sanction trifling or frivolous reasons . In the undeveloped civilization of mining camps prematurely created sovereign States , crudities , vagaries and venalities of legislation are only to be expected . Many years ago , the State of  | Illinois enjoyed the notoriety of a free-and-easy divorce emporium , to which in recent times South Dakota has succeeded . No doubt the latter State has deliberately catered to the divorce trade from the same mercenary motives with which West Virginia , by adopting laws of lax responsibility for directors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago shamed Illinois out of its extreme complaisance to divorce , and the cure for any such local and temporary aberration lies in focusing public attention on the abuse . Without adverting specifically to change in statute law , it would seem particularly apt , as illustrating a generally reformed attitude , to quote a few words from a judicial opinion rendered in an appellate court of Illinois in 1891 : " The conviction is forced upon us from a consideration of these circumstances that he appellee is a mere sojourner here , till his divorce might be obtained . The statute requiring a residence in this State should have a strict construction , for the sake of the good name of the State if nothing more , and no encouragement should be held out to such as come here away from their homes and the domicile of the defendants to trouble our courts with their marital infelicities . The residence of this defendant ( in error ) is not bona fide , and on the merits he has made out no case . " ( Albee vs . Albee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Dakota , the law was amended a few years since by changing the requirement of a residence of ninety days , in order to apply for a divorce , to one of six months , with the further provision that no divorce shall be granted against a non-resident unless the plaintiff shall have resided a year in South Dakota , or the defendant shall have been personally served with process either within or without the State . In view of the Dreyfus case , in which the force of opinion of the outside world compelled a great nation , sorely against its will and much to the mortification of its pride , to right a wrong against a very ordinary individual , Americans may well be confident of the power of public sentiment to correct sporadic eccentricities and immoralities of government . A more serious drawback than the legislative antics of any raw community is the incorrigible Bourbonism of a mature State , like New York , in permitting dissolution of a marriage , whose inception is unassailable , with right to remarry , only for adultery or if one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That policy inevitably  | drives its own citizens into other forums to obtain the relief which justice and the average moral sense sanction their seeking . It also indirectly encourages newer States in setting up as divorce Gretna Greens . It is quite significant that , in a large majority of notorious interstate divorce suits , citizens of New York have been interested parties . The record is supplemented by a long list of divorce scandals in the domestic courts of the State . Considering its great population , wealth and general influence , it is not too much to say that New York 's obstinate disregard of the preponderance of American sentiment is the principal disturbing factor in the divorce problem . A uniform law ? founded , say , on the existing law of Massachusetts ? is a great desideratum , and to procure it is the dream of most divorce reformers . The project is called a dream because of the vast difficulty , both of inertia and positive opposition , in the way of its realization . The late Abram S. Hewitt used to lament that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvement in New York City . The writer fears that it will require more than ten years to obtain absolute uniformity of divorce ; nevertheless , it is an ideal possible of attainment , and striving after it will at the least achieve incidental benefits . The two rival methods by which the end is aimed at are ( 1 ) cooperative State legislation , and ( 2 ) the adoption of an amendment of the Constitution of the United States authorizing Congress to pass a general law . Under the first method the legislatures of all , or practically all , the States would have to be induced independently to enact a statute , identical or substantially similar in terms , prescribing grounds for divorce and procedure for obtaining it . About a dozen years ago , a movement for cooperative State legislation , comprehending marriage and divorce , commercial paper and other subjects , was started and it has continued , though somewhat fitfully , down to the present time . It has accomplished one tangible result of real importance ? the adoption of a common Negotiable Instruments Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Columbia . On this branch of law there are the most obvious reasons for uniformity , and practically no differences of opinion . Yet action by about threefifths of the American commonwealths is the sum total of achievement . We are not aware that a single State has adopted  | a divorce law framed or suggested in pursuance of the original plan . A national Congress of Divorce met in Pennsylvania a few months ago , at the invitation of Governor Pennypacker , for the single purpose of promoting cooperative legislative uniformity . As far as can be gathered from the reports of its first session , nothing transpired to afford hope of the success of the scheme within any reasonable period of time . A cooperative divorce measure would encounter not only the ordinary inertia , which thus far has withheld two-fifths of the States and Territories from adopting the Commercial Instruments Law , but also the positive opposition of States whose policy was to be changed . Furthermore , it would have to receive universal ratification in order to be of any service . The Negotiable Instruments Law differs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in each State , a new increment is added to a uniformity that is always advantageous as far as it goes . If a divorce law were submitted , it would be most readily taken up by those States whose systems it least affected , that is , by the States whose law is now substantially uniform , leaving the States that principally cause embarrassment ? those whose law is most strict and most lax ? precisely where they are . If one-quarter of the States should hold aloof , the interstate situation would continue materially as it exists . Of course , the increasing sentiment from without would be felt by all States ; but , nevertheless , the complete consummation of the movement , in any event , would be an affair of many years and of unremitting , laborious agitation . Without attempting to minimize the difficulties in the way of the counter-project of Federal Constitutional Amendment , I believe it , on the whole , the more feasible one . There would be a special factor of opposition here from State-rights purists . According to the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and divorce belongs more properly to the States than the General Government . Experience has shown , however , that the conflict of laws entails varying personal status and legitimacy of children on different sides of domestic geographical lines . Common sense and the moral sense suggest that these matters in themselves , and , further , as they affect interstate property rights of dower and inheritance , are even more appropriately matters of national cognizance than bankruptcy , for example , over which Congress already has juris- diction by a clause in the original Constitution . State-rights scruples are by no means as rigorously held as they were a halfcentury ago , and probably any hostility developing on this score could be overcome . I believe the Constitutional Amendment plan more promising of success chiefly for the reason that the opposition of one-fourth of the States would be futile . All that would be required for Federal legislation would be the adoption by three-fourths of the State legislatures of an Amendment conferring power on Congress to act . Any number of States up to one-quarter , although they refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the others . Moreover , as the Amendment itself would be in general terms , no conflict would be aroused as to particular phases of divorce policy , but the issue would be merely on the abstract question whether the subject should be transferred from State to Federal jurisdiction . Congressional legislation , prescribing procedure in the Federal courts , would have the advantage over cooperative State law , in that , according to the usual Federal practice , a plaintiff would probably be compelled to sue a defendant in the latter 's residential district , and not compel him to go to a remote State in order to make his defence . However distant the prospect of systematic and universal reform , the energetic advocacy of either or both of the designs above explained will tend to the awakening of public opinion , and , therefore , probably to the improvement of the present situation by amendments , from time to time , of State laws . In this view , reformers of both schools , in addition to presenting the arguments for their definite scheme , may well strive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general law , however secured , will of necessity embody a compromise between the extreme theories now prevailing . Devout churchmen must be convinced of their duty , as citizens , not to impede the adoption of a more liberal code than their own as the secular law of the land . The legislatures of strict States , like New York , must be impressed with the prevalence of more lenient views in other communities , and importuned to ponder whether the part of essential morality , as well as of practical wisdom , may not lie in treating the civil contract of marriage as one which , while not to be repudiated lightly , or from caprice , still should be dissolvable if either spouse has been guilty of conduct that ,  | although short of actual adultery , renders continued cohabitation unsafe or reasonably unendurable . States whose statutes afford subterfuges for throwing off the matrimonial yoke , merely because it has become wearisome or distasteful , should , through the ordinary agencies of opinion , be held up to the righteous scorn of the outside world . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to get along as best it can under diverse State laws . It may be that , by the time the adoption of a uniform law becomes possible , its actual passage will be largely superfluous , because of the changes in State enactments during the course of the agitation . It is certainly probable that very considerable modifications of State provisions will precede any statute of universal scope resulting from cooperative legislation . The presumption that independent State authority will hold sway through a long future period gives especial interest to the recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Haddock vs . Haddock , which has called forth extensive comment in the press . For an understanding of its scope and effect , certain abstract legal principles must be briefly summarized . Before a court can obtain jurisdiction to entertain a controversy and grant relief , it is necessary that its process , or mandate variously known as the " summons , " the " subpoena , " etc. ? be served upon the defendant . Judgments are divided into two classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment of the former kind is a general adjudication against the defendant , becomes a lien upon his real property and enforcible by execution against his personal property within the territorial jurisdiction of the court , and may be sued on in other jurisdictions , like . a personal note , or bond . A judgment in rem , on the other hand , binds only the specific property sought to be affected , as , for example , where a mortgage upon real estate is foreclosed , or an admiralty lien is declared against a particular vessel . It is a general rule that , to obtain judgment in personam , the defendant must be physically served with the court 's process within the limit of its geographical purview . Judgments in rem may be procured through what is known as substituted , or constructive , service ? that is , the publication of the process in newspapers , the mailing of copies to the defendant at his last known address , posting in conspicuous places , etc . An important legal controversy concerning divorce is over the  | question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many courts have laid down a justifiable classification in pronouncing the proceeding one quasi in rem . This in plain language means that a suit for divorce is one of special and peculiar character , partaking of the features of both the general divisions . It is contemplated , of course , that the decree shall bind the defendant personally , but it also affects the rem , or status of the marriage , thereby incidentally determining dower rights and the legitimacy of children of a subsequent marriage . Nearly all the States , including New York , practically recognize the quasi in rem nature of divorces , by providing that they may be obtained by service of process by publication on a non-resident defendant . The interstate crux arises as to the authority of a divorce so obtained outside the State where it was granted . Most of the States treat divorces granted in other States on merely constructive service as valid . In his dissenting opinion in Haddock vs . Haddock , Mr. Justice Brown shows that the " only States in which it is held that a party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by constructive service are New York , Pennsylvania , North and South Carolina . " South Carolina has always occupied a unique position , having no statute on the subject of divorce whatsoever . North Carolina has very recently taken itself out of the list of recalcitrant States by the decision of its Supreme Court in Bidwell vs . Bidwell ( 52 S. E. Rep. , 55 ) . Apparently , therefore , there remain , with the exception of South Carolina , only New York and Pennsylvania , which States , nevertheless , anomalously authorize divorces on constructive service in their own courts . The various States have proceeded on different theories . Probably the majority of them have upheld divorce judgments of sister States on the ground of comity , reinforced by the consideration of consistency because of their own statutes for constructive service . Other States ? notably Rhode Island , in a very forcible opinion by its Supreme Court ? have held that a foreign divorce , although on substituted service , is required to be universally recognized under section 1 , article iv , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts , records and judicial proceedings of every other State . " New York , with its characteristic attitude of separatism and  | obstruction , has systematically refused to treat foreign divorces as binding , and here again its peculiar position has made the Empire State a storm-centre of litigation . The leading case is one in which a man residing in New York , whose wife had obtained a divorce from him in Ohio , upon service by publication , remarried in New York , and the Ohio judgment was so completely ignored that the husband 's conviction of bigamy was sustained by the New York Court of Appeals ( People vs . Baker , 76 N. Y. , 78 ) . The recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States was on appeal from a New York judgment granting a wife a separation , with alimony . The husband had previously procured an absolute divorce in Connecticut , the service of process being merely constructive . The question was whether New York would be compelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Credit " clause , and the Supreme Court of the United States has determined , by a bare majority vote of five to four , that the constitutional provision does not apply and that New York is free to continue its peculiar system . The opinions of the Supreme Court are very voluminous and the convictions of the four judges who dissented very vigorously expressed . Mr. Justice Brown regrets " that the court in this case has taken what seems to me a step backward in American jurisprudence , and has virtually returned to the old doctrine of comity , which it was the very object of the Full Faith and Credit ' clause of the Constitution to supersede . " Mr. Justice Holmes is almost equally strong in his deprecation of the decision . The main argument of Mr. Justice White , who wrote for the majority , on the applicability of the " Full Faith and Credit " clause is summarized by Mr. Justice Brown in this language : " That if one government , by virtue of its authority over marriage , may dissolve the tie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have a similar power , and hence the right of every government over its own citizens might be rendered nugatory by the exercise of the power which every other government possesses . " Mr. Justice Brown answers such position as follows : " The opinion , however , fails to state the logical result of this proposition , viz. , that no divorce would be possible in either State without  | a personal service upon the other within the State . If the husband , having his domicile in Connecticut , could not obtain a divorce against his wife domiciled in New York without a personal service , it follows that the wife domiciled in New York could not obtain a divorce against her husband in that State without a personal service there . " In addition , and following out the same idea , it may be suggested , in reply to Mr. Justice White 's contention , that , as practically all the States provide for the granting of divorces by substituted service , and as it would be monstrous to presume that each State contemplated the dissolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , interstate polygamy , the application of the " Full Faith and Credit " clause in a broad and statesmanlike way would only compel each State to accept for itself what it impliedly assumes to impose upon other States . As to the future outlook , a few suggestions may be offered . It seems not improbable that this determination by a bare majority vote , the result of which is contrary to the strong preponderance of State court authority , may be overruled after a change in the personnel of the bench . Apparently , the probability is greater than it was as to the Income Tax Decision , and fully as great as with regard to the Legal Tender Cases . The prevailing opinion expressly concedes the right of State courts to recognize foreign divorces through comity , and Mr. Justice Brown calls attention to the fact that the courts of New Jersey , in Felt vs . Felt ( 59 N. J. Eq. , 600 ) , have reversed the former attitude of that State , which agreed with that of New York , and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the doctrine of comity . More recently still , the Supreme Court of North Carolina , as above shown , has made a similar change , not , however , on the ground of comity , but following what it supposed to be the essential doctrine of the Supreme Court of the - United States in the earlier decision of Atherton vs . Atherton ( 181 U. S. , 155 ) . Mr. Justice Holmes , in his dissenting opinion , concurs with the Supreme Court of North Carolina , believing that the only distinction between Atherton vs . Atherton and Haddock vs . Haddock rests upon a mere fiction , and , therefore , should not be entertained in a matter of such grave importance . It may be accepted as settled law that , in the absence of fraud ,  | any State would be required to recognize a divorce obtained in another State , although for a cause not recognized by the former , if there had been personal service of the process of the Court within the territorial jurisdiction of the forum . It is also settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a State and the wife has abandoned her husband and that State , he may procure a divorce in its courts , on merely substituted service of process , which will be extraterritorially and nationally valid , under the " Full Faith and Credit " clause ( Atherton vs . Atherton , supra ) . Furthermore , it does not seem likely that the decision in the Haddock case will make any substantial change in legal policies ; its main purport is to sanction the continuation of their own policies by New York and other eccentric States . Of course , those States that have proceeded under the Federal Constitution in recognizing foreign divorces are now released from that position , but it seems not improbable that they will incline toward adhering to the former result through comity , especially as the majority opinion itself pointedly leaves the way open on that ground . In New York and Pennsylvania , pending an agitation to bring them into reciprocal and harmonious relations with other States , it is advisable to advocate legislation on the special subject of legitimacy . However settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divorces themselves and the parties to them , it might be feasible to procure the passage of laws declaring that all children shall be legitimate , where their parents have contracted marriage after a divorce of one or both of them , pronounced in any court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter and jurisdiction of the parties according to the local law . We have been glad to notice that , in the discussion of Haddock vs . Haddock , the plight of innocent children , whose illegitimacy it has sealed , has been universally commiserated . Their position , at least , should everywhere be set right .                     