@@473292

IN our February number Professor Brander Matthews made a plea for greater flexibility of speech ? for a - free play in verbal usage and syntax that the purist and strict grammarian refuse to sanction . No magazine article of the month , or for many months , has drawn forth so much comment , ? generally favorable , it may be said , to the professor 's position . The grammarians do not make our grammar ? they find it ; nor do pedagogues make our language , which , in their hands , is anything but idiomatic . There is hardly a page of Trying that would escape the queries of a fastidious proof-reader . Language is a human creation ? an extension of the divine creation into a human articulation . In its very becoming , from tongue and pen , it is plastic and fluent . In its structural development it takes consistent form ; its flesh and blood embodiment has not only mobility and exquisite sensibility , but it is well braced by a vertebrate skeleton ; yet it is so animate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tendency to take a fixed shape ? more successfully than any other human institution . Government , art , and even literature ? being under the direction of the more highly developed minds of a race crystallize and fall into formal stability , while language , which must be the product of a whole people , retains its divine instinct as against rational processes and logical control , and with wondrous flexibility remains the expression of the race , and at the same time meets all the needs of the highest and most complex intelligence . This is probably what Professor Lomasbury means when he says , " The literary man of to-day has the corrupted form of speech , and the pure language is left to the uneducated . " All great writing , like all great speaking , must keep close to the popular idiom , and through sympathy rather than as the result of study . Nevertheless , some of our readers believe that Professor Matthews goes too far in his indulgence of unsound forms of speech . The following communionvot . CII. ? Nn 612 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlanta , Georgia , furnishes an interesting comment ; The opportunity is taken by Professor Matthews to berate those who saw fit to criticise Rudyard Kipling for using a singular verb with two subjects , in the line The shouting and the tumult dies . Professor Matthews bases his defence of Kipling on the fact that there is a precedent for such usage in old English , while in other portions of his article he defends the changes which are creeping into the language , taking the ground that these changes are in harmony with the inevitable tendency of the language towards simplicity . Professor Matthews 's position that a usage is proper now because it was once proper is not well taken . An expression is correct only if it is in good use at the time that it is employed . it is true that the use of a singular verb with more than one subject in the singular is found in the writings of Shakspere and Milton and in King James 's translation of the Bible ; it is found in the Lord 's Prayer ? " for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But in this respect the language of Shakspere and Milton is to-day more the language of the illiterate than of the educated . The language of the peasant remains unchanged , while it is the language of polite society that has changed and is still changing . Among the peasants are found the use of two negatives , the use of " help " as the past tense of help , and other usages which were once good English , but which are condemned by the educated of to-day . Doubtless there is to the novelist a romantic charm in the " blunt and racy vernacular " of the illiterate , as George Meredith says , but to the linguist the chief interest is in its antiquity . In his defence of the changes which are creeping into the language , Professor Matthews takes better position . The rules of grammar often cramp speech and detract from its effect , as he says , but this is not due so much to the fault of grammar as it is to a wrong idea of the province of grammar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language , and language changes ; therefore grammar should be so flexible as to follow the change in language . All change in language is towards simplicity or euphony . Unless one of these advantages is gained , change does not take place . To the law of simplicity and euphony are due , for instance , the substitution of the second person plural " you " for the second person singular " thou " and " thee , " and the elimination of the sub-junctive mood lone of the cases cited by Professor Matthews ) . The subjunctive mond is rapidly disappearing , because it generally makes the sentence awkward , and there is no necessity for retaining it , since the indicative form answers the purpose of the subjunctive . The only form of the subjunctive which is still invariably used by all good writers is the subjunctive use of " were , " as " if I were , " etc . Professor Matthews predicts that this form will also disappear , but he is probably wrong . The language already has the expression " if I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if I were , " and the two expressions must be kept separate and distinct for the sake of clearness . To illustrate that an expression will never have the sanction of good usage unless it gives simplicity or euphony , take the expressions " you was " and " I done it , " which are commonly heard in the speech of the illiterate . These expressions are not improvements upon the grammatical forms , for they add neither simplicity nor euphony , and hence they will never he accepted as good English . For the same reason it is doubtful whether " he do n't , " and similar expressions , which Professor Matthews predicts will eventually become parts of the language , will ever be accepted as proper forms . Why accept " he do n't " and not " he do " ? If , as he says , " he do n't " should be accepted on account of its analogy to " I do n't , you do n't , we do n't , they do n't , " then " he do " should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do , you do , we do , they do , " Not every usage that seems to be the simpler form is such in reality , and in passing upon the acceptability of a usage the real should be distinguished from the seeming . In the use of " these kind " and " those kind , " as in the expression " those kind of men , " is found one of the most common errors of speech . It is a common error because it is a natural error . The predominating idea in the minds of persons using this expression is that of a plurality of men , and they easily and naturally fall into the error of making the pronoun plural instead of making it agree with the singular Timm " kind , " but the advantage of simplicity which the incorrect form seems to have is not real . To those who have a regard for the niceties of form , it appears just as easy and natural , and certainly more elegant , to say " men of that kind " or that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the singular verb with two subjects in the line cited by Professor Matthews does not need justification from similar usage by Shakspere and Milton and the translators of the King James Bible . The professor makes the real defence when he points out that the two nouns " tumult and shouting " express really one idea . If we are to follow Shakspere , we should , as an editorial writer in the Norfolk Landmark says , use the double comparative " more better " ? but it would not be good usage The same writer notes a grammatical error in the following sentence quoted by Professor Matthews from Professor Lounsbury " By these rules , so far as they are observed , freedom of expression is cramped , idiomatic peculiarity destroyed , and false tests of correctness set up , " etc . If , asks the writer in the Landmark , a schoolboy would properly be adjudged wrong in writing a sentence like this , why not Professor Lounsbury ? Or is it only a practical illustration of the professor 's tolerance of such errors ? If so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assertion attributed to a university professor of English that a " preposition is never the appropriate word to end a sentence with . " The use of the " split infinitive , " which Professor Matthews justifies , is really a case in which a logical reason dominates ( for the sake of precision ) over idiomatic usage ; or shall we say that the idiom itself must be flexible ? Why should it not be when the reason is sufficient ? The flexibility of grammar must keep pace with the complexity of those needs of advanced intelligence that our language is called upon to meet . Wholly apart from grammatical use , the words we speak themselves change through a transformation of their meanings . In a very early period of its evolution a language passes from primary to secondary meanings , and afterward beyond these to the discrimination of shades and even of shadows of the shades ? the subtlest nuances of the elusive spirit . The strain upon idiom is not so great , fortunately ; the fundamental and characteristic forms are for the most part retained ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As our English language has gained much ( not , of course , without some loss ) from the blending of early strains , and from the later incorporation of a vast Latin vocabulary indirectly through the Norman French and other Romance tongues , so also has it been a gainer in that , as compared with the Latin and Greek and even the modern Continental languages , it has little grammar ? a gainer through informality and consequently greater freedom , however it may have been defrauded of that peculiar beauty which is inseparable from form ? that kind of beauty which in Latin was indicated by the word forma . Our vocabulary has been enriched not only by the mingling of many varied tongues , but still further by the conscious eclecticism through which we have borrowed , especially from the French , such words as meet our needs in a nice discrimination of meanings . But beauty of form , to which our grammar so little helps us , is with us mainly a matter of style ; and here the best examples in English literature and forensic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Roman , what is lacking in formal symmetry being more than made up by an exquisite variety of structure . The very freedom and flexibility of English construction , which were of so great use to Sir Thomas Brown , to Milton , and to De Quineey , enabling them to transcend the severe limitations of ancient classic forms ? as the Gothic cathedral transcends those of a Greek temple ? have tempted many writers of our time to undue license , eccentricity , and extravagance of expression ; so that , if we arc able to keep the little grammar we have , and can resist the ravages of " reformed spelling , " we are still in danger of corruption in that larger form of speech which we call style . We do not lack good models . The writers whose names we have mentioned arc good in their field of rhetorical and somewhat ambitious efforts , but would hardly serve for simpler effects . Milton 's prose would not have served as an example for Thackeray . De Quineey was more flexible in range , and while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be suited only to impassioned prose , that of " The Flight of a Tartar Tribe " is an excellent exemplar for dignity and simplicity . The representative English writers of the eighteenth century ? in history , philosophy , criticism , and narrative ? furnish unexceptionable models of simplicity , lucidity , and elegance . But , as a rule , eighteenth - Century writers , however varied their themes , had a remarkable uniformity of style , which happily was not maintained by those of the nineteenth century . The brilliant antitheses of Macaulay had no precedent in our own or any other language , nor had the wonderful elemental play of Carlyle 's forceful utterance . Here are two excellent examples illustrating the possibilities of style for the production of striking dramatic effects . In general ' the eminent writers of the last century were distinguished by originality of style . Not only was their manner an essential part of their matter , it was an intimate disclosure of individual mood and temperament . This individuality is so interesting that we are inclined to forgive the defects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forgive ? mannerism nearly always , affectation often , and sometimes obscurity . A. master like Carlyle is easily forgiven . When Macaulay 's form becomes tiresome we are still fascinated by his marvellous information , always clearly presented . But while thoughtful readers yield unstinted admiration to George Meredith 's earlier novels , one must be a wholly infatuated disciple of this writer to tolerate the affectations in his later work . We are fascinated by some stories of Robert Louis Stevenson ? like A Night with Monsieur Villon ; then we turn to his essays , still admiring , but wearied by the too conscious manner and the excess of epigram ; finally we take up his familiar letters and forgive him everything . Walter Pater 's style presents a curious problem . It betrays a peculiar self-consciousness , perfectly natural in the case of one who , while an artist , seeking to give the full effect of an aesthetic impression , was also a master of interpretative analysis . His manuscript in its first draught was written on lines so far apart that if by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of his thought , he had margin of space for rewriting , so making the expression indirect and tentative , introducing detail such as would appeal implicity to aesthetic sensibility rather than explicitly to the mere mind of the reader . Who would have Pater otherwise ? The problem was worthy of the careful solution . A distinct value was gained . This tentative method , which Pater deemed so important to the dramatic effect in Plato 's Dialogues , was necessary to the effect he always had in view and patiently studied to produce . The result was a unique novel , Marius , the Epicurean , and a collection of essays whose interpretative value is inestimable and unparalleled . But we have something to . forgive . The indirection and involution of Pater 's style present to the most careful reader difficulties of construction . The syntax is loose , so that sentences must be re-read in order to knit well together what the writer has too loosely joined . It is worth the trouble , but the trouble should not be necessary . Closely allied to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defect ? is that of Henry James , the subtlest of literary critics and the most eminent master of subjective fiction . It has long been the habit to associate his name with that of Howells , an association complimentary to each of these authors , and due to the fact that both have made intimate studies of the moods and motives of the men and women who live in their books . For the simple interest of a story , though his simplest is very complex , and for clearness of expression , we prefer Mr. Howells , who also is , for us , . sufficiently intimate in his portrayal of character , and who besides has charms of style wholly individual , and therefore not to be made a matter of comparison with those equally individual felicities of manner which distinguish Henry James . But Mr. James 's style has come to have a peculiarity quite distinct from its native charm ? a peculiarity determined by a method as deliberate as that which dominated Walter Pater , though it may be questioned if it has the same justification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one regards as an object worth the while the absolute fidelity of style to the moods and mental processes of the writer ? processes which in the case of this writer are infinitely complex and involved . The effect contemplated by the author is not the integrity of a purely esthetic impression , as in the case of Pater ; Mr. James has rather in view an intellectual explicitness of analytical statement , not given in successive parts , but as a whole , thus faithfully reflecting mental processes that are not sequent but simultaneous ; his purpose is to give a psychological vivisection , all the strata being presented in a single view . The result is an unexampled and most interesting phenomenon in literature ? interesting , that is , as a psychological study . Ordinarily an architectural structure which is suspensive regards supports in its progression , confident , at every point , of a stability by which the past at least is secure . But Henry James holds his fabric in suspense with no visible support while he turns upon his course describing an ellipse , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the psychological involutions in the author 's subjective analysis ? until the reader of average intelligence is lost in the bewildering maze . It must he admitted that even in this dizzy predicament such a reader will have a rich reward for patient tolerance , while to the adept in such studies there is consummate satisfaction , and the writer 's full appeal can be only to this select audience . It is idle to complain , and Henry James 's old and steadfast lovers ? a much larger class ? however much he presumes upon their affection , will forgive him , though regretfully remembering earlier and more delightful trysts . None of these great nineteenth - century writers will serve as models of style , because of their extreme development of individual peculiarities . The - thinker who writes today may show in his style the influence of De Quineey , of Carlyle , or of Pater the dominance of a note once heard that haunts forever ? hut the imitation by one writer of the individual style of another tends to the corruption of style altogether , the defects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers begin with the later and degenerate forms that in the old masters call for our indulgence . Shall we then revert to the more conventional style of the eighteenth century ? Certainly not , though the clearness and simplicity of that style are desirable attainments . Let each writer develop his own individual traits . His excellences will be appreciated , and the defects of these condoned .                     