@@486804

When the United States Senate comes to pay its customary tribute to the departed senior member from Massachusetts , it can Unanimously praise one who for twenty years defended it against the charge of decadence and growing disrepute . Mr. Hoar did more than that : he resented with asperity attempts to bring the force of public opinion to bear upon that body by petitions and the like  --  as in the case of the ill-fated Olney-Pauncefete arbitration treaty of 1897 . Loyalty such as this will have its official reward ; and it will also be remembered , to the credit of Mr. Hoar 's heart if not of his authority as a Constitutional lawyer , that he insisted on the right of every State to be represented continuously in the Senate . He abhorred a vacuum in his favorite club ; and when the occasion arose in Quay 's case in 1899 , he stoutly stood up for the legality of the appointment ( really a self-appointment , the Governor of Pennsylvania being Quay 's creature ) , though the Senate eventually unseated Quay . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excess of zeal in behalf of a full Senate could only be regarded as flattering . Courteous himself , Mr. Hoar did nothing to impair the sacred " courtesy " of the Senate . One tiny fly may , by the too critical , be detected in this pot of ointment , for Mr. Hoar had some wise and weighty words of protest against his beloved McKinley 's forestalling independent action of the Senate by appointing its members on important commissions , afterwards to be reviewed by them in their seats . Individual brother Senators will , of course , bring especial palms . Aldrich will lament the passionate devotee of protection , whom nothing could induce to let Canadian fish enter our ports free . Lodge , reflecting with a sigh on Mr. Hoar 's having called the public to witness that he had always voted the same way as his junior colleague , will laud his righteous abhorrence of the independent voter , and dwell on their paternal and filial relations unmarred by Lodge 's having  --  in Everett 's pregnant phrase  --  changed not his mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Mr. Hoar which reconciled right and intense feeling contra with sheepish voting pro , as in the case of the Panama treaty . Platt will attest Mr. Hoar 's commendable coolness towards civil-service reform , while preserving a discreet silence as to his objection to the political assessment of office-holders . Some one may claim a crown for him for supporting ( nearly at the expense of his reelection ) the River and Harbor bill vainly vetoed by President Arthur in 1882 . More than one will rise up and call him blessed for having helped enact the Arrears-of-Pensions bill . All his good , we fear , will , not be spoken of in the chamber which he ? has quitted . Before entering it from the House of Representatives he had been faithful in exposing the corruption of the Grant regime His speeches on the Philippine and the Panama iniquities will remain his noblest monument . He worked hard but uselessly to eliminate the word " cede " from the Paris Treaty with Spain ; he inserted in the Military Appropriation bill a statesmanlike provision against the sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulated . His judgment of our treatment of Colombia will be that of posterity , and no one more truly and fervently brought our Imperialism to book with the Declaration and the Constitution . Yet he denounced President Cleveland for his reversal of the collusive revolution in Hawaii , designed to precipitate annexation , and excused this defection from his own anti-Imperial principles by pointing to the lax morals of Queen Liliuokalani and to the scanty population of the archipelago ? " it was a very little one . " Towards Cleveland , the validity of whose election he challenged , he was never either fair or generous or anything but partisan , unless in the single matter of the Presidential Succession bill , which he was willing to have inure , if need be , to the benefit of any Democratic Administration deprived of its head . His whole Senatorial career , at least , was marked by a confusion of thought and an inconsistency of action truly remarkable in a man of such natural gifts and training as Mr. Hoar . His economic deliverances were nothing less than naif @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that belied his relationship to his brother , the Judge . When the Judge was contesting Republican support in Massachusetts against Butler in 1876 , he did not , though a bolter , forfeit the assistance of Mr. George Hoar , then a Representative in Congress . But the latter could not abide bolting in Theodore Lyman , running as a civil-service-reform candidate in 1882 . On Butler 's election as Governor of Massachusetts and triumphant appearance en officio at the Harvard Commencement , Mr. Hoar , though president of the alumni , refused to walk in the procession . On the other hand , having shown up in blistering terms our un-American offence against the Filipinos , he not only maintained his attachment for McKinley , but , still as president of the alumni , constrained the Harvard authorities to offer the President an honorary degree , which only by accident of non-attendance went unbestowed . He may be said to have atoned for this in some measure by his refusal to deliver a memorial address in eulogy of McKinley to his Worcester fellow-citizens ; but this refusal was really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint . Elected for six successive terms , his latest plurality was nearly 7,000. - An author and student as well as a Congressman , Mr. McCall writes with the impartiality of an historian . His calm verdict upon the struggle for the gold standard makes kindling wood of the RePublican platform , and reduces much Republican oratory on that subject to mendacity . After showing how his own party was too much responsible for the financial difficulties which threatened to submerge us in 1893 , Congressman McCall asserts that it was President Cleveland who " heroically performed the task " of laying " a secure foundation for the national credit . " One passage we must quote : " It is not a difficult thing to be a patriot on dress parade , to the music of bands and amid the popular acclaim Ohe can be that while sacrificing the people to their own momentary errors Mr Cleveland was not that sort of ' patriot He was never a great favorite with the gallery But in unflinching pursuit of a really patriotic purpose , in bravely incurring the odium involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty the discharge of which was of momentous consequence to the country  --  it would not be easy in the history of all our Presidents to find a parallel to Mr. Cleveland 's conduct at this particular crisis . But his heroism proved for the time being his undoing He saved the gold standard , but he lost his party " Men who try to be as candid as Mr. McCall must admit that his argument against . the Democratic party , drawn from its desertion and execration of its President at that great national crisis , has much weight He fears that the party would , in a similar ' emergency , fall away from Judge Parker . That candidate Mr McCall recognizes as " a man of courage and independence . " and remarks that his qualities would not be " out of place in the Presidential office " ; but he points out the danger of a breach with his party as befell Mr. Cleveland . It is a result , we must concede , not impossible , though it is both possible and probable that Judge Parker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ruggeder Cleveland It is wholly conceivable , therefore , that in a perilous juncture he would stand as immovable as his rock-like predecessor , while yet able to conciliate and harmonize the various elements of his party . ' The Massachusetts Congressman 's references to the tariff are well-nigh sacrilegious . To the Home Market Club they will seem a stumbling-block and to the stand-patters foolishness . Tariff revision must speedily come , affirms Mr McCall . If it be said that the Democrats threaten a radical revision , disturbing to business , he declares that " between a radical revision and no revision at all , the former is preferable . " If some schedules are not soon changed , they will " impose the payment of a tribute as directly as if that were the declared purpose of the law , " and " the plunder and eonfisea , tion to-day become the vested in-terests of to-morrow . " This is simply awful , coming from a Republican , but worse is to . follow . Mr. McCall actually ventures to hold an opinion differing from President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be contended " that the tariff has not a direct relation with Trusts This is a cruel characterization of Mr. Roosevelt 's serious contention in his letter of acceptance , and may bring down upon Mr. McCall the President 's charge that no man who talks about attacking Trusts by means of tariff reduction can be an earnest enemy of the Trusts . Yet the Congressman is ready with the rejoinder , since he says of Mr. Roosevelt 's famous anti-Trust proceedings : " It may be questioned whether they have abated by a single farthing the profits which the Trusts have wrung from the people . " On the whole question of Imperialism and the Philippine policy , Congressman McCall reaffirms his well-known views . He says that if President Roosevelt 's language means anything , it means that he believes in the " ultimate independence " of the Filipinos . One of his sound remarks is : " We must change our relations with the Philippines or readjust our system of taxation . " The venture that was to result in immense profit has really proved a frightful drain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ways and Means Committee , " is insufficient to support us with our colonial appendages . " Of President Roosevelt 's " fine public spirit " and " high ideals of government , " Mr. McCall speaks approvingly , but indulges in something like mirth at " that creature of carnage and war , of blood and iron , " which is the offspring of the " imagination of some of his eulogists . " Indeed , for all the swaggering about the Spanish war ? " a war between a cripple and a Colossus " ? Mr. McCall has only contempt . " After a half-dozen years of boastful exaggeration and ' world power ' fustian , which have brought us to the point of bullying and beating our little brothers among nations , the time has come for the republic to resume its serenity . " Foolish or bigoted Republicans will denounce Mr. McCall as a traitor to his party . Even ordinarily sensible Republicans may pray to be delivered from such a candid friend , with a residential election pending , and may accuse the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause when it might easily have got a writer who would have cried up Republican policies to the skies , but whom nobody would read . Yet if Republicanism has any future , it lies with honest men who stand erect and speak the thing they will , whether girt by friend or foe . And if Massachusetts Republicanism knew the things that make for its own peace , it would be-thinking of a successor to Sen ator Hoar , not in the person of a moneybags or a satellite of Lodge , but in such a. man as Samuel Walker McCall . ROOSEVELT 'S PHILIPPINE INCON-SISTENCIES . Scornful as he is of the ability , courage , and consistency of his opponents , nothing quite so aroused President Roosevelt 's indignation , in his letter of acceptance , as their uncertainty on the Philippine question . He referred with the utmost contempt to " their irreconcilable differences of opinion , " their proved inability to create a conservative policy , " and " their readiness for the sake of expediency " to abandon principles . The Democrats , he asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one of them , self-government by the Filipinos , was an impudent annexation from Mr. Roosevelt himself . The President 's sarcastic references to the divisions in the ranks of the Democratic party are particularly delightful when one thinks of the good Republicans like Senator Hoar , Congressman McCall , ex-Gov . Boutwell , Justice Brewer , and many others who felt bitterly outraged by the forcible subjugation of the Filipinos . And when it comes to the ability of a party to create a definite policy , we may well ask : What is the Republican plan in regard to the islands ? There are many Roosevelt partisans who declare that any one who should haul down the flag in the Philippines ought to be shot as a rebel . Gen. W. H. Carter , a Roosevelt appointee commanding the department of the Visayas , complains in his official report that the present lawlessness of the Filipinos " will delay their ultimate Americanization , " and protests that temporary barracks " only serve to develop and confirm in the minds of Filipinos the idea that Americans do not intend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other hand , speaks and works for an early independence , while Secretary Taft talks of independence as wholly remote and practically impossible . The Republican platform , ignoring the wishes of hundreds of Republican professors , college presidents , and clergymen , remained silent upon the question of the future disposition of the archipelago This state of affairs alone , it would seem , might have deterred- the President from indulging in such irony at the expense of his political adversaries . It might have occarred to him , too , that somebody would take the trouble to run over the expressions of opinion in his own multitudinous speeches since 1898 , and call attention to the very large-sized beam in his own eye . For instance , on August 31 , 1899 , Governor Roosevelt declared to his hearers that " The right of justice and of equality be- : fore the law must be established there in the Philippines , and then it is our duty to build up by degrees , as rapidly as possible , a spirit of manly independence and self-reliance , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , this present-day advocate of self-government for the Filipinos said in his letter of acceptance of the Vice-Presidential nomination ( September 15 ) : " To grant self-government to Luzon under Aguinaldo would be like granting self-government to an Apache reservation under some local chief " Lest anybody should misunderstand this , he made his position perfectly clear twenty-three days later by thus preaching the doctrine of perpetual control of the archipelago ' " We can not in honor shirk our work in the Philippines . . . We are there , and we have got to stay . " On Memorial Day of 1902 the peaceful spirit was once more supreme in Roosevelt 's breast , and , under its enervating influence , he took what he would have characterized two years earlier as a " step backward " by expressing the following most admirable sentiments : " Peace and freedom  --  are there two better objects for which a soldier can fight ? These are precisely the objects for which our soldiers are fighting in the Philippines . " Arid he proceeded to give aid and comfort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our armies do more than bring peace , do more than bring order They bring freedom . " In this same address he used the words national independence in connection with the Filipinos , and went on to assert that when the Filipinos have " shown their capacity for real freedom by their power of self-government , then , and not till then , will it be possible to decide whether they are to exist independently of us or be knit to us by ties of common friendships and interest . " On July 27 of the present year , in his speech of acceptance , Mr. Roosevelt came back to the self-government idea once more by stating : " We have established in the islands a government by Americans , assisted by Filipinos . We are steadily striving to transform this into self-government by the Filipinos , assisted by Americans . " Previously he had declared in his " Big Stick " letter that " it is not true that the United States has any land-hunger . " So here this model of consistency rests to-day , - on the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Roosevelt 's opinions are similarly varied . At Lawrence , Mass. , on August 26 , 1902 , his view was . " Now we will govern the islands well . We will govern them primarily in their interests , but in our interests also . " In April , 1903 , he asserted that " The government is conducted purely in the interests-of the people of the islands " Contrariwise , in 1900 , after liarening the Filipinos to Apaches , he dated to say . " What the Boxers have done in China would have been done by the followers of Aguinaldo if it had not been for the firmness of President McKinley and those who have stood by him in the last two years . " Last year these opinions were quite forgotten . Then , while extolling Gov . Taft and his associates , he affirmed that " With them and under them we have associated the best men among the Filipinos , so that the great majority of the officials , including many of the highest rank , are themselves natives of the islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . jealously safeguarded as here at home . " Yet everybody knows that more than three-fourths of the native officeholders of to-day are the same savages who fought us from 1898 to 1900 . What a marvellous triumph for civilization ! This confuting of Roosevelt out of the mouth of Roosevelt could be continued much further . But these instances suffice to show his lack of clear thought and his want of statesmanlike policy based on principle And who so rash as to predict where Mr. Roosevelt will stand a year or two hence if reelected ? OUR ELECTION AUGURS . In printing a critical article on the art of prophecy , the London Spectator did not perhaps realize that it was offering anything especially timely . But on this side of the water , where few days pass without a prediction by somebody in authority that some particular State is about to give some particular majority for some particular candidate , the subject is particularly suit ed to the season . An important element in any political campaign is its " atmosphere " ; and one of the ways of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry out the maxim , " Claim everything . " He would , in truth , be a strange sort of political manager who should stand up before the votes were counted and admit , in so many words , that the election was lost . We expect the Republicans to receive news from the Gulf States , as Mr Dooley said , " so encouraging as to be almost incredible , or quite so . " A prophecy of victory is always regarded as most effective when it is most specific . When a man of reputed sagacity gives his name to ' an exact numerical forecast of results , it almost compels conviction . Yet even such careful and conscientious anticipations sometimes go wrong . It takes only a few minutes of browsing through newspaper files of twelve years ago to find the exact counterparts of the glib prophecies of to-day . Then , as now , the note of absolute conviction could be heard from every oracle . Senator Hiscock started on a Western trip at about this season , and , to an interviewer at Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same plurality that he had in 1888 . " Harrison 's plurality was 14,000 . Two months after the prediction , the State gave Cleveland 46,000 plurality . Two weeks before election , the optimism of the party carried the national executive committee to the point of sending out a semi-official telegram claiming New York by 20,000 . This was signed by such astute politicians as Chairman Carter , and Messrs . McComas and Bliss . In other States , the Republican confidence displayed itself even more strikingly . Ex-Governor , now Senator , Foraker declared in mid-October that there was no trouble about carrying Indiana . State Chairman Gowdy , after a " careful analysis , " declared " Indiana is safely Republican , in my opinion , by 5,000 to 10,000 majority . " A few weeks later , after a " poll , " he raised his estimate to " from 10,000 to 20,000 . " The State , of course , went Democratic by Henry C. Payne has been one of the Wisconsin leaders who have most convincingly assured the President that there is no cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying this same thing in September , 1892 . Mr. Burrows , now a Senator from Michigan , after a tour of eleven States with the best of opportunities for " sizing up " the situation , set 25,000 as a reasonable figure for Harrison 's plurality Wisconsin . The State , in fact , gave Cleveland 7,000 . Mr. Burrows likewise gave Illinois to Harrison by 20,000 . The voters gave it to Cleveland by 27,000 . John Kean , jr. , who now represents New Jersey in the Senate , was then a candidate for Governor , and was one of the most modest of prognosticators , estimating his plurality at a paltry 5,000 , which turned out to be just 20,000 too great . How , after all , does any one prebend to know beforehand the result of an election ? Our Senator goes West on a speaking tour , and , coming back for a call at national headquarters , remarks that Indiana is safe by 15,000 . He has talked with the local managers of his own party . They base their information on reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their territory , some have not , but all are eager to make the best possible showing for themselves . Even a poll conscientiously taken records but few of the independents whose shift from one side to the other is one of the chief forces in determining elections . Taking the most mercenary view , there is always the other fellow 's money to be considered , and the difficulty of making men " stay bought . " That is the professional politician 's situation . The layman is really much worse off . He is strangely fond of having an opinion beforehand on the result in an election . How does he get it ? If he is a man of exceptionally wide acquaintance , he may have chatted on the issues , before the ballOts are cast , with something like one two thousandth of the voting population of ' this State. ? He knawS three life-long Republicans who are indignant over the pension order . and two others who fear Iraperialism so much that they will ' desert their old party allegiance . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippines , two who are enthusiastic over the clever handling of the Panama complication , and one who has put his money in a knife factory and fears tariff reduction . Seven is greater than five . Therefore , the Republicans will sweep the State . The Spectator , in the article alluded to , describes " the respectable form of prophecy which consists in deductions from ' data which are too obscure and subtle to be obvious to a man 's ' contemporaries . " Such the glowing utterances of soothsayers at headquarters pretend to be , yet the Spectator recalls unfulfilled- prophecies . " To the same class belong , too , " it remarks , " prophecies which have failed , as when Adams on the eve of the French Revolution saw a long period of peace and prosperity in store for France , but immediate anarchy for England , or when De Tocqueville declared that America must remain an agricultural-country with no large fortunes among her citizens . Bath Adams and De Tocqueville thought they argued from good data , but they read their data wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The report made to the American Bar Association at St. Louis recently by its rCommittee on Indian Legislation contains the only gospel which can save what is ' still savable in the American Indian . It declares that what the nation must do for its ward is to compel him not only to work , but to work to an economic end . It is too much to expect , as the committee realize , that every Indian will at once become self-supporting , but he can be put upon the road to self-support and required to stay there . The compulsion will come , tbeybelieve , when the red man finds himself on the ground , with the alternative of digging a living out of it or starving to death . Two distinct merits appear in this proposition . First , it does not blink disagreeable facts , perceiving that some Indians will be crushed under the wheel of civilization through their own unwillingness to adapt themselves to the universal order of mankind . Second , it frankly recognizes the wisdom of doing at once a duty which must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the harder by prolonged postponement . The trouble with nearly every white philanthropist who addresses his attention to the Indian problem is that he lets sentiment- dominate judgment . His - pity for , the individual quite oVerwhelms hiS sense of justice for the race . Because , in a group of one thousand Indians , five hundred would take their chances of going hungry if reduced to eating only what they earn , he is willing to sacrifice the welfare of the remaining five hundred who could and would do something for themselves if it were required of them . This is an error not only of logic , but of plain humanity . The history of mankind is full of illustrations showing that human progress has a cruel as well as a noble side . To abandon lawmaking because there are some members of- every community too weak or too wrongheaded to conform their conduct to the laws when made , would be a monstrous wrong Nobody except an anarchist would entertain such an idea , if stated abstractly ; and yet there are thousands of good citizens who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law of labor to which all the rest of mankind are subject . But the committee err in assuming that their proposed new order of things is not already in operation . The Government  --  lamely , it is true , and in the lumbering way in which it does most things  --  has been enforcing a compulsory labor law on Indian reservations for some years past . The practice Ties attracted less attention than it deserved , because it has been established by executive order and not by statute . The Commissioner of Indian Affairs , in pursuance of the general discretion reposed in him by law , has instructed agents everywhere to strike from the freesration rolls all able-bodied Indians and provide them with work . Naturally , this rule has caursed much dissatisfactibn , especially in those tribes which had treaties with the Government guaranteeing to them certain food supplies in perpetuity ; but the Commissioner has held fast to his purpose , on the theory that a sound interpretation of both the treaties and the general statutes justified him in attaching tennis to his distribution of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be put into operation where-ever practicable , might be met by the statement that this change , or something corresponding to it , is also in progress at so rapid a rate that probably before another ten years have passed there will not ' be a closed reservation in the United States . The general severalty law , which gave a wholesome impetus to the movement for individual land-ownership , has of late been superseded to a ' considerable extent by special legislation adapted to the varying conditions of ' different tribes . The general law , for example , provides for the allotment of eighty acres- to each member of a tribe where the land is recognized as agricultural , but 160 acres where it is fit only for grazing ; but in a large part of the frontier West it has proved difficult to classify the land satisfactorily . There are ' districts in Oklahoma where an active controversy still rages over the question whether they are best adapted for raising wheat or grazing cattle . In places where wheat seems to have gained the day , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to floods or droughts five years out of ten , the intent of the law would not be nullified unless a double crop could be raised in the fruitful years to . make up for the failures in the barren years . In the colder parts of Montana a doubt whether , even with irrigation , anything except hay can be grown , raises the further question whether a hay country is not , after all , only a stock-raising country , and therefore , in fairness , to be governed by the same allotment rule as grazing land . These few examples will suffice to show the intricacies besetting a subject which seems simple enough on its face , and will explain why the Executive has in so many cases ' deferred to Congress in the application of the severalty system . Another reason may be found in the fact that the opening of the unallotted Indian lands to white settlement is not an executive but a legislative function , and the only part the Executive takes in the matter is the protection of the Indians by insisting that Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the hardest of recent struggles between these two branches of the Government occurred over the opening of the Rosebud Reservation in South Dakota , made memorable by the riots at Bonesteel last July . When this subject was before Congress , most of the South Dakota delegation stood out for a low price per acre , to be offered as an inducement to the immigration of white settlers ; and the President would have been defeated in his fight for fair treatment of the Indians if he had not made at plain that he would veto the whole bill unless this item were satisfactorily adjusted . Public utterances like those of the Bar Association 's committee are an encouraging sign that the intelligence of the American people is coming to the aid of their interest , and their generally right purpose , with regard to the Indian-s . ' While it is true that after a long period of sluggishness the Government is waking up to its duty , no harm can come from an active application of the moral " prod by just such hands as are now @ @ @ @ 