@@486571

The American Historical Association and the American Economic Association are celebrating in New York this week the twenty-fifth anniversary of their formation . That the Historical Association should date back only a quarter of a century seems surprising , in view of the extensive pursuit of historical study from an early period of our national life ; but in the case of the Economic Association , the foundation of the society was almost coeval with the beginnings of important and widespread activity in our country in the field whose cultivation it was designed to promote . Indeed , when the formation of the American Economic Association was proposed , twenty-five years ago , few persons realized that there existed in America a body of earnest and able students of economics adequate to maintain such an association . And in fact such a body of economic scholars and investigators in our country bad at that time existed only a very few years . Great as have been the material changes in America in the past three decades  --  the applications of invention , the growth of wealth , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite as striking a change in the development of specialized learning . In every department of research there has been , since the foundation of the Johns Hopkins University in 1876 , a radical change of the status of American science and scholarship as related to the intellectual activities of the Old World . Before that time , with the exception of the work here and there of some isolated man of extraordinary powers , America was content , in nearly every field , to be a receptive follower , leaving to European investigators the task of maintaining the , advancement of science and the progress of scholarship ; now , in almost every branch , she contributes , at least in quantity and in many instances in quality also , her full share to the great stream of scientific research and publication . It might have been thought , a priori , that economics would naturally be an exception to this rule ; that , in viAw of the prominence of economic factors in the making of our history , the study of such phenomena would have attracted adequate attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but this was by no means the case . On the work of a few notable individuals  --  had been more completely neglected among us . And among the very few exceptions that did exist , two were of the kind that eminently prove the rule , for the work of both Henry Carey and Henry George , whatever may be one 's judgment of its merit or its value , was precisely of the kind that does not spring from a general or systematic cultivation of scientific study . In the common advance of specialized study that has taken place in America , no department of inquiry has shared more conspicuously than economics ; indeed , it may be doubted whether there is any other subject in which so marked a development has been shown . And this is not surprising ; for in the case of economics there has been present an incitement special to this province . Thirty years ago , with the exception of the currency and the tariff , there were no economic problems felt by the nation at large to be pressing . Labor questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not assumed anything like the definiteness of the questions of to-day . Our national resources still seemed inexhaustible . We were only beginning to realize the scope and significance of corporation problems ; the giant combinations of capital that are in the forefront to-day were in the future . Our people were still predominantly agricultural ; and Socialism was only dimly thought of as a question that might some day come home to us . With the growing complexity of our conditions and the growing urgency of economic questions of every kind , there has been a demand for a vast amount of close study , both of general problems and of specific conditions ; and the publications of the American Economic Association bear witness to the fact that this demand has been worthily responded to by the professors in our universities and by other students . It would be a mistake , however , to attribute solely to these practical demands the growth of economic study in our country . In the domain of theory there has been a notable activity , and several of our writers have won high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting to recall that , in its early years the American Economic Association interested many chiefly for English political economy and the views of the German " historical school . " It was soon made plain that the Association was not to be identified with any dogma or faction ; and the controversy itself now seems a vague and distant memory . As to the work of American economists in general , it may fairly be said that some of them have pushed the refinements of theoretical analysis as far as they have been carried anywhere , while others have gone into the most painstaking and laborious examination of concrete facts . If some of this labor , in both directions , has passed beyond the limits of what is profitable , that is but the price which must always be paid , in this world , for the energetic and whole-hearted promotion of any large object . There is one important aspect of the growth of scientific study of economics in our country which is too gratifying to be passed without mention . This is the utilization of the services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the influence that has been exercised by them on the course of legislation and administration . With professors of economics drafted into the Public service for such tasks as the straightening out of the finances of Porto Rico and San Domingo , the investigation of tariff schedules under the provision of the new tariff act , the organization of the work of the National Monetary Commission , and other things too numerous to mention , the epithet " academic " will hardly any longer be applied to our scientific economists as a term of reproach . But these governmental appointments by no means furnish a measure of the practical influence that our economists have been exercising . The remarkable development of governmental efficiency in the State of Wisconsin , in its dealings with corporations and in other matters , is a signal example of the kind of thing we have in mind . And , aside entirely from governmental activities , there is the influence of our economists upon the formation of public opinion on the great questions of the day , an influence which is sure to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a national gain that , at a time when we shall need all the resources of trained intelligence and impartial investigation for the wise treatment of economic problems , there has grown up among us a body of men properly equipped for such a task . HISTORY AS AN ART . The works of the Neapolitan philosopher and critic , Benedetto Croce , are well known to special students . He has the gift of clear and trenchant utterance , and the translation just issued of his first extensive work , " . Esthetic , " will interest any one who can read real books of any sort . Many who are indifferent to the main argument will be stimulated by incidental comment that touches vigorously pretty much every field of intellectual activity . For example , Signor Croce discusses in passing the much-disputed point whether history is a science or an art . Here he goes immediately to fundamentals . What counts for him in the case is not any display of method , but the nature of the affirmations made by the historian . These , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellect , based on generalized experience , but intuitions based on the memory of other persons . Moreover , history ' never permits real generalizations . It deals always with the particular . We talk of heroes but mean Antony or Napoleon ; we discourse concerning nations but mean always Rome or England . The generalizations of history are either illusions or pretence . At times they are valuable . In such case , says our guide , we have philosophy masking as history . More often we have merely the complicated and extended intuitions of the artist-historian borrowing the airs and phrases of the sciences . That history , if a science , is on a different basis from any that admits direct observation and experiment has frequently been remarked . Signor Croce lays smaller stress upon the inherently uncertain nature of the data of history than upon the manner in which such materials inevitably are transmitted into the written page . He might have alluded tellingly to the fact that the historians who most affect the manner of science have generally declined to attempt this transmutation , occupying themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timidity of such scholars throws much light on the whole matter . What do they fear except to fall into what they scornfully style " mere literature , " that is , history  --  and art ? Whenever real history , as distinguished from source-books , is written , we are in the field of the intuitions . Out of a variety of possibilities we get the one that has vividly appealed to the taste of a given historian . This is true of what we ordinarily call the facts of history ; and evidently its interpretations are even more deeply colored by simple personal preferences . This view has been objected to as belittling one of the most fascinating of pursuits . Signor Croce , on the contrary , claims to be the very good friend of history . As an art it deserves even greater respect than it may arrogate as a pseudo-science , and if its affirmations are often divinations , they are thus all the nearer to the kind of intuitions by which we perforce direct our own lives Here he takes strong ground against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The historian is an artist , but he deals in an authentic and even authoritative art of life : Historical certainty is composed of memory and of authority , not of analyses and of demonstration To speak of historical induction or demonstration , is to make a metaphorical use of these expressions , which in history bear a meaning quite different from that which they bear in science The conviction of the historian is the undemonstrable conviction of the Juryman , who has heard the witnesses , listened attentively to the case , and prayed Heaven to inspire him . Sometimes , without doubt , he is mistaken , but the mistakes are in a negligible minority compared with the occasions when he gets hold of the truth . If this view of the procedures of history is true , there remains to be inferred a rather important corollary . If the method of history is esthetic , then the absence of acceptable form in its is simply intolerable . To history is good but badly composed is as foolish as to remark that a sonnet is beautiful but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory would rule out of court hundreds of ill-digested books in which the historian has rashly claimed the scientist 's immunity from the requirement of form . The loss of these books would be slight . Indeed , a general clearing out of pretty much all the thicket that lies between avowed archly-ism and real history would be beneficial not only to the public but also to the historian . " LITTLE TIM " AND TAMMANY . In the Career of such a man as Timothy P. Sulivan , and in the extraordinary manifestations of personal affection for him which his death has evoked on the East Side , we get a vivid glimpse of the secret of Tammany 's power . It is an old story , but no fresh illustration of it can fail to fix the attention . Politics and governmental questions are involved , but there is something more  --  the human element . The name of Sullivan has been something to conjure with in thickly populated districts of New York , not merely because the bearers of it were Tammany leaders and influential politicians . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Providence to thousands of men and women and children with whom they have lived in close contact and on terms of fellow-feeling , and whom they have thoroughly understood . Tammany is a wonderful political machine , but the true hiding of its power lies not in organization , but in the man-to-man dealing , the intimate personal relations , which exist between so many of its leaders and the vast concourse of people of all races , with their shifting social conditions , which make up so large a part of the voting strength south of Fourteenth Street . Among them the dead Sullivan lived and grew rich and politically powerful , but never lost the reputation of being a man of the people , a " good feller , " a kind neighbor and friend . This ea-saloonkeeper , this gambler , this politician who rose rapidly to large wealth by questionable means , was at least an adept in the human problem which meant so much for him . He had the name of being a brother of the poor . In their good fortune he rejoiced and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He made himself easily accessible to the troubled , the friendless , the needy . Not only by gifts and as- , sistance in times of emergency , but by acting as a general employment agent , a counsellor , a champion , an intervener between the law and offenders , did he steal away the hearts of the people in his district and hold their political support in the hollow of his hand . We are not saying that this is admirable . The dark side of the picture must never be forgotten . Sullivan knew how to live upon the vices and the misery of the people he ostensibly befriended It is said that he never drank himself , but coined money out of the perverted appetites and degradation of slaves of liquor . He may have been a clean liver himself , for all we know , but the evidence is strong that he levied tribute , directly or indirectly , upon those who made barter of womanhood and domesticated hell-fire on the East Side . And with all his airs of good-fellowship and human kindness , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working for his own pocket all the time , in disregard of the removable causes of the wretchedness around him . What true and lasting improvement in the lot of the poor in New York is due to the initiative of a Sullivan ? Christmas presents and picnics represented merely a largess skimmed from the top of his large winnings . What have such things to do with better tenements and streets , sanitary advances , school privileges , a lowered death rate , and all the general struggle of poverty against adverse conditions ? In that long battle , the Sullivans are merely camp-followers , who may indeed relieve now and then a sick or injured man , but who give away only a part of what they have first stolen , and who never get into the real fighting line against the evils and vices and bad environment and misgovernment which keep the poor down and rob them of opportunity and of hope . All this must not be overlooked as a fearful offset to the charities and friendly activities of Timothy Sullivan among his constituents . The balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that his traits and methods go far to making intelligible the political power which he won . In his person , we see how Tammany ceases to be a far away system , a political organization , and becomes , to the streets and homes of the teeming East Side , both near and intensely human . To comprehend is not , in this instance , to forgive . But it is certainly not to scorn , either . Let prouder political leaders , and public men who hold themselves much higher in the world than " Little Tim " Sullivan , pause and ask themselves , before disdaining him , whether their motives are essentially different from his . If he was ready to build up a political following by an unscrupulous use of the offices , are not they ? Was it any worse for a Sullivan to " dig up something " for a henchman in a city department , than for a Parsons to hunt jobs in the custom-house for his helpers ? Extremes meet when we get down to the fundamental instincts of politicians Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We can imagine many complacent Protectionists drawing away their garments from a grafting and gambling Sullivan , in politics to make money , but are they really any better ? Is Tammany actually more mercenary than the Home Market Club or the Protective Tariff League ? We know of no satisfactory proof that it is . If to seek to get control of the offices and to make laws , for the purpose of putting the public money in private pockets , be the animating motive of Tammany , those who are actuated by it in other fields and under other names can not escape the condemnation which inevitably falls upon political selfishness and corruption . In this view , there is no essential difference between getting rich by buying city privileges from the Aldermen , and by buying protective laws from Congress . Pursuing the analysis to the bitter end , it is hard to distinguish the methods of a Sullivan from those of an Aldrich or a Cannon . THE ISSUES IN ENGLAND . Evidence is piling up that the English Conservatives are not pleased with the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them most is that the issues are not in the popular mind what they are in the Conservative mind . It is a common experience in democracies ; the voters have a perverse way of deciding for themselves what chiefly interests them , with a cool disregard of what party leaders assure them is the main issue . The Conservative managers would have a protective tariff put into the forefront of discussion , with minor emphasis laid upon the-vicious features of the budget ; but to their disgust and dismay they find everybody talking about the House of Lords and the necessity of destroying its veto . On this point we may quote the Morning Post , which says ruefully that " the campaign against the House of Lords is an attempt to prevent the nation from speaking its mind on the great question . . . . If only the mind of the public can be riveted on the fiscal issue during the next few weeks , vic tory will be assured . " In line with this is Joseph Chamberlain 's declaration , in the preface which he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to raise a " false issue . " He would have the Conservatives stoutly withstand this effort to " shift the ground " ; and concludes with a sentence which certainly does not betray very high confidence in the outcome : " If the issue of tariff reform were submitted by itself , there would be no doubt whatever of the reply . " The Conservatives , however , have no reason to be surprised at the trend of the campaign . They were distinctly warned in ? advance of precisely what would happen . Lord Rosebery pointed out with the utmost plainness , as did such Conservatives as Lord Cromer and Lord James of Hereford and Lord Balfour of Burleigh , that if the House of Lords threw out the budget the election would be fought primarily on that issue , and that the rights and very existence of the upper chamber would be at stake . It was abundantly predicted , and was , indeed , inevitable , that tha battle-cry made possible by the action of the Lords would at once unite and hearten the Liberals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Irish . All this has come to pass . Indeed , the Conservatives themselves have been unable to avoid meeting the issue which they dread . Peers have taken the field in their own defence , and the ablest Unionist orators have been compelled to speak about the topic uppermost in public thought . Even Joseph Chamberlain , like Mr. Balfour , is forced to give attention to the " false issue , " and makes an argument in behalf of a Second Chamber . This , of course , exposes Mr. Chamberlain to the terrible retorts taken from his own speeches of twenty-five and thirty years ago , when he was a flaming Radical and indulged in harsher language about the Lords than even Lloyd-George 's to-day . Here , for example , is an extract from a speech made by Mr. Chamberlain in 1884 , in which he asked whether the Lords were to " dictate to us , the people of England , the laws which we shall make , " and called upon his hearers never to submit to " this miserable minority of individuals who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have no spite against the House of Lords , but I have an account to settle with them , and I promise I will not forget the reckoning . I boast a descent of which I am as proud as any baron may be of the title which he owes to the smiles of a king or to the favor of a king 's mistress , for I can claim descent from one of the two thousand  --  one of the ejected members who , in the time of the Stuarts , left home and ' work and profit rather than accept a State-made creed which it was sought to force upon them . And for that reason , if for no other , I share your hopes and your aspirations , and I resent the insults , the injuries , and the injustice from which you have suffered so long at the hands of a privileged assembly . We have been too long a peer-ridden nation , and I hope you will say to them that if they will not bow to the mandate of the people they shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abused Mr. Chamberlain is , of course , like all statesmen , entitled to change his views on mature reflection , but nobody knows better than he what ammunition for the Liberals may be drawn from his old arsenals . And he would be one of the first to perceive that the action of the Lords could not fail to arouse resentment among the working classes and cause the Labor Party to seek a closer working agreement with the Liberals . This last is , in fact , in the way of being perfected . It is one of the ominous clouds on the Conservative horizon . There is no hard and fast arrangement between the Labor leaders and the Liberal managers , but many signs of a good understanding . It is not that Labor candidates will not seek election to Parliament in as great numbers as in 1906 , but that many Labor candidates will be withdrawn in constituencies where they could not hope to succeed , and where a three-cornered contest might give the seat to the Conservatives . Several members of the Labor Party Executive Committee have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the rights of the nation over-ride the fortunes of a party , " and that " we do not want to do anything to help to return a candidate who is on the side of the Peers . " Consequently , many an expected Labor candidacy will be abandoned , on the convenient ground that neither the party poi. icy nor the party treasury will admit of it . The recent decision of the law Lords that members of a trades-union can not be compulsorily assessed to pay Parliamentary expenses , will not make the Labor Party fall suddenly in love with the Peers . Funds will , no doubt , be raised by workingmen voluntarily , but all the greater care will be taken to spend them so as to tell most heavily against the Conservatives . THE WORLD 'S LITER4RY CENTRE . Now that the North Pole has been disposed of , we may turn our attention once more to the one really legitimate field of geographic interest , which has all this time been located in East Africa While the Arctic Circle has been spinning through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in patience and the men who write about East Africa have stuck grimly to their typewriters . They are now laughing last . We shall have just one book about the North Pole . Already we count , upon the shelf , a full half-dozen books about East Africa . It is extraordinary how many people seem to know so many things about what has been usually spoken of as an unknown country . Yet the region between Victoria Nyanza and the Indian Ocean has drawn visitors from all corners of the civilized world for all sorts of reasons . Baedeker , when lie takes up East Africa , will find undeniable evidence that the country offers attractions , as the advertisements say , for the missionary , the big-game hunter , the health-seeker , and the journalist . All of them are now publishing their experiences . It is obvious that but for Mr. Roosevelt , most of these books would never have seen the light . It is not a question of merit ; almost without exception , the books make very good reading . But it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no market for a particular brand of goods . Mr. Roosevelt has opened up such a market . He has recently been described as a dynamic geographer , as a man who takes obscure places and puts them on the map . Having done that service for Oyster Bay and Rock Creek Park in Washington , he now comes to the aid of a large section of the Dark Continent . But if the present flood of books on East Africa keeps up , Mr. Roosevelt will inevitably rank high as a dynamic literary pioneer as well as a geographer . The pathways of Mt . Xenia may become more familiar than the streets of the national capital . Every school-boy may soon have at his fingers ' ends the annual rainfall , temperature , and barometric pressure at Mombasa . But literature will share in the triumphs of science ; the library shelves keep groaning as the lions and rhinoceroses fall . Mr. Roosevelt can afford to take his time while smaller people write their books . They can not compete with him . His methods are not their methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand volumes be written on the sub-Not , the world is sure to wait for the final word to be spoken by the only man qualified to utter it . No blame to the minor writers if they make hay while the sun shines . There is a popular impression that the books have , come from men who sped to East Africa after Mr. Roosevelt 's plans for visiting that country were announced . Of the half-dozen books we have referred to , all deal with experiences antedating Mr. Roosevelt 's by many months or many years . The further back we go , the more interesting do we find our book as a rule . In recent years , East Africa has suffered from a monotony of big-game hunters , who come for the same purpose , travel up by the same line of rail from Mombasa , and either shoot a large number of lions and elephants or do not . There was more variety in earlier days when travel was by caravan and the route was not marked out so rigidly . The earlier travellers , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country than in its fauna . No present-day author , of course , can avoid referring with tolerable frequency to the people about him , even if these appear in the rather artificial role of game-beaters and carriers for the white adventurer . But in too many books the main interest lies in discussions as to the relative danger of hunting lions , buffalo , leopards , and rhinoceroses . One writer grows very warm on the subject : There is one other beast which is not often considered in the discussion of the most dangerous animals , and yet men who have had experience look upon him , when be is wounded , with a degree of respect that places him not even second to the lion I mean a wounded leopard He is the sneakiest , meanest hunter , and the most cruel , ferocious fighter of possibly any of the cat tribe Considering to what trouble and expense the hunter has gone in journeying to East Africa after his skin , how inexcusably thoughtless in the leopard ! Hence , at the risk of being written down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preference for the old-fashioned books of travel , the straight out-and-out account of the trained ethnological observer , or better still , the story told by some missionary worker on the basis of long years of experience . There are books of this type in the new crop , and in them we catch a whiff of the old delight when some of us were younger than we are now , and Du Chaillu wrote of Gorilla Land and Stanley was new and Livingstone was still fresh . We come back with joy to those terrifying Masai and Nandi women with heavy wooden billets distorting lips and nose and ear-lobes almost to the size of a merry widow hat . The young bucks doing their war-dance ; the witch-doctor whose efficacy is considered as varying with the amount of noise he makes , as is sometimes the case among doctors outside of Africa ; the songs and the games and the queer funeral customs and the initiatory rites for the boys  --  do these things still fall within the ken of the boy of to-day , or have they been totally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Henty and Alger books on the other ? Does the modern boy know how queer his own familiar texts sound in the heathen tongues ? Has he ever read that in the Lumasaba dialect , " Onward , Christian Soldiers " begins : Babana ba Yesu miyinyuke rawesi Mulole Yesu , ayu worangiyeIf these lines , falling into the proper hands , shall be the means of leading some boy to the treasures of the old-fashioned book of travel , they will not have been written in vain . - 