@@465294

man . Next to those at Angkor Wat , which the French have made known to the civilized world by numerous artistic publications , the city of Pemai is the most important . This ancient city lies in the eastern central part of Siam , near the head waters of the Korat River , one of the main tributaries of the Mekong in Siam , and about thirty miles east of the town of Korat , the north-eastern terminus of the Siamese government railways . Korat is two hundred miles north of the city of Bangkok called officially by the Siamese not " Bangkok , " but " Krung Thaep . " On the Mekong River we had seen the oldest Buddhist wat , or temple , in Siam , but this only dated back , according to the records , about eight hundred years . If I recollect rightly , Prince Damrong told me that this building had been the model from which all ideas had been taken , and explains why the general plans of pagodas all over Siam are the same . It was very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for besides visiting the numerous ruins , many of the Laos people had never before semi a white man , and when they came by thousands to pay their respects to the Prince , they stopped to see and to wonder at the three white men with him . We followed partly the route taken by those intrepid explorers , Mouhot , Gar-tiler , McCarthy , and Prince Henry of Orleans , but a good part of our journey was through Siamese territory where no white men had ever been before . Our outfit for the expedition to the north consisted of eleven elephants to carry the sick and their personal baggage , one hundred bullock-carts , four hundred porters , and fifty mounted police . At the different stations we were joined by the local officials and prominent men of the country , often to the number of fifty or seventy-fire , so that the entire expedition would usually number from seven hundred to eight hundred persons . The personal court of H.R.H. Prince Damrong , Minister of the Interior of Siam , consisted of the High Commissioner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gendarmerie , the local governor of the province through which we passed , Mr. De Laroca , civil engineer , and myself as physician . As we were to travel for many hundreds of miles through the jungle where there were few or no inhabitants , large parties of men were sent on ahead many months before by the local officials to clear away the jungle at the proper intervals for halting-places , and to build , , blunpgaliioiws fInorthtehebaPrn dtiigceer-acnd escort these were always built with bamboo fences around them , and with elevated sentry-boxes at the corners , but large camp-fires were mostly depended upon to keep the wild beasts away . Our route led us from Bangkok by railway to Korat , the terminus of the northern railway , and from there to Bong Kai on the Indo-Chinese frontier . We followed the old jungle route which extended in a northeasterly direction , and which had been used for centuries as the main artery of commerce from China and Indo-China to Bangkok . A great deal of work in improving this road had been done by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cutting the timber hack for several hundred feet on both sides of the trail . For days we travelled through great forests of hard wood , over one hundred varieties of which exist in Siam , and the amount of timber simply cut down to widen the trail would amount to millions of feet of rosewood , teak , mahogany , red cedar . ebony , and dozens of other kinds . The old jungle trail goes almost directly north from Korat till you strike the Mekong River , a distance of nearly five himdrA miles in a direct line , and which at : gong Kai , twelve hundred miles from its mouth in Cochin China , is nearly two miles wide , and can truly be called a majestic river , although in the dry season at this point of no great depth . In the wet season , when all of its tributaries are draining the province of Yunnan in southern China and the great table-land of Tibet , it becomes a mighty river , rising sixty feet from low-water level , its great floods sweeping away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government has found it impossible to make it a navigable stream , the difficulties of navigation being doubled by the large rocks and the rapids which make voyaging on it a terrible chapter of maritime accidents . The French colonial government at Vientiane , the capital of French Laos , tendered H.R.H. Prince Damrong and his suite the use of a small river gunboat to take the party some three hundred miles down the river . This gunboat , built in France , drew only twenty inches of water , and had at one time made an ascension of the river for two hundred miles inside Chinese territory , the farthest any white man had gone up the river . The journey was , however , not without incident , the steamer grounding on sand-bar after sand-bar , owing to the swiftly shifting channel of the river , to be hauled off by sheer weight of numbers by hundreds of men requisitioned from the surrounding villages . As the river was literally alive with alligators , it was very interesting to the men forced to walk up to their waists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bank in the deep jungle and keep very close to the boat , owing to the great number of tigers in the neighborhood , the neighboring villagers bringing us news of their depredations among the cattle along the river . The jungle on the banks of the upper Mekong is very much like that on the west coast of the Malay Peninsula . There are enormous trees covered with a heavy luxuriance of trailing vines , with beautiful orchids , and the jungle is literally alive with game , especially great numbers of peacocks , wild elephant , tiger , rhinoceros , bear , and deer . When we disembarked we took to our elephants and ponies , which had been sent overland from Nong Kai down the river . It was here that I was told that much care must be taken in bathing the elephants in the river on account of the vast number of electric eels . After leaving the river we started to the southwest on our return journey toward Korat . At all of the towns along the river for hundreds of miles we had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bands of music , houses decorated , and fireworks and native lakons , or theatres , in full operation . This was owing to the fact not only of the visit of the Prince , the first member of the royal family to visit this part of the kingdom for many years , but also to the satisfaction caused by the completion of the treaty with France , by which Siam was given control of her own territory up to the bank of the Mekong . Heretofore she was not allowed to have any troops within fifteen kilometres of the right bank on her own soil . For hundreds of miles down the Mekong on the right bank in Siamese territory were village after village , plantation after plantation , thousands and thousands of inhabitants living in peace and contentment , while across the river in French territory for hundreds of miles there was nothing but jungle . These people moved across the river by whole villages , voluntarily giving up their homes and property sooner than be ruled by an alien though civilized people . After travelling for about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the grassy plain which stretches Angkor , Angkor Thom , and Pemai . The ruins at Angkor Wat are simply the ruins at Pemai magnified many times , and it is conceded that those at Angkor are not to be equalled in the Far East with the exception of Egypt . At Lopburi , Pitsunaloke , Phrapatom , and Suwanalok are others of great antiquity , but they all show that they were built after Buddhism had become the religion of the country . The clay tablets found in the temple caves of the west coast , with the Pali inscriptions on the back and of Buddha on the front , date back to the tenth and eleventh centuries A.D. The rock temples in which they are found are of great size and beauty , but not in these respects equal to the rock temples of Ceylon and India . A few tablets are in possession of the Arehreological Society of the University of Pennsylvania . The ruins at Pemai show the strong Indian influence in the idols which are of Brahmistie origin , and as Buddhism was introduced into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the building of this city and the height of its glory ; likewise Angkor Wat must have been in existence about that time . Images of Buddha of a later date , made of jade , ivory , alabaster , and marble , found in these ruins , show that the art of carving and stone-cutting was highly developed . Two solid bronze lamps of pure Greek design now in the possession of H.R.H. Prince Damrong , and found recently in one of the rock temples in the Malay Peninsula in Trang province near the Bay of Bengal , must have come in ages past from Greece by way of India , possibly following the invasion of this part of the world by Alexander the Great , although we know that for many centuries before and after the dawn of the Christian era commerce had been carried on between Egypt and the Mediterranean ports and this part of the world .                     