@@486655

We are now entering on the sixth month of the investment of the Atlantic seaboard by the forces under Commander-in-chief Mitchell , and a fortnight has elapsed since Commander-in-chief Roosevelt declared the situation extremely annoying , and said it must really terminate at once . In the meantime , the naval manoeuvres on the same coast have demonstrated  --  who knows what ? Either our complete immunity from foreign invasion , or the pressing necessity for more ships and more fortifications . To complete the picture , while every political means has been exhausted to effect a surrender of the besiegers , the Grand Army of the Republic has been holding its annual picnic in Washington . Great show of activity by sea in warding off attack from the quarter where attack is not contemplated or entertainable ; great show of what we may call , Button Patriotism on shore , with blitsful ignoring of the new half-yearold rebellion . The march of the seasons has not been stayed . Winter is upon us , and our Eastern population is preparing to practise those economies and face those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This means a turning back of civilization . For lack of fuel , our schools must be closed ; hospitals must turn out their inmates ; full-pursed charity can not by any gift of money supply the one universal need . The besiegers without have what is vital to those within . The blockhouse is surrounded by a wily and savage foe , lying in wait for whoever dares issue to fetch water from the spring . Worse than this , some of the besieged are paying tribute to their tormentors , supplying them with ammunition and encouraging them to persevere in reducing the fort . This is the new federation of labor , with its sympathetic strikes and its Peter 's pence . The pauperization of the community goes on apace . The strikers and their poorer victims alike are supported by money that they have not earned . As industries are paralyzed for want of supplies or from the general uncertainty , the idlers are increased , their numbers being swelled by the school-children thrown upon the streets . This means the rapid expansion of the dangerous classes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all . Along with this goes a closer huddling in the congested districts , diminished ventilation , diminished personal cleanliness , lowered vitality from insufficient food and clothing  --  a premium on contagion and infant mortality which boards of health can no longer cope with . These bodies , charged with powers almost tyrannical to abate nuisances and danger to the public health in ordinary times , are now rendered impotent by the timidity of the State andnational authorities , who palter with a social condition worse than the plague . Let us do the authorities justice ; they have no support from the patriotism of the classes or the masses . In the great cities which boast their Union Leagues , we see no meetings to assure the President that courageous action on his part in freeing and protecting labor in the coal region will be sustained by the virtue , intelligence , and philanthropy of the country . Everywhere we see a confusion of the issue , a belittling of the crisis , a happy-go-lucky optimism , or a monstrous demand on the assaulted to cease from resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , strives to make the public ear attentive to campaign platitudes about the Trusts . Anything but the question of the hour , clearly regarded , honestly stated , boldly solved as it should be solved . The President at the capital , with his ear to the ground , hears only inarticulate murmurs , not the one voice which marks a nation conscious of its peril and clamorous to be led . Among the well-meaning there are two sorts of reasoners who combine to darken counsel and to unnerve the will of the Executive . One consists of those who view the coal strike as a thing apart from the everyday manifestations of trade-unionism ; and the other , of those who confound it with ordinary strikes . All trade-unionism that embraces strikes among its measures relies for its ultimate success upon intimidation and violence  --  that is , upon brutality and lawlessness . Whenever this stage is reached , no matter what the average membership of a union for intelligence , sobriety , and self-respect , it touches hands with the mob , whose support it instinctively has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiescent , still a potential mob , and one highly organized , with affiliations which now literally go out to the ends of the earth , drawing subsidies from unions of diverse and non-related crafts without reference to the merits of the strike . It has the very stamp of the mob ( as seen in the negro lynchings at the South ) in its assumption of right without examination or trial . The strike is on  --  call in the tithes of all the union band ; they will be paid without question . The strike exists , therefore it is just . Until this aspect of trade-unionism is seen in its true light of anarchy , it will never cease to devastate the land with unrest and crime , while eating out the manhood of those who passively submit . The second grave mistake is to think that public policy must disregard the magnitude of a disturbance not differing in principle from those commonly endured . Were the coal strike localized in its effects to Pennsylvania , that State might well be left to stew in its own juice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is it not so localized , it has been incited and engineered from without by a foreign combination , while its baleful consequences permeate every part of the country in some degree . No opposition or remedy will , in the nature of the case , avail from the action of other States . The supply of coal is circumscribed ; approach to it is denied with bludgeon , torch , and dynamite . The original United States is cut off from a supreme necessary of life without resource unless it be in the Federal Executive . It is as if a scission of that part of the Union had been effected , so far as a right to protection under the national mgis is concerned . New England and the Middle States may truly declare that they have no President at this moment . The cry is repeated from Washington : Show us the law and we will act . Show us , on the other hand , the law which obliges the Executive to see the independent laborer cheated of his right to life , liberty , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famine exerted against innocent millions . A poor sort of nation , we were told in our first imperial days , that can not burn its Declaration and hold colonies in 6ubjection , though no one has ever pointed out the warrant of law . What is now demanded of the President , sole representative in our system of the whole people , is to maintain.the Declaration as regards labor at least , giving no justification to despotism because it is organized , withholding no safeguard from manhood standing aloof from or kept out of the organization . If the laborer A must be free to be idle , laborer B must be free to work . This is the doctrine for all occasions ; its enforcement now with a will and with the whole power of the Federal Government is the duty which the President may continue to evade , but can not disown. 