@@486903

One phrase in the President 's letter to Secretary Cori elyou in regard to the bond and note issues will , we think , provoke remark " The government , " he wrote , " it ill see that the people do not suffer if only the people themselves will act in a normal way " It is , of course , a consistent Republican theory that this phrase expresses The party has always assumed that its measures were the sine qua non of prosperity Now that a depression has set in , the party naturally feels compelled to assert its power to defend the faith Of course , it can not Relieve the money stringency it may , but no widespread depression is to be conjured away by promises that " the government will see to it " That is an unwise pledge , from the point of view of politics as well as of economics As the New York Journal of Commerce put it Tuesday , Mr Roosevelt 's attempt to conceal a serious situation by saying that crops are good and business conditions are sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only " applying the Christian Science doctrine to the finance and business of the country which has been for two or three years working into a disordered condition and needs careful and judicial treatment " Mr Bryan 's announcement that he will not seek , but is ready to accept , another nomination for the Presidency , will arouse almost every conceivable emotion  --  except enthusiasm The general feeling , if he should run again for the Presidency , would be like that of the returned English officer in the story , who , when he was asked to go and see the House of Commons , inquired , " Is that thing going on yet ? " The advantage of having a new man as a candidate is often very great . He provokes interest . Everything printed about him is read , his speeches are closely scanned This was the good fortune of Mr. Bryan himself in his first campaign But after eleven years of it , that curiosity is now rather more than sated With a fresh nominee , too , there is always the possibility of enlisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man . He will do better  --  the new broom will sweep away the old cobwebs But Mr Bryan , instead of causmg hope to spring eternal , would make dejection sit like an incubus on every breast During half a generation citizens have now formed the habit of voting against Mr Bryan , and such habits are fearfully hard to break Mr Bryan makes a great parade of appealing to " the rank and file " ofthe party He says he is not going to be guided by the opinion of newspapers " calling themselves Democratic " The mandate that he will obey must come , if at all , from the plain people in the party The fact which Mr Bryan doubtless has in mind , that a great many Democratic papers in the South have been outspoken against his candidacy , can not be dismissed as a mere vagary of their editors It speaks , rather , of a widespread feeling If Mr Bryan is named for the Presidency next year , it will be due to skilful use of the " organization , " not to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ th or South , plain or fancy From beginning to end , Mr Bryan 's manifesto harps on " availability " But the real objections to him go deeper than any weighing of the chances of success He might be " sure to win , " and yet we should have the same conviction that he is not the man for the Presidency He has shown himself as unstable as water and as dangerous as fire . He speaks smoothly of " Democratic principles , " but any definition of them that could pass outside of a lunatic asylum would shut out such enormous centralization of power as is involved in his scheme for government ownership of railroads A determined rally of a few States would make his candidacy impossible The question is , What are self-respecting Democrats going to do about it ? They will have to answer very soon . The Administration has no more difficult task than to decide when to hold an election in Cuba and set up the new government which it is bound to put into power ' I he understanding has been that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is reported a growing demand trout various sources in the island for an early election , and the preliminary census has been just completed It does not seem possible that the government can please all the parties in Cuba Some will think the day chosen comes too soon , others too late , and those who desire a pei manent intervention will naturally not be satisfied at all The discouraging fact seems to be that , during this interregnum , no ode strong man has come forward who is entitled to the office of President by reason of his sagacity and ability The danger is , of course , that , if a member et one of the present factions is elected , the others will start a revolution The Cuban police and rural guards have , we understand . been greatly improved of late , and if in connection with the election there could be an agreement that American officers should be placed at the head of the Cubanforces in order to keep the peace , there might be some chance of a government 's surviving for a while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the reason that every President would naturally wish to control the head of the military . If only some Cuban Diaz would appear , Gov . Magoun , we feel sure , would rejoice It is pleasant to record that , according to all accounts , the American government of Cuba has been of an excellent character , while the conduct of our American troops deserves the warmest com-mendation Oklahoma does not enter the sisterhood of States in the best of tempers She feels rather like an unconventional but entirely worthy member of the family who has been kept waiting interminably in the vestibule . She has had the added vexation of overhearing scraps of the conversation from upstairs " Oh , she can wait " " We 're expecting Arizona presently , let 's have them both shown up together " " She ca n't possibly have grown up I remember her as a particularly obstreperous baby Had n't she better eat with the children9 " There is some excuse for this feeling We never kept any other Territory half so well qualified for Statehood on probation so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's possible refusal to approve the new Constitution doubtless rested on a very small basis of fact Plenty of Republicans wanted to keep the Democrats out for a year or two more , and there were enough debatable provisions in the Oklahoma Constitution to serve as excuses That the President would consent to this kind of political scheming , especially when its victim was a commonwealth which he held in such friendly esteem as Oklahoma , was altogether unlikely Gov . Haskell has declared his intention of reorganiz , ng the administration slowly , and of being impartial in the designation of State depositories , and the like It he carries out his purpose , his course will he in retreshing contrast to the petty political machinations of some of the opponents of Statehood ? The proposal for a national park on the Hudson , for the preservation of the Highlands from Peekskill to Cornwall , should take more account of the possibilities of the tract as a forest reserve Romantic the region is , and not without historic associations , but so grave has become the shortage in lumber that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aim to stop or make good the senseless deforestation of our lands . That the lumber consumption of the country has increased more rapidly than our population is to a considerable extent due to the destruction of forests for the making of wood-pulp paper . But , whatever the causes , the astounding fact remains that enough lumber has been cut since 1880 to make a one-inch floor over an area of 25,000 square miles . Such lavish use of lumber can not , of course , continue without serious industrial results . The railways are feeling the pinch when they buy their ties , and so are manufacturers of furniture , cooperage products , vehicles , and builders of all kinds . If they were aware that there is only fifteen years ' supply of hard wood now available for cutting , their present anxiety would be far greater . The time is , therefore , ripe for urging the increase of our forest reserves , not only by the Federal Government , but by the States as well . New York , for instance , ought to assume jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is practically useless for farming purposes , but for forestry is of greater value than the newly proposed Hudson River park . In Michigan , a beginning has been made in the work of preserving some timber lands by the appointment of a commission of nine to investigate the whole matter and report to the Governor . But before the nation as a whole the all-important matter is the creation of a national forest reserve in the Appalachian and White Mountains . A bill authorizing the acquirement of the necessary territory passed the Senate , but failed in the House . Congress did , however , appropriate $25,000 for a thorough examination and survey , and a definite plan is now ready for submission to Congress when it meets next month . Costly the purchase of the necessary land indubitably will be . Nevertheless , the Appalachian reserve bill should be carried through Congress at the earliest possible moment . " Dr. Wiley , the government 's so-called ' food expert and reformer , ' is as much responsible for the present demoralization of a great mass of the business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . " This charge , from the lips of the counsel for the American Extract Manufacturers ' Association , has a familiar ring . The present state of public feeling is such as to make the cry of " disturber of business " an effective slogan for every cause , no matter how selfish its motives . Against last year 's food law , made inevitable by the Chicago stock-yard revelations , people raised the wail about America 's diminishing exports , on the theory , presumably , that just as all party differences must be forgotten in the face of a foreign enemy , so all possible moral scruples , with regard to the vending of tainted ' food , must be forgotten in the face of a for eign customer . What , after all , do Dr. Viley 's critics demand , in the last analysis , but the right to sell an article under any name but the one by which it is known to its maker ? Men in high office have been justly censured as " disturbers of business " because their zeal has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but it is still to be shown that the head of the Agriculture Department 's Bureau of Chemistry has , according to assertion , " destroyed food values to the extent of many hundreds of thousands of dollars by unfair methods . " Writing on the subject of " Aids to Contentment in the Navy , " Rear-Admiral Goodrich has contributed some valuable suggestions to the Naval Institute 's Proceedings . There is , it appears , considerable discontent in the navy , as well as in the army , and Admiral Goodrich joins Lieut . Ridley McLean , who has also written on the subject , in believing that the features of naval life which cause the greatest discontent are unnecessary ones . Primarily , Admiral GoodriCh feels that the navy , in its treatment of its men , has not taken note of the changes which have revolutionized society during the last one hundred years . He finds that the attitude of the average naval captain towards his men is about what it was in 1861 , although during that time the duties of crews have undergone a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the steamer Tennessee in 1880 , 81.2 per cent , was made up of seamen , only 14.9 per cent . being in the engine-room , or artificer 's branch . To-day , the Maine , out of a crew of 670 , carries only 294 seamen , or less than 50 per cent. , while 39.1 per cent . are in the engine-room and among the artificers . Moreover , the seaman of to-day bears to his predecessor of 1880 only a slight resemblance . The modern ship is a floating machine shop , and her crew ought to be treated as high-class mechanics , and not as were sailors in the time of Marryat . Then they were Imprisoned on board men-of-war , as if they were convicts , and certain to get drunk or to desert if allowed to go on shore . To-day , confinement on a ship is mere irksome in some ways than formerly , because the friends of a sailor have so many more pleasures and opportunities than did the corresponding classes a hundred years ago . Moreover , sailors are now dressed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change their clothes  --  if they are in the engineering department six times a day , or more . Rear-Admiral Goodrich would have them wear working clothes all day , and change to clean at night . He would compress all work into the hours between 8 A. M. and 5 P. M. , and then devote the rest of the twenty-four hours to sleep and recreation . If the ship is in a home port , he would allow all but one-quarter of the crew to go ashore every night , and stay , if they wished , until seven o'clock in the morning . Finally , he would have Congress permit the navy to punish offenders by imposing fines , as in the army , and would do away with the deprivation of liberty as a punishment . All of which appears to the civilian ashore sound and sensible , in keeping with the times . The wonder is that such views have not long prevailed . That the present football season has been a notable improvement upon its predecessors no observer can deny . Primarily , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as have been reported have been mostly among the players upon " scrub " teams . The absence of serious accidents is the more noteworthy because opponents of the present game were certain that the open style of play would be more dangerous than the crush of a mass play . The event has shown that the facts are on the other side . It is also gratifying to learn that the conduct of the players has been better . There have only been isolated instances of deliberate " slugging " or foul play . Undoubtedly , this is partly due to the extra mupire and to increased official vigilance ; but whatever the cause , the result is welcome . As to the game itself , last year all the teams were unfamiliar with the open style of play , and even the most skilful players failed to grasp the possibilities behind the new rules . This year the benefits are clearly visible , and the game appears transformed from that of two years ago , when twenty-two " beefy " players shoved each other up and down the field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the player is compelled to use his brains to a far greater extent than heretcifore . The variety Of plays and their ingenuity are amazing after the years of tandem-smashing through right or left tackle or the guards , varied by an occasional punt . From the spectator 's point of view , the game is also vastly improved . The forward pass is but one of several new plays which add to the interest and keep the ball always in view . Finally , the new rules have brought about a greater equality among the teams of large and small colleges . While conceding all these improvements in the sport this season , the Nation , is still opposed to intercollegiate football contests . Their inherent evils are not affected by the fact that the playing rules have been improved , and that the list of injuries has shrunk . The over-emphasis upon athletics continues . The excitement of the undergraduate world during the football season remains . It is still true , as a Harvard professor said last year , that no solid work can be got out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All of the arguments against the game that President Eliot has marshalled with such telling effect are still of force . Nothing has happened which should cause the Columbia University authorities an instant 's regret over the stand they took last year in forbidding football . Catholic authorities in this country , as well as abroad , are , outwardly at least , conforming to the injunctions of the Pope 's encyclical against " Modernism . " The trustees of the Catholic University at Washington have recently passed a formal vote against the teaching of Modernist heresies in that institution . Father Tyrrell , the English Jesuit of liberal leanings , who in two able articles in the London Times replied to the arguments of the encyclical , has just been sentenced to what is known as the " lesser excommunication . " Under this punishment he is forbidden to approach the sacraments , though he is not barred from ordinary communications with the faithful . The sentence has deeply stirred Father Tyrrell 's admirers , who regard him as the Roman Church 's " greatest master of English style and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Sunday 's press dispatches , two German ecclesiastics have also fallen under the ban . One is Father Josef Milller , a leader of the Catholic Reform Party in Bavaria , and editor of Renaissance ; and the other is Prof. Johann H. Schriirs of Bonn University . The first has been directed by the Archbishop of Munich to leave the diocese ; and the second , by order of the Cardinal Archbishop of Cologne , finds himself without Roman Catholic students . For some time Professor Schrtirs , who fills one of the chairs of Catholic theology , has been lecturing in favor of applying scientific methods rot only to Biblical criticism , but also to the interpretation of the Fathers of the Church . Suddenly Cardinal Fischer of Cologne issued instructions to all Catholic students at Bonn University to absent themselves from Professor Schrers 's lectures . The faculty of the university is reported to be indignant at what is regarded as outside interference with the freedom of scientific research , and has petitioned the Minister of Education to protect Professor Schrtirs against the Cardinal . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For comment on it we need do nothing more than quote a sentence from George Haven Putnam 's lately published " Censorship of the Church of Rome " : There is something almost pathetic in the long series of attempts made by popes , councils , bishops , congregations , and inquisitors , to protect the souls of the faithful against the baneful influence of the ever-increasing tide of literature that was pouring forth from the various centres , somuch of which was calculated to lead men astray from the true doctrines , and to bring them into risk of everlasting perdition . We catch the first effect of the Kaiser 's visit in the softened tone assumed by the German press , and in the rumor of negotiations under way between Edward VII . and the Emperor , which , because they deal with the affairs of other countries than their own , would presuppose that their own affairs have been satisfactorily adjusted . Edward VII. , it has been reported , is striving to bring about a meeting between the Kaiser and the French President . What such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be dwelt upon . The probability of such a happening , which five years ago would have been deemed utterly impossible , is due to the momentous series of diplomatic arrangements , which began with the Anglo-French understanding of April 8 , 1904 . This arrangement , which from the beginning virtually included Spain in its terms , was followed by a distinct improvement in the tone of Franco-Italian relations ; France in turn facilitated the conclusion of the recent agreement between Great Britain and Russia ; winning over of Germany 's ally , Italy , and Germany 's friend , Russia  --  in other words , the rapid closing of that circle which evoked such ominous growls from Germany  --  made it incumbent for the Kaiser to make friends with Great Britain , which German opinion , in part , at least , has regarded as the architect of anti-German machinations . And now Edward VII . is preparing to complete his circle of European agreements  --  a circle not around Germany , but including her as a link  --  by bringing together Germany , and France . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of Germany , the desire to come to an understanding has existed for some time . There are two favorable factors . First is the situation in Morocco , where France seems pledged to a course of radical action extending over a long period , but where Germany 's good or can make her task comparatively light or extremely difficult . Second is the spirit of mistrust in her powers of self-defence which has fallen upon France of late . The effect of the anti-militarist agitation can not be minimized . High officials in the army , including one commander-in-chief , have resigned because they would not accept the responsibility of conducting a successful campaign under prevalent conditions . The Chamber has found it necessary to debate the subject " Are We Defended ? " The naval arsenals and dockyards are hotbeds of labor sedition , and the frequency with which officers have been arrested for selling information to foreign Powers is alarming , Under such conditions France should welcome the prospect of some sort of understanding with Germany . The first subject to receive the attention of the third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be attempted on the lines already laid down by a series of imperial edicts during the last two years . There is to be no wholesale expropriation of landowners , but the transfer of land to peasant cultivators is to be facilitated by means of agricultural banks . Emigration to Asia is to be fostered . Above all , however , the government is to pursue its policy of breaking up the present communal system of peasant proprietorship , and furthering the creation of a class of prosperous peasant landowners . The main object , therefore , of the government 's programme is not social , but political . Its experience with the two former Dumas has shown how susceptible the present exceptional status of the Peasants renders them to the influence of revolutionary theory and propaganda . The revolutionaries have been saying to the peasants , " You practically are living now under a local socialist regime ; all you must do is to get rid of the iniquitous bureaucracy and autocracy to arrive at ideal conditions . " The government 's hope is to cut the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia 's rural system . Already , by the Imperial decrees before mentioned , the peasants have been liberated from a number of their political disabilities , the right of free migration has been conferred on them , and the individual acquisition of land has been especially encouraged . Whether the Russian government , after creating a middle class of small peasant proprietors , will find them more easy to deal with then the existing peasant community is , however , an open question . The break-up of the Russian communal system and the building up of a class of large peasant landowners would mean a corresponding reduction of the great mass of the peasantry to the position of propertyless agricultural laborers  --  a class which might easily make trouble . And there are other difficulties in 1 he way of the government . Among its very supporters in the present Duma , among the members of the Right and the Centre , the Slavophil element is said to be strong . The new president of the Duma , Khomyakoff , is described as an ardent Slavophil . Now , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , in her present system of communal peasant owners , and her consequent lack of a landless class , Russia possesses an enormous advantage over the Occident which is destined to make her the leading world-power in the future . It is a question whether their possible interests as landlords can make the Duma conservatives forget their Slavophil tendencies .                     