@@430075

 |p3226  Many of the predominant ideas in Southern politics prior to the Civil War have been obscured by the greater issues of that fearful struggle . One of the most important of these was the Virginia and North Carolina doctrine of instructing-United States senators . It is the purpose of the writer to review in a brief way the rise and progress of this doctrine , noting at the same time its relation to the great political parties . The idea of instructing senators in congress seems to have been co-eval with the national government . It was but natural in the South , where the States had required their delegates to the old Continental Congress to return at the end of each year and render account , like Venetian envoys , to their sovereign legislatures . But the infancy of the new government was watched over by the Federalists who , especially in North Carolina , were determined never to admit the superiority of the State over the Union . Samuel Johnston and Benjamin Hawkins , our first senators , refused positively to answer the call of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They lost their positions by refusing , perhaps too haughtily , to recognize this doctrine of State supremacy . Their successors , Martin and Bloodworth , were more pliable , though they were not , so far as I have been able to learn , required to appear in person before the legislature and hear instructions or give account of national affairs . In the prolonged disputes based on the antagonism of our great political parties , which ended with the war of 1812 , John Randolph , of Virginia , and Nathaniel Macon , of North Carolina , formulated the doctrine of instructing senators . Randolph even claimed that a State legislature could instruct both senators and representatives in congress how to cast their votes , and that these instructions were binding . Macon , more in harmony with the prevailing Southern sentiment , was not so radical ; his doctrine was that senators alone could thus be ordered how to vote .  | A senator was , according to his idea of our national government , simply an ambassador of the State to the nation while the representative was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any way subject to other authority than that of his constituents and of the nation as a whole . Before 1820 Randolph had yielded to Macon 's view in a certain sense , though not entirely , as will be seen from his speeches on the Missouri Compromise and later . From 1820 to 1828 they taught this form of State sovereignty while they supported the opposition on most of the issues then before the country . It is well known that Randolph and Macon refused to vote for the " Misery " compromise , as they called it , in any form . By the time Macon retired , North Carolina democrats accepted without modification Macon 's doctrine of instructing senators ; the Virginia democracy with Ritchie at their head , much stronger and under abler leadership , accepted the same idea . But it was in North Carolina that the first great fight was made on the issue . Macon resigned his seat in the Senate November 14 , 1828 , on the ground of old age . His successor , ex-Governor James Iredell , son of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fill the unexpired term of two years . The doctrine of instructing senators was not insisted upon by the legislature . In 1830 , however , Macon 's protege , Bedford Brown , was elected by a narrow margin to fill out an unexpired term of four years made vacant by Jackson 's appointing John Branch , of North Carolina , to a seat in the cabinet . Willie P. Mangum , a man of great ability , and as the event proved of somewhat accommodating views , succeeded Iredell for a term of six years beginning also with 1830 . Brown and Mangum were as different as two men could be , the one a simple , plain democrat and pupil of Macon ; the other a thoroughly cultured , able Whig , if the term may be used at this point , an admirer of Clay and a believer in lavish national expense for public improvements . When the Jackson fight on the bank opened the two North Carolina senators took opposite grounds . But in 1834 , when Benton 's expunging resolution was made an issue in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Benton 's view and instructed her senators to vote for expunging . Mangum refused to obey and openly opposed expunging , while Brown  | accepted his instructions . The two senators canvassed the State on the subject and aroused everywhere great interest and some excitement . The partisans of each vied with their opponents in giving the biggest public dinners and forming the longest processions . The Van Buren campaign also began in North Carolina in 1834 and was waged for two years , and the newspapers placed the names of their favorite candidates at the heads of their editorial columns during the first months of 1835 . The State elections of 1836 were influenced by this strife between Mangum and Brown who had meanwhile been re-elected and instructed . The result was a whig , i. e. , a Mangum , victory both in the contests for the governorship and for members of the legislature , but by a majority of only one , counting the Speaker 's vote in the House . The presidential election came on in November and Van Buren received a majority of 3,000 . Popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the democrats . The fight would naturally become more bitter than ever in the legislature which assembled towards the end of November . For some unknown cause , Muse , a whig member from Pasquotank county , resigned his seat soon after the meeting of the assembly . A special election was ordered and a democrat returned . This undid all the plans of the Whigs , for Brown was endorsed and Mangum was to be instructed to vote yea on Benton 's expunging resolution . Mangum resigned , leaving an unexpired term of three months , rather than obey instructions . Robert Strange , a judge of the supreme court , was elected for the short unexpired term . He accepted . The Whigs laughed at the idea of any one accepting such an honor ; but a week later Strange was elected for a term of six years beginning March 4 , 1837 . The laugh was on the other side . By so narrow a margin was North Carolina 's vote in the United States senate changed , and the principle of instruction carried into effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leigh , of Petersburg , a friend of Mangum , and John Tyler were Virginia 's senators in Congress . They were admirers of great " Harry of  | the West " and refused to vote for the expunging resolution . Leigh resigned on the plea of urgent private business ; but the political world believed that it was because of the principle of instruction . Tyler waited to see if instructions would he given and when this was clone , he resigned . Two democrats , Parker and Rives , were elected to succeed them and formally instructed . It ought to be noted here that Macon himself came out strongly for his own doctrine in this hotly contested campaign . Nearly ten years had passed since he had gone into voluntary retirement . He had not participated , publicly at least , during this time either in the congressional or presidential elections and only once in a State election ? that for the constitutional revision of 1835 . His influence was enlisted in the Van Buren campaign in the early spring of 1836 and his name was published as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did much to carry North Carolina for the democrats and for their principle of instructing . The democratic organ , The Raleigh Standard , made great parade of Macon 's name ; and the Register and Star , Whig papers , tried to counteract this influence by ridiculing the venerable ex-senator . It will scarcely be disputed that Macon 's almost universal popularity did much to win the 3,000 majority which North Carolina gave Van Buren . But the day was lost to the democrats in 1840 . Both in the State and National elections of that year the whigs made large gains throughout the country . In North Carolina the Harrison ticket won by a majority of 12,000 ; the legislature was lost to the democrats by more than thirty votes . Anticipating instructions Brown and Strange resigned ; Mangum and W. A. Graham , both of Orange county , were elected to succeed them , Mangum for eight and Graham for two years . This see-saw game of politics was not yet over . In 1842 , Graham 's unexpired term of two years was out and the summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had as great a majority in the legislature as the whigs had in 1840 . Brown and Judge Romulus M. Saunders were the democratic candidates for Graham 's place ; but three weeks of party caucusing failed to bring harmonious action and at the last moment William  | H. Haywood was chosen to be Mangum 's colleague in Washington . Mangum did not resign as in 1836 . The principle of instruction was not so popular now as in 1836 . In fact the whigs of North Carolina admitted it only to a modified extent . Haywood recognized the principle , though rather after the fashion of the whigs than after that of Brown , yet Haywood was formally instructed how to vote on the tariff question . In 1846 , when the democrats were again the weaker party in North Carolina , the State having supported Clay in 1844 , and just before the vote was to be taken on the McKay tariff revision , Haywood sent his resignation to the governor of North Carolina . This was not because of recent instructions from his legislature , for the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty with Haywood was his disagreement with his own party and change of opinion since 1842 , and he took it to be more honorable to resign than to vote against his convictions or to vote with the opponents of his party . Haywood 's resignation was the cause of much disappointment to the democrats who had made so much of his being a democrat ; his abilities were of a high order and only a short while before his resignation he had made a speech on the Oregon question which attracted favorable mention throughout the country . He had admitted the doctrine of instructing in 1842 ; he now maintained that public opinion had changed in North Carolina , as indeed was true , if the recent elections be accepted as expressions of that opinion . The Whig press made capital of Haywood 's resignation and published his address on the subject of his retirement in all their papers , calling on every one to read it as an able refutation of loco-focoism , as the democratic doctrines were termed . This closes the period when the policy of instructing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Carolina . The Virginians had not kept it prominent in their election contests since 1836 , but it was admitted by their senators . In fact Southern democrats generally seem to have taken it to be a part of their creed , and Southern whigs were not far from accepting it in all matters of great import , as is evinced only too clearly by  | the events of the later fifties and the great act of secession in 1861 . From what has been said it will be seen that the MaconRandolph principle of the twenties came to be a paramount question in the next decade , was accepted fully by one party and partially by the other until the eve of the Civil War . Since the war resignations of senators because of any such , or similar scruples , have become rare indeed . The idea of personal loss seems to have grown on our public men enormously . They seem to believe in the doctrine of Hoke vs . Henderson , that an officer has a property right in his office . The most significant purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steer clear of nullification and to profess the greatest devotion to the Union . Macon , its founder , never tired of condemning the South Carolina " heresy . " The organ of the democratic party recommended the coldest kind of treatment for Poinsett and Huger , the South Carolina agents sent to Raleigh to influence the legislature of 1832 to send delegates to a convention of all the slave-holding and anti-tariff states . Calhoun was as unpopular with the instructionists of the South as he was with the abolitionists of the North ; he was repeatedly branded by the North Carolina democracy as the arch enemy of the country . One of - the most effective charges which the democrats brought against the whigs in 1836 was that Mangum was in secret alliance with Calhoun . The Whig papers were forced to take up a defensive attitude on this point . Both whigs and democrats vied with each other in rejecting the South Carolina proposals . Prominent democrats who were appealed to privately in favor of a Southern convention by a Georgia vigilance committee exposed the work of the Southern nullifiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Union . When Virginia appeared to favor South Carolina and sent Leigh , already mentioned in another connection , to Charleston , as it was thought , to arrange . terms for concerted action , the North Carolina papers of all shades of political complexion ridiculed the move . When even Ritchie 's paper , the great democratic  | organ , appeared favorable to South Carolina rather than to the Union ( which it was not in reality ) , the instructionists in North Carolina held aloof . They actually held public indignation meetings against Calhoun and his policy . In 1836 , when South Carolina , in accordance with some understanding between Calhoun and Mangum , cast its electoral vote for the latter for President , the democrats were jubilant . The whigs felt the sting of the charge which could no longer be denied . This , it was said , was evidence of a bargain and it did the whigs much harm during the succeeding years . The instruction democrats were unionists , even to the extent of refusing to protest against Jackson 's threat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parallel then with nullification there grew up in Virginia and North Carolina a movement looking towards the same final result as nullification , but inimicably opposed to it . This doctrine became so acceptable that both Virginia and North Carolina adopted it for a long period ; it influenced senators to such an extent that they resigned their seats rather than oppose the popular view ; it decided the great expunging resolution according to Benton 's wish ; and it continued a vital force in the politics of North Carolina till the very eve of the CivilWar . The so-called right of instruction originated in the intense Southern opposition to the principal measures of the Clay policy and it was regarded by the democrats of a large section of the South as a remedy for all the ills under which its people labored . The doctrine which found universal acceptance in secession was swallowed up in the catastrophe of 1861 and has never been brought to life again .                     