@@486837

display of tact . Mr. Roosevelt was unstinted in praise of the Southern character bell UM and post-bellum , and adroitly steered clear of the fundamental question , we will not say of negro suffrage , or of civil equality , but of the negro 's equal right to demonstrate his perfectibility as a human being  --  his " square deal . " At Tuskegee his task Was easy . Here he was careful to recognize the assistance which broad-minded white people had given and are giving to ? the great cause of negro education . His tribute to the white people b of Tuskegee must have been especially grateful to Mr. Washington , for they have stood by the school in its crises and have a full realization ? of the noble work which it is doing . More notice  --  ble and more honorable still was his frank utterance about lynch law . Within thirty miles of Tuskegee is one of the worst lynching regions in the United States . Tuskegee Itself has known lynching alarms , and it was only a couple of weeks ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would permit them to lynch without let or hindrance . Recognizingas he does the nature of the conditions which give rise to these crude and hideous attempts to suppress crime in both colors , Mr. Roosevelt spoke out ( vigorously against mob law , laying stress upon a fact which the majority of Southerners are apt to overlook , namely , that " every time a law is broken , every individual in the community has the moral tone of his life lowered . " The President fitly added to this his praise of the white Southerners who have stood out against this evil . We wish it had bean possible for him to mention some names , like those of Gov Lanham of Texas and Mr. Edgar Gard-nor Murphy of Montgomery , prominent in opposition . The President did not , of course , fail to lay stress upon the duty of the negro race to fit itself for a worthy place in our American republic , and he was able to cite the accumulation of $300,000 , - 000 worth of property in forty years as a proof that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The blotting out of one-half the illiteracy of Reconstruction days is another achievement of whites and blacks alike of which he took proper notice . His declaration that " ignorance is the costliest crop that can be raised in any part of this Union , " ought to check a dangerous feeling in some quarters that the education of the negro has gone far enough . Mr. Roosevelt put the question of education primarily on a business basis , but he went on to add that " every white man in America , no matter where he lives , should try to help the negro to help himself " ? this " in the interest , of humanity , juStice , and of self-protection " ; and , finally , that it is the interest And duty Jag Mae white man to see thatthe negro is " protected in property and life , and in all his legal rights . " fn Arkansas the President would have been More than human had he listened to Gov . Davis 's defence of lynching without responding to it . His sharp reply was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Mr. Roosevelt affirmed , sink to the bestial level of the negro criminal he ' helps to kill . The President 's statement that three-quarters of the lynchings are not for the unmentionable crime , should go far towards ending false and misleading statements by men of the Tillman , Dixon , and Davis types . Every one who has seen a ' Southern lynching , or a Northern one for that matter , knows that it spring from and arouses the lowest passions of man . In most cases the first preparation for this bestowal of summary " justice " is a day of hard drinking in low groggeries by " poor whites " and callow Youths who lave the excitement . When they have dispatched . one victim they are often ready to torture or kill another , as in the Mississippi Case , ' where an innocent woman was racked by tortures too indecently inhuman to be reported in print . Mr. Roosevelt could ? not appear by silence to consent to Gov . Davis 's utterances . Had he done so , he would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OP SHIPPING SUBSIDIES . Especially opportune , in view of the activity of the subsidy agitators , is the latest publication of the American Economic Association , upon the " History of Shipping Subsidies . " The author , Royal Meeker , Ph.D. , is not an " expert " in the employ of our paternal government , but a student of economics who has patiently gathered and sifted facts with the purpose of ascertaining their meaning . Hitherto the field has been left to ex-commissioners of navigation , secretaries of subsidy committees , and similar official or semi-official " experts , " who have been naturally unanimous and enthusiastic in their support of the bountygiabbers . It is fortunate , therefore , that Dr. Meeker has at last given us an uncolored  --  shall we say unsubsidized9 ? account of the history of ship subsidies . Turning first to the experience of Great Britain , Dr. Meeker reminds us that the largest merchant marine in the world has been built up without the payment of subsidies to merchant shipping . The postal subventions which Great Britain pays to certain steamship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the results are proved to be frequently the reverse of what they are generally supposed to be . He shows , for instance , that the large grants made to the Cunard Company prior to 1867 had the effect of restricting the , growth and improvement of ' the traus-Atlantle service . It was unsubsidized companies that substituted screw steamers for the old side-wheelers , introduced iron vessels , reduced the time of passage , and provided decent accommodation for cabin passengers . Like all monopolies , the Cunard Company , while subsidized , became unprogressive , and relied upon the privileges which it enjoyed rather than on its own energy and enterprise . The company had to change its ways after the British Government began to deal fairly with other lines , but for a long time it suffered from the unsound traditions inherited from the period when it enjoyed a monopoly . A striking contrast to the record of British progress with a minimum of state aid is the history of shipping interests in France , Italy , Austria , and other countries , which , besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the construction and navigation of sea-going ships The French laws of 1881 and 1892 , providing for construction and navigation bounties , confessedly proved unsatisfactory in their working , and only demoralized the shipping interest by pauperizing those engaged in it , ' besides creating an ' oppressive ship-building monopoly The new law of 1902 is , in the light of all experience , more likely to increase the outgo from the Treasury than arrest the persistent decline of French shipping in the foreign trade . It is interesting to note that the policy of France has , like the British fishing bounties described by Adam Smith , led to the building and navigation of ships for the sole purpose of catching the bounty . The postal subventions granted by the French Government may have been effectual in keeping a certain class of vessels upon the ocean , but they have not prevented a decline in the comparative importance of French navigation . Italy and Austria CIO not exhibit different results , although it should he said that in both ' countries the bounty system has not been applied on so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic superiority of other countries in respect of constructing or navigating ships has vastly outweighed the ineffectual stimulus offered by subsidies . Germany , upon the other hand , has paid no ' bounties on construction or navigation , and has merely offered postal subventions , much smaller , all things considered , than those paid by France , or even England German shipping , however , has increased by leaps and bounds , on account of the remarkable progress of German industry , particularly in all that concerns the production of coal and iron . Norway , also , and Sweden , which offer nothing but insignificant postal payments , maintain their flourishing merchant marines . Here again natural advantages , the skill of Scandinavian sailors , and the energy of unsubsidiZed tenterprise prevail against the clumsy devices of politicians of the protectionist school . As Dr. Meeker remarks : " The countries that can build the cheapest will eventually do the greater part of the world 's shipbuilding , even though bounties given by other countries disturb the normal adjustment . " One other fact stands out in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tend to the establishment ' and maintenance of monopoly in the carrying trade . This was notoriously the effect of the early subsidies to the Cunard , even thoUgh the prize offered by the trans-Atlantic trade finally tempted rival lines which broke up the monopoly . And in the United States , it will be recalled , the hope of securing a subsidy was one of the assets of the unfortunate International Mercantile Marine Company Most of the subsidy bills introduced into Congress have contained jokeis , " by which the details were so arranged that only the ' shipping combination could take full advantage of them . Monopoly and subsidies , in fact , are veritable Siamese twins , sever the bond that unites them , and neither will long survive . Ever since the subsidy ' movement started , our Government has assiduously gathered and disseminated a vast deal of misinformation designed to aid the agitators . Our commissioners of navigation have turned their annual reports into campaign documents , the present ' Commissioner , for instance , who in 1894 opposed subsidies on the ground that steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States as in England , is now devoting much of his time to proving that the American cost is so much ; higher than the foreign that our build . ens can not compete without a subsidy . Over in the Department of Labor and Commerce , the Bureau of Statistics , wieh true journalistic ' enterprise , has been conducting a spirited campaign in behalf of the good cause . The ' editor of the " Consular Reports " has contributed what he could to the success of the campaign , even though he allowed the unfavorable report of Special Agent Hutchinson to find its way into print . And the Secretary of the Treasury is now devoting less thought to the deficit in the national finances than to methods of increasing it by opening the doors of the Treasury to the subsidy grabbers It is fortunate , therefore , that we now have something that approaches an authoritative and unpartisan account of the actual working of ship subsidies . THE FORGOTTEN AMENDMENTS . So interested are the voters of New York in the trial of the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to remember the seven amendments to the State Constitution it ) be voted upon at the Mailiag election . Some of them are of very great importance to both city and State , and should not be allowed to go by default or be carried by a small and scattering vote . One amendment in particular , the fourth , ought to be defeated . This is the-proposition to get around the decisions of New York 's highest court by bestowing upon the Legislature the power to " regulate and fix the wages or salaries , the hours of work or labor , and make provision for the protection , welfare , and safety of persons employed by the State , or by any county , city , town , village ' , or other civil division of the State , by any contractor or sub-contractor , performing work , labor , or services for the State or for any county , city , town , village , or other civil division thereof . " This is by far the most important question to come before the voters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our political theory and practice , made at the behest of the labor ? organizations , end it is , in effect , an attack upon the freedom of contract Every law of the character permitted under this amendment which has come before our courts has invariably been declared unconstitutional , and dangerous if it were constitutional . This amendment is the result of three such decisions by the Court of Appeals ? the Prevailing Rate of Wages law , the Cut Stone law , and the Eight Hour law being the ones passed upon and wiped off the statute-books by the judges . At once the labor leaders declared that they would go beyond that tribunal . They counted full well upon the indifference with which voters regard the Constitutional amendments they are asked to pass upon . This year the labor agitators are fortunate in that public attention is concentrated on other issues . They are favored , too , by the following form in which this gravely important matter appears upon the ballot : " Shall the proposed amendment to Section I. of Article XII . of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved ? " It would , be impossible to conceal more deftly  --  the real question at issue . If this measure had originated in Kansas , we should all know how to characterize it . Populisti'c , demagogic , and paternalistic would be some of the adjectives applied . It is class legislation pure and simple , ' however carefully disguised . It means that the Legislature of New York can prescribe the terms upon which our cities shall conduct their business , for it will inevitably insure the repassage ' of the Eight Hour law and that concerning the prevailing rate Of wages . The proposed change will , moreover , place heavy burdens upon the taxpayers , since it will mean that no city , town , or village can have its work done upon as favorable terms as private persons , for , as has been well said , " municipal workmen are intended to be paid the moat and work the least " What the taxpayer is perralttga to do lacilvionany he will be forbidden to do when , in combination with other taxpayers , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State will make the contract , and the city will pay the bill . " If this principle becomes embodied in our Constitution , neither cities nor their contractors will be permitted to have any judgment or discretion in the construction of public works . The cost , therefore , may be beyond reasonable expense , in which case , as American . Industries points out , the property of taxpayers will be taken without due process of law . What the Court of Appeals said in one case is particularly apropos to-day : " Such legislation may invade one class of rights to-day and another to-morrow , and if it can be sanctioned under the Constitution , while far removed in time we shall not be far away in practical statesmanship from those ages when governmental prefects supervised the building of houses , the rearing of cattle , and sowing of seed , and the reaping of grain , and governmental ordinances regulated the movement and labor of artisans , the rate of wages , the price of food , the diet and clothing of the people , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands regarded as outside of governmental functions . " We may finally point out that a Congressional committee and one of the departments of the Fedenal Government passed upon the question of incorporating such laws as are proposed into the general statutes of the United States . Both decided against the proposition . Of the other amendments , number one excludes from the computation of the debt of this city , ? in determining its borrowing capacity , the water-supply bonds issued since January 1 , 1904 . This amendment should be adopted , for it . is , by general consent , proper that the city 's borrowing capacity should be increased to this extent The second amendment provides for the payment of interest and sinking-fund instalments on all State debts out of any funds in the treasury . Its purpose thus is to abolish the direct tax which notes meets these charges . The third amendment increases the number of justices in every district except the First and Second , to one for every 60,000 inhabitants . New York and Brooklyn , Democratic districts , would have only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the congestion- in the courts of this city . The fifth amendment would authorize the Legislature to expend fifty million dollars for the improvement of highways It does not call for the submission of this proposition to the voters after it has been enacted into law , as is now required , under the Constitution , with similar propositions . Desirable as may be the improvement of the highways , this measure would give boundless opportunity for graft , and is ' another of the measures intended to benefit the country communities at the expense of the cities . The sixth amendment proposes the extension of the term of the State 's certificates of indebtedness from twenty years , now fixed by the Constitution , to fifty years . This is not a desirable kind of State financing . The last amendment is an unimportant one , permitting justices of the Appellate Division to act as justices of the ; Supreme Court in any department except the one of the Appellate Division to which they belong . A. CONVERTED PRESS . The news that our big insurance companies are carrying on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise nobody . The interesting thing is the method of operation , as laid bare by Charles E. Hughes at the investigation on October 25 . Recently we learned a great deal about a house which Richard A. McCurdy , the philanthropic president of the Mutual Life , has been maintaining at Albany  --  a house dedicated to the noble cause of reclaiming Senators and Assemblymen from the error of their ways . Missionary McCurdy has also cast a loving eye upon a press sunk in iniquity , and has called upon it to repent and be saved The apostle to the legislators was the saintly A. C. Fields , who is now modestly avoiding a subpoena . The apostle to the editors is none other than that shining exemplar of all the virtusg , Allan Forman , editor of the Journalist , and manager of " The Telegraphic News Bureau . " " If I am ever to redeem the wicked press from sin , " said Mr. McCurdy to himself , " I must beware of journalistic parasites and prostitutes . The man for my money is honest Allan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The devil who walketh about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour , is , according to his notion , none other than the Associated Press . This malignant organization actually sent out news not wholly laudatory of that benevolent enterprise , the Mutual Life . But Forman promptly circumvented the evil one by dispatches through his " Telegraphic News Bureau , " announcing that " the profits derived by the policyholders of the Mutual Life and obtained through transactions arranged by the subsidiary trust companies amounted , up to date , to $16,000 , - 000 " ; that President McCurdy complained that the inquiry was an inquisition , and Mr. Hughes " admitted it was an inquisition " ; and that President MCCurdy 's testimony " made a distinctly favorable impression " So anxious was the Mutual to supply the sincere milk of the word to benighted editors , that it paid Forman a dollar a line for every newspaper that printed the matter . How rruch of the money Forman passed on does not appear . The complaisant papers which were named at the hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herald , St. Paul Pioneer Press , To- ' ledo Blade , Buffalo Courier , Florida Times-Union , and Atlanta Constitution . If these converted journals , innocently and ' without hope of reward , published Forman 's dispatches from pure love of truth , then all we have to say is that every gold-brick operator in America and every dealer in green goods knows where to look for victims . This wretched business , however , has a serious as well as a comical side . The president of the Mutual  --  and in this venture the Mutual IS not alone  --  has been trying to avoid the consequences of his mismanagement of affairs by practising a deliberate deception upon the American public . Paid advertisements  --  at least Forman is paid  --  are sent out in the guise of " pure reading-matter . " The obvious intention is to convey the idea that this dollar-a-line stuff is the view of an independent observer . Since the investigation began , the Mutual has spent more than $12,000 of policyholders ' money in this mean and dirty trick . The facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground of complaint against the " yellow " press or any one else if plain men , of no pretension to knowledge of high finance , now commonly regard insurance officers as both thieves and liars . But the men who have plundered our life-insurance companies are not the only ones who have outraged decehcy and honesty . Their accomplices after the fact are some of our higih-toned newspapers  --  for every one of the dailies just mentioned prides itself on its respectability . ' Call it venal , and it would burst with indignation . And yet the editor has either been the guileless dupe of Forman , or else for a dollar or less a line he haspractised a deliberate imposition on his readers . The feeble little paid puffs of soap or sarsaparilla , disguised as news , are had enough , though they are so obviously advertisements as to deceive nobody . But the coloring of reports from a public hearing of immense importance to all policyholders is a more subtle and therefore dangerous form of fraud . There is yet another grave aspect of the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have never hesitated to shake their big stick at the newspapers . " Hold your pen or lose the full-page advertiseinent of our annual statement " is a convincing argument in. every part of the country . But ' newspaper readers are not such fools as to suspect no subterranean connection between lawless corporations and the press . And this well-founded suspicion explains in part the popularity of " yellow " journalism Certain sensational newspapers make hostility to corporations their - stock- in- trade . They exaggerate grossly , but at any rate they are not afraid of the money power . " Here , " says the small wage-earner " is a paper that dares to speak out about the iniquities of men in high places . Reckless and disreputable this newspaper may be , but none the less it is ' trying to redress my wrongs . " Thus every newspaper that goes into white-w ashing at a dollar a line , and every insurance company that pays the dollar , helps strengthen the hold of the yellow demagogue . THE COMING MUSICAL , SEASON " . One might fancy that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ September and October , so strictly do they avoid any public appearance before the first week in November . When once the army of musical invaders has appeared , however , nothing can check its ruthless advance . We are not yet quite in the predicament of Berlin , where a single concert agency reports over 600 " bookings " for the season , and where so prominent an artist as M. Girardy was unable to play last year because he had neglected to - hire a hall in time ; but we are fast getting there . An English journalist wrote . some weeks ago : " So many musical artists are going to America this autumn that the drain on London will be very heavy , and the London musical season will suffer in consequence . " Another critic retorted that the supply of eminent artists in London was so greatly in excess of the demand that enough respectable performers would be left in spite of " America 's voracity . " Rotation of crops has been found as useful in the musical world as in agriculture . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year  --  among them Paderewski , D'Albert , Pachmann , Kreisler , Ysaye  --  are tilling the soil at home this season . In their place we are to hear within the next six months a host of others ; the list includes the pianists Pugno , Reisenauer , Bauer , Bloomfield-Zeisler , Joseffy , Arthur Rubinstein ; the violinists Maud Powell , Kubelik , Marteau , Sauret , Otie Chew , Marie Hall , Marie Nichols , Hugo Heermann ; the concert singers Calve , Gadski , Nielsen , Campanari , Witherspoon , Bushnell , Bispham , Ben Davies , Kirkby Lunn , and many others  --  not to speak of Con.ried 's famous song-birds , several of whom will also be heard in the concert hall . A somewhat disquieting phenomenon is the centrifugal movement ( taking the Metropolitan Opera House as the centre of the musical universe ) of the stars . Four of the singers just mentioned ? Calve , Gadski , Campanari , and Bispham  --  used to be among the principal ornaments of our opera company , and would be so now had they not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to solitaire . Two others , Fritzi Scheff and Schumann-Heink. left Conried 's happy family to start opera companies of their own . Yet there is no cause for alarm ; there will be as many first-class singers at the Metropolitan as ever . If the race of tenors is really dying cut , as some say , we are to ' hear some remarkable survivors , including Caruso , Knots , Burgstaller , and Reiss , each without an equal in his specialty , besides the protean Dippel , the Doppelganger of any one of his colleagues . Nor could any foreign opera-house begin to equal Conried 's list of ' sopranos , altos , baritones , and basses , among them Abarbanell , ? lten , Barnes , Morena , Nordica , 1Se-mbrich , Weed , Fremstad , Homer , Walker , Dufriche , Goritz , Scotti , Van Ropy , Planeon . On . these singers and the costly operatic machinery needed to run them , the New York public spent a million dollars last season , and is doubtless prepared ' to do the same again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the neutral ground on which all classes  --  the musical , the semi-musical , and the unmusical  --  meet in amity . Time ' was when it was a savage battlefield , on which the partisans of Italian , Franch , ' and German opera broke each others ' heads . But one day Maur  --  ce Grau had the goad sense to drop the appellation " Italian Opera , " and to give all operas in the language they were written in , and by the best vodal specialists in each style . This policy gradually healed all animosities , and to-day the former bitterness of feeling is a mere vague memory ; the Italians ' are glad to hear that the " Flying Dut'chm'an " is to be revived and the high " Parsieal " prices split in two ; while the Wagnerites are pleased with the prospect of hearing Senibrich and Caruso in suck Italian ' , revivals as " Favorita , " " Sonnambula , " and " Il Trovatore . " One of the conspicuous features of the opera season is to be the appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gretel . " This , the greatest operatic success in Germany since the production of " Parsifal , " in 1882 , has been heard here ' before , but under conditions which did not reveal all of its charming features . ft is also expedted that another opera in the list , " Ms , non Lescaut , " will be conducted by its corn-pesos . But even if Puctini does not come , there will be an unprecedented number of ermiment foreign composers and conductors on View . The first of them to make his debut is Andre Messages , the French opera and operetta composer , whose " Veronique " was heard here on Monday . His eminent countryman , Vincent d'Indy , will be heard next month at the local concerts of the Boston Symphony Orchestra . ' ' England 's musical lion of the hour , Edward Elgar , has also promised to cross the Atlantic , but he will appear only at the Cincinnati Festival . Russia sends the well-known composer Rathananinoff , besides the irresistible ' Cossack , Safonoff , for whom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extra concert or two . The same society has also engaged the Dutch Richard-Strauss specialist , Mengelberg , and hid ' eminent German colleagues , Steinbach , Fiedler , and Kunwald , while Weingartner will preside over some of the concerts of the New York Symphony Society . A ? glance ' at the circulars of the diverse ' organizations gives the impression that more pabulum is ' being offered than the public will be able to digest ; but some alleviation may be found in the division of labor , which is one of the striking aspects of the orchestral situation here . Sam Franko , for Instance , in his concerts of old music , confines himself almost entirely to seventeenth and eighteenth-century compositions , Frank Dainrosah , besides cultivating old and new ' choral music with the aid of the Musical Art ' Society , has a series of concerts for young people Franz Arens gives the wage-earners a chance ta hear , in three halls , the best classic and modern works at nominal prices , while the Russian Symphony Society , under Altschuler , makes us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This organization , indeed , produces more novelties than all its rivals combined . It suggests the possible advent of a time when new musical works will receive as much . ' attention as new books do now .                     