@@430037

 |p551  THE present political situation in New York City is quite unique . Tammany Hall , the personification of blackmail and corruption , has nominated for mayor Edward M. Shepard , a man of sterling character , a lawyer of high reputation , a civil service reformer , and an Independent Democrat , who but four years ago branded the organization which now nominates him as " the most burning and disgraceful blot upon the municipal history of this country . " The anti-Tammany forces , composed of Republicans , Independent Democrats , Citizens Union members , and others of various shades of political belief , have nominated Seth Low , formerly mayor of Brooklyn , and recently president of Columbia University . He also is a man of sterling character , large executive ability , broad culture , wide sympathy with the masses ; a practical reformer , and a Republican in national politics . Four years ago he was nominated by the Citizens Union , composed of independent Republicans and Democrats . The Republican party refused to endorse his nomination , and bitterly opposed his election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to place him in the mayor 's chair . What is the explanation of this anomalous situation ? What are the issues at stake ? How will the election result ? What will be the effect upon the movement for good government in New York and other cities ? These are the questions now demanding attention . To comprehend fully the meaning and importance of the various factors a bit of retrospect is necessary . HISTORICAL SETTING . The downfall of Tweed in 1871 was accompanied by a short-lived civic revival . In a few years the enthusiasm had cooled , and Tammany Hall was restored to power ? under new leaders , to be sure , but possessed of the same ravenous appetite for the spoils of office and public plunder . A swift return to the practices of the Tweed Ring was out of the question , but under the leadership first of John Kelly , and afterward of Richard Croker , a most corrupt system of blackmail was soon built up . The facts were brought to the attention of the State Legislature early in 1894 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment of an investigating committee , of which Mr. Clarence Lexow was chairman . Similar investigations have been made every few years ; for New York State is normally Republican and New York City is normally Democratic . Hence a Republican State commission investigates with glee the corrupt workings of a Democratic city government . But the Lexow Committee soon displayed a sincerity of purpose that drew to its support all opposed to Tammany : those who dared not fight so strong an organization single-handed as well as those who needed only the prospect of Tammany 's defeat to cause them to speak out . REFORMERS IN COMMAND . The evidence presented to this committee caused the city to blush with shame . Day after day well-authenticated stories of blackmail and corruption were pitifully told by the victims . Then followed a civic awakening such as had not been known since Tweed 's time . A municipal election being close at hand , a committee of seventy representative men was formed to nominate non-partisan candidates and to secure their election . Mr. William L. Strong , a dry goods  |p552  merchant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in politics , was named for mayor . The remainder of the ticket was made up of men selected from the various organizations , the aim being to unite all elements hostile to Tammany Hall . In this they were successful . The election was a victory for the Good Government ticket , Mr. Strong having a plurality of 50,000 out of a total vote of 260,000 . The reform administration apparently entered upon its official career under most favorable conditions . The city had unquestionably repudiated Tammany Hall and its corrupt methods . But the formation and execution of a constructive policy is entirely different from pointing out the mistakes in the plans and actions of others . It is much easier to apply the brake than to guide aright . Thus , it was a simple matter for the anti-Tammany forces to agree that Tammany was wicked and ought to be deposed , but to agree upon a line of action when once in power was entirely different and vastly more difficult . OBSTACLES TO REFORM Immediately following the election the trouble began . Every faction that had contributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices and the recognition of its particular theory . Recognizing that no one party or faction alone had elected him , Mayor Strong sought to harmonize all . This process called for almost superhuman tact and ability . To say that Mayor Strong was not equal to the task is in no way discreditable to him . Further , the different elective officials chosen from these divergent factions were inclined to act independently . They received their mandates from the people , and each interpreted his election as a personal endorsement . Now there was at the head of the Good Government movement no well-developed party organization , no generally recognized leader or boss . " And whatever faults the " boss " system may be responsible for , it certainly has the virtue of unity and of forcing the fusion of petty factions . Some such force was needed during Strong 's administration . It did not exist , and its lack seriously hindered and weakened the reform movement . The practical effect of this condition of affairs was not only to destroy all unity of purpose and action , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but several others quite bad . And the bad will always overshadow the good , unless there is a great preponderance of the latter . Then , too , the failure of the Strong administration to reach the high standard set made its lack seem far greater than it really was . " PERSONAL LIBERTY . " There was another factor , probably of more importance , especially with certain classes of people . The election of 1894 was correctly interpreted as rebuking blackmail and corruption . But many went further and interpreted it as approving a rigid enforcement of the laws regarding gambling , prostitution , and Sunday opening of saloons . A thorough regeneration of the police force was undertaken . Laws that many had forgotten . were on the statute books were enforced . Gambling and prostitution were attacked , and a strict enforcement of the excise  |p553  law attempted . Not one step was taken that the law did not command , but New York is not a Puritan city . These laws were not of its making . They had been passed by a Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' personal liberty . " So said the anti-Puritans . Tammany Hall had not enforced them , but had made the saloon-keepers , the gamblers , and their ilk pay liberally for non-enforcement . The reform government did away with this blackmail , and thus far public sentiment supported it . But when it came to the rigid enforcement of " blue laws " many rebelled . They wanted their beer on Sunday . The wealthy club member could have his champagne . What right had he to deny the poor their beer ? Police Commissioner Roosevelt and the reform government may have been right , but their policy in this instance was regarded by not a few of their former friends and supporters as a political mistake , and the great good accomplished by Mr. Roosevelt in other directions was forgotten by those who saw only a direct attack upon their personal liberty . TAMMANY RESTORED TO POWER . This was the situation in the fall of 1897 , when the first election under the Greater New York Charter was held . The forces that had elected Mr. Strong were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not make a deal with the Republican party , and insisted that the Republicans endorse the Citizens Union nomination . But the Republicans would not accept a subordinate position , and finally the Citizens Union nominated Seth Low independently . The Republican party held its convention later , naming its own ticket , with Gen. B. F. Tracy at its head . The Tammany forces , upon the other hand , were almost a unit . Mr. Robert A. Van Wyck was slated for mayor , and the other nominees were representative Tammany men . The Jeffersonian Democracy put up Henry George , and  |p554  thus for a time a four-cornered fight was waged . A few days before election Mr. George suddenly died , and his vote largely drifted back to Tammany Hall . The election resulted in the success of the Tammany ticket , Van Wyck receiving 234,000 , or 44 per cent . of the total vote cast ? a plurality of 83,000 over his nearest opponent . Mr. Low received 151 , 000 , or 29 per cent . ; General Tracy , 102,000 , or 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or 4 per cent . A union of the Low and Tracy vote gives a plurality of nearly 20,000 , and many have argued from this premise that if Low had been endorsed by both Citizens Union and the Republican party , he would have been elected . But this does not follow . If Mr. Low had run upon a union ticket , the opposition upon the part of many Democrats to voting for a Republican , or any one supported by the Republicans , would have alienated more than 10,000 voters . The other returns seem to point this way , for the Tammany candidate for comptroller polled only 8,000 votes less than the Republican and Citizens Union tickets combined . Looking backward , we can now see that Tammany was almost certain to win . At first glance one may think that there is little relation between the Strong administration and the election of 1894 and the present situation , but it will become evident as we proceed that the present conditions are entirely incomprehensible except with the above facts in mind . CORRUPTION AND BLACKMAIL AGAIN COMMON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in control of the city , only it was now a greater city , with double the population of old New York and a vastly increased area . The corrupt methods in vogue in 1894 were immediately restored , and within two years systematic blackmail was as common as ever . The State Legislature , remembering the success of the Lexow investigation , appointed another committee in 1899 . Many regarded this as a purely partisan move and refused to cooperate . However , much valuable and interesting evidence was secured . For example , Mr. Croker himself unblushingly admitted that he was working for his own pocket all of the time . Following the retirement of the Mazet Committee , other agencies took up the fight . The press exposed the gambling combine , showing that Tammany men were receiving at least $3,000,000 annually for the privilege of running , contrary to law . The City Vigilance League , the Society for the Prevention of Crime , the Society for the Suppression of Vice , the churches and settlements upon the East Side ? the portion of the city where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many other organizations enlisted in the crusade against vice and the corrupt union of the city officials with crime and criminals . The police were requested , entreated , implored to close the brothels and the gambling places which were contaminating the innocent children of respectable parents , whose poverty prevented their removal to purer quarters . Officials were accused and brought to trial before their superiors , but without success . Appeal was taken to the mayor and other high city officials , but nothing was done , except in a very few instances . ANTI-VICE COMMITTEES . A Committee of Fifteen , composed of prominent business men , lawyers , and labor leaders , was appointed by the Chamber of Commerce . Gambling house after gambling house was raided in districts where the police persistently asserted that none existed . Evidence showing the close relation between the gamblers and city officials was secured . In all these efforts to root out vice , Justice Jerome , of the Court of Special Sessions , gave valuable assistance , for it was not easy to get cooperation from the courts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  |p555  At one time even Tammany Hall seemed to have repented . With great bluster and pretense an anti-vice Committee of Five was appointed . It started its work with profuse expressions of virtue , raided a few gambling places , came upon a high city official in one " looking for his wayward son , " and suddenly ceased its labors , declaring there was little vice to be found in the city . It was quite evident , however , that the chase had become too warm , and that the " powers that prey " had forced the " powers that be " to call a halt . Practically nothing was accomplished , except to demonstrate more fully the close relation between vice and Tammany Hall . Anyone who has ever been connected with similar work knows the difficulty of securing evidence which is conclusive in a court of law , not to mention the greater difficulty when the judges are in sympathy with the law-breakers . Nevertheless , a number of convictions have resulted , and several have jumped their bail rather than stand trial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was sentenced to five and a half years in the State prison for blackmailing a prostitute . At present a police captain and several subordinate officers are under indictment , and several others have had to resort to every trick of law to keep out of jail . THE FUSION MOVEMENT . Although the various organizations , societies , clubs , churches , and committees which had been working to improve conditions asserted that party politics had nothing to do with their activitv , it was evident from the start that the facts established would play an important part in the coming election , for Tammany was shown to be as debauched and corrupt as in 1894 , or even in Tweed 's time , except that now little is stolen from the city treasury directly , blackmail being a much more fruitful source of revenue and much more difficult to prove . That the present administration was a shame to the city , and that it ought to be rooted out , was a program to which all organizations opposed to Tammany Hall could subscribe . Early last spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans expressed their willingness to accept as candidate for the mayoralty any one , preferably an Independent Democrat , with the exception of Bird S. Coler , who could be agreed upon by the other fusion bodies . This opposition of the Republican organization to Mr. Coler was illogical and detrimental to the movement . Mr. Coler had administered the financial affairs of the city honestly and efficiently , and had stood for good government persistently , blocking many corrupt schemes , notably the Ramapo contract to deprive the city of its waterworks and rob it of $200,000,000 . This scheme was backed both by Republicans and by Democrats , and it is urged that the real reason why Senator Platt refused to accept Mr. Coler was his blocking of the Ramapo contract . The reason assigned by Mr. Platt was that Mr. Coler had supported the Democratic ticket in the last national election and thereby sanctioned free silver . The most plausible explanation is that Mr. Platt wished to secure the nomination of a Republican by the Fusion forces and perceived that , with Mr. Coler out of the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized that they could not win without the support of the Republican party , and the Democrats probably would not agree upon any other man . Mr. Platt 's expectations were fully realized , and Seth Low was selected . The other places upon the ticket were distributed among the various factions , and with very few , if any , exceptions , its personnel is most satisfactory and of high quality . TAMMANY FEIGNS REPENTANCE . The Tammany convention was held after the selection of the Fusion candidates . Seeing what a strong ticket they had nominated , Mr. Croker cast about for an honest , efficient , and able man . Mr. Edward M. Shepard was selected and formally nominated , although many of the Tammany leaders were strongly opposed to taking up a reformer who for so many years has charged Tammany Hall with all the villainies in the category . But the corrupt record of the past four years is a heavy drag upon the ticket , and Mr. Croker saw that no ordinary Democrat could win . Mr. Coler was the first choice of many , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had aroused the opposition of Mr. Croker by an attack upon Commercialism in Politics , " and was persona non grata . Mr. Shepard seemed the only other person who could keep the Fusion ticket from winning . To placate the leaders , Mr. Croker filled the other places with faithful Tammany men , most of whom are mediocre and of the same grade as the present incumbents . This was a very shrewd move , for attention is usually centered upon the head of the ticket . Under the Greater New York charter the mayor was an autocrat who controlled not only the administrative departments , but the Board of Estimate and Apportionment ? the body which has charge of the city 's purse . Under the new charter , which goes into effect January 1 , 1902 , the mayor will be deprived of certain of these functions . He will possess larger control over the departments through the power of appointment  |p556  and removal , but the Board of Estimate and Apportionment will no longer be controlled by him . Thus , if the Tammany ticket is elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans brought to naught . It is very important , therefore , not only that a good man be elected mayor , but that the other offices be filled with men who are in sympathy with him . Mr. Croker relies upon the failure of the voters to appreciate this fact , and expects them to accept the Tammany ticket in tote because a man of excellent character has been put at its head . MR . SHEPARD 'S POSITION . Quite naturally , therefore , the question has arisen why Mr. Shepard has loaned his good name and reputation to Tammany Hall and assisted in carrying out the scheme . What are the influences that have brought this about ? Few assert , and they wrongfully , that he has sold himself to Tammany . Most persons believe him when he says that he has given no pledges , that no deal has been made , and that he is free to act . The explanation put forward by certain of his friends is that he intends to regenerate the Democratic party and drive from leadership the corrupt and unscrupulous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is complimentary to his courage but not to his judgment , for Hercules ' labors would be easy in comparison . The more probable explanation is that Mr. Shepard is ambitious ( and quite properly so ) . If he is elected , he believes he will give a clean , honest , and efficient administration . And mindful of Mr. Tilden 's success , and the fact that every Democrat who has ever attained fame has done so independently of Tammany Hall , he believes that his election will not only be good for the city , but will strengthen Democratic principles generally and open a field of greater usefulness in State and nation . But this is entirely illogical , unless it be probable that Mr. Low can not win , or unless national issues and the general interests of the Democratic party are more important than the overthrow of Tammany . NATIONAL POLITICS INTRODUCED . Independent voters will hardly accept this , but Mr. Shepard has , doubtless , persuaded himself that as between the injury done to the cause of good government by his accepting a nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former is less important . Mr. Shepard 's political speeches support this explanation . He has said little about police corruption or the past administration of the city . He tries to make it appear that the anti-Tammany ticket is purely a Republican ticket , that the Fusionists are non-partisan only in name . And Mr. Platt 's attitude in refusing to accept Mr. Coler seems to give some ground for the assertion . However , Mr. Shepard 's position is good politics . " The record of the past four years is most foul ; the less said about it the better for Tammany . New York City is nominally Democratic , and if all Democrats could be persuaded to vote the Tammany ticket , success would be certain . One of the amusing features of the campaign has been the constant reference by the Tammany men to Philadelphia conditions , and the frequent assertion that the election of Mr. Low will mean the introduction into New York of Quay-Ashbridge methods . If there were any possibility of such a result , all would flock to Tammany Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as corrupt as Philadelphia . Doubtless the campaign orators will here and there win votes by this appeal , although it is wholly illogical . For one might as well say that a triumph of the Democratic ticket would mean the introduction of polygamy because Salt Lake City is a Democratic city . PRESENT CITY GOVERNMENT WASTEFUL . From the point of view of efficiency the present administration is greatly lacking . The city 's expenses have increased 30 per cent . in four years . But the criticism is not that more money is spent , for the taxpayer could stand that if he received a proportionate return , but that the return is so small . The civil service is honeycombed with sinecures . Five men draw pay for what one man can do . The present Department of Street  |p557  Cleaning , for instance , spends nearly a million dollars more in Manhattan and the Bronx than did Colonel Waring , and yet the streets are much dirtier than when he was commissioner . Economy in government is not , however , a slogan that sways the masses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ REFORM " DISCREDITED . But national party interests and pure and efficient administration are not the only issues of the campaign . If they were , one could safely predict the success of the Fusion ticket . Many voters remember the mistakes of the reform government under Strong . They remember that all the office-holders were not saints , and that the excise law was so enforced as to deprive them of their ' ' personal liberty . " Beer on Sunday is a necessity of life to them , in comparison with which other issues are as nothing . The candidates upon the anti-Tammany ticket have assured them that the laws will be liberally enforced , but many still are suspicious and inclined not to trust the reformers . There is yet time for them to flock to the support of Mr. Low , and it seems very likely that they will do so . The experience of four years ago is cited in another way . Those of a pessimistic temperament are inclined to ask , What is the use ? The Fusionists can not work together . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and incompetents will be put at the head of a few of the departments at least . Political debts must be paid . And in two years ? at the next election ? Tammany Hall will again be placed in charge . Probably the greatest danger to the permanent success of good government lies in this direction . Mayor Strong could not harmonize the diverse interests , and many question Mr. Low 's ability to do so . Those who accept this view naturally turn to Mr. Shepard , who , they believe , will give a good , clean administration , and possibly improve the morals of Tammany Hall , so that in two years from now we shall have a regenerated Democratic organization . If Mr. Shepard is defeated , they predict that the Tammany Hall that gets into power in 1904 will be no better than the present regime . ALIGNMENT OF VOTERS . The effect of the probable return of Tammany to power in 1904 , even if Mr. Low and his ticket should win upon November 5 , keeps the lowest classes in line , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and criminals have no principles . It is a business government they want ; one with which they can buy and sell . They aim to be on the winning side , and in New York they are Democrats ; in Philadelphia , Republicans . It is hazardous to predict what the final result will be . However , it is possible to state how certain classes will vote . The independent as well as the regular Republicans will vote the Fusion ticket . The out-and-out Tammany men and the interests which thrive upon vice and crime will support the Democratic ticket . The Independent Democrats are somewhat divided ; most of them will probably vote against Tammany . But unless there is a considerable defection among the better class of Democrats ? not those who are known as Independent Democrats , but those who usually vote the Democratic ticket ? the Fusion ticket can not win . Among the ten bodies that have endorsed Low there are several that claim to represent large constituencies of this class of men . But there is no way of estimating accurately their voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He supports the party with the largest wallet . A third factor is the discontent in Tammany itself . Threats have been made by certain leaders that they will knife the ticket . But similar threats are made before every election , and usually amount to nothing . One can not see what they could gain by such a course this year , for at every point the Tammany ticket is preferable ( from the standpoint of the Tammany man ) to the anti-Tammany ticket . Everyone knows to a certainty what Mr. Low will do ; he will cleanse the city government . Mr. Shepard , on the other hand , intends to do no more , perhaps less , and may be bound hand and foot by the other city officials in case of Tammany 's success . This is probably the way the Tammany heeler will look at the issues . It also suggests how those who seek better government view them . Mr. Low is a known factor , Mr. Shepard an unknown element in the equation of politics . Mr. Low has demonstrated his ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do equally well under favorable circumstances , but that has yet to be proved . The issue is experience vs. hope . When one compares the other nominees , the probability that Mr. Shepard could give as good government as Mr. Low becomes less and less . Whether a majority of the voters of the city will reach the same conclusion by the same process is doubtful , but that most of the independent voters of both parties view it in this light is certain . Whatever may be the outcome , the lovers of good government in every American city should be elated rather than cast down , for it is a great gain to compel so corrupt an organization as Tammany Hall to nominate such a man as Edward M. Shepard . It shows public sentiment has become more alert .                     