@@485089

The ratification of the Hay-Pauncefote treaty has not been in doubt at any time since its terms were made public , but the majority in favor of it was unexpectedly great . Out of seventy-eight Senators voting , only six were in the negative . All the amendments offered were voted down . All private interpretations now go to the waste-paper basket . The treaty is to be interpreted by its own language , and if disputes arise hereafter as to its meaning , they will no doubt be Settled under the terms of the Hague Conference . Certain Senators pretended to find in the treaty a reserved right to grant discriminations in tolls in favor of our ships engaged in trade between our Atlantic and Pacific ports  --  in face of the clause which forbids discriminations of any kind . It does not apply , they said , to our coasting trade . The fact is  --  and it is the bottom fact of the whole business from the time of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty to the present moment  --  that the aim of the two governments has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not merely of the United States and Great Britain , but , as the text says , of those of all nations , in order to avoid any conflict in reference to the use of the canal . That Is the very raison ( rare of the present treaty . That is the reason why the words were added providing that the anti-discrimination clause should still apply even if the country traversed by the canal should hereafter become a part of our territory . An amendment offered by Senator Bacon of Georgia to strike out the latter clause received only eighteen votes , out of seventy-eight , and not one Republican vote . On this particular amendment the Demecrats divided sixteen yeas to ten nays . Senator Morgan of Alabama rendered a great service to civilization by his efforts to prevent the Democratic party from " lining up " against the treaty . It is by no means likely that the Philippine Commission will be supported either by Congress or by the Administration in its extravagant demands for almost royal powers . The Commission not only asks the right to issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the religious orders  --  a tremendous undertaking  --  but also sole polder to grant municipal and insular franchises , subject to confirmation by an overworked President 10,000 miles away . It demands the right to grant lands to railroad companies , and wishes Congress to require an educational suffrage . qualification . Both President Roosevelt and Secretary Root are committed to the granting of franchises for the " legitimate exploitation " of the islands as prerequisite to their development . But no complete plan has yet been published by which the award of such franchises can be properly made and kept out of the hands of politicians of the stripe of Representative Hull . The Administration will probably favor aiding capitalists ready to go into railroading , by land-grants , or by guaranteeing a modest return on necessary bond issues . It will be a new and radical departure in American methods of government if five men are given the right to carry out all these projects without the slightest check except their own feeling of responsibility , and without any reference to the millions upon whom their arbitrary rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing than that of the Philippines , ' so far as the necessity of Congressional action is concerned , but the dominant party becomes very deliberate when it is a matter of saving an island from threatened and imminent ruin . The Ways and Means Committee has postponed all consideration of changes in the tariff affecting Cuba until after the holidays , and meanwhile the beet-sugar interests are rallying their forces to prevent anything being done even then . It is encouraging to observe , however , that leading Republican newspapers which believe in a high tariff will not consent to so heartless a policy . The Tribune-returned to the subject on Saturday , citing the letter written in 1899 by Messrs . Oxnard and Cutting , the chiefs of the beet-sugar industry east of the Rocky Mountains , which the Evening Post published on Thursday , as a conclusive answer to the pleas that this industry would be harmed by concessions to the sugar interests of Cuba . It sums up the argument forcibly when it puts these questions : " In the face of these authoritative and voluntary declarations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beet-sugar interests now oppose reciprocity with Cuba ? If in 1899 they had nothing to fear from free trade in sugar with Cuba and all the world , what can they have to fear in 1901 from only a 50 per cent . reduction in the duty on Cuban sugar alone ? " The writers of the letter in question did not depend upon a-priori reasoning to prove that they could make sugar at a profit without tariff protection . They pointed to the fact that , under the McKmley tariff of 1890 , when sugar was free of duty , the price of the article was 4 cents per pound Yet a net prat of $3 per ton was made by the beet-sugar factories under those conditions , not counting any bounty on the home production of sugar . They boasted that they made this profit while working under absolute free trade , and they have a right to be proud of this result of their skill and industry . Many beet-sugar factories had been started in bygone years , in the sixties and seventies of the nineteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand the business . Since then great progress has been made , both here and abroad , in the cultivation and manipulation of the beet . What was impossible thirty years ago is now entirely feasible The industry is already on a solid and enduring basis . There are factories in the United States , these gentlemen tell us in their letter , capable of using 350,000 tons of beets per annum at a profit of $3 per ton , and this would make a profit of $1,050,000 as the income to be earned under absolute free trade . That is an extremely cruel amendment of the civil-service rules which President Roosevelt approved on December 10 , and which forbids the disbursing and auditing officers to pay the salary or wages of any person " holding a place in the civil service in violation of the civil-service act and rules . " The deliberate malice of this we must leave it to the spoilsmen to describe in suitable language . All their tricks and shifts to " beat the law " and get a " place " for a " man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cut off from the money that goes with it . What shall it profit a spoilsmonger to compass sea and land to get a follower in the classified service by stratagem or irregularity , and then lose even the wages expected for the underhand work ? It is the most heartless use of the power of the purse that ever was heard of . Little did the politicians think that Mr. Roosevelt would take advantage of the expert knowledge which he gained as Civil-Service Commissioner , for their special discomfiture . Indiana politicians will consider the selection by President Roosevelt of Judge Baker of their State Supreme Court for the vacant United States Circuit Judgeship , in its real or supposed aspect , as an indication of the influence at the White House of the two Senators ; Baker having been zealously urged by Mr. Beveridge , while Mr. Fairbanks preferred almost anybody else . A far more important feature of the appointment is the evidence which it furnishes that the President does not regard sympathy with the Expansion policy as an indispensable qualification of a new Federal judge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openly opposed the Porto Rico policy of the McKinley Administration two years ago . Many politicians supposed that evidence of this - would bar him from further consideration , despite his conspicuous fitness , and it is greatly to Mr. Roosevelt 's credit that he attached no weight whatever to the argument . Another anti-Addicks appointment in Delaware , with President Roosevelt 's compliments to Senator Hanna ! That gentleman 's friends , North and South -- particularly South  --  are beginning to mutter in pain over the entire disregard shown by the reckless young man in the White House for a carefully constructed political machine . Answering , but ( as yet ) subdued , wails of anguish come from the Fairbanks machine in Indiana and the Kerens machine in Missouri . The various chief engineers exchange looks of amazement . " He thinks he can get along without Us ! " That is the thing which overcomes them with special wonder : a President of the United States goes coolly , even gayly , right over the heads of the bosses to select good men for office ! Is he mad ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As to that last , we presume that President Roosevelt is not bothering his head about it . He does not need to . No President by taking thought could do so much to increase his real political strength as Mr. Roosevelt has done since he entered the White House by not taking thought . The country has seen in him a President unafraid and absolutely onest . For all that such a man needs to care , even in political matters , the bosses may go hang . Grover Cleveland showed how to be renominated though opposed by all his party bosses ; and it may be that Theodore Roosevelt will again exhibit in that way the power of " bravery 's simple gravitation . " Apropos of Saylor 's appointment , the following paragraph from President Roosevelt 's message has a special signifi-cance : " The guardianship and fostering of our rapidly expanding foreign commerce , the protection of American citizens resorting to foreign countries in lawful pursuit of their affairs , and the maintenance of the dignity of the nation abroad , combine to make it essential that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enterprise . It is true that the service is now , in the main , efficient , but a standard of excellence can not be permanently maintained until the principles set forth in the bills heretofore submitted to the Congress on this subject are enacted into law . " No words that we could write would be half so fitting to apply to the case of Saylor as those we have quoted . How is " the dignity of the nation abroad " to be promoted by an exposed swindler ? The fact is , that an exequatur has been refused in Germany to a man appointed as American consul whose misconduct was less notorious than that of Saylor . If the Canadian authorities should refuse one to Saylor , they would deserve and receive the applause of the best portion of the American . people The nation ought not to be exposed to such a rebuke Mr. Roosevelt owes it to himself and to the cause of consular reform , to which he is so grandly committed , to recall this nomination at once . In the issue for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Brussels expressly in the interests of South America , the Consul of Venezuela in Amsterdam , Senor R. Blanco Fomboaa , set forth with great franknese and precision what he calls the true " formula " for the foreign policy of the Latin-American republics . This is , he declares , " to arm themselves with the Monroe Doctrine against Europe , and with the Latin idea and Latin commercial interests against the United States . " Seiior Fombena points to the successful way in which his own country , Venezuela , induced the United States to pull its chest-'nuts out of the fire in 1895 . As for any real affinity , or grateful return on account of such favors , he scoffs at the idea . He has lived in the United States foz sia-eral years , and thinks he knows she Yankees well ; and this is what he says of them : " Between their ideals and ours there is an abyss . There is the greatest difference between their conception of life and our own They , the children of the English , are selfish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own race . They hold us to be their inferiors . We South Americans feel ourselves much nearer to Latin Europe . France , Italy , Spain are the land of our race and of our love . In literary matters , and socially and politically , these are the countries which influence us the most " If there are some exaggerations and some oversights in this , there is undoubtedly a great deal of truth in it . That truth it is high time we got into our heads . We have been , in some respects , made tools of by the South Americans . Our interferences in their behalf have cost them nothing , but have cost us dear , while they have still given the greater part of their affection and their trade to Europe . This is an aspect of the international situation which the United States would do well to consider in the pending case of Germany 's new claim against Venezuela . A German warship is aaid to be on her way to collect a Venezuelan debt , and our Jingoes are ruffling with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take a business view of these business matters ? Are we going to let the South Americans think they can safely , in our shadow , play fast and loose with their European obligations while not even dissembling their aversion to us ? When the Fine Arts Federation , for its eleven constituent societies , passed resolutions favoring the construction of a " United States Arts Exhibition Building , " it practically announced the successful completion of negotiations extending over some years . It meant the-renunciation of many traditional rivalries , and the declaration of a spirit of comity which art societies have rarely shown . In its tersest expression , the plan is this ' to build in a location above Fourteenth Street and , if possible , on some park or great thoroughfare in this city , an exhibition building , to occupy an acre of ground , and to cost not less than a million and a half dollars . Since the resources of the eleven societies which make up the Federation are totally inadequate to carry out the plan , the artists must count upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Good causes seldom languish in New York when they are properly presented , and we may assume that the Fine Arts Federation has in view some more elaborate presentation of its case than is contained in the recent resolutions. - When the appeal for public support comes , it will be made clear that the building of a dignified home for current art is rather more in the interest of the public than of the artist . For the art societies are already creditably housed , and if artists generally are suffering from lack of popular appreciation , their case is not so grievous as to force them to open complaint . That the artists will gain by exhibiting in a more impressive fashion is certain , but the average cultivated New Yorker will find an even greater benefit and convenience in the annual exhibition of the Federated Art Societies . We greatly need in. this city -a clearing-house between the ? artist and the public . Studio visiting , as it obtains on the Continent , has never become a custom in New York . With the best will in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the art of hi time to see and enjoy what is being done in his own town . Mr. Coler took up on Saturday a neg-lected aspect of the debt:limit question . He acutely pointed out that , as things-now stand , the more New York 's assets amount to , the less it can borrow . That is to say , if such works as docks , the subway , and others of similar character were not owned by the city , they would be owned by individual corporations , and as such would be taxable . The city's-borrowing power would thus be increas-ed by the due proportion of the assessed valuation of these public works , where-as now they are not assessed at all Of course , this assumes that if the city had not undertaken the works , some other agency would have done so , and that may not be wholly certain . But the main point of Mr. Coler 's argument is clear -- the works exist and do add to the tangi-ble property of the city . They should , therefore , be regarded as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so amended as to permit cities to assess their own property would be as feasible a process for getting at the matter as any . The official announcement that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company is going to bring its line into the heart of New York city , by means of a tunnel under the North River , and is to extend this tunnel under the East River , so as to make an underground connection between its main system and the Long Island Railroad , which it now controls , insures the greatest advance in transportation facilities for the metropolis ever made in a single step It will give the travelling public , for the first time , two lines by which people may leave the city for distant points in through cars , and may reach New York from the far West or South , without the delay and discomfort of transfer to ferryboats ; and it will also enable residents of Manhattan to take cars from a central locality on this island to any point on Long Island without having recourse , as now , to a ferryboat across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island as a summer resort for New Yorkers , this latter change alone would be one of great importance . Of tremendous consequence also to the people of Brooklyn is the fact that it will be possible to take through cars for remote points in the country from the business centre of that borough , and in like manner to reach that spot from a distance as easily as though Brooklyn were a part of the mainland . But it is in the larger aspect of the matter  --  as showing the conclusion of the best engineering experts and the wisest financiers that , with electrical development , the tunnel is superior to the bridge when there is a choice between the two  --  that the action of the Pennsylvania Company is most important . Such an example will attract attention and secure imitation all over the country . The shrinkage in Europe 's use of copper , since the sudden contraction in the French and German electrical industry , has been so great that , notwithstanding a decrease of some 60 per cent in Europe 's copper imports from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year some ? 20 per ton , or more than 25 per cent . Of this violent decline , the greater part has occurred in the past three months . Only last month " spot copper " sold in London at ? 6617 per ton , a week ago it was quoted at ? 52.10 . Keeping in view the suddenness and widespread violence of the trade contraction , this fall in prices was scarcely to be wondered at . It may conceivably have ' b6en exaggerated , though it must be remembered that the price of copper has been ruling about the highest level reached in the Secretan corner of 1889 , and that the world 's present copper production is probably neaily double what it was at that time . In the face of this heavy and continuous break in the European price of copper , the so-called official price of our Amalgamated Copper Company has virtually not been reduced at all . Two very interesting results have followed this curious situation . A large stock of unsold copper has accumulated in the hands of the American company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other side , European companies have actually increased production from nine thousand tons a month to ten thousand ; and that they have sold all this increased output , even in the depressed condition of European trade , is shown by the fact that Europe 's reported visible supply has not increased at all . This , on the whole , was a very comfortable situation for such properties as the Rio Tinto , which operates the rich Spanish copper mines But it was obviously less agreeable for the Amalgamated Copper , which last month was confronted with a further fall in American copper exports to the lowest monthly total in five years . Nothing is more natural than that the Amalgamated Copper Company should use every effort to bring the Rio Tinto Company to terms  --  at least , to stop this continued increase in competitive European pro-. duction . Marconi 's marvellous experiments of Thursday and Friday last naturally find doubters , for it not only strains the faith , but almost baffles the imagination of the layman , to believe that from a signal pole in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred miles of ocean . That such was the fact , however , there seems hardly the slightest ground for doubting . In fact , Mr. Marconi 's published interviews on the subject only heighten the confidence that is felt in him as a man of science The frank acknowledgment that a signal rather than n verbal message was chosen because the instruments are still too imperfect for the more difficult test , shows the temper of the scientist rather than the headlong enthusiasm of the mere inventor When the first Atlantic cable was laid , it worked badly , and transmitted few public messages , and many cautious people denied that it had worked at all . The most circumstantial evidence was necessary to prove that the uncertain and intermittent workings of an imperfect cable were anything other than fabrications of a disappointed and unscrupulous promoter . It is needless to say that Cyrus W. Field 's vindication came It seems as unlikely that Marconi and his skilled operators can have been deceived in the repeated experiments of two days , as it NS as either that the first operators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or that Cyrus W. Field lied about his great enterprise . In the enthusiasm that the marvellous success naturally arouses , and in the field it offers to the imagination , one may well imitate the example of moderation which the great inventor himself has shown . Wireless telegraphy is still in its beginnings , and while there seems reason to hope that its practical application may prove successful until it is in every-day use across great distances , we suspend speculation upon the changes which such an invention may effect . A movement now on foot against duelling in Austria-Hungary gives hopes that the days of the code in that empire are numbered . Duelling has survived the last century only in virtue of a factitious but most tyrannical public opinion . Its discontinuance in England and America has been less the result of legislation than of social disapproval . The fact that the Viennese committee , consisting of three hundred persons , has secured the adherence of the best Austrian society , is the most encouraging sign that the campaign against a barbarous practice is likely to prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature be referred to courts of honor has a medieval flavor , although it may be very well suited to Continental conditions . For the Continent differs from England and America in having a more highly developed social and collective sense , and a deeper regard for aristocratic tradition . Since the duel , though rare , is still a fight to the death in Austria , where a distressing case has recently aroused general indignation , one can not doubt that the reform is undertaken in all sincerity . The report that the Kaiser will henceforth pass on all cases where the military courts of honor have declared a duel necessary , seems to show that the attitude of the court towards duelling has changed of late , and that the horror which Germany has felt at the sacrifice of Lieut . Blaskowitch to the code is shared in the highest quarters . It has been overlooked that the imperial order of 1897 for the courts of honor was already admirable in tone . " If an officer has given offence in haste or in passion , " it reads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wrong , but to strike hands in an amicable arrangement " ; and , again , the duty of a council of honor is " to use every intelligent effort to secure a friendly explanation . " It was the signal failure of Lieut . Blaskowitch 's commanding officer , since dismissed the service , to act in the spirit of this order , which has led the Emperor to supervise personally the decisions of the courts of honor , and to make himself the arbiter in cases of deadly insult .                     