@@486684

The Alaska Boundary Commission has arrived at a settlement favorable to the American contention ; but not unanimously . The Canadian members were unmoved by the opposing arguments . Lord Alverstone , on the other hand , was convinced that the list , re conceded by Russia to the United States is an unbroken strip of coast stretching from Portland Channel to Mount St. Elias . In one small particular what has been called a compromise was arrived at . The Commission had no power actually to draw the boundary line It merely passed upon certain questions , such as , What inlet did the Russians understand by Portland Channel ? Is there a chain of mountains parallel to the coast which may serve as the natural frontier contemplated by the Anglo-Russian treaty ? In case there is not , should the arbitrary line " parallel to the coast and following its windings , " be reckoned from tidewater , and thus be wholly inland ; or , being described parallel to an imaginary line drawn from headland to headland , should it cut the deeper tidal inlets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only that neither party should obtain a favorable answer to all these questions . Canada gets a decision at the southern end of the line . We lose the advantage of a foothold on navigable waters at this point , and Canada gains two small islands which command the approach to Port Simpson , the projected terminus of the Grand Trunk extension . It will probably appear , when the actual survey is made , that the fixing of a mountain boundary at several points  --  espe- , cially at the head of Lynn Canal  --  will give to Canada small portions of territory at the expense of our extreme claim of a strip invariably ten leagues wide . But these are all minor features of the award . In the main issue  --  the granting of an unbroken coast strip  --  the decision is distinctly a victory for the United States . Much of the credit for this fortunate result belongs to the advocates for this nation , Mr. Watson and Mr. Dickinson ; and a very gratifying feature of the whole proceedings is that the weight of the argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but by comparatively unknown lawyers , with their national reputation to make . Mr. Dickinson 's elaborate argument on the lisitre won earnest congratulations from Lord Alverstone , and all the counsel for the United States showed patient research , brilliancy in presentation , and a firm grasp of the underlying principles that should rule in a very complicated dispute . We take the immediate rise of Messrs Watson and Dickinson to international eminence as a sign of the unutilized supply of talent in the nation . One of our chief problems is that of enlisting in the Government service abilities such as these two lawyers have shown they possess . Of course , these gentlemen had very much the better side of the case . It weakened the Canadian contention from the outset that their advocates were unwilling to rest the case upon . any single principle of international law . They argued astutely the headland to headland theory , which had some theoretical strength , but they were equally willing to draw the line along the summits of the coast mountains , creating a " chain " ad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore , in the light of the evident intention of Russia to cede an unbroken coast strip , the whole Canadian protest bore a belated look . The United States was in possession . No serious complaint had been made until the discovery of gold in the hack country All this gave our counsel a marked initial advantage . It is to their credit that they never presumed upon the situation , but handled the case purely as a matter of equity and of reasonable construction of the treaty . As to Canadian comments upon the matter , we greatly regret the bitterness of the tone towards Lord Alverstone , and we find the detection of Mr. Chamberlain 's hand in the decision nothing less than absurd . Lord Alverstone 's character does not admit the supposition that he was guided by timid prudential considerations , while Mr. Chamberlain would , in principle , rather cut off his right hand than alienate a square rod of the Empire . We see no defence for the refusal of the two Canadian Commissioners to sign the decision , when they had at hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the moment , their withdrawal from the conference is likely to exacerbate Canadian irritability , but we are confident that reflection will bring fair-mindedness , and that the Canadians will admit that they were squarely beaten in open argument , and that Lord Alverstone 's conversion was highly honorable to him . The Canadians have failed to make good a rather preposterous claim , which has secured for them , however , a substantial rectification of the boundary off Port Simpson They never had the slightest reason to suppose that their extreme pretensions would be granted by any tribunal , and they have , at the worst , merely lost what they never had . On our side , too , there will be no unseemly exultation over the decision . It was inevitable that our claim to the coast strip , supported as it was alike by documentary evidence and common sense , should be fully . allowed . Everybody , on both sides , has reason to rejoice that an old occasion of irritation has been removed . After a decent interval the Joint High Commission should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few remaining mat-ters in dispute between the United States and Canada , THE TEST OF THE PRESIDENT . It is live and learn , in the matter of the actual operation of American government ; and we are just now taught by the goings on at Washington something to be had from no text-book or lecture . We are shOwn , in a word , that Senators are bent upon usurping one more prerogative of the Executive . They long ago took over his appointing power . Latterly they have been asserting that the right to negotiate treaties is theirs , not his . Now they are moving upon another fortress of Presidential privilege , or duty  --  a duty that goes to the heart of his function as one sworn to execute the laws . We mean his obligation to enforce discipline in the public service ; to keep its personnel efficient and honest ; and to make an example of every detected rogue . The new Senatorial gloss put upon this essential obligation of a vigorous and high-minded Executive is , " First ask us . Before you dismiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Last week , for example , President Roosevelt summarily removed a United States marshal in Vermont . The officer 's gross negligence was unquestioned . He had brought discredit upon the service as well as himself , and the President promptly took off his head , as a terror to evil-doers . But the real terror is a Senator whose patronage is interfered with , and that portent immediately appear at the White House . Senator ProcW was down upon the President instanter , wanting to know how a " man " ' of his could be turned out of office and he not consulted . He may not have put his demand in exactly that language , but that was the practical upshot . Call no officeholder a scoundrel until you have asked permission of his Senator . Mr. Proctor 's labors with the President resulted in the humiliating announcement from the White House on Monday that Mr. Roosevelt had decided to " investigate further " the case of the removed marshal . We call this action humiliating because , in any aspect , it tends to degrade the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exemplary if they are subject to recall or modification through Senatorial dictation ? If President Roosevelt was too Hasty , and proceeded upon inadequate information , in dismissing the Vermont marshal , that was a blunder which stands by itself , and should be confessed as such ; but to give it out that the case is to be reconsidered " at the request of Senator Proctor , " is to cut the nerve of executive energy and to reduce the President to the contemptible position of a Mayor of the Palace , taking orders from his real masters . Senators tell him , in effect : " It is not for you to say that officials are inefficient and corrupt , and must be removed for the good of the service . That is our affair , and you are to go on doing as you are bid . Leave all the rest , including your reelection , to us . " A similar ominous temper is displayed in the last stages of the postal scandal . When President Roosevelt named two gentlemen of ability and character to probe the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up from the party press : There , you see the determination of a Republican Administration to cleanse the service ; no guilty man shall be allowed to escape . But , bless you , no sooner had Messrs . Bonaparte and Conrad brought in their report than the Republican managers began to thrill with consternation and rage . What ! let two miserable Mugwumps recommend the dismissal of good Republican officeholders ! Senators were at once discerned on the horizon . They flapped indignantly down upon Washington , asking angrily what all this meant . An investigation was one thing  --  that was all very well to throw dust in the people 's eyes ; but a thorough report , exposing Republicans in office  --  come , come , that was too much , Did the President want to put Indiana in the doubtful column ? Did he think he could get along without the electoral vote of Iowa ? Supposing there had been a few irregularities , had not the beneficiaries all been Republicans , and was not this a Republican Adminis-tration ? The point we make is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself in the public service , even when an honest and clean-handed President endeavors to expel it . The attempt is to frighten and fetter the Executive . No one doubts Mr. Roosevelt 's sincere intention to drive out the mahngerers and the conspirators , the looters and the - peculators . He meant business when he told Messrs , Bonaparte and Conrad to strike deep , without fear or favor . But to the Senatorial mind the whole thing was a pretence from the beginning . Imagine Senator Beveridge really wanting any of his incompetent appointees in the Federal service , from his father-in-law down , turned out in the public interest ! On the contrary , he and his colleagues fill the air with their cries , and tell the newspapers that President Roosevelt will pitch the wretched Mugwump report out of the window Even the Tribune 's Washington dispatches are filled with smooth words about the President 's not being disposed to insist , in the face of the protests of the Indiana Senators ; and about Postmaster-General Payne having successfully shielded this incriminated employee , and Secretary Shaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If there ' is anything President Roosevelt stands for it is pure administration . If there is one power he can not surrender , it is that of a fearless and honest Executive , determined upon unearthing and milting out every thieving band that may have found a hiding-place in the departments . He can not for a moment allow it to appear that his inquiry was a farce The issue is full upon him , and will prove a test not only of his character , but of his willingness to maintain the prestige of his great office . If the President must may his hand simply because Senators intervene to protect their pet rascals , it is all up with honest government . THE SOUTHERN ( NOT THE NEGRO ) QUESTION . One-half of the entire negro population of the country is concentrated in the six contiguous States of South Carolina , Georgia , Florida , , . ' 1.1abaraa , Mississippi , and Louisiana . These States compare not meanly with some of the greatest countries in the world , not only in their superficial extent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial possibilities . Their combined area is upwards of 286,000 square miles , or about two-fifths more than that of the European possessions of either the German Empire or the French Republic . Extending as they do through ten degrees of latitude and fifteen of longitude , they have within themselves many diversities of surface , climate , and natural products . Much of their sail is very fertile . Very nearly every important agricultural product of temperate or subtropical climes can be profit ably raised in one portion or another of their - extensive territory . They produce more than one-third of all the cotton the world consumes . Their mountains are filled with coal , iron , and limestone . Their forests are great and valuable . In the many streams flowing from their hills and mountains they have a vast water power . Their climate is so mild that man may comfortably live there more cheaply than he can farther North ; but it is , in many portions of them at least , not warm enough to relax materially , if at all , the energies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mexico and the open Atlantic , is of great extent , and is broken by a sufficiency of good harbors . Their surface is traversed or pierced by many navigable rivers , among them the Mississippi itself . They are still buc thinly peopled , having in 1900 less than thirty-two inhabitants to the square mile . Only one of the thirty-eight cities of the country with a population of one hundred thousand or upwards is within them . They have only one town of over eight thousand inhabitants for every ten thousand square miles of their area , while Massachusetts has thirty-three such on its eight thousand square miles . Much progress has been made by these States in the last few years , and yet very little has beenaccomplished compared with what their natural advantages show may still be done . In 1900 their manufacturing capital was only $46 per head of their inhabitants , as against a per-capita manufacturing capital of $139 in the rest of the country . Agriculture is still far and away their principal occupation , and still the value of their farm property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with $288 in the other States and Territories of the Union . What is the cause that has thus far held back this great and naturally rich section of the country ? Its people have done and are doing much to develop its resources . Outside capital is eager to exploit its natural wealth . What , then , makes the prudent man hesitate to predict for it that magnificent future which would seem assured to it ? Its people are not of one race , but of two , and these two are within it substantially equal in numbers . Of its nearly nine million of inhabitants , a trifle more than one-half have negro blood in their veins . There are in these six States as many negroes as were to be found in the entire Union when Abraham Lincoln was first chosen President . The negro inhabitants of these States are one and a half times as numerous as were all the dwellers , white , red , and black , in the thirteen colonies when they declared their independence of Great Britain . What changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have in its keeping , it is not possible with any confidence to forecast . Forty years ago the whites outnumbered the blacks by 32,000 ; twenty years ago there were 243,000 more blacks than whites , and now there are only 25 000 more . While on the whole it seems probable that the tendency which has manifested itself in the last twenty years rather than that which exhibited itself between 1860 and 1880 will in the future prevail , no one can be certain about it . One thing , however , is sure  --  for many decades , and probably for many centuries , the negro inhabitants of these States will be numbered by millions . In 1900 their negro population was more than double what it had been forty years before . Since 1880 the number of negro emigrants from the region under discussion has exceeded considerably the number of immigrants to it , and yet its negro population has increased in the meanwhile by 39 per cent . Human nature being what it is , a community in which the population is diided not very unequally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at a disadvantage as compared with another in which there is no such division . This is true where the two races are as closely allied as Czech and German , and where language is the.principal and perhaps the only badge of distinction . Where the two ' races are separated by as wide a physical gulf as divides the Caucasian and the negro , the resulting loss of effective strength in the community as a whole will be much greater : There would be much race friction even if the two races were , morally and mentally , substantially equal . There will be still more when one race , whether because of racial peculiarities or as a result of the operation of historical causes , is on the average , morally and mentally , markedly inferior to the other . The overwhelming majority of the white men-of the South believe that the negro as a race is incapable of attaining to the moral and intellectual level-to which the white race may ascend If they are right , the South will fall far short of making as much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country out of such natural advantages as they may have . In the long run it is men , " rather than things , which tell . If it be true that the average negro not only is not , but never can be , as valuable a member of the community as the average white man , it is still of enormous importance to the South that he shall be as useful as it is possible for him under any conditions to become . Nothing else is quite so vital to its future . Its direct interest in the problem of making the negro as high a type of man as he is capable of becoming is far greater than that of the rest of the country , because in large part its own future depends upon the successful solution . It is easy for one race or people to push doWn another , and there are many ways of doing it . There is only one way to reverse the process , and in that no one outside of the race which is struggling upwards can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Climbing up is a slow and painful process . If a whole race is to be elevated , there must be many weary workers slowly and dog- ? gedly struggling upwards Whether they will so struggle depends upon whether , in their view , the prizes which await them at the top are worth the effort to get there . The future prospects of the South in very large part depend upon its negro population ( now in large measure thriftless , immoral and unenlightened ) becoming industrious , virtuous , and intelligent . It is going to be very hard for these negroes so to elevate themselves . Can the South afford to say to them , " Strive as you choose , succeed as you can ; but , whatever you do , so long as there is a discernible drop of African blood in your veins , you shall never be allowed to obtain many of those things which men of all races and in all ages have most keenly longed for " ? BUBBLES OLD AND NEW . The young dummy directors who testified on Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the notorious Franklin Syndicate swindle  --  were consistent members of that society of high financiers who have been forming combinations without careful examination of constituent properties , and , just as in the bubbles of two centuries ago , have been asking small investors to put their savings into an absolutely bottomless business . The parallel , indeed , between the recent period of wild speculation and the bubble mania in the early part of the eighteenth century is closer than most of us imagine . While we have talked loudly of forming new precedents , we have been slavishly-following the old . We have had a few successful ventures , a few glittering fortunes flaunted in the face of the public , a general rush to buy and a collapse of the market . The story has been often told  --  by Macaulay , Bagehot , and Lecky ; but no modern author has illuminated the situation more clearly than the contemporary journals , Mist 's and App7ebee 's , when Defoe was writing for them , that keen observer and hard-headed reasoner , who was a generation or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . The lucky undertakings and the dazzling display of wealth which touched the imagination of every-day men and turned them into stock gamblers are evident enough in the letters from France in 1719 , when John Law was working his miracles there : " There appear nothing but new clothes , new figures , and an in finite number of families raised to new fortunes . They see eight hundred new coaches set up in Paris , and the families enriched purchase new plate , new furniture , and new equipage ; so that there is a most prodigious trade there , and money flows like the waters of the Seine . " So the news runs on from day to day , and depicts conditions resembling those at the Waldorf-Astoria and other fashionable New York hotels in the hey-day of prosperity  --  when the newly rich from all parts of the country flocked here to drink champagne and " take a little flyer " in Wall Street . One story in Mist 's journal has served as the model for all later tales of the kind . A coachman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " live on his own hands . " " Well , " said the master , " get me another coachman , for I can not do without . " " Sir , " replied tl-e man , " that will be very difficult at this time , for I have inquired for some weeks past , and have not been able to get one for myself . " All this exhibition of splendor had its natural effect . The " confluence of strangers " to Paris was " incredible . " " Foreigners buy stocks at that rate that if the French gentlemen who first bought  --  though at the extravagant rate of 1,000 per cent. ? do not make their fortunes by selling every subscription which they have one hundred livres upon for a thousand livres profit , it must be their own faults . " Merchants from Genoa , Milan , Geneva , London , and " many , other places " came in ; " so that in time all the French people may have sold out their stock ' , and so- pay their debts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In Paris , then , in 1719 , the old trick of unloading on the outsiders was successfully played . The blind pool , too , is no novelty , for when London was fairly seized with the madness , a young man got investors for " a certain subscription , to be made some time or other , they did not know when ; to some certain scheme or other , they did not know what ; proposed by some person or other , they did not know who ; for insurance of ships , etc. , they did not know how . " And all this time Mr. Law was the very image of a conservative Wall Street banker who is struggling to check speculation . He " pretends to be surprised at the extravagant rate , and that it is gone beyond his scheme . He never designed strangers should run away with the profits of his undertaking ; but , seeing they are willing to pay so dear , he will not obstruct it . " Mr. Law 's goings and comings were watched and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a twentieth-century underwriting syndicate . People talked of him as reverently as our newspapers talked of our financial leaders ? " Nothing is more evident than that Mr. Law has been of an universal ' service to France ; and that by his genius alone he has retrieved the loss of the late long and miserable war , and put the sinking credit of that nation in such a flourishing condition as was never known before . . . . If we consider only the difficulties which he must have surmounted , that alone will show him to be a very great man . And if , on the other hand , we look into his extensive charities , we shall find him equally good and great . " The combination of unscrupulous speculator , benefactor of the toiling millions , and eminent philanthropist is highly respectable in its antiquity . Before the crash came , a few sober people began to ask , " What advantage is it to the nation of Great Britain in general to have things sell for more than they are worth ? " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value , where must they fall when the price abates ? " These " bears , " " pessimists , " and " prophets of evil , " as we should dub them to-day , kept declaring that at last the shareholders would have " only a scrap of paper which entitles them to nothing but dear-bought repentance . " These same malicious destroyers of the market  --  so exactly does the parallel hold  --  were the very ones who tried to stop the panic when everybody else was frightened . They counselled holding to stocks and " not giving away estates in a hurry . " When the shares fell " below the probable interest on them , " Defoe cautioned London : " That they who sell their Stock now , lose Estates ; " That they who buy their Stock now , get Estates ; - " That they who keep their Stock now . save Estates . " Defoe 's conclusion of the whole matter was the same that sane critics have drawn from the experiences of the last four years . " Let us look into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in again and set it upon its legs . Do any of these men think to restore credit when they do not restore the principles of just and fair dealing , on which credit is founded , and by which alone it is established ? Were ever credit and knavery consistent with one another ? " But in 1721 , as in 1903 , all this preaching was like locking the barn door after the horse was stolen . A dialogue about the subscriptions in Broad Street , London , might as fitly be spoken in our own Broad Street . " Come , come , my friend , money is but dirt  --  mere dirt ! " " Aye , aye , and it is such dirt as you and I have washed our hands of very clean at present . " MARTYRDOM OF THE HOUSEWIFE . The difficulty of securing domestic help is not new , and it is not peculiar to New York . A century ago , an English writer , William Fordyce Mayor , in his ' Survey of Berkshire , ' remarked pathetically , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year become more scarce and difficult to command " Such also was the complaint of our own grandmothers and mothers ; such is the complaint of our wives to-day . It is true , however , that servants are harder to find than for some years past . Housekeepers from one end of Manhattan to the other unite in a chorus of grief , which is echoed from Brooklyn , Staten ISland , and the Bronx , from Westchester County and Rockland , and from the whole State of New Jersey . The trouble may be more acute here because population is more congested , but if the newspapers of Philadelphia and Chicago are not deceived , the situation in those cities , and indeed in the whole country , is unusually distressing Some of the reasons for the present plight are obvious There have been and must continue to be certain inherent difficulties in the problem . These have often been pointed out : long and , irreg. ular hours , confined and often lonely routine , varying quantities of work , vagaries and caprices of mistresses , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women into factory employment , with its fixed hours , op. portunities to be on the street in going and coming , congenial companionship while busy , definite tasks , formal rules for conduct , consistent supervision and general independence outside ofhours of labor . For the many women to whom the kitchen and its duties an not positively attractive , the factory will always be a strong magnet ; and the growth of manufacturing must make even deeper inroads upon domestic service . Various suggestions have been offered for improving conditions , but few or none of the remedies are practicable for people of moderate means , who must continue to meet these inherent difficulties as best they may . There are , however , some new factors in the reckoning . The demand for the work of women is keener than ever before . With the last decade a number of occupations have opened to them for the first time . Women , for example , are acceptably filling positions as factory inspectors and sanitary officers . Most of these new occupations are above the skill and intelligence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher service leave room in other callings for the better class of maids to enter , and thus drain off the household service from the top . The greatest demand for female labor is due to the era of prosperity Our manufacturing has expanded enormously . With all our factories running full time and paying high wages , the housekeeper is facing a sharp competition at a desperate disadvantage . To add to her troubles , she must compete also with her own class . A few days ago the New York State Department of Labor , in its quarterly bulletin , declared . " Prosperity is so widely diffused that the servant-keeping class is larger than ever before , and has thus created a demand that exceeds the supply . " With families that kept no servant now employing at least one , and wealthier families adding an extra nurse , waitress , or laundress , the unfortunate housewife is ground between the upper millstone of the factory and the lower millstone of her own companions in adversity . Not only is the demand greater than before , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the servant-keeping class has enabled poorer people either to maintain their daughters at home or send them to school , and many girls who in 1893 would have been seeking places , are now living at ease on the abundant earnings of their fathers and brothers Statistics on this point are not available , but the facts are patent . It is plain , also , that employment at good wages has allowed many young mechanics to marry , and has thus transformed possible housemaids into actual wives . The " steady company " has been much in evidence , and his attentions have still further disturbed our domestic economy . Some people ask why the enormous immigration of the last few years has not filled up our depleted stock ; for generally in times of heavy immigration household servants are comparatively-abundant . An examination of the Government returns shows that in the twelve months ending June , 1902 , the number of female immigrants was 182,374 , and in the next year it was 243,900 . With an increase of over 61,000 , there ought to be some balm in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immigration has not been such as to furnish domestic servants . Of the total number of women for 1903 , 9,877 came from Asia and other lands outside of Europe . Moreover , of the 234,023 Europeans a large number are from nations whose modes of life and social conditions unfit women for domestic service in America , without a training that would uproot most of . their personal habits . In 1902 , some 44,853 came from Austria-Hungary , and in 1903 the flood had risen to 58,027 . The figures for Italy are respectively 32,643 and 43,656 ; and the totals for Portugal , Rumania , Russia , Servia , Spain , and Turkey are 41,429 and 51,118 . Making these deductions , we have left from the immigration of 1903 only 81,222 women from the countries that usually send household servants : Of these , 15,225 came from Germany , 8,212 from Norway , 32,600 from the United Kingdom , and 16,220 from Sweden . Many of them , of course , started directly West to settle on the prosperous farms there . The other day a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only hope . " Without disparaging the Christian virtues , we may be sure that love will not melt the stony heart of factory wages or immigration statistics . With demand strengthening and supply diminishing , the outlook is not cheerful The only relief now in sight is from a check upon our prosperity . The fall in prices and curtailment of manufactures that are expected in the near future , will inevitably lessen the demand for female labor both in the factory and in the home , and will as inevitably increase the supply . Meantime the martyrdom of the housekeeper must go on If it be true , as ancient writers allege , that one of the enjoyments of the righteous in heaven is to see the torments of the damned , then the families which have drawn from the greatest American lottery one or two competent and contented servants should be in the seventh heaven of ecstacy.                     