@@485058

Doubtless one of the reasons why President McKinley declines Germany 's proposal in regard to the surrender of Chinese officials is , that such a demand would probably make it necessary to call an extra session of Congress If China should flatly refuse to surrender everybody whom the allies deemed guilty of the outrages at Pekin or elsewhere , it would be necessary for the Powers to declare war against her , or " scuttle . " Of course there can be no scuttle policy , but we can not declare war except by the action of Congress There will be no regular session of that body for ten weeks to come Our intentions in the premises could not remain undecided so long a time . An extra session would be necessary . To call an extra session would at once precipitate the question of peace or war into the present campaign . On this question the Administration would be compelled to be in favor of war because the alternative would be scuttling . This would be a risk which no prudent Administration would care to incur . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the political interests of the party in power . The announcement that the Governor of Amur has placed all the Mantchurian country now occupied by the Russians under Russian law and authority , is still too indefinite to base an opinion upon . All that can be said is that it involves some extension of Russian rule in the north of China , and that it is ( or is proclaimed to he ) a punishment for the attack by the Chinese on Blagovestchensk . The latter is a town on the left ( Russian ) bank of the Amur River . It was attacked by the Chinese military forces at the time when the Boxer uprising was going on in Pekin . This attack and the firing on Russian craft navigating the river created a panic among the Cossack population on the Amur , and led to the scenes described by Professor Wright in our columns thig week . Only a very small part of Mantehuria can have been occupied by the Russians since the recent troubles began The country itself is 800 miles in length ( north and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 390,000 square miles , including the Liao-Tung peninsula . It is as large as New York and Penngylvania , plus all the States west of them to and including Iowa and Minnesota . What are the motives which have actuated the Boxers in China ? Some light is cast upon the matter by an interview which the Tientsin correspondent of the St Louis Globe Democrat recently had with Wong Ta , whom he describes as a typical Boxer . To the question why poor people like him were fighting the foreigners , Wong Ta frankly replied ' " Partly because we hate you " , and to the further inquiry why they hated the foreigners , " Partly because the foreign devils have stolen so much of our country . " But this is only one of the reasons . Others are that the foreign devils have come and laid iron rails across the country , and that " the iron dragon has walked over our people and crushed them . " Moreover , the invaders have even moved graves to lay these rails down , and the ancestors , angry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Proof of this is found in the fact that there are floods in one part of the empire and drought in another , with famines almost every yea ' There are other charges , as that " the foreign devils have been killing oar children and using their eyes for medicine " ? a belief which is widely7 held by the lower classes in China . Worst of all , the iron dragons , spitting out smoke and fire and making a great , rumbling as they go along , pulling strange houses after them , " have been destroying Feng-shi " ? that mysterious balance between wind and water which constitutes luck , and the disturbance of which means to a Chinaman something infinitely worse than the mere " end of the world " In this queer jumble of real and imaginary grievances , of justifiable resentment against harsh treatment , and of blind rage against all progress which runs counter to popular superstition , one gets some insight into the curious state of the Chinese mind , and sees more clearly the immense difficulties of securing a basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the army officers in the Philippines share the views of the Taft Commission as to the prompt ending of the " insurrection . " Many are , of course , prevented by their official positions from publicly giving utterance to the opinions which they have no hesitation in expressing privately . Occasionally , however , one is found who ventures to speak out . The latest is Capt David F. Allen of the Thirty-eighth Volunteer Infantry , whose standing among his fellow-citizens in Indiana is such that he has been named as the Democratic candidate for Congress from the Ninth District After declining to come home to take part in the campaign , because he deems it his duty to remain with his company in- Luzon , he has this to say in his letter of acceptance : " I desire to mention some facts to correct any statement that may have been made in the district , to the effect that the island of Luzon is pacified , or that the backbone of the war is broken The President 's amnesty proclamation was published throughout the municipality of Balayan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least a month ago , thus giving it the widest possible circulation throughout the city , and yet , out of a population of fully 50,000 , not one person has thus far taken advantage of it The military authorities , by general orders published throughout the island , offered to pay 30 pesos ( thirty Spanish silver dollars ) for any kind of an old gun that could be fired This order was published months ago , and yet in all the province of Batangas , composed of more than 200,000 people , not one ride or gun has been offered for sale The war is not over . The people have not become reconciled These are the exact facts " Capt . Allen also does not fail to mention that increased activity of the Filipinos in the field which is the burden of almost every report now received from Manila There is no more striking feature of Gen. MacArthur 's report on the fresh outbreaks in the Philippines than the fact that the only troops which he could send to Gen. Young 's relief were those which had just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be furnished until they had reached Manila from San Francisco . If Mr McKinley 's luck seemed to have deserted him when this grave news came on the heels of the Taft campaign report , it must not be overlooked that the fortunate and unexpectedly sudden ending of active hostilities in China alone made possible the diversion of these fresh troops to the Philippines Had Gen. Chaffee required all the men in China who were originally destined for duty there , Gen. MacArthur would have been unable to come to Gen. Young 's aid without abandoning some of the towns And villages which are now " loyal " solely because of the presence of American troops . As it is , the calls for reinforcements are reported to be coming not only from Young , but from every other brigadier , and the response depends upon the number of troops now en route to Manila from San Francisco and the time of their arrival . With every one of Gen. MacArthur 's 63,000 troops urgently needed , and insistent calls for more , with every available ' regular in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can the 25,000 volunteers be withdrawn who must be mustered out , according to law , on July 1 , 1901 ? Nothing but the promptest action on the part of Congress will supply a way out  --  the raising of fresh troops , regular and volunteer  --  and it will take months to do this , and to land the reinforcements in Manila . - - The American rulers of Cuba are " deeply pained " to discover that the great majority of the delegates elected to the Constitutional Convention are " anti-American . " Just think of that ! Here are electors deliberately choosing representatives who will put the interests of their own country above those of a foreign nation ! This is almost as bad as the obstinate wickedness of the Chinese in refusing to appoint negotiators who are " pro-foreign . " With us , and with all civilized peoples , we know how great is the eagerness to elect officials who are for the foreigner first , and let the devil take the native citizens . Whenever we wish to negotiate a treaty , we take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender the American contention . No candidate gets so many votes in this country as the man who announces himself " pro-foreign . " The nominee running on an anti-British , or anti-all-abroad , platform would be " snowed under . " Yet these elementary principles of civilized politics the Cubans have not learned . And still there are some theorists who say they are fit to govern themselves ! Mr. Bryan 's topsy-turvy notions about finance were never more unconsciously displayed than in his remarks about the German loan placed in this country . Do you love the Germans more than you do your own countrymen ? he asks triumphantly . Lending money for love is a new doctrine . It is especially new for Mr. Bryan , who has been in the habit of making out the creditor a very unlovely character , luring the luckless debtor on to borrow , and then remorselessly exacting his pound of flesh . But it seems the Shylocks loved the Antonios just the same ! However , Mr. Bryan has another crushing retort . If you are so glad to loan money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments at home are few . Where , then , is your boasted prosperity ' ? But where , we ask , is youl boasted adversity ? If money for long-time investment goes begging at 4 per cent. , the Western farmer will not have to pay more than 6 or 7 on his mortgages ( instead of 10 or 12 , some years ago ) ; the business man can borrow at the bank on commercial paper for 5 ; new manufacturing industries can be launched on more favorable terms than ever before ; rents will be lower ; capital will be in search of the thrifty user of it . It is , indeed , a gratuitous perversity in an agitator thus to seize upon one of the surest signs of national wealth and well-being and try to wrest it to his own ends . Platt and Croker are now taking up again the rdle of the comic actors of the vaudeville stage , who abuse each other like fish-wives in the sight of the victim whose pockets they have picked , and then go off into a corner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , but it can scarcely be deceived . Platt may cry " blackmailer , " and Croker retort " thief and liar , " to his heart 's content , but it is all a wearisome and hollow farce . The two bosses are exactly alike in principles and practice . Both are political gamblers , and nothing else . Moreover , they have a perfect lin , derstanding with each other . Never has their partnership for mutual advantage been more openly and brazenly displayed before the people of this State than at the present time . Yet they have such a belief in the infinite gullibility of the People that they get up these periodical little theatrical quarrels of theirs . Platt comes down to the footlights and , making serious efforts to look ferocious , bawls out that his fellow-comedian gets his money from saloons and brothels . " You old liar , " yells Croker in a fine stage fury , " you know that you blackmail every corporation in New York . " The audience roars , and the flattered actors bring out fresh blackguardism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other before election clay . But the day after they will be found in the wings , in perfect good-fellowship and shaking With laughter , where they will make an honorable division of their common booty . Mr. Odell 's letter to the President of the Merchants ' Association on the Ramapo question is of the first importance . He now not only reiterates the pledge made in his recent speech , that he will give his cordial and active support to " any remedial legislation " which may be necessary to enable New York city to own and control its water supply , but explicity defines the expression remedial legislation as possessing its " fullest and utmost meaning , and that is that the rights of the city are paramount to all other individual or corporate rights not municipal . " He further elucidates his position as meaning that , " if any action heretofore taken by the Legislature shall be a bar to the granting of such rights , that , of course , must first be swept away , " and expressly states that " this would apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that might be a hindrance to the consummation of this much-desired result . " This seems to cover the whole ground , so far as the Republican candidate for Governor is concerned . The next thing to do is to make sure that a Legislature shall be chosen which will pass the law which Mr. Odell is now pledged to sign in case of his election . Even the Goebel law of Kentucky is outdone in unfairness by the statute under which elections are now held in the city of St. Louis . When the Democrats , who have controlled the State for thirty years , decided to seize the metropolis , which has been Republican for sometime past , they not only took the Police Department away from the citizens and gave it to a board appointed by the Governor , but they also turned over the elections to another commission constituted in the same way . Nominally , the Republicans are represented through a provision that only two of the three commissioners shall belong to the same party , but practically the third member is helpless . The law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to turn over the control of the whole election machinery to a deputy , who may add names to the registry lists or strike them off , appoint all officers to take charge of the polls  --  in short , do just about as he pleases  --  and without any remedy in the way of appeal , except to the Board , whose creature and agent the deputy is . Naturally enough , there is great indignation in St. Louis , outside the ranks of the professional politicians of the party responsible for this gross outrage Gen John M. Palmer , whose death oc. curred on Tuesday , was in public life nearly fifty years ago , and notable even then . He was a member of the State Senate of Illinois in 1554 , when Douglas 's Nebraska bill was pending in Congress . He was a Democrat and he represented Macoupin County , which was a part of " Egypt , " as southern Illinois was then styled , and he was himself a native of Kentucky . If it could have been affirmed of any member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters of Douglas , and in favor of admitting slavery to the new Territories , John M. Palmer would have been put in that category . Yet he was one of the five members ( anti-Nebraska Democrats , as they were called ) who bolted the caucus nomination of their party , and voted for Lyman Trumbull for Senator and elected him . Abraham Lincoln was also a candidate at that time , but he was the nominee of the Whigs . The Republican party did not then exist . Lincoln might have been elected then if the five anti-Nebraska men had given him their votes , but their position at home hardly allowed them to vote for a Whig . It turned out quite as well in the end that Trumbull was elected , for while Lincoln was not obscured , Trumbull was put in a position where his powers as a political debater added greatly to the strength of the Free-Soil party . Gen. Palmer 's devotion to the cause of freedom was soon put to a new test . He entered the Union army , raised a regiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fought through the four years ' war with Logan . Oglesby , MoClernand , and many other Illinoisans who won national fame . He was elected Governor of the State , and Senator of the United States afterwards . In every place and at every time he showed the same sterling qualities that marked him when he turned his back on his party in behalf of freedom at the risk of his political future . His last service was his acceptance of the nomination of the Gold Democrats for the Presidency against Bryan four years ago . Labor troubles for a large body of workingmen and their employers are averted by the news that the Conference Committee of the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers and of manufacturers have finally agreed upon their yearly wage scale . The adjustment of wages this year has been attended with unusual difficulties , owing to the unsettled condition of the iron and steel trade . The scale adopted is a compromise , fixing wages considerably above what the manufacturers had proposed , and below what the workers wanted . It will remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1901 . The conference has had five sittings in different cities , and has finally determined the wages to be paid 60,000 workingmen for one year . In doing so it has made the occurrence of a strike or a lock-out altogether improbable during this period . This method , of determining wages has been successfully employed in other industries , and there would seem to be no reason why some such scheme should not be agreed upon between the anthracite-coal operators and the striking miners . Operators and miners in the bituminous fields have had such an agreement for several years , and it has worked satisfactorily . Chief Stainsby of the New Jersey Bureau of Statistics has undertaken an investigation of the trades-union movement in his State , with reference to the annual disbursements of the unions for strikes and benevolent purposes . As might have been expected , the returns , where they are at all ample , show that strikes have been declared in the course of the year pretty generally among the unions . Forty-seven unions , with a membership of 6,753 , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ averaging 27.1 per cent . of their income for strikes , and 18.4 per cent . for benefits , while 54.5 per cent . has been added to their reserves . Eleven unions of glass-workers included in the forty-seven report a strike expenditure during 1899 amounting to 44.7 per cent . of their total income , and nothing paid out in benefits . Eight unions of cigar-makers , however , report no strikes , and about one-third of the year 's income devoted to the payment of benefits . From the figures given it appears that about 60 per cent . of last year 's expenditures by all the unions were incurred in the maintenance of strikes . The building up of reserve funds which is indicated is calculated to exert a conservative infinance over labor-unions , and it is to be hoped that these reserves may be more carefully preserved in the future than in the past against the serious drain occasioned by too frequent striking . Undoubtedly the unions in New Jersey and elsewhere are devoting more of their resources to the benevolent work of pro-tecting themselves and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , are evidence that they still too generally regard striking to be the chief end of their existence , and that in benevolence they are far behind the English unions , which estimate their strike expenditure at only about 10 per cent . of their total disbursements . A nice point at law has been ruled upon by the Court of Common Pleas in Pennsylvania . A trade organization to " foster , protect , and promote the welfare of persons engaging in sheet-metal working , and for the protection and encouragement of such trade and commerce , " applied to the court for incorporation . The law authorizes the court to grant charters to corporations formed for the encouragement and protection of trade and commerce in , genes al , but Judge McCarthy rules that encouragement and protection of commerce in general is a very different thing from encouragement and protection of persons engaged in particular trades It is plain , he says , that the law contemplates the promotion of the general public welfare which would flow from fostering the exchange of commodities in foreign or domestic trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any particular class of persons who may happen to be engaged in a particular handicraft for their own private livelihood or profit . The court may grant charters to organizations for the encouragement of commerce in general , but not to organizations whose object is to protect the trade of a particular class . English trade-unionists and labor men generally are up in arms over a recent decision of Mr. Justice Farwell of the High Court , restraining the officers of the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants from " watching and besetting " non-union men employed upon the Taff Vale Railway during a strike ordered by the Society . The judgment has no hnmediate effect , as this strike has been ended . The Society urged that it was not properly a corporation , and , therefore , could not be held responsible for the action of its members . Justice Far , well , however , rules that the Society is liable for the acts of its agents to the same extent that it would be if it were a corporation , and it is abundantly clear , he believes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be liable . Trade-unionists in England , as in this country , are somewhat suspicious of the action of the courts in such matters , and feel that they are granting injunctions too freely in cases like this . The statutes under which English trade unions are organized deliberately withhold from the unions the right of incorporation , and this restriction of rights , the trade-unionists contend , implies a restriction of liabilities also The prob . lem is a perplexing one . Mr. Chamberlain 's election address , issued on Thursday , as was also Mr. Balfour 's , adds new point to Shelley 's old taunt that " war is thestatesman 's game . " Evidently the Conservatives are going to make the South African war their trump card . Having given the war to them , Mr. Chamberlain calls upon the electors to say whether it was " just " and " inevitable . " This scarcely comes up to our " holy " war with Spain , but that pitch of exaltation may be reached later . Moreover , Mr. Chamberlain is as anxious as ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war be not thrown away . As he recently expressed it in a letter to a constituent , the question was whether the country would intrust the settlement of affairs in South Africa to " a strong hand . " The obvious reply to this is that the strong hand has a grasp upon the business already . Who has a " mailed fist " more threatening than Mr. Chamberlain 's ? And how much larger a majority does he want behind him in Parliament than he has now ? Dissolution was not necessary until next year . By that time the strong hand could have settled everything . The political trickery of the appeal is evident . Lord Salisbury won the general election of 1895 almost purely on domestic issues . His victory was to make an and of pestilent Irish Home Rule , and to open a magnificent prospect for social reforms , old-age pensions , and what not . There was to he contentment and progress at home , and an unbroken peace , born of calm strength , abroad . But cynic fate has a way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have scarcely a thing to point to in the way of domestic legislation , while their period of power has been one ' Ong record of foreign complications , anxieties , wars , and new responsibilities of all kinds . First came the Armenian atrocities , in regard to which Lord Salisbury suffered a distinct check and lowering of prestige Then there was the Venezuelan tragi-comedy ; the Jameson Raid , the Greek war , the Sudan campaign , Fashoda , the Russian advance in Mantchuria , the South African war , and now the acute crisis in China It is an appalling list to have been crowded into five short years . There is , however , one domestic achievement which we had forgotten to mention . The income tax has gone up fourpence in the pound ;                     