@@430051

THE MARCUS WHITMAN LEGEND. * The story of Marcus Whitman has passed into history . Everyone thinks that be knows how Dr. Whitman undertook a perilous journey across the Rocky Mountains in the winter of 1842 in order to inform the administration at Washington of the inroads that the Hudson 's Bay Company were making into Oregon ; how he exacted promises from President Tyler and Secretary Webster not to abandon the territort ' ; and how , by hurrying back and organizing a great emigration , he saved it to the United States . The various versions of this story differ in details , but the burden of them all is that Whitman saved Oregon . The " sensation " of the annual meeting of the American Historical Association at Detroit a year ago was a striking paper by Professor Edward G. Bourne of Yale University , which proved not only that this story is inaccurate in details but that it is entirely unfounded in its main outlines . Dr. Whitman went east not to save Oregon but to save his mission . Even if he saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he changed the policy of the administration in the slightest degree . He did not organize and could not have organized the emigration of 1843 , but joined it after its organization and rendered valuable assistance on the way . Professor Bourne is not the first to discover the groundlessness of the Whitman story . It was pointed out in Oregon papers between 1882 and 1885 by Mr. Elwood Evans and by Mrs. F. F. Victor . Mr. Wm . I. Marshall of Chicago has devoted a dozen years to the subject , and has brought to light much important evidence . But Professor Bourne may fairly be regarded as the Columbus of the discovery , since he is the first to succeed in forcing it upon public attention . His paper was printed in the January issue of " The American Historical Review . " It has recently been reprinted in an enlarged and revised form in his " Essays in Historical Criticism , " issued as one of the " Yale Bicentennial Publications . " In his original paper Professor Bourne contented himself with proving that the Whitman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has prefixed another paper in which he traces the origin and genesis of the legend that has been attached to Whitman 's name . The story first appeared from 1864 to 1866 , nearly twenty years after Whitman 's death , in articles in California and Oregon papers , originating with H. H. Spalding and W. H. Gray , two of Dr. Whitman 's associates . In the years immediately following his death , when he was most likely to have been eulogized , not a word was heard of his great political services . The Oregon Treaty of 1846 provided for compensation to the Hudson 's Bay and Puget 's Sound Companies for their possessory rights within the territory of the United States . In 1863 a treaty with Great Britain provided for the settlement of these claims , and a commission , acting under the treaty , began their examination in 1865 and later awarded 8650 , - 000 to the two companies . While this settlement was pending , most of the mission land claims were disallowed by the United States government on the ground of abandonment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication of the earliest versions of the Whitman story . At about the same time Spalding learned that the government had printed and circulated as a public document a Catholic account of the Whitman massacre , which reflected upon the conduct of the Protestant missionaries . Smarting under the disparagement of his work , the loss of the mission lands , and the fancied injustice of the payment of the foreign claims , Spalding devoted himself to a campaign of vindication . From 1868 to 1870 he travelled through Oregon and other parts of the United States , delivering lectures , collecting endorsements , inspiring newspaper articles , and securing the adoption of resolutions and memorials drafted by himself . The burden of these memorials was the great service rendered by Dr. Whitman and himself in saving . Oregon to the  | United States and the justice of the mission land claims , though the latter were discreetly kept in the background . The object of these memorials , aside from the repudiation of the Catholic document , may be illustrated by a single extract . " It is our deliberate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Foreign Missions as the mission home of our Brother Spalding . . . . That the interests of the Government and of the tribe would be better subserved by the appointment of Mr. Spalding there than by any other man . . . . The plea of voluntary abandonment of the Lapwai mission . . . is simply absurd . " In 1871 Spalding secured the publication of all of these testimonials , petitions , and papers , as a Senate document under the title " Early Labors of Missionaries in Oregon , " and this document became the principal source of the later versions of the Whitman story . In the meantime , Gray , Spalding 's associate , published a similar account of Whitman 's services in his " History of Oregon , " issued in 1870 . Incorporated in a public document and in a formal history of the state , written by an early settler , later writers , without further investigation , accepted the story as true . At this point began the second propaganda of the story . Friends and descendants of the missionaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleased to discover that Oregon had been saved to the United States by the missions ; and various persons devoted themselves to the diffusion of this important information through the medium of magazine articles , pamphlets , and books . The story received its widest circulation in an histort ' of " Oregon : The Struggle for Possession , " published by Rev. Wm . Barrows in 1883 . This book , by reason of its inclusion in a popular series , its issue by a prominent publishing house , and the fact that it presented the only short and convenient account of the Oregon controversy , reached a large sale . Several biographies of Whitman were written . Two appeared in 1895 , one of them bearing the striking title " How Whitman Saved Oregon . " In 1897 the Congregational churches , throughout the country , celebrated the anniversary of Dr. Whitman 's death as " Whitman Day . " By systematically importuning writers and publishers of school histories of the United States to include the story in their text-books , its champions have secured for it practically universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete at every point , and it now remains to correct the perversion of history that has been wrought . Dr. Wm . A. Mowry has been especially conspicuous by reason of the unusual prominence that he has given to Whitman in the series of school histories of which he is the author . His " Marcus Whitman and the Early Days of Oregon , " published during the summer , is the latest and most conservative statement of the Whitman story . This book was not hastily undertaken as a reply to Professor Bourne , but is the result of the careful investigation of many years . It is evident , however , that the author is not equipped for critical work in history . This conclusion is first suggested by the bibliography with which the book opens , thrown together as it is without any plan of arrangement , misquoting titles , omitting dates of publication , and containing many errors , among which the assignment of the Spalding report to the wrong session of Congress may be mentioned . The first impression is further confirmed by the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal of personal testimony , but fails to evince any appreciation of the difference in value attaching to testimony taken at different periods , and in many cases omits to indicate the time at which the testimony is taken . He is also much given to painting historical pictures to fill up the gaps in the narrative and to make it interesting , in a way that suggests the Rev. Mason Weems . A single quotation will serve as an example . The experience of Lovejoy , Dr. Whitman 's companion upon his famous ride , is described as follows : u It was the dead of winter . He was one man , alone , in the midst of the Rocky Mountains , in an unfrequented pass . . . . In his solitude during that longest week of the entire trip , probably the longest of his life , he must have made much of the companionship of their little dog . It is sad to think that a little further on in their journey , when their provisions had utterly failed , not only were they obliged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but stern necessity compelled them to kill and eat that faithful dog . " This picture is apparently based upon Mr. Lovejoy 's statement that they were " from want of food , compelled to use the flesh of dogs , mules , and such other animals as came in their reach . " It is hardly worth while to point out the variations contained in Dr. Mowry 's version . The important fact is that he applies the same methods to the essential points of the story that he does to the non-essential . When he comes to Whitman 's Washington visit , he says : " Exactly what happened in Washington is difficult to determine . From the best reports we feel quite sure that the following account  | is not far from the truth . " Then he gives th imaginary conversations with Webster and Tyler invented years afterward by Spalding in spite of the fact that there is no direc evidence of Whitman 's having seen Webste and only very uncertain evidence of his seeing Tyler . In place of a careful citation of author ities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems probable , " " we are told , " " from the best reports we feel quite sure , " and th like . Dr. Mowry evidently intends to give an irn partial account of the life of Whitman , but is prevented by his preconceived opinions from seeing facts in their true light . Nevertheless he presents much important material ; so that it is quite possible , by making allowance for his constructions , to read the true life of Whitman in his pages . The main points of this life , as already suggested , respect , first , the purpose of his ride , second , the incidents and object of his visit to Washington , and , third , his connection with the emigration of 1843 . The American Board established its Oregon missions in 1836 by sending out Whitman and Spalding as missionaries and Gray as agent . Two years later the missions were reenforced by the addition of Eells , Walker , Smith , and Rogers . The missionaries quarrelled fiercely among themselves , a fact which Dr. Mowry passes over as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of the Board decided to discontinue the southern branch , transfer Whitman to the northern one , and recall Spalding . When this order was received in September , Dr. Whitman , feeling that its execution would be a great mistake , called a meeting of the missionaries , to whom he communicated his resolution to go east immediately in order to present his view of the situation to the Board . The purpose of his journey appears in the authorization of the missionaries , which advised Dr. Whitman " to visit the United States as soon as practicable to confer with the Committee of the American Board for Foreign Missions in regard to the interests of this mission . " Dr. Mowry unacconntably omits the last eight words of this at-thorization , as Professor Bourne points out . Dr. Whitman 's purpose is also clearly stated in a letter written by Mr. Walker at the time of his departure , which Dr. Mowry erroneously attributes to Mr. Eells . There is no suggestion anywhere of a political motive . Dr. Mowry attributes its absence to fear of the Hudson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board , but these reasons would not have restrained Dr. Whitman from referring to it in letters written while in the east to persons not connected with the Board . Dr. Mowry also argues that but for a political motive , Dr. Whitman would have waited until spring , since a summer trip across the continent would have served the purpose of the mission equally well . Exactly the reverse appears to us to have been the case . The Board in February of 1842 had ordered the discontinuance of the mission , and would expect the order to be obeyed not later than the spring of 1843 . If the order were to be withdrawn , representations must reach the Board by that time . Arriving in Boston , Dr. Whitman succeeded in securing the reversal of the order , and thus accomplished his purpose . That Dr. Whitman also visited Washington appears from a letter that he addressed to the Secretary of War after his return to Oregon , which began as follows : " Sir , In compliance with a request you did me the honor to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to you the synopsis of a bill , " etc . There is no other contemporary reference to Dr. Whitman 's Washington visit . In later years several persons testified that they remembered having seen him there . Dr. Lyon G. Tyler writes that John Tyler , Jr. , President Tyler 's son and secretary , told him that " he remembered Whitman very well , that he was in Washington , 1842-43 , full of his project to carry emigrants to Oregon , that he waited ' on the President and received from him the heartiest concurrence in his plans . " This does not necessarily mean much , since it was the custom of nearly everyone , who visited the national capital , to pay his respects to the President . That Dr. Tyler does not regard it Is sustaining the claim that Whitman inFluenced the administration appears from a recent letter to the writer of this review , in which he says , " I do not believe that Dr. Whitman controlled the policy of President Tyler 's administration in any way . " That President Tyler discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since he had refused the request of the senate for information upon the ground that he did " not deem it consistent with the public interest to make any communication upon the subject . " A very plausible reason for Dr. Whitman 's visit to Washington and for his nterview with the Secretary of War was a de , ire to strengthen the title to the mission lands .  | These lands were held merely under a permit from the War Department , and Dr. Whitman expressed his anxiety upon the subject in his first letter , written to the American Board after his return to Oregon , in which he said , " Unless the Board gets a special grant of the land I the mission occupies , it will be likely to be taken from the mission by preemption whenever Congress takes possession of the country and grants land to settlers . " As to Whitman 's connection with the emigration of 1843 , Dr. Mowry admits that " it can be clearly shown that he was not the sole cause of this great westward movement , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prime movers . In regard to this emigration Dr. Whitman on his way back to Oregon wrote the Secretary of the American Board from Shawnee Mission : " You will be surprised to see that we are not yet started . The emigrants have some of them just gone and some of them have been gone a week and some are yet coming on . I shall start to-morrow . I regret that I could not have spent some of the time spent here in suspense , with my friends at the East . . . . I can not give you much of an account of the emigrants until we get on the road . It is said that there are over two hundred men besides women and children . They look like a fair representative of a country population . Few , I conclude , are pious . . . . We do not ask you to be the patrons of emigration to Oregon , but we ask you to use your influence that , in connection with all the influx into the country , there may be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall avail themselves of the advantages of the country in common with others . " From this letter it appears that Dr. Whitman was not only not engrossed with the organization of a great emigration , but that he regretted the time he was compelled to spend with it , and was almost disgusted with its character .. What Whitman 's real plan of emigration was appears very clearly in the documents that Dr. Mowry presents . It is stated in the letter , already cited , written by Mr. Walker , just as Dr. Whitman was leaving for the east , and repeated in the partial sanction that was given it by the American Board . Dr. Whitman himself states it in his letter to the Board written immediately after his return to Oregon , and again in letters written shortly before his death ' in 1847 . In all of these statements the emigration was regarded solely from the standpoint of the missions , and not at all from the standpoint of American interest in the territory ; a fact wholly inconsistent with the theory that Whitman was so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journey to secure them . What Whitman wanted was a small emigration of pious people to assist the missions in checking the papists , and not the great emigration of all sorts and conditions of men that saved Oregon to the United States . No one man saved Oregon , but the spontaneous movement of masses of men . It was a part of that larger movement which , beginning with the Allegheny Mountains , in little more than a century pushed the American frontier across the continent to the Pacific , and afforded the most marvellous example of national expansion in all history . In that struggle Marcus Whitman played a man 's part , and , like hundreds of others , fell a victim to Indian treachery ; but that he is entitled , either by the breadth of his views or by the measure of his achievement , to rank as one of the leaders of the struggle can not for a moment be admitted .  |                     