@@430070

 | Professor Ladd , of Yale University , has attempted , in a recently published article , to show that the office of the college professor is undergoing a process of degradation ? that influences are at work " which are bringing it down to a relatively low level of appreciation and reward . " He maintains that there has been a decline in the motives , character , culture , and influence of the average college teacher . The causes and evidences of this " process of degradation " are presented at some length . Especially significant and foreboding , says Professor Ladd , is " the lighthearted , serio-comic , or contemptuous way in which the press and the public esteem the proffer of services and treat the opinions of the professed experts in our higher institutions of learning . " The course of economic and political affairs in the United States during the past few years affords strong ground for a totally different view . Notwithstanding the occasional gibes of sensational journals and the sneers of professional politicians , there has been of late a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts in the various departments of public work . This fact has been well illustrated in the methods of our national administration in dealing with the problems arising from the war with Spain . At the very outbreak of the war , the State Department turned to Columbia University for aid . Professor John Bassett Moore was called to be Assistant Secretary of State in order that the government might profit by his authoritative grasp upon both theory and practice of the doctrines of international law . Not only was his knowledge in demand at Washington , but , in the fall of 1898 , he was asked to accompany the Peace Commission to Paris as secretary and expert legal adviser . After rendering services of great value , he returned to his chair at Columbia . His successor in the Department of State was another college man , Dr. David J. Hill , President of the University of Rochester .  | Peace came and we were left to solve new questions of race and government in an almost unknown group of islands in the China seas . President McKinley again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three civilian members of the first Philippine Commission came from their ranks . Dr. Jacob Gould Schurman , President of Cornell , became chairman of the Commission and Professor Dean C. Worcester of the University of Michigan , was associated with him . Professor Worcester had travelled in the Philippines and written a book about the islands and their people . The choice of these men by the President was not met in a contempuous way by press and public but , on the contrary , it commanded in a high degree the confidence of the country . Since Dr. Schurman 's resumption of his duties at Cornell , his opinions on Philippine matters have been received with marked respect both in and out of Congress and have undoubtedly exercised great influence upon public opinion . In forming a second Philippine Commission , President McKinley was able to retain Professor Worcester and to enlist in this distant service another college professor , Bernard Moses , of the University of California , who is an authority in political science . Nearer home there was work to be done in the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rico . Dr. J. H. Hollander , of Johns Hopkins University , was induced to accept the office of Treasurer of the island . He found there an antiquated and unfair system of taxation which failed to reach the undoubted tav-paving ability of the landed proprietors and weighed with undue severity upon the poorer classes of the population . Despite considerable opposition , he secured at the first session of the Porto Rican legislature the passage of a law which gave the island a system of finance and taxation fully in accordance with the teachings and methods of modern science . This application of the expert knowledge of a college professor to a question of the most practical nature has met with brilliant success and the financial stability of the island government of Porto Rico seems assured . In this pioneer work , Dr. Hollander was ably seconded by Dr. T. S. Adams , now of the University of Wisconsin . As Dr. Hollander was the pioneer in finance , so was Professor Martin G. Brumbaugh , of the University of Pennsylvania , in the  | field of education . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organized for the children of Porto Rico a better public school system than has been enjoyed by another Spanish speaking people . Upon returning to his professional duties , Dr. Brumbaugh was succeeded by a colleague at the University of Pennsylvania , Professor Samuel McCune Lindsay . Another Pennsylvania man who served the government well in Porto Rico was Professor Leo S. Rowe , the head of the Commission which revised and codified the laws of the island . Such events of the Spanish war as the acquisition of the Philippines and the stirring trip of the Oregon around South America , together with the desire of manufacturing and commercial interests for better access to the markets of China and the Far East , brought about a renewed public interest in the construction of an Isthmian Canal . In 1899 an Isthmian Canal Commission was authorized by Congress to make , for the information of Congress.iand the President , a thorough investigation of the commercial advantages , cost of construction and maintenance , and engineering difficulties of each of the proposed routes . Three of the nine members of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Emory R. Johnson , of the University of Pennsylvania , was given special charge of the inquiry into the industrial , financial and commercial aspects of the canal problem . Engineering problems involved in the construction of this great artificial waterway were referred to Professor William H. Burr , of Columbia , and to Professor Lewis M. Haupt . The Commission recently submitted a voluminous and informing report and Congress now has under consideration measures providing for the construction of the canal . Although uncertainty with respect to the franchise and other rights of the French Panama Company has delayed a final decision , both Nicaragua and Panama routes have been pronounced entirely feasible . Coming back to Professor Ladd 's pessimistic views , we find the following : " Imagine a Congressional committee on the tariff , foreign relations , finance , etc. , summoning for respectful consultation all those teachers whose researches have made their views best worth serious consideration , in the interests of the entire nation ! " It does seem at first a thing possible only in the imagination . And yet , something very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission has recently published the results of its great investigation of questions pertaining to immigration , to labor , to agriculture , and to business . Though not a Congressional committee , this body resembled one in organization and functions . It was by law commissioned to report to Congress on the above mentioned subjects and to suggest such legislation as it might deem best . The law of 1898 , under which the Commission was instituted , provided that it should be composed of five members of the Senate , five members of the House of Representatives , appointed by the presiding officers of those bodies , and nine other persons appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the Senate . Until his death , Senator Kyle was Chairman of the Commission . Senators and Representatives serving on the Commis .. sion received only their salaries as Members of Congress . The other members of the Commission were paid $3,600 per annum . A study of the work of this body will show that , in the interest of the entire nation , it did summon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those teachers whose researches " had " made their views best worth serious consideration . " The active investigations of the Commission were carried on by a corps of experts from the colleges . Professor E. D. Durand , of Stanford University , the secretary of the Commission , shared with Mr. F. W. Phillips , its first vice-chairman , the chief work of direction . Admirable digests by Dr. Durand of the testimony received add much to the value of the report . He also prepared special reports on " General Statistics of Immigration and Foreign Born Population " and ( with Mr. Charles E. Edgerton ) on " Labor Organizations , Labor Disputes and Arbitration . " At the outset , the Commission selected Professor J. W. Jenks , of Cornell University , to take charge of the investigation of trusts and industrial combinations . His services in planning the work and in selecting and cross examining of witnesses proved so valuable that he was retained during practically the whole term of the Commission . The results of his special work are found in the reports on " Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Dr. Jenks has also prepared for the United States Department of Labor a report on " Trusts and Industrial Combinations " and is the author of a widely read popular work on " The Trust Problem . "  | An encouraging feature of the investigation of trusts was the willingness of the representatives of great corporate interests to appear before the Commission , supply needed documents , make detailed statements and submit to lengthy cross-examination . In general , these men seemed to desire to aid the Commission rather than to appear in any antagonistic spirit . Among the witnesses were such industrial leaders as Charles M. Schwab , president of the United States Steel Corporation ; Henry O. Havemeyer , president of the American Sugar Refining Company ; James B. Duke , president of the American Tobacco Company ; Daniel G. Reid , president of the Standard Oil Company . Trust organizers , corporation lawyers and economic students were all well represented . Professor Samuel McCune Lindsay , of the University of Pennsylvania , was employed as an expert on the subject of transportation and railway labor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were Professor Emory R. Johnson , of the University of Pennsylvania , Professor B. H. Meyer , of the University of Wisconsin , Professor W. Z. Ripley , of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and Dr. R. C. McCrea , of the University of Pennsylvania . Professor Lindsay prepared a special report on " Railway Labor , " Professor Meyer one on " Railway Regulation under Foreign and Domestic Laws , " and Dr. McCrea one on the " Taxation of Transportation Companies . " Professor E. R. A. Seligman , of Columbia University , furnished important testimony in this investigation . There appeared before the Commission persons who viewed transportation problems from many standpoints , including railroad presidents , the chiefs of the various orders and brotherhoods of railway employ 6s , representatives of the Interstate Commerce Commission , and students of the transportation question . In the subject of immigration and labor , Professor John R. Commons , formerly of Syracuse University , rendered important service . He prepared a special report on the " Economic Features of Immigration " and gave testimony on the problem of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ,  | was also heard with regard to the conditions of living of common laborers . Others who gave aid in this department were Dr. Max West , now of Columbia University , and Mr. Charles E. Edgerton , late Fellow in Political Economy in Cornell University . Dr. John Franklin Crowell , formerly President of Trinity College , adds to our knowledge of agricultural conditions by a volume on " The Distribution of Farm Products . " This report has been most favorably received on account of its wealth of information on such subjects as the movement and marketing of crops , the milk supply of cities , the value and effect of cold storage systems in the distribution of perishable products , and the effect upon the farmer 's interests of the grain elevator and warehouse business . The well prepared reports of this Commission afford a striking example of the service which college experts are able and willing to render to the public . Not only have they been consulted but they have also planned and directed . In their hands has been placed the voluntary testimony of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , railroad presidents , managers of great industries , labor leaders , workingmen , chiefs of labor bureaus , college professors , and students ofsocialproblems . They have studied and compiled this testimony and presented the mass of information obtained to the public in form superior to that of any other investigation of similar nature conducted by the government . It is true that few definite and positive conclusions have been announced . But full knowledge of conditions will prepare the way for intelligent action by legislative bodies . Much additional evidence of the , increased activity , influence and usefulness of college professors in the service of the national government can be presented . Professor Jenks , of Cornell , after completing his work for the Industrial Commission , is now making a tour of the world , bearing a government commission to investigate and report upon industrial and financial conditions in the East . His colleague , Professor Walter F. Willcox , has recently served as one of the chief statisticians of the census whose reports are being published . Dr. Willcox had especial charge of the scope and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Census Bureau , he was a member of the New York State Board of Health . A long list of college and university instructors  | might be given who have done valuable work in investigations made by the United States Department of Labor and by the Department of Agriculture . Between the latter department and university scientific faculties there has been a frequent interchange of men . In like manner , the opinions and assistance of college professors are being sought in dealing with the many difficult questions which confront our State and municipal governments . When President Roosevelt was governor of New York , he was known to have taken the advice of Professor Jenks before announcing his policy in the matter of trust legislation and to have conferred with Professor Seligman , of Columbia , regarding financial legislation . The public press chronicled Governor Roosevelt 's consultation with Professor Seligman on the extremely important Ford Franchise Tax Bill and there was nowhere any lack of respect for the opinion of the expert who had made finance his life study . New York City has elected a university executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this has meant the bringing of many college trained men into municipal offices . Professor Goodnow , of Columbia , an expert on municipal governement , was an influential member of the Commission which recently revised the New York charter . In the little city of Ithaca , N. Y. , Cornell professors have frequently served on the board of aldermen and have had a large part in carrying out an extended system of public improvements . Doubtless instances of this kind could be multiplied in other cities with the affairs of which the writer is not familiar . There is every reason to believe that the college professor is widening rather than contracting his field of usefulness , that his expert services are in increasing demand , and that his opinions are influential with , and respected by , the public . Our unparalleled industrial development is everywhere leading us from a simple agricultural economy to the extremely complex conditions of a modern industrial and commercial society . This change is constantly bringing us face to face with problems whose solution demands the best of intelligence and training . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great American economist , that , in 1857 , he was the guest in Paris of the Societe des Economistes , of which he was a corresponding member . Upon  | the occasion of an address before the society , he had propounded to him among other questions the following : " Is political economy much studied in the United States ? " To this Carey replied : " No ! All my country are born economists . Ask one of them to make you a pair of hoots or a hat , and he will probably tell you that he can not , for the reason that he has never served an apprenticeship to a bootmaker or a hatter ; but ask him to amend the bank act , and he will tell you he will with the greatest pleasure imaginable , nothing being easier . " In this spirit , much . foolish and harmful legislation has been placed upon our statute books . The present day problems Of industrial combination , monetary policy , taxation , tariff , suffrage , municipal and colonial government have , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that cheerful optimism which looks for good results from hap-hazard and makeshift measure . The need of wise counsel and expert guidance is recognized . Men who have made economic , political and social questions a life study are being called into the public service . As the preceding pages have shown , they are coming from universites and colleges . . It may be objected that the teacher 's performance of public service will interfere with the discharge of his duties to the institution with which he is immediately connected . In some cases his courses may suffer temporary interruption and his classes may fall into less competent hands , but the compensation is found in the importance of the work accomplished for State or nation and in the growth which comes to the teacher through application of academic learning to the most practical exigencies of public life . His work will gain in those qualities which make it directly useful to students after college years are over . Moreover , the fact that the college professor has done public service of recognized value will make him more influential as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the institution which he serves . There is a large field of service for the professor which will not require his absence from his chair . He may devote himself to the championship of correct views of public affairs in his immediate locality . He may be found in the front rank of those who are striving to secure good government in the city and State . Not  | blind with the prejudice of narrow partisanship , he may be free enough to oppose any policy of dishonor . He may be the perpetual foe of the spoilsman , the mountebank , and the demagogue in politics . College men are proving acceptable public servants in the work of investigation and information . They should not shirk the more trying responsibilities of discussion and leadership . Charles Francis Adams was right when he told the members of the American Historical Association , at their recent Washington meeting , that as investigators and students of past politics , they should stand ready to discuss live political subjects in the historical spirit and to offer solutions of our present day problems in accordance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted and the duty discharged with dignity and fidelity , there will be no further question of the degradation of the professorial office nor of its loss in esteem and in power with the public .                     