@@430382

 |p1273  THE story of Judge Lindsey 's reelection to the Juvenile Court of Denver is the tale of a city 's determination to save a good man 's work in spite of strong and sinister influences that had condemned it . Ever since the father of the Juvenile Court system took office eight years ago he has attacked fearlessly the forces of evil which continually supplied the stream of little delinquents that poured into his court . The keepers of the wine rooms and the saloons , backed by the utility corporation forces in political alliance with them , long since determined to replace him with a ward-heeler who could be depended upon to be conveniently blind to the causes inducing youthful crime . These plans slipt up four years ago swing to a storm of protest within the parties that necessitated his nomination on the part of both the Republicans and the Democrats . This year the convention machinery was under more perfect control and neither party put the name of Ben B. Lindsey upon its ticket . Not without considerable hesitation did Judge Lindsey decide to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advised against it , taking the position that to run and be defeated meant that he was discredited . It was believed almost unanimously in Denver that at best he could poll a few thousand votes . In a Presidential year , with a State and county ticket also to be elected , nobody thought that a plurality of the voters could be induced to search for a single name on the immense ballot for the purpose of scratching . But the Judge felt that he owed it to the people who had always supported him so loyally to present his name to them . He did this as a matter of principle rather than with any real hope of winning . The campaign lasted scarcely longer than a week . From first to last it was a triumph over difficulty . Originally without money , without organization , without any backing other than the vague support of well-wishers , all of these were secured readily from sources not usually considered in political campaigns . Sufficient money was raised among friends , one of whom , a woman not previously known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part for the sake of the cause . An organization was quickly effected , every precinct of every ward in the city being carefully covered . Around this organization rallied the supporters of " the kids ' judge . " A preliminary canvass showed that about twenty thousand voters were willing to pledge themselves to vote for him , but it was a question how many of these could be expected to take the trouble actually to vote their conviction regarding the Juvenile Court . The professional friends of Judge Lindsey were willing to give him their vote , but not to work in what they considered a hopeless cause . Wherefore he went boldly direct to the common people . He knew they knew about his work from actual expel:ence of themselves or their friends . By great good fortune he interested labor leaders and every night addrest one or more union meetings . During the week he spoke to thousands of workers and won them almost to a unit . Parlor meetings , as well as big rallies , fanned the growing enthusiasm . Some of the city pastors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their pulpits . Others worked privately . The Christian Citizenship Union flooded the churches with literature showing what Judge Lindsey had accomplished in tangible figures during his incumbency . Figures could not show what a moral force he has been in the  |p1274  community , but they could set forth some facts about the system he has inaugurated and the laws he has had past for the protection of the children . The result of this was that the Church and labor marched together to the unexpected victory . It was to have been expected that women both as voters and workers would be strong for this man whom the enemies of society had marked for defeat . Many of them were tireless in the aid which they gave , and of these a large proportion were working women , a considerable percentage from the middle classes , and a very small minority from the clubs and the wealthier part of the city . One unique phase of the campaign was the part taken in it by the boys themselves . Several of them ? nearly all newsboys and court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " de Judge . " They spoke in parlor meetings , at labor assemblies , in the slums , and in the churches . Wherever they could get a hearing these little boys , running in age from thirteen to fifteen , went out into the highways and byways and preached the re-election of the man who had made the Juvenile Court . They did this without solicitation , just as they interrupted the other two candidates for the position when they were speaking to start cheers for Lindsey which drowned the oratory of the politicians . Notwithstanding the evident strength of the movement and the hold it had taken on the people , the practical politicians gave it very slight consideration . They assumed that it was an impotent sentiment which would not outlast the wear and tear of Election Day . For any man to get 25,000 votes in Denver on scratched ballots at a Presidential election was considered humanly impossible . But the very thoro organization which had been effected in so short a time was not relaxed at the critical hour . Every polling place in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women , many of them striking railroad employees , some university students , a few children of the court playing truant from school to serve the cause they had at heart . At no previous election had Denver ever had so many scratched ballots . The count had not progressed far on election night before it became evident that these very greatly outnumbered the straight tickets voted . By midnight it was known that Judge Lindsey was elected , tho it was not till next day that the magnitude of the victory was made clear . The people 's candidate had obtained nearly as many votes as both the machine candidates together . He had polled over 32 , - 000 votes . In addition to this several thousand persons had tried to vote for him and had lost their ballots thru incorrect marking . Once more the machines have failed in their attempt to discredit this man whom they can neither buy nor intimidate .                     