@@474121

AT the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , between the old buildings , plain and sombre , erected in the days of Flamsteed , Bradley , and Airy , and the handsome structure which the present Astronomer Royal , Sir William Christie , has built at the southern extremity of the observatory ground , stands a small white wooden building , cruciform in shape . This is the " Magnet House , " or magnetic observatory , set up in the year 1838 for the continuous registration of the movements of the magnetic needle . For not only is it the case , as every seaman knows , that a magnet does not point precisely towards the true north , but such a magnet , when freely suspended , changes from time to time the direction in which it points . These changes arc ordinarily very slight , but their registration has proved fertile in bringing to light a number of interesting relationships . Entering the Magnet House at Greenwich , the visitor finds that the entire building forms but a single room , bare and unfurnished , except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sensitive paper are spread out to dry after development , fixing , and washing . Of these sheets , those with which we are at present concerned show only a couple of irregular black lines running the length of the paper , ? these lines being the " traces " of the movements of two of the " magnetic needles . " The needles themselves are not in this room , since the changes of temperature here are too great ; but in a cellar below the room a much more even temperature is secured , and here in the darkness the needles are set up . Iu twofold darkness , for not only is the cellar itself dark , but the needles are contained , each , in a double box , and thus further screened from light and currents of air . The " needles " - themselves are very unlike what we generally understand by such a term . They are rectangular steel bars , two feet long , one and a half inches broad , and a quarter of an inch thick , and each is suspended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a " needle , " when mounted so as to show the magnetic direction ? technically , a " declination niagnet , " ? ehanges its position very slightly during the twenty-four hours . There is a very small swing towards the west during the midday hours from about eight or nine o'clock in the morning to two o'clock in the afternoon , and a still more gentle movement back again during the remaining hours of the twenty-four . The average amount of the movement is so slight that the end of the two-foot bar only travels the thirtieth part of an inch in the twenty-four hours under ordinary circumstances . This " daily range , " therefore , is of no consequence to the seaman , for it only covers about the one-hundredth part of the distance between Brothers . All rights reserved the " North " and " North by West " points on a compass-card ; or , to put it in degrees , about the seventh or eighth part of a single degree . Small though this daily swing is , a very simple arrangement enables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is attached to the magnet , and the light from a gas flame is reflected from the mirror to a cylinder , more than eleven feet away , covered by a sheet of photographic paper . The cylinder is turned by clockwork , so that if the magnet , and therefore the mirror , remained without movement , the spot of light falling on the cylinder would trace a straight black line all round it . Any movement of the magnet would produce an irregularity of the trace ? upward or downward , as the case might be . The ordinary daily swing of the declination magnet as registered on the photographic sheets at Greenwich is about two-thirds of an inch ; the distance of the registration cylinder from the magnet magnifying the movement more than twenty times . - Fly the means of this magnification it is easy to ascertain that the amount of this daily swing is far from being a fixed quantity . It is greatest in the summer months , least in the winter . But it is subject to a yet further change , which is evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place on the sun ; for in years when there are many spots on the sun the average daily range is greatest in extent , while in years of no spots , or of only few , the average daily range is smallest . This daily movement of the magnetic needle , and these and other small changes in its amount , are of interest only to the regular students of terrestrial magnetism , but occasionally the whole magnetic system of the earth becomes deranged at a moment 's notice , and the consequences are apparent to everybody . Every means of communication that depends directly or indirectly upon electricity is thrown for a short time out of gear : the great submarine cables , linking continent to continent , refuse to carry their ordinary messages ; operators at the telegraph instruments receive shocks , sometimes severe ; the signal-bells on lines of railway are rung by no human agency ; the telephone system is interrupted in places ; and occasionally it has been found impossible to run the electric trams . Such a " magnetic storm " was experienced on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning , Greenwich time , a violent electric spasm affected the entire planet . Such commotions are rightly called " disturbances , " for they are violent interruptions and alterations of the ordinary movements of the magnetic needle . The mean amount of the daily range of the " declination magnet " at Greenwich is , as mentioned shove , between the seventh and the eighth part of a degree . In the great magnetic storm of October 31 , 1903 , just alluded to , the needle moved over an arc which was fifteen times as great as this , and its oscillations , instead of taking twenty-four hours to complete , were sometimes as rapid as fifteen to twenty in the hour ; a behavior totally unlike its ordinary small and slow movement . It was noticed long ago that not a few of the most intense magnetic storms took place when there were unusually large spots upon the sun . My own first experience of such a coincidence was in the month of April , 1882 , when I found on a photograph of the sun which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ever seen before . When it reached the centre of the disc , a great magnetic storm broke out . Nor was this all , for before the spot had passed away a second great spot was seen , and when this reached the centre there was another storm . In November of the same year a still larger spot appeared , and as it approached the centre of the disc the magnets were more disturbed than they had been for many years , and there was a most remarkable aurora . Ten years later , in February , 1892 , a still greater sun-spot appeared , and there was another great magnetic storm . On this occasion I made a comparison of the chief storms and sun-spots for a period of eleven years ; a comparison which brought out a number of other coincidences . From this date I have never doubted that there was a connection , real , direct , and intimate , between the appearance of these great sun-spots and our terrestrial magnetic storms . But there was something to be said on the other side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been seen without the slightest disturbance of the magnets ; there were a few cases in which a magnetic disturbance had occurred when there were absolutely no spots . The events of the autumn of 1903 drew especial attention to these difficulties . Early in October there was a very large sun-spot , the largest for more than five years , and simultaneously there was a marked magnetic disturbance , the largest in the same period . Here was a remarkable coincidence . On October 31 there was a second coincidence between a large sun-spot and a great magnetic storm . But there was also a discrepancy . For , of the two sun-spots , the earlier was the larger , being three times the area of the second ; whilst of the two magnetic storms , the earlier was of no very special intensity , but the later was that great storm already alluded to , and was much the most intense that we had experienced in thirty years . The great storm set me again upon the work of comparing our registers of sun-spots and of magnetic storms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many coincidences , some of them most striking ; but , on the other hand , the discrepancies were by no means few . Sometimes a large spot would be seen and the magnets would not answer by the feeblest quiver ; sometimes the magnets would be disturbed when the sun 's surface was absolutely blank of spots . So the inquiry went on for many months , until a very simple relationship caught my attention and proved the key to the mystery . The explanation is indeed so simple that at first sight it seems incredible that it should not have been discovered long ago . There is a well-known story told by the American writer Edgar Allan Poe , of an unscrupulous French politician who purloined a document of immense political importance . His enemies knew that he had it , and knew that its value to him lay in his power to produce it in public at any moment he pleased . They therefore used every possible effort to discover where it was ; the entire detective police of Paris was employed on the business , every square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the politician himself searched ; and no trace of it was found . Where was it ? Stuck in the very front of a letter-rack in his public office , into which any one could go at all times of the day , but overlooked because there was no attempt made to hide it . So with the connection between these magnetic disturbances and the solar activity . Immense calculations were carried through by many able men of science , and the secret remained undiscovered , though it lay on the very surface . Indeed , the solution of this particular problem was becoming more and more completely buried under these computations . The observations themselves were already to be numbered by the million . To do anything with them , and especially to effect the condensation absolutely necessary for publication , it seemed essential to take averages and- means , to rept esent irregular traces by formula ; and mathematical expressions ; in short , to get away from the actual observations themselves , and to replace them by numbers which it was hoped and intended should convey in brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements . And this work , almost infinitely laborious , has not been without its results . In particular , the two relations mentioned at the beginning of this paper have been clearly brought out , viz. , that the " daily range " is greatest in summer and least in winter ; greatest in years of many sun-spots , and least in years of few . But to give the mean positions of a magnet for each hour of the day , for each day of the month , for each month of the year , for each year of the solar cycle ; to give its average range of movement ; to combine and recombine these means ? is not to give the observations themselves . And in particular , the " disturbances " are not shown thus , and indeed are often purposely excluded from many of these averages , just because they are disturbances and are abnormal and irregular . It was , therefore , a most important step in a necessary direction when the present Astronomer Royal , Sir William Christie , in the first year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of " Grreenwich Observations " of something in addition to all the tables of reduced values that had been usual previously ; namely , a full description of all irregular movements of the magnets , and an actual reproduction of the " traces " in those instances in which the movements were too complex to lend themselves to description . These notes and traces were thus published in order to give the completest information possible on magnetic disturbances , " affording thereby , it was hoped , facilities for making comparison with solar phenomena . " This hope was fulfilled . It was in the course of an examination of these reproductions of the actual " traces " of magnetic disturbances for the purpose of comparing them with sun-spots that I noticed four disturbances towards the end of the year 1886 , and four in the middle of the following year , which succeeded each other at almost equal intervals of time ; the interval being , on the average , about twenty-seven days eight hours , ? just the interval which it takes , on the average , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's disc round to that centre a second time . The sun actually turns round upon its axis once in about twenty-five days nine hours ; but , as the earth is travelling round the sun at the same time , and in the same direction , it is nearly two days longer before the same marking will again reach the centre of the disc as we see it . So that twenty-seven days and a few hours is the time in which the sun appears to us to rotate . When this had been once perceived it was an obvious thing to calculate what were the meridians of the sun on the centre of its disc at the time when all the magnetic disturbances shown in the plates of the Greenwich volumes ? that is , for the past two-and-twenty years ? bad their beginnings . Directly this was done , it was found that they ran , to a large extent , in short sets . Sometimes one particular meridian , sometimes another , would be on the sun 's centre when the disturbances began . Sometimes the intervals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intervals would be two , three , or four times as long . The sets , therefore , would sometimes be intermittent ; but whether or no this was the case , the magnetic disturbances tended to recur , not at indifferent times , but just when one or other of a few special meridians returned to the centre of the sun 's disc . This discovery is a very simple one ; very easy to make when any one hit the right method ; very easy to prove and test . But the consequences are great . First of all it settles the question as to whether the cause of our magnetic disturbances is or is not in the sun . It clearly must be there , and must be located , not in the surface as a whole , but in certain definite regions of it ; for it is as these definite regions return to certain positions that the disturbances take place . Even more important is the next result : the action coming from the sun and affecting our magnets does not radiate like light and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would make no great difference whether the region from which the action came was near the centre of the disc or near its circumference . We should not find , as we do , that the disturbances took place when certain definite meridians came to the centre . We can only explain this circumstance by supposing that the action is directed ; that it travels to us in a defined and restricted stream . This removes a most serious difficulty which had been widely felt whenever it was sought to refer the cause of these disturbances to the sun . For if the sun was conceived as a great magnet sending out magnetic waves in all directions , and our terrestrial magnetic storms were supposed to be the result of a sudden increase in the sun 's magnetic radiation , then that increase must be on an altogether incredible scale . The inference , therefore , from these newly recognized facts is that the sun 's action in these magnetic storms is not a magnetic radiation at all , but that in some way a stream proceeding from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnetic energy , as a spark may set free the disruptive forces in a store of gunpowder . The solar action will be indeed the cause of the storm , but it will be so not as supplying the forces put forth in it , but , as giving them the opportunity to reveal themselves . It is not merely an inference from this new relation that stream lines are thrown off from the sun . They have been both seen and photographed . That the sun does exercise a repellent influence under certain conditions has long been evident from the phenomena presented by the tails of comets . It is not less clear from the forms characteristic of the corona that such a repellent action is also at work in its own immediate surroundings . For my own part , I began to recognize this in 1886 , when I observed the total solar eclipse of August in that year , in the island of Carriacou . But I gained the full recognition of it in studying the photographs taken in India of the eclipse of January , 1898 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four inches , taken by Sir William Christie at Sandol , the chief petal-like wings of the corona are seen to be built up by successive waves of coronal matter rising arch above arch from the sun . On some very small photographs taken by Mrs. Maunder at Tali the apex of these arches is seen to be driven out from the sun in a long , slender , rodlike ray , which in one case is to be traced for a distance of over six millions of miles . We are not yet in a position to assert that these particular long slender streams are identical in nature with the stream lines indicated by the magnetic disturbances as conveying the solar influence , but they must resemble them in general form , It is a strange and bizarre conception of the sun to which we are thus led . If we could get to some station whence we could look down upon the plane of the earth 's orbit as an aeronaut may upon an extended champaign if we could see the sun 's appendages at the same time as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the ' rose-tinted chromosphere and prominences ; not only would the corona stretch out its fantastic and plumelike jets , but on many sides long straight streamers would shoot off to an indefinite distance . These , being continually supplied from below , would appear to rotate as rapidly as the sun 's surface itself , and would sweep round the entire circuit of the orbit of the earth in about twenty-five days . Many of these streamers would no doubt pass above or below the earth when they overtook it ; others might strike it full , or graze it . These streamers would rise or subside as the areas emitting them were active or not ; but supposing one continued in play for an entire year , it would overtake the earth thirteen or fourteen times , though an actual encounter might only occur occasionally . Thus the difficulty which once seemed so serious , that we often have large sunspots without any answering storm , is easily explained : the stream line in such a case has missed the earth . The reverse difficulty , that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds its explanation in what appears to be the fact that one of these active regions may continue to emit its stream line after its sun-spot activity has ceased to he visible . It is a strange story which the dull , inflexible-looking bars swinging in the cellar of the Greenwich Magnet House have told us . Carefully shut off from the sun 's light , secluded as far as possible from his heat , they have , by their slow , slight tremors , revealed us his action in whirling off long slender streamers across 93,000,000 of miles . They have shown us the presence on his surface of regions already differentiated from the rest by their power of giving off such streams , and they at least hint that these differences of condition may last for considerable periods of time . The secret which the sun kept so long was a very open one , lying on the surface , easy to read , but its significance is as great as its simplicity , nor can we guess as yet where its import will cud . 