@@486680

The Civil Service Commission 's demand upon the Treasury Department for the reinstatement of five employees of the Philadelphia Mint discharged for political reasons is not merely a revelation of gross abuses in that institution . It is a fresh warning to the President , and to all interested in the welfare of the public service , that it is time to close up the " laborer " loophole by which many unqualified persons obtain classified positions without examinations , in direct violation of the law . What has been done in this respect in the Mint has been done in the Philadelphia Post-Office , and , it is believed , to a greater or less degree , in the New York Custom House The public will remember that the naval " historian " Edgar Stanton Maclay , was carried on the rolls of the New York navy yard as a " laborer " until discharged for his criticisms of Schley , and that the now famous report of Mr. Tulloch gave numerous instances of " laborers , " some of whom held two positions , but most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The object-lesson afforded by the Philadelphia Mint cases is very plain . Mr. Francis P. Rodden had been employed for about eleven years . as a " roller " in the classified service . He was faithful and efficient , but his place was " wanted " in the pursuance of a scheme by which the Mint 's classified employees were reduced by thirty-eight persons , while the unclassified service was increased by forty-two Mr Rodden was notified that his dismissal was due to insubordination , of which not the slightest proof was submitted , perhaps it was not deemed necessary to waste ink and paper on . a Democrat Instead of appointing an employee from the classified list in his place , his work was assigned to two " laborers , " both Republicans One of them was an " active political heeler in the Seventh Ward " ; the other was the son of the foreman . Thus , in place of one obnoxious Democrat the Mint was served by a personal favorite and by a party worker In the eyes of Superintendent Landis , a valued Quay man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least he continued this policy by discharging four Democratic watchmen and employing six Republicans in their stead From the point of view of a Quay or a Platt , Mr. Landis is certainly a wonderful public servant . No one but a political genius or a magician could make five places become eight , and then fill them with the faithful in the very teeth of the silly civil-serv'ce reformers . But Mr. Landis can not lay claim to real originality The former postmaster of Philadelphia , Mr. Hicks , was removed because of his striking penchant for " laborers " The work of the office seemed to increase over night , but with the demand there was always the supply . Mr. Hicks , too , had a very remarkable experience , not usually shared by large employers of labor , for he speedily found , if we may judge by his selections , that there were no unemployed Democrats in all the City of Brotherly Love . His successor , Postmaster Clayton McMichael , had the itch for laborers in only a little less virulent form . Within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the places of an equal number of men left over from the Hicks era , who mysteriously disappeared from the service or were transferred . One of these McMichael laborers was Charles S. Morgan , jr. , who thus defined his arduous laborer 's duties : " CopYing letters , opening letters , straightening up the desk , bringing messages from one part of the building to another ; that is my idea of a laborer 's work , and I cash the checks when signed by the Postmaster . " John S. Knowles , another laborer , the son . of the Assistant Postmaster , earned $600 by acting as messenger for the cashier 's division , and  --  surprising as it may seem  - -  to the Assistant Postmaster . Edward J Wynne bent his back and strained his muscles in the money-order division " casing " money-order advices , for the sum of $700 a year . As his name indicates , he is a relative of the First Assistant Postmaster-General . The purpose of all this scheming and manceuvring is plain . These are the final efforts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one en , trenchmerut to another , they are now in the last ditch . The h. , one way in which they can oblige their political bosses and owners is ' to make a man a laborer and then give him clerical work . So flagrant had this abuse become in Washington a year or two ago that there were 810 laborers found doing work to which no man is lawfully entitled until ' he has passed an examination and been appointed from an eligible list . This was too much for President Roosevelt , and in July , 1902 , he issued an order establishing labor boards and a registration sys : tem . The department heads are now compelled to appoint laborers from an eligible list , but the 800 who have sneaked into the service are to retain their present " classified " positions . A similar ruling has recently been made for the Philadelphia Post-Office in the hope of stopping the practices cited above . But this does not lessen the culpability of officials who , like the Superintendent of the Mint , have openly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service Commission and appointed laborers instead of men who had passed their examinations In the Mint , as Commissioner Cooley has just reported , the number of unclassified employees has increased out of all proportion to the amount of unclassified work , there having been a net increase since May 1 , 1902 , of fifty-three uncldsisified employees and a decrease of thirty-seven holding classified offices . Naturally the Commission insists that all these classified positions now held by laborers should be declared vacant and refilled after an open competitive examination , and that there should be proper regulations for the employment of laborers at the Mint . By an order of March 16 last , President Roosevelt provided for the extension of the labor registration system to Federal offices outside of Washington , Save in Philadelphia , nothing has yet been done to carry out this order . Collector Stranahan is reported to have opposed its introduction in this city very bitterly , and the spoilsmen at the head of the other Federal offices here and elsewhere look with equal disfavor upon the plan . The President should now see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The Philadelphia situation should prove to him that only prompt action will prevent further scandals , and he already has enough on his hands . Incidentally , the Philadelphia experience should demonstrate the folly of expecting heads of great offices to look with favor upon the classified service until they themselves are believers in it , and in fixity of tenure in office , as against appointing political favorites to please a boss or with an eye to a local political situation . BUSINESS AND THE CURRENCY . Troubles in the money market always raise a hue and cry about the currency laws . The deep-seated tendency to attribute such a state of affairs as this country has been passing through for a year or more to a defective monetary system , springs from a variety of causes . For one thing , this is the traditional way of explaining a financial dislocation . During a very large part of our history , the influence of unsound currency methods on the general financial and industrial welfare was unmistakable . This was certainly the case down to the repeal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are now using the defective-currency argument to explain the collapse in Wall Street ignore the fact that our present currency situation differs from previous ones in two particulars : first , such circulating media as we now possess are in no danger of directly inflicting loss on the trading public ; and , second , the time has apparently forever passed when they can weaken the national credit . Our present currency bears no resemblance to the inflated note issues of the State-bank days or to the silver issues that so greatly impaired the public credit prior to 1893 Another cause for the confusion that now exists regarding the relation of the currency to the business situation is a widespread inability to distinguish between money and capital The address of Comptroller Ridgely , on " The Business Situation and the Currency , " before the Bankers ' Convention , is therefore timely . He maintains that the business situation is not largely attributable to currency , and that it is not to legislation that we should look for permanent relief . If we had had a better and more elastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government had not been taken out of circulation , there might not be so much fear of a stringent money market But , on the other hand , if there had not been the most absolute confidence in the soundness of our currency , the disturbances in the stock markets of the past two years would probably have spread much farther , and doubtless ended in a serious crisis , with severe industrial and - commercial depression . Sound opinion will uphold the Comptroller in these statements . But when he goes on to say that , " if there had not been a large surplus revenue and plenty of money in the United States Treasury , the Secretary might not have been able to render the assistance he had to the money market on several occasions , when he checked trouble due to causes entirely apart from all questions of currency or governmental finance , " he constructively throws his influence in favor of excessive revenues for the purpose of enabling the Government to dominate the money market in the interest of general business  --  a species of paternalism that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any lack of agieement with Comptroller Ridgely on such points as this , it is speedily lost sight of in the endorsement which his remarks as a whole command . Without going into details , he states concisely his view regarding currency reform in the following language . " I am a thorough believer in currency reform , and agree with those who wish to see the greenbacks retired , the silver withdrawn down to the point which is practically subsidiary coinage or currency , leaving nothing in circulation but gold , as coin or certificates , and a real banknote circulation by gold reserves , with such regulations for issue and redemption that it would be a matter of indifference to the banks whether their credits remained with them as deposits or were circulating notes . " But we have a very different system in force , and it is the Comptroller 's opinion that there is much to be said for the argument that this is not the time for any very radical change . He states the philosophy of the present situation with a cogency that leaves nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to delude ourselves with the hope that legislation will help us out of the trouble due to over-expansion and speculation We need all the reserve money we can get , but legislation will not produce it . We must wait for the accumulation of gold , the only real reserve money It will be no real help to make a further large increase in banknote circulation , and no one would think of adding to the volume of the greenbacks . No legislation can change fixed capital to productive capital . That is merely a question of time , and there is nothing to do but to wait for it . " That is the situation reduced to briefest terms Not more currency , but more capital , is what is needed to rectify the financial situation No one will dissent now from Mr. Ridgely 's assertion that " our bank loans have been expanding too fast . " In his statement of the causes which have produced this result , he refers to many factors which can hardly have escaped general observation , such as extravagant living , a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volumes of credit for the conduct of business on the previous scale , with the vast amount of loanable capital that has gone into fixed improvements which are unproductive or are very slowly becoming productive His allusions to the speculation in farming lands , however , throw light on a subject regarding which many well-informed people have possessed only a more or less vague knowledge , and of course he does not neglect to mention the part which has been played by the banks in fostering speculation . But , despite all these adverse influences , the Comptroller views the situation hopefully . He keeps his eye on the enormous development of the real resources of the country of late years , and remarks that our recently acquired prosperity " is not going to disappear or vanish in a day because of a slump in stocks or the collapse of a few underwriting syndicates . " Yet the applause which he received was well-deserved when he told the assembled bankers that " the speculative attempts to discount the future and overcapitalize earning power have met with foreordained and inevitable failure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a want of courtesy to its political opponents , the Citizens ' Union withdrew , the other day , a political banner which bore the words , " Every thief , gambler , and dive-keeper will vote for Tammany . " The same fact was then restated in a different form : " No thief , gambler , or dive-keeper will vote to elect Mayor Low " The change in wording may or may not have salved the wounded sensibilities of Tammany Hall , but the truth of the original statement has not been altered thereby , or even questioned Now , as during all its career of political crime , the closest friends , the warmest allies of Tammany Hall are found in the denizens of the " world of graft " These it has cherished , nurtured , and rewarded ; defended when in trouble , and not infrequently admitted to its innermost councils . Its record shows that whenever the Hall has made its hypocritical pleas on behalf of the downtrodden poor , it has had in mind , not the dwellers in tenements , but those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an enforced residence in Sing Sing . Concerning this alliance with crime and vice , so strenuously denied by Col. McClellan in 1901 , but so plainly admitted by him in 1903 , there can be no language too strong More openly than ever before , Tammany is seeking to bind to itself the vulgar violators of the law . The elevator man who declared the other day his intention of voting for Tammany because he had been promised his former position as steward of a poolroom in the event of Col. McClellan 's election , is merely a type of a class to which Tammany appeals with irresistible force Unable to bring a single serious charge against Mr. Low 's Administration , driven to national issues or to the wildest falsehoods in order to save themselves from total silence on the stump , Tammany 's leaders are now trying to purchase the city by wholesale Promises of immunity from the legal punishment of public offences . The liquor dealers who would make sales in defiance of the statutes are daily assailing Mr. Low , positive that Col. McClellan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blackmail and illegal sales The gambling syndicate is worried only . by its fear that , owing to Mr. Jerome , Tammany may not be able to " deliver the goods " ? that is , the freedom of operation  --  it so glibly promises . The corrupt building contractor is for Tammany , heart and soul , knowing full well that there will be no Perez M Stewart to enforce the law without fear or favor if the city votes for the grafters . Even to the theatres , we are informed , the tip has gone forth that Col. McClellan 's success will mean official forgetfulness of the laws forbidding standing in the aisles , and requiring other precautions in the interest - of the public . There is not a single interest which would profit financially by a failure rigidly to enforce the laws , to whose greed Tammany has not made its corrupting appeal . " Help us to the offices , " it ' cries , " and you may ask of us any favors you please " ; and it dangles this bait at the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , if elected , he will give the city " an honest and a business Democratic administration . " With the best intentions in the world , so weak a man could never prevent his Tammany associates from carrying out the pledges made in their desperate search for votes . Upon the most dangerous class of those who would betray the city in order to make unlawful gains , Mayor Low touched in his most admirable speech in Cooper Union on Wednesday week . The abandoned and the outright criminals of a great city are ever in a small minority , With their aid alone Tammany never has won and never could win . Their contributions to the campaign fund are rather in the form of promises to pay as soon as unleashed to prey upon the community . It is to the soulless corporations that , Tammany looks primarily for its sinews of war . Therefore , when it is announced that " Tim " Sullivan , the man who " holds the bag " for Tammany this year , - has visited the offices of the president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public-service corporation has called at Tammany headquarters , the public must not be blamed if it reads the news with suspicion and uneasiness . It can not forget that as the city grows there are more and more valuable franchises to be awarded ; that there are legal proceedings under foot by the present reform Administration to recover from traction companies millions of dollars which have long been owing the city , but as to which proceedings slumbered during the Administration of Tammany 's Van Wyck . The public can but marvel that the president of any corporation doing business with the city should dare to call upon the Tammany leaders , whatever his errand , for he must know that . only a sinister interpretation of his visit would become current . The resounding applause that greeted Mr. Low 's references to the corporations which have paid blackmail to Tammany Hall , shows that his firm stand against corporate greed meets with the approval of every honest citizen Not even Tammany 's wildest fabricators have dared to intimate that the Mayor 's relations to corporations are not all they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tammany Hall and the unscrupulous corporation managers , he should not have shrunk from mentioning names This , the most serious menace to the cause of good government , can not be handled with kid gloves . The arch-traitors who pay over trust funds to an organized band of pirates should be known , that the finger of scorn may be pointed at them , that their names may become bywords , and they themselves be ostracized in their social , if not in their business relations Bereft of their secret aid , Tammany Hall would not have the slightest chance of success . THE " DECLINE " OF BRITISH IN-DUSTRY . The Duke of Devonshire 's description of the Blue Book , prepared in response to Mr. ' Balfour 's " inquiry , " as " a rear-rangement and consolidation of statis-tics " is strictly accurate . The work has reached this country , and , so far as it is possible to make any headway at all through the enormous mass of facts and figures which it presents it appears to have no real bearing on the broad ques-tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly be of great service in statistical study . Persons engaged in examining special aspects of the commerce of Great Britain such as the course of the foreign trade in any one commodity or the development of the mercantile relations with any particular country  --  will find here a mine of information . But so far as the main purpose of the compilation is concerned , the details given are as valuable to one side of the present fiscal controversy in the United Kingdom as the other . The fact that between 1854 and 1902 the total imports of the Kingdom increased 248 per cent. , as compared with a gain of only 186 per cent . in the total exports , proves nothing as regards the tariff policy of the nation . If a great deficiency in exports did not exist , the indication would be that Great Britain was losing money fast . The Board of Trade statisticians estimate the " normal " excess of imports at ? 160,000,000 a year . But they also figure that this sum is more than offset by the net income of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor can conclusions hostile to free trade be drawn fi om the fact that the percentage of exports of manufactured and partly manufactured articles to the principal protected countries and colonies declined from 57 per cent . in 1850 to 38 per cent . in 1902. - Such a shrinkage was inevitable under any form of tariff . The countries indicated include the progressive nations of Europe and the United States , and it is not supposable , in view of the large increase in the volume of capital in the last half-century , that , tariff or no tariff , their resources should not have been enormously developed . Artificial causes have not - produced the great manufacturing industries of the United States , Germany , and other European nations , but access to unlimited supplies of raw materials , a plethora of loanable funds , and intelligent and energetic  |p6|pulations  The advocates of protection have read into the trade returns a good deal that does not appear on their face , but there is abundant opportunity for the free-traders to do the same thing . The Chamberlainites , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of manufactured and partly manufactured articles to Germany increased from ? 15,950,000 in 1890 to only ? 16,442,000 in 1902 , indicates that Great Britain 's trade with that nation is menaced . As a matter of fact , the exports increased to ? 20,761,000 in 1899 , and were ? 19,839,000 in 1900 , in which year occurred a great financial crash in the Empire The fact , therefore , that the exports were ? 16,442,000 in 1902 means absolutely nothing , except that in all probability the decline is the temporary effect of widespread industrial depression in the purchasing nation . Another noteworthy feature is the colonial trade . The protectionists have been pointing to the increasing exports to the colonies as the salvation of British manufactures , but it looks as if possibly the mother country were building on a somewhat insecure foundation . The self-governing colonies took ? 52,211,000 of manufactures from the United Kingdom in 1902 , against ? 15,516,000 in 1890 . But it should be noted that the exports to this clas8 of colonies actual. : ly decreased through a series of years to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upwards again , and in 1902 attained the high figure recorded above . The decline in the early eighties can be ascribed partly to the financial crash in Australia at that period , but the increase in recent years may be attributed in considerable measure to the heavy borrowings of the colonies . The export movement to the colonies has , in short , such an artificial appearance as to deter one from attaching too much importance to it as a prop to British trade . Though it is true that the United Kingdom 's exports of manufactures to the principal protected countries and colonies were only ? 87,062,000 in 1902 , as compared with ? 94,504,000 in 1900 , ? 101,696,000 in 1890 , and ? 93,349,000 in 1880 , it is also a fact that its exports to all other countries and colonies were ? 140,538,000 in 1902 , against ? 130,696,000 in 1900 , ? 127,104,000 in 1890 , and ? 104,851,000 in 1880 . If any conclusion at all can be drawn from these Blue Book figures , it is that natural causes are deflecting Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to new . The figures relating to tin plate are worth a moment 's notice . The average annual exports of tin plate to the United States in 1887-90 ( the four years preceding the McKinley law ) were ? 4,278,667 , from which amount they diminished to ? 887,432 in 1902 . But the exports to other markets rose in the same period from ? 1,403,974 to ? 3,415 , - 734 , showing how far gams in one quarter may be relied upon to counteract losses in another . The astonishing thing is not that British trade with the principal protected nations should have decreased so much , but that ' the shrinkage should have been no larger . IT , view of the textile development of Germany and the United States in recent years , it is really surprising to find the United Kingdom actually increasing its exports of cotton manufactures to both between 1890 and 1902 ? in the case of Germany from about ? 2,800,000 to ? 3,800,000 , and in that of our own country from ? 2,800 , - 000 to ? 1,600,00 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kingdom 's consumption of raw cotton increased from 6,900,000 cwts. in 1854 to 15,700,000 cwts. in 1899 ( the maximum figure ) . The consumption of raw wool was at its maximum in 1898 . The production of pig iron was at its height in 1899 , and the consumption of this commodity was at its greatest in the same year . In the face of such facts it is absurd to talk about Great Britain 's declining industry . A PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORIAN . The most coherent and impressive portion of the late Mr. Lecky 's work is probably the ' History of European Morals ' ; in bulk , his writings on the eighteenth century exceed all his studies in other fields . This already suggests the temper of the great historian that is gone . Mr. Lecky was a moralist in the eighteenth-century sense . In the turmoil of our rapidly shifting civilization , he was distinctly the enl.ghtened. man . He attained as early as his undergraduate years at Dublin that serenity and impartiality of spirit which the Encyclopmdists regarded as the most desirable possession , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was of the e.ghteenth century . Before that appalling mass of evidence which crushes the generalizing spirit back to the journeyman work of heaping up facts , he remained unruffled As a young man he undertook ' A History of European Morals ' with the cheerful curiosity of Bayle compiling a Universal Dictionary . This poised and indomitable spirit , which he maintained in the face of constant invalidism , brings him perhaps nearer to Spencer than to any man of his time . It certainly removes him as far from the class of documented athletes of Freeman 's kind as it does from the eloquent special pleaders of the Gibbon-MacaulayCarlyle dispensation . In the fearless mind which he brought to the great task of interpreting history through philosophy , Mr. Lecky distinctly recalls Hume , Montesquieu , Adam Smith , Voltaire . His superiority in method and his essentially modern quality lay in a truer sense of the difficulties that invested his problems . To read his books is to be instructed in the complexity of historical causes . One feels that he has moved more cautiously and patiently among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admiration and study . You rarely surprise him in a dogmatism ; were he not a most engaging writer , his kaleidoscopic exhibition of interplaying forces would merely confuse . As it is , it gives to a patient spectator a peculiarly exhilarating sense of a world-life that is always in flux , yet never out of order . Opinions will differ as to the value of Mr. Lecky 's studies in history and morals , but no criticism is likely to deny the abiding worth of their intention To refuse to inject one 's personal passions into the analysis of the past , to decline in the interest of eloquence or popularity to treat complicated affairs as simple , to be rigidly a logician and yetfrankly to admit the force of chance  --  those cases " in which a slight change in the disposition of circumstances , or in the action of individuals , would have altered the whole course of history " ? this certainly is genuine title to distinction in an age which is intolerant of alI painful intellectual processes not immediately useful . - Possibly Mr. Lecky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was . He pointed the way that historical science must take if it is to enlarge the intelligence of those whom it professes to instruct ; and he did this by keeping undimmed what we may call that intellectual courage which , for want of a better word , we name classic . In placid pursuit of his favorite studies he does not seem to have cared to impress his Own originality upon others . He lacked the sturdy and aggressive qualities , and hardly seems to have felt himself to be what he unquestionably was , the champion of an urgent cause . Except for the advertising proclivities of the age by which he inevitably profited though disapproving , he might hardly have risen to international eminence . Indeed , it is likely that a large class of his readers take him rather for facts and the amenity of his style than for those elaborate interpretations of facts which are his peculiar contributions to historical science . To a small group of dissidents he was a leader in the highest sense , if hardly their personal chief . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mind , despite the greater tasks of assimilation constantly put upon it . And he seemed like the visible promise of a time when thebalance between accumulation of facts and their interpretation shall be ' again restored . Very likely , the merit of ' Mr. Lecky 's point of view will never be sufficiently recognized . His very dispassionateness and the calm flow of his style made Mr. Lecky almost as much a distinguished stranger in a World of strenuous scholarship as he was , for a time , on the Government benches at Westminster . His scrupulous fairness was an offence to the generality . English Whiggism is not so dead that it likes to be told that the Revolutuin of 1688 was " a movement essentially aristocratic , " in which about the only popular element was " that hatred of foreigners which is so deeply rooted in the English mind , . . . and has played a part that can hardly be exaggerated in English history . " Nor has the average Englishman or American reached that philosophic detachment from which he can survey the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Liberalism . But an age that loves pluck and paradox should at least honor the memory of the invalid who delineated ' The Map of Life ' while propped on his elbows on a couch .                     