@@486798

Dana Estes &; Co , Boston , will be the American publishers of Prof Leo Wiener 's translation of Tolstoy 's Complete Works in conjunction with Messrs Dent , London , and conformably to their Balzac Besides a biography , Professor Wiener furnishes an alphabetical " thought-concorilance , " more than 100 pages long , to the contents of the twenty-four volumes There will be 150 full-page illustrations . Many of the pieces have hitherto never been rendered into English . The Saalfield Publishing Co , Akron. 0 , have in preparation twelve volumes of " useful , curious , and entertaining literature pertaining to the medical profession , " and to be offered them with the coating of " The Doctor 's Recreation Series . " Mr. Charles Wells Moulton will be editor-inchief Prof. Angelo De Gubernatis , who in 1901 produced a Dictionnaire International des Ecrivains du Jour , ' useful but not impeccable , has in preparation an International Lexicon of Contemporaneous Authors of the Latin Peoples It is to contain , also , in an appendix , the names of all authors of non-Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature , and art of the Latin peoples Gubernatis addresses an appeal for material to all the friends of his new venture . The Munich Allgemeine Z Rhino expresses the hope that the Roman litterateur will do more thorough work than heretofore : Next year three centuries will have elapsed since the appearance of the first part of Ton Qui.cote , ' and the Spaniards have decided to commemorate this anniversary on a rather grand scale by the publication ( 1 ) of a cheap popular edition of ' Don Quixote ' by the Spanish Academy , ( 2 ) of an abridged edition for study in secondary schools ; ( I ) of a still more condensed edition for the common schools ; by a contest , with special awards by the Academy , for the best critical editions of a number of the minor works of Cervantes ; by the production of several of Cervantes 's plays in the Teatro Espanol ; by the restoration of the chapter of the Church of St Mary in Alcala , where Cervantes was baptized , and the establishment of a Cervantes museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Spanish literary and art societies to serve as a refuge for superannuated needy writers and artists , and by university festivities in honor of the poet The President of the Spanish Ministry is chairman of the arrangement committee . In his ' Essays of Lamb ' ( Ginn &; Co . ) , Prof G. A. Wauchope of South Carolina College has industriously edited selections from ' Elea , ' ' The Last Essays , ' and ' Critical Essays , ' that will be useful for classroom purposes . Had the editor availed himself of Lucas 's ? admirable labors he might have made his annotations more illuminative with less exertion . However , in his Library References there is no sign that either the Lucas or the ' Macdonald edition of Lamb has reached Columbia , S. C. Perhaps this staggers one less than to read . " It is not exaggeration to say that in Lamb English prose style reached its climax , and this view is now generally accepted " ( Introduction , p. xxvii . ) . A second edition of T J Lawrence 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ap-peared within three months of the publica-tion of the first , which was noticed at length in these columns ( Macmillan ) . The book has been considerably enlarged , and its added pages now discuss the very inter-esting questions raised during the past sum-mer These are , chiefly , the taking of mail-bags from the Prinz Heinrich and their transfer to the Persia , the case of the ves-sels of the Russian volunteer fleet which got out of the Dardanelles as commercial vessels and immediately changed them-selves into ships of war and began to stop neutrals , the cases of the Ailanton and Knxight Commander . What Mr. Lawrence has to say about the Allanton , takes the form of a scathing review of the judgment of the Vladivostok prize court . He insists that the decision itself involves a glaring ' violation of international law , and especial -- ly of the rule that the penalty for carrying contraband ends with the voyage . Of the various pretensions as to contraband put forward by Russia since the war began , the author says that they amount , when taken together , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade , export as well as import , between her enemy and neutral Powers . " But these extreme pre-tensions have been accompanied by an equally remarkable willingness to waive them finder diplomatic pressure ; in the ease , of the Knight Commando ? , a neutral prize was sunk by the captor , apparently without excuse , while the British Secretary for Foreign Affairs declares that " the language of the Russian Government justifies us in hoping that these acts of destruction of neutral prizes are not likely to be repeated " - Wolf von Schierbrand 's ' Germany , the Welding of a World Power ' ( Doubleday , Page &; Co. ) , portions of which have appeared in various magazines , is a compilation such as would be expected from an industrious and experienced newspaper writer . The author has well employed his opportunities for becoming familiar with German conditions , and has produced a book full of useful information , most of which is , in the main , accurate Its value from a literary point of view , however , is impaired by its style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sub-title of the book indicates that its author 's training as a writer of English consisted in equipping him with the vocabulary in which a detective is spoken of as a " sleuth " and a fast steamship as an " ocean greyhound . " He actually uses these and similar expres-sions Mr Bradford Torrey discourses pleasantly in his Nature 's Invitation ' ( Houghton , Mifflin &; Co ) of what he has seen on his walks in regions as widely separated as New Hampshire and Arizona . No bird seems to escape his observation , and his acquaintance with these fellow-creatures is of prodigious extent Of the flora he has less to say , but most of us would do well to listen to his casual utterances Upon one point Mr. Torrey is justly resolute Nature 's invitations are to be accepted only with the qualification " weather permitting . " " When a man sets forth on an out-of-door pleasure jaunt , his prayer is for weather . . . In the mountains , if nowhere else , weather is three-fifths of life . " The book is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without getting some hint that will make his rambles more profitable . The guides of the northern lakes and woods form a ? perennial source of material for the journalist and book-maker , but the quality of the result depends altogether upon the sympathetic insight of the writer . A Van Dyke can get at the best that is in these men of the woods , interpret their essetial qualities of heart and mind to almost any class of readers , and still leave them possible human beings . Mr. H. S. Canfield , the author of ' Porgy the Guide , and his Moral and Instructive Lies about Beasts , Birds , and Fishes ' ( Henry Holt &; Co. ) , has not tried to be a Van Dyke . Sinking contentedly below the higher levels of humor , he allows his protagonist to pour forth some three hundred and fifty pages of such frankly impossible yarns as one may hear in a corner-grocery crowd of uneducated smart boys It would require the tucking in of a large amount of genuine wit and philosophy to save such a book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking features of the compound , in the present case . One finds not infrequent suggestions of the influence of Charles W Chesnutt 's ' Cunjer Woman , ' but " Fergy " is far below the measure of old Julius as an entertaining liar . Any one of the separate chapters might pass muster in the Sunday supplement of a modern daily.newspaper , but in extcnso no garrulous barber could be more tiresome than " Fergy " A handy little ' Synopses of Dickens 's Novels ' has been made by J Walker McSpadden on the lines of his ' Shaksperian Synopses , ' and comes to us from T. Y Crowell &; Co There is first a chronological conspectus , with some bibliographical details , of the novelist 's productions , a summary of each novel , preceded by the same details amplified , a statement of the scene , and a cast of characters . The volume closes with an index to characters , with reference simply to the novel . All this may be praised , but Mr McSpadden should not say that " no list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We have at our elbow the volume of the Globe Edition of Dickens issued in 1869 , by Hurd &; Houghton , containing besides ' The Uncommercial Traveller ' and ' Master Humphrey 's Clock ' a " General Descriptive Index of Characters and of their Appearances , " with precise references Moreover , it is much fuller than Mr McSpadden 's , whose index begins with Aker-man The other gives " Adams , head boy at Doctor Strong 's , with a turn for mathematics , David Copperfield , ii , 24 , 38 , 45 , 77-78 , 81 , " and three others similarly particularized . This is followed by an " Index of Fictitious Places , Popular Sayings , etc . " The edition we suppose to be out of print , but Pierce 's Dickens Dictionary , ' to be had of Houghton , Mifflin &; Co , is the more thorough work of which Mr. McSpadden may well say " Pereat qui ante nos " There has come to hand the first ( October ) number of a periodical of large quarto size , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ der Kunst im Leben des Kindes . " It is published by Alexander Koch at Darmstadt , and number one has , bound in , a title-page for the whole annual volume ( October , 1904 , to September , 1905 ) , and also an ornamental preliminary title-page with an elaborate pictorial display Examination shows that the editors will address themselves to mothers and governesses and teachers of young children ; and to help them in their task there is also a children 's department , a " Kinderwelt , " with ( in this number ) a fairy story which is apparently original and new , and certain very clever verses to read at the baby 's bedside Other departments show how drawings can be made , by the teacher or by the child , or both , some of these being silhouettes . Then there are photographs of rational toys , with the maker 's name attached , and a great number of photographs having no connection with one another and without explanatory text  --  evidently specimens merely of snapshots of children with lambs , with picture books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographer . In the Revue de Paris for September 15 appears the second part of Ibsen 's letters to Georg Brandes . These fifteen letters cover a quarter of a century , 1873-1897 . Ibsen is not a good correspondent When he is engaged on a play , he writes no letters and reads no books . Every alternate December during the above period he was producing a new drama , but even to Bran-des he could not write freely about the work into which he was putting all his energies . These letters will be of no use to his literary biographer . The translator , Mine . It6rausat , is actually uncertain , as she shows by her question marks , what the plays are to which Ibsen now and then makes a grudging allusion . In 1873 Brandes had sent Ibsen his translation of John Stuart Mill . Ibsen thought Mill both pedantic and unscientific , and could not understand his friend 's interest in an author who reminded one of Cicero and Seneca . Later on , Brandes settled in Copenhagen , and with his brother founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostile to the cantonal idea and an ardent apostle of the Scandinavian spirit , could not sympathize with lus friend 's Danish " exclusivisme " , but in the end he wrote for the review a series of rhymed letters on the intellectual tendencies of the day . Rarely does Ibsen declare his principles in a letter " La minority a toujours raison , " he wrote in 1882 , when a very small minority tolerated his " Ghosts " When the last letter was written , in 1896 , Ibsen was planning to settle himself on the coast , between Copenhagen and Elsinore , " flans un endroit de-convert je puisse apercevoir les grands bateaux venant de loin ou s'en allant au loin " For he found that in Christiania " tons les chemins sent fermds , toutes les voles sent barr6es 9. la communication de la pens  --  e . . . . Ici , prhs des fjords , est ma terre natale , ma 's . . . ma 's . . , est ma patrie ? " Dr. Emil Schlagintweit contributes to Petermann 's Illittellungen , number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts of its recent history Other articles are a summary of the meteorological results of the observations of the Swedish Antarctic expedition under the leadership of Dr. 0 . Nordenskjold , and a continuation of the descriptions of the geology of Kamtchatka and the Argentine province of Buenos Aires The principal contents of number six are Dr H. Steffen 's account of the Baker-Fiord in west Patagonia , and the narrative of a recent journey through Shantung and Kiang-su , by Walter Anz . While , in this latter province , Herr Anz found the ways infested with robbers , and every one went armed , in the other the multitude and activity of the men building a railway made him almost forget that he was in China The bibliography of the geographical literature of 1903 , published as the extra September issue of the Amides de Geogiaphie , is now la substantial octavo volume of 320 pages The number ' of entries , 997 , does not accurately represent the extent of the work , for under one title several publications are often catalogued . Under number 595 , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ papers by Sven Hedin . The descriptive and analytic notes to the great majority of the entries by the editor , M. L Raveneau , and his fifty-four collaborators give the work exceptional value for reference . Abiong the subjects of growing interest and importance , as shown by the number of publications , is colonization . Under this head one may get an excellent idea of what is being done by the different countries to develop their colonial possessions . The index of authors contains more than 2,000 names . Some time ago the City Library of Cologne issued a pamphlet written by its director , Dr. Adolf Keysser , and entitled ' Die Oeffentlichen Bibliotbeken and die Schone Lateratur. " rhe special reason fin its publication was to enlist booklovers and authors in the Rhine province in behalf of the collection of Rhineland literature , which for years has been this library 's specialty ; but it is also of general interest , as indicating the view which the " scientific " librarian in Germany takes of the " modern " library movement " If the large public libraries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all literary needs , they have an extensive , many-sided task before them They are to serve not only research , but also the distribution of the results of research , for the enlightenment of the multitude and for the promotion of political and professional education ; they are , finally , to assist the snread of ethical and aesthetic culture , as far as this can be gained through the study of literature " The author makes a plea for collecting everything produced by writers of a given territory and everything relating to the territory , in poetry and fiction , as well as in other branches of literature. - The new Catalogue ( of non-fiction ) which the Trenton Free Public Library has sent out contains an announcement that deserves to be widely imitated It Is provided that " the number of non-fiction works that may be drawn on an individual card is determined largely by the needs of the reader and the character of the works requested for home use " This is a most liberal and farsighted policy , and should tend to stimulate serious reading among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " Special privil eges on application " ? shows that the trustees and librarian of this institution mean that it shall really serve all the people The Presidential address of Dr. Perci-val , the Bishop of Hereford , before the Educational Science Section of the British Association , being largely drawn from his personal experience as head master of Clif-ton and Rugby , and president of Trinity , Oxford , contains much that is of general interest , though his main theme is the da-fects of the English system . Among the prominent causes of these defects are the general lack of interest in education , the excessive influence of tradition , and the want of systematic training of teachers Treating of elementary education , he char-acterizes the petition of 14,718 medical practitioners for the introduction of sim-ple hygienic teaching , including instruc-tion on the isature and effects of alcohol , as " one of the most important education-al documents " of the time The ignorance of the lower classes as to the primary laws of health , and the fashionable cult of athleticism by the middle and upper classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scale , neglect ot the rudi-ments of sanitation , the loss of the cor-pus sown , at the other end , the idol worship of athleticism , the depreciation of the intellectual life , and the loss of the mons sone . " Of the dead who have made their mark , we have space only now and again to speak fittingly The youth of promise must needs fare still worse . Such a one , Mr Trumbull Stickney , instructor in Greek at Harvard , passed away on October 11 , leaving a great void-in the thoughts and feelings of his intimates Our readers know something of his scholarly work performed in Paris while ' earning , his degree of doctor r es left , es , and may recall two letters of his to the Nation from France in Nos. 1951 and 1956 Mr. Stickney 's literary , like his linguistic , talent was brilliant and gave much to expect in maturity His person and his character were alike charming . ? Among the first grants made by the Carnegie Institution was that for a Guide to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The volume was prepared by Mr C. H Van Tyne and W. G Leland , and has now been published under the direction of Professor McLaughlin of the Bureau of Historical Research . Each department and its various bureaus were examined , and the result shows that a surprising quantity of historical material has been stored in various places , under different rules of management , and , it must be confessed , with great ignorance of its value and relation to like material elsewhere . Not only the purely Executive records have been surveyed , but the historical collections of manuscripts that have been purchased or received by gift from time to time and , for want of a central depository , have been placed wherever space could be found . Naturally , the knowledge to use these papers was not available , and in some cases they have received little or no attention from the busy officials in whose keeping they were For the first time some information is obtainable regarding the size and nature of the collections , their location and the rules governing their use by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in arrangement could hardly be , improved A full index and bibliography increase its utility as a work of reference ? As the more important of the collections of historical manuscripts have been transferred from the Department of State to the Library of Congress since the preparation of this guide , the Library and the War Department are the two great depositories of such materials . There is , however , a great difference in the use made by the two of their ' stores The War Department has much that is properly historical  --  like the Confederate Records and what was captured during the civil war The student is not only forbidden access to them , under the plea of want of space , but the officials of the Department do not know what they have in the boxes , files , and vaults of manuscripts in its charge . This situation is fully described by Mr Leland , who , in default of access to the collections , was obliged to depend upon the few references in printed reports The Library of Congress , on the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable head , it is utilizing its immense material for the benefit of the public . Its newspaper collection is bound and indexed , its manuscripts are rapidly being calendared and listed , and its books are well classified and catalogued . There is every reason why the historical material from other departments should be placed in its keeping , and this policy is emphasized by the results of the examination made by Messrs . Van Tyne and Leland A similar guide to State records is preparing under the auspices of the American Historical As-sociation ? This year 's conference of the American Library Association being international in scope , the editor of Paid bc Lit , al les contrations , and they have never been excelled . ? In comparison with the abundance and quality of the other exhibits from Japan , at the Louisiana Purchase Exhibition in St. Louis , that of the Educational Department is rather disappointing It emphasizes the fact that , from the grand conception of 1870 , the trend has been away from culture and the humanities to technical and industrial training Of the eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is fully worthy of its name , but in the useful arts and sciences the development has been enormous , and the exhibits  --  from Dr Kitasato 's bacteriological section to that of meteorology or penology ? are very creditable The Department of Education has issued , in connection with its display in St. Louis , a volume of more than five hundred pages in nine parts , treating of primary , secondary , superior , art and technical education , and that also for the blind , deaf and dumb ; of libraries , museums , educational societies , and textbooks , and of education in the Hokkaido ( Yezo , etc. ) and Formosa It is not consecutively paged , but is rather a bundle of pamphlet reports , is liberally illustrated in half-tones , which show the outdoor and indoor life of the pupils from kindergarten to university , and give one a vivid idea of the progress made in school equipment and comfort The sitting of five million youths daily on chairs , instead of on their own doubled-up legs on floor matting , with richer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or so , show an increase in stature of the entire - nation , as has already occurred in the army and navy . One of the most encouraging features of the whole situation is the powerful influence exerted on the Mom Bu Sho by intelligent men and women interested in educational art and science , who , by means of the societies and publications , keep the Department and its methods and general policy out of partisan politics . The increase and appreciation of educational facilities in Formosa and Yezo for the races other than Japanese , as welt as for the unfortunate in the empire at large , are hopeful facts here shown in detail ? All Mexico has been thrown into a turmoil  --  withal , a tempest in a teapot by the publication of a book attacking Benito Juarez , whom the Liberals  --  or , in effect , the Government , Federal and State ? are scrupulous about calling the Beneath-do de las Americas ( Well-deserving of the Americas ) , always in extra large and heavy capitals . This book was written by a so-called Liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Congress , but it was hailed with acclamations by the clerical press , which has been keen in its revival of past rancors , and it has thrown the Liberal party into paroxysms The author of ' The True Juarez ' is Francisco Baines , an engineer by profession , but for-some years chiefly noted as perhaps the first orator in the country . Pure Latin in style , this book purports to be a critical review of the acts of Juarez , especially in connection with the French intervention . To some extent it is so , though the author has considerably misused the patterns of historical writing which he set before . 4.13pgpli , probphilitiee , and even anrnaisee , Few inite solute facts , and constant use is made of insinuations having scant bases of authority , so far at least as revealed His diatribe , as it may fairly be called , is as tar removed as possible from scientific reasoning and impartial criticism ? The notable thing in the discussion he has provoked is that little attention has been paid to the contents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its assertions about Juarez 's private life , or its accuracy as to his relations with his own followers , with the French and English ministers , and with the United States . But generally the first object of the excited Liberals who have rushed into the fray seems to have been to heap epithets on Bulnes , the second to proclaim Juarez a man too sanctified in patriotism to admit of criticism  --  a god on a pedestal , not a man . It is doubtful it the majority of these critics , in the press and at mass meetings , have yet read the cause of their commotion One looks almost in vain in the Mexican press for an intelligent criticism of the book . Two mass meetings were held in the capital , one showing a disposition to mob the traducer , also shortly thereafter a mass meeting of students of the Government 's law and other schools Meanwhile , Congressman Benito Juarez had been considering what was incumbent upon him to do to " vindicate the honor " of his father . He finally referred the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rather significant ) , composed of prominent Liberals After a long and grave deliberation in the house of one of them , they informed the younger Juarez that he ought to leave the defence of his father 's honor in the hands of the Liberal party , and he issued a pronunciamiento to the public , in which he agreed to do so , stifling his sentiments of relationship , as he virtually stated Five books in refutation of Bulnes were then announced as in preparation , and two have already appeared ? The movement to introduce an intellectual reform among the Parma of Bombay has lately culminated in the formation of a society called " The GOtha Society , " the first meeting of which took place on the 10th of September of last year at the Framji Cawasji Institute , Bombay , with the Rev. Dr. D Mackichan , Vice Chancellor of the University of Bombay , in the chair Upon that occasion a lecture was read by the Vice-President of the society , Mr. J C Covajee , late Senior Fellow of Elphinstone College , upon " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after having appeared in the Oriental Review for October , 1903 , has been reprinted in the form of a pamphlet , and is now republished as the first number of the Society 's publications An interesting quarterly review , animated by the same spirit and aims , has meantime appeared . It is called the Zartoshtt , and is bilingual in Gujrati and English . Its first numbers show a thorough spirit of criticism and are very practical . For instance , the Ahuna Vairya prayer , a greatly revered fragment , is treated , together with all the various modern translations of it . One of the editors , the Rev. Manockji N. Dhalla , Parsi priest ' of character and distinction , proposes to pass two years in Oxford for the purpose of perfecting himself in the higher criticism of his subject That he is ie le supported stay there p few wealthy Parsi gentlemen of Bombay adds some interest to the circumstance .                     