@@430125

MucH to the delight of the admirers of the royal game of chess , an international tournament is announced for next spring , the contest to take place in Cambridge Springs , Pennsylvania . The following eight foreign exponents have been invited : Dr. Lasker , Dr. Tarrasch , and Messrs . Maroczy , Tschigorin , Janowski , Schlechter , Burns , and Teichman . There are also to be eight American players , of whom the follow ing seven have already received invitations : Messrs . Pillsbury , Marshall , Napier , Showalter , Lipschutz , Hodges , and Barry . It is likely that all will accept . The tournament is to be a one-round affair , that is , each participant will play one game with every competitor ; so that the contest will probably last about a month , or , to be more exact , from the middle of April to the middle of May . The tournament promises to be of particular interest ; for , besides offering an opportunity to each competitor to excel in an exciting race , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against a formidable array of experts from abroad . The selection of European entries was not an easy task ; but the com mittee in charge acquitted itself very creditably . Players who had excelled in bygone years , but who had not been equally successful in more recent events , were not included in the list ; nor were any invited whose successes had been but moderate . Only the star competitors in the most recent contests were selected ; so that the list comprises the cham pion of the world , the champions of Germany , Austria , Hungary , and Russia , and the foremost players of England and France . The Ameri can contingent , apart from Pillsbury , contains but four entries of persons who have participated in previous international tournaments , namely , Messrs . Marshall , Napier , Showalter and Lipschutz . The others are debutants , at least so far as international tournaments are concerned , and their efforts will therefore be extremely interesting to follow , more particularly as the gentlemen in question have already given a creditable account of themselves in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foremost exponents of the game will be engaged , and which will involve an exciting race for supremacy , is sure to prove attractive . So long , at least , as the contest lasts and the ultimate outcome is in doubt , the interest will be widespread and intense . One feature of an international tournament is that the games produced are apt to be of high merit , thoroughly enjoyable , and often instructive to devotees of chess . Were it not for such advantages , costly affairs of this kind would not be arranged as frequently as they have been in recent years . To what extent an international tournament benefits the game and stimulates chess-playing can be forcibly illustrated by reference to past contests . Suffice it here to cite a few notable events , such as have potently influenced the game in this country , and contributed to bring it to its present stage of efficiency . The first of these was the New York tournament of 1857 , won by Morphy , who soon after his victory started on his European tour , during which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors served to enhance the splendor of his achievement . His brilliancy of attack , his grandeur of conception , his wonderful blindfold play , and the series of victories won by him in rapid succession ? the more remarkable because of the youthfulness of the player ? were well adapted to make a profound impression ; and the enthusiasm attending his brilliant , but unfortunately brief , career is unparalleled in the annals of the game . Among the tournaments that followed , the Paris contest of 1867 should be mentioned ; for the winner , Kolisch , challenged Morphy , and it was hoped that the latter would again enter the field . As Kolisch , however , had not been successful in his contests with Paulsen and Anderssen , opponents whom Morphy had defeated , the American did not deem it necessary to renew his activity . Of the subsequent events , the London tournament of 1883 deserves attention . This contest was won by Zukertort in brilliant style , and fairly amazed the world of chess . Indeed , Zukertort 's performance in the tournament referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is achieved , followers of the game are in the habit of comparing it with the performance in the famous tournament of 1883 . Incidentally , it should be mentioned that , during the sixteen years which elapsed between the Paris tournament of 1867 and the London contest of 1883 , there were no fewer than eight international tournaments , whereas during the previous sixteen years , i.e. , from the London tournament of 1851 to the Paris contest of 1867 , there had been but one . Shortly after the London tournament of 1883 , Steinitz came to this country ; and in 1886 a match was arranged between him and Zuker tort , which Steinitz won . A few words should here be devoted to the remarkable career of the late champion , who , during his prolonged activity , so materially influenced the game abroad as well as in this country , and who , as player , critic , and instructor alike , made a lasting impression . Steinitz did not enter the arena ? as Murphy had done - a fullfledged champion . On the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the championship , which he valiantly maintained for twentyeight years . Nor was his play , however artistic , profound , and scien tific it may have been , apt to arouse enthusiasm ; for , instead of the brilliant , dashing attack , so conspicuous in Morphy 's methods , S(einitz 's tactics were conservative . In 1866 , in a match with Anderssen , Steinitz won the championship of the world . Those who had been in strumental in bringing about this match , foremost among whom was the late English Lord Chief Justice , Lord Russell of Killowen , were more surprised than pleased at the result ; for they did not like the new champion 's style of playing . Steinitz more firmly established his repu tation by gaining well-merited victories at the Vienna international tournaments of 1873 and 1882 , and by various other successful matches . His noteworthy achievements he ascribed largely to his method of play ing , which he designated as the " modern school . " He was a student and an enthusiast , and , in the belief that a publication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promulgated the results of his researches . After he had made his home in this country , he went even further , and , in order to strengthen his case , endeavored to show shortcomings in Morphy 's tactics , by trying to demonstrate that the Ameri can 's efforts had been overestimated and that his style of playing ? the so-called " old school " ? could not be safely adopted against an im proved defence . As might have been anticipated , these detracting articles led to con troversies which sometimes became unnecessarily sharp , while , of course , they did not decide the question one way or the other . Naturally , these discussions did not tend to make Steinitz more popular , although they may have benefited the cause of chess ; for players became inter ested , and once more examined Murphy 's games , comparing them with the methods of Steinitz . At that time , the question of superiority lay between Murphy and Steinitz . Since then , it has successively been Morphy vs . Pillsbury , and Morphy vs . Lasker . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliant star appears on the horizon of chess , comparison with Morphy is sure to follow . Inasmuch as even persons not familiar with the game have manifested interest in this matter , it may not be out of place to cite the opinions of a few competent judges relative to the point at issue . Mr. James McConnell , of New Orleans , already a distinguished amateur at the time of Morphy , has had the privilege of contesting games with the latter , and also with practically all the leading players that have since appeared . Mr. McConnell unhesitatingly asserts that Morphy 's play impressed him more than that of any other master . The same opinion is expressed by Arnous de Riviere , of Paris , who likewise met Morphy and his most distinguished successors . Among the other prominent adherents of the great American is the Russian champion Tschigorin . There are , however , many experts , as well as amateurs , who believe that Steinitz was correct . The more useful phase of Steini.tz 's activity , however , may be found in his labors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a matter of fact , was the only international tournament ever held in this country . Steinitz , who had had considerable experience in such contests , knew that while the local support would be fairly liberal , the contributions from without would probably be rather limited . He therefore proposed to describe and annotate the games of the tournament , and to have the result published in book form . Five hundred copies were to be issued at a subscription price of $10 . Steinitz himself was content with a merely nominal sum in compensation for his very elaborate work on this book , the proceeds from which , as a matter of fact , pro vided the bulk of the amount needed to defray the expenses of the contest . The tournament thus arranged was held in New York in 1889 , and proved a success so far as personal skill and the quality of the games were concerned . The showing of the American players , however , was somewhat disappointing . Only the sixth prize , won by Lipschutz , remained here , and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1893 another attempt was made to arrange an international tour nament , which would have been very appropriate at the time because of the World 's Fair at Chicago . Unfortunately , however , the necessary amount could not be raised . Probably this circumstance was duo to the failure of the American contingent in the previous contest ; for the necessary enthusiasm was certainly lacking . Only one small contest took place , and this was easily won by Lasker , there being thirteen winning games , no losses , and no draws . The next year a similar tournament was arranged , and it was won by Steinitz , who , however , was at that time no longer the champion , having meanwhile suffered defeat at the hands of Lasker . This did not end Steinitz 's eventful career , but it practically closed the period of his remarkable successes . The important matches in , which he was engaged , his valuable and instructive literary productions , his chess exhibitions , and his successful efforts in bringing about an international tournament in America ? all these served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the game , especially in this country . While actual enthusiasm did not prevail during the leadership of Steinitz , it was strongly aroused by the next tournament held , the socalled Hastings congress of 1895 . It must be admitted that the Brooklyn Chess Club showed an enterprising spirit when it decided to be represented in this tournament by Mr. Harry Nelson Pillsbury , a rising young player . At first , it was rather doubtful whether the entry would be accepted at all ; and , when it was accepted , devotees of the game did not expect any particular success ? indeed , it was believed that Pillsbury would not be able to cope with the formidable field arrayed against him . He not only held his own , however , but did more than that : he won first honors , actually surpassing the efforts of the foremost players of the day . The surprise at the result was immense . The Brooklyn Chess Club planned a reception in honor of its representative , and , at the suggestion of the Franklin Chess Club , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ovation proved a memorable event , the addresses of notable speakers lending splendor to the occasion . As the nature and magnitude of Pillsbury 's victory were clearly enunciated at the time in the brilliant address of I ) r . Persifor Frazer , a repetition of the principal facts stated therein may not be inappropriate . It was thirty-eight years after the famous victory of Morphy that Pillsbury once more gave extraordinary prestige to the cause of chess in America . In some respects , the circumstances attending the victory of the new champion furnished by America were similar to those under which the great game of 1857 was contested . Both Pillsbury and his distinguished opponent , Lasker , were young men , like their famous predecessors , Morphy and Von der Lasa . They both immediately achieved world-wide fame . In both cases , also , the men were pitted against the foremost players of their time , with the difference , however , that Murphy 's competitors comprised the fifteen best players of America , while those of Pillsbury included the twenty-one greatest experts in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendor of Pillsbury 's victory ; for it should be remembered that he had to play twentyone games " against as many masters , " while Morphy contested but eighteen games against four opponents . Again , while Morpliy 's winning percentage was placed at 86 , and Pillsbury 's at 79 , the latter had to contest a greater number of games , and that with five times as many players as were engaged by his predecessor ? players of comparatively higher ability than those which figured in the tournament of 1857 , when the standard of chess , also , was not as high as it is to-day . In view of these circumstances , Pillsbury 's achievement in the contest referred to may justly be said to have eclipsed that of Morphy . So much for the victory of Pillsbury , which led to an unprecedented activity in American chess . The annual cable contest with Great Britain for the Sir George Newnes trophy was inaugurated soon thereafter , and was shortly followed by the college cable match ( Columbia , Harvard , Princeton , and Yale vs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trophy ? also an annual affair . Even a parliamentary cable match was subsequently arranged . A national correspondence chess association , named in honor of Pillsbury , was also formed ; and this association now embraces more than one thousand members and arranges successful and interesting contests . Pillsbury participated in most of the subsequent international tournaments , in which he acquitted himself very creditably . In the marvellous blindfold exhibitions given by him he sometimes played twenty to twenty-two games simultaneously , creating a genuine sensation everywhere . Nevertheless , the brilliant performance at Hastings surpassed his subsequent efforts in international tournaments . From the foregoing , it becomes manifest that international tournaments have benefited chess in this country , and it may be asserted with equal truth that such events have also stimulated the game abroad , as , for example , in England , Germany , Hungary , Russia , and various other countries . It must be admitted that these international tournaments produce games distinguished by extraordinary skill and brilliancy ; that they often result in advancing the theory of chess ; and that , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in the game . The question nevertheless arises : Are the international tournaments , now following one another in increasingly rapid succession , chiefly responsible for the extensive development of chess-playing in recent years , or is there , perhaps , another reason for the constantly increasing popularity of the game ? In other words , may not these contests merely be the outcome of an increased demand ? It is quite likely that the latter is the true statement of the case . Undoubtedly , contests of magnitude , in which exceptional performances are recorded , impress those familiar with the game , impelling them to greater activity . Yet Philidor 's remarkable successes a century and a half ago did not result in extensive chess-playing , nor did the brilliancy of Labourdonnais . Morphy 's surprising triumphs , it is true , caused widespread admiration ; yet there was no noticeable increase in chessplaying consequent upon his successes . Had it been possible to arrange international tournaments , say , a century ago , these certainly would have caused amazement ; but the practice of the game would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had there been no contest whatever of recent years , it is probable that the interest in chess would still have increased , though , perhaps , not in so marked a degree . The last fifty years have brought about wonderful changes in our life , and amazing progress is noticeable in every direction . Steam and electricity , applied to practical purposes , improved machinery , and other inventions of a most varied character have greatly stimulated competition , which is becoming ever keener and more exacting . A wider field is now afforded to intellectual activity , and an ever greater number of persons are induced , if not compelled , to devote themselves to pursuits involving intense mental effort . Now , it is a well-known fact that the game of chess is complicated in its elements , and that it is not easy to acquire even a rudimentary knowledge of it . Progress , therefore , is both difficult and slow . The problems presenting themselves at the various stages of the game require concentration of mind in an extraordinary degree . Such effort , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere routine work . On the other hand , clergymen , lawyers , physicians , financiers , as well as other professional and business men ? in fact all those whose pursuits in life call for exacting mental exertion ? find the game both fascinating and useful . It affords them a much-needed and complete relief . No matter how vexatious the proposition confronted in daily life may be , no matter how persistently it may force itself upon the mind , it is forgotten so long as the player is absorbed in his game . Hence , the devotees of chess are constantly becoming more numerous . NV hen the slight progress made during past centuries is compared with the rapid growth in recent years , it would almost seem as if the royal game had been invented ages ahead of its actual opportunity . During the present year , especially , there will be no scarcity of international tournaments . One is to be held at Monte Carlo during the month of February ; the next is to take place at Cambridge Springs ; during midsummer a tournament arranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and in September the St. Louis contest is to take place . Finally , Mr. E. Lasker and Dr. Tarrasch are to contest a match for the championship of the world . The Cambridge Springs international contest , which is likely to prove the principal attraction of the year , will be arranged by a committee of which Mr. Isaac L. Rice has been elected president . Mr. Joseph D. Redding has been appointed referee ; and Messrs . H. Cassel and H. Helms have been entrusted with the management . Aside from the 120 games the contest halls for , there will be special play-days devoted to the " Rice gambit , " a novel variation leading to stupendous complications . Time and again , this particular game , introduced by Mr. Isaac L. Rice , has seemed endangered ; and although the foremost exponents have exerted themselves in its behalf , it has nearly always been the inventor himself who has had to come to the rescue . The following prizes are offered in the Cambridge Springs tournament : A first prize of $1,000 , and a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other competitors according to a system to be agreed upon later by the masters . Travelling and hotel expenses will be defrayed by the management . The players and the committee will be received at the White House by the President of the United States , who will offer a trophy to go to the winner of the tournament . As the prize-fund amounts to $3,100 , it would seem as if almost $200 should fall to the share of each competitor . Inasmuch , however , as the principal prizes are considerably above that amount , it is quite safe to say that the less successful players will get very little remuneration , or nothing at all . The reader will undoubtedly be surprised at the small compensation star exponents receive for their prolonged and very exacting efforts . Yet such is the case ; and truly , whatever name and fame chess-masters may have established for themselves , in worldly goods their share has been meagre . While they are successful in tournaments they manage to get along ; for their services at the chess-clubs are more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , their revenue dwindles away . It is a sad chapter in the history of the game that some of the greatest players , after a brilliant career , have experienced the grim fate of being reduced to extreme poverty ; and the most pathetic feature of such cases is that the distress is usually kept hidden until it is past all assistance . Zukertort and Steinitz were in this awful plight , as were many others who had devoted all their efforts to the game . While the smallness of the prize-fund may therefore surprise the general reader , it is probable that the initiated will be fairly amazed that such an amount could be raised at all , and inn so short a time . It has been intimated , by the way , that not only the enthusiasts of chess have contributed their usual quota , but that persons interested in the development of Cambridge Springs have also subscribed , probably furnishing the bulk of the funds needed . The late Mr. Steinitz endeavored to secure better conditions for the chess-masters . He argued that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two contestants , or of the winner , and that reports of such a game should be withheld from newspapers and other publications , unless these were willing to pay for them . In principle this is quite correct ; but the practical value of such a course , even if it could be carried out , is very doubtful . The fact is that , of general readers , but a small percentage are familiar with the game at all ; while , even among chess-players , there are comparatively few who are sufficiently advanced adequately to appreciate such high-grade work . The commercial value of these games , therefore , is necessarily very limited ; and , indeed , but few journals care to print the moves . As regards the general features of a contest , however , particularly of one so important as an international tournament , the case is altogether different . A contest of such magnitude appeals to the ordinary reader . He is not interested in the moves of the game , nor does he care whether the opening selected is a Ruy Lopez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looks for is the result of the day 's play . He is interested to find out who won , who lost , who leads , who has the best chances to win the contest , what successes the representatives of his own country have to record , and such other general news as the features of a general contest may present . The consequence is that such news receives extensive publicity ; and the reader 's attention is drawn to the scene of the contest , by which means the city or town itself is inciden - tally advertised ? a fact which may prove of commercial value and may benefit chess-masters to a greater extent than Steinitz 's plan could ever have done . The value of such extensive publicity must , indeed , be considerable , otherwise the Monte Carlo institution would not have spent thousands of dollars to bring about contests of this kind ; for surely no one will accuse that well-known resort of being concerned solely with the intellectual features of the game . The invitations extended by Monte Carlo and other places therefore deserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masters ; on the contrary , they can only be oonstrued as highly complimentary to them . They prove that not merely the chess clubs or the limited number of chess enthusiasts take an interest in the competition , but that the general public also finds it attractive . They signify a recognition of the celebrity of the masters , of their pluck , skill , and endurance , in a noble and exacting combat . The masters should therefore grasp the opportunity afforded them , and , by exerting themselves to the utmost , furnish a contest which impels admiration . They should also endeavor to enhance the value of international tournaments by insisting upon the establishment of certain intervals between them . Tournaments following one another in rapid succession tire the player as well as the reader , and are apt to diminish the degree of publicity given to the game . Most important of all , however , the masters should stipulate that an international tournament shall invariably carry with it the championship of the world . The custom at present prevailing , according to which a champion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participate in it , without in either case jeopardizing his title , does not appeal to the general public , and is prejudicial to the cause of international tournaments . In conclusion , it may be stated that the contest projected for next spring will have the important advantage of being centrally located ; for Cambridge Springs is within easy reach of New York , Philadelphia , Boston , Pittsburg , Buffalo , Chicago , and St. Louis ? the principal chesscentres of America . Admirers of the game may , therefore , look forward with great interest to a game which will undoubtedly draw visitors from every part of the United States as well as from abroad .                     