@@486878

The election of Charles E. Hughes as Governor of New York by a majority of merely 55,000 can not afford Republicans much ground for elation . Hearst was personally detested by tens of thousands of respectable Democrats who , like Mayor McClellan , scratched the ticket so that Hearst ran far behind his colleagues He had secured his nomination by pandering to the lowest element in the Democratic party , and by a shameless bargain with Charles F. Murphy , whom he had denounced as a criminal . But he had not captured all the machine politicians ; for he was opposed by McCarren in Brooklyn and by Croker 's old guard in Manhattan . On the other hand , Charles E. Hughes had an impeccable record in character and attainments . His private and professional life had been irreproachable ; he had performed distinguished public service in the legislative investigation of the gas monopoly and the insurance companies . He was brought forward as the candidate , not of the Republican bosses , but of the very best men , like Herbert Parsons , who wished to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success Wages were high , the demand for labor keen . The country was floating on a high tide of prosperity , for which the Republicans have loudly claimed credit . Under such circumstances and on the face of this contrast between a reckless demagogue and a man of ability and conscience , detached observers might suppose that Hearst would suffer an overwhelming defeat ; that he would , as some sanguine opponents predicted , be buried under a landslide of 200,000 votes . What , then , is the meaning of this comparatively narrow escape from Hearst ? It means but one thing : the people of New York are tired of oppression and dishonesty in the management of our huge corporations , and tired of the corrupt alliance between corporations and machine politicians This was the issue which Hearst has been urging for years . This is the issue on which he has secured such a formidable following . Indeed , the result proves that had not Hughes himself won such repute as a scourge of thieving insurance officials , his candidacy would have been hopeless . Had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the race at all ; but thousands of conservative men , who are eager for the purification of our public life , turned to Hughes as the man who is more likely than Hearst to help us in this time of need . For his agitation'against corporation abuses Hearst could have had abundant material without resorting to exaggeration and misstatement . The cases of the insurance companies , of the Standard Oil Company and its rebates , as exposed by Government investigators , of the rebates to the Sugar Trust , for which the New York . Central has been convicted , the stock-jobbing and stock-watering by public utility corporations in New York , Brooklyn , and other cities of this State , the extortions of the anthracite monopoly and the Ice Trust , and the control of political machines by these combinations of capital  --  all these modern instances have strengthened the popular conviction that plain people are not being dealt with fairly . Hearst promised redress ; and to Hearst people turned , not because he was an ideal candidate , but because he seemed to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hughps fails to do his utmost to check abuses . and redress grievances , if in this effort he is thwarted by the hirelings of the machine , Hearst or one of his kind will surely have his innings . The corporations have rights which must be respected as scrupulously as those of the individual ; but our common carriers can not be allowed to use their immensely valuable franchises from the public al instruments of discrimination ; our traction and lighting companies are not licensed to loot our cities ; our antimonopoly laws must not be violated with impunity . Such men as John D. Rockefeller and Henry H. Rogers of the Standard Oil ; Thomas F. Ryan and Anthony N Brady , the manipulators of traction stocks ; President Charles A. Peabody of the Mutual Life and other life insurance officials who are trying to prevent a free vote by policyholders ; such buccaneers in high finance as E H. Harriman , have heretofore shown little appreciation of popular sentiment . They have acted as if no power on earth had right or might to check the greed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday should carry its lesson . The fLth of thousands in Hearst as a saviour has its pathetic side . In casting their ballots for him they have blindly cried for justice . They will not be denied . " No commentator of Professor Burgess 's Berlin remarks on the Monroe Doctrine has struck the real infelicity involved  --  namely , that these observations meant one thing to Dr. Burgess and quite another to his German hearers and readers . To him the issue was academic  --  a mere weighing of a case in international morals and diplomatic propriety ; to Germany generally , it is to be feared , it seemed to indicate a revolutionary change in American sentiment and policy . For the view that morally the Monroe Doctrine is obsolete , much may be said . The conditions that gave it dignity have ceased to exist . We no longer fear that any monarchy will snuff out republican government in the Western Hemisphere . Morecier , our former aloofness from European and Asiatic politics , which gave force to the demand that Europe should equally abstain from interfering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this nation is in world politics from Algeciras to Peking , it is logically absurd to deny the commercial and quasi-colonial interests of Italy and Germany in South America . But logic has unhappily rather little to do with the matter . As a sentiment , devotion to the Monroe Doctrine has become stronger as ' its moral basis has become more flimsy . For many years to come resentment of European interference in this hemisphere will move our Presidents , and , at a pinch , our armies and navies . In short , the " Doctrine " has passed from the ' rational to the instinctive stage , and is , if anything , more formidable than before That such opinions as Professor Burgess 's will ultimately prevail , we make no doubt ; meanwhile , it is premature to give the impression to any European Power , most of all to Germany , that , because certain of our diplomatic syllogisms have been proved fallacious by events , our traditional conclusions are held less passionately than before . Since the report of the Eleventh Census upon " Wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no comprehensive statistics of Federal , State , and local finance have been published in the United States . We had begun to despair of ever seeing the finance statistics of the Twelfth Census Recently , however , the first advance sheets have come to hand . The following table of the net indebtedness ( i. e , total indebtedness less sinking funds ) presents the essential data , millions of dollars : deleted table stated in Since ? 1870 the aggregate net indebtedness has decreased ; since 1890 - it has increased . Meanwhile , the per capita debt has fallen very materially , but since 1890 has manifested a slight upward tendency . If we separate Federal and State from county and municipal indebtedness , the table will stand as follows : deleted table It is clear that two opposing forces have been at work . Both Federal and State debts were swollen to abnormal proportions in 1870 on account of the civil war ; and the subsequent decrease , amounting by 1902 to $1,525,000,000 , was but natural  --  at least , according to American theory and practice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1870 by not less than $1 , - 115,000,000 , and , what is more , the rate of increase was never so rapid as at the present time . ' We find also that , of the aggregate local debts of $1,630,000,000 , not less than 48 per cent . belong to New York , Massachusetts , Pennsylvania , and New Jersey , which contain but 24 per cent . of the population . In the country at large , the heaviest local debts are in the industrial States having large centres of population . Earlier census reports upon " Wealth , Debt , and Taxation " contained instructive tables showing the purposes for which all debts were contracted . The data thus far published do not give such information for 1902 ; but we may hope that , since a beginning has at last been made , the rest of the results may be speedily forthcoming . Gov . Magoon , by dismissing Cuban officials wholesale , has laid his hand seriously to the reform most needed , but he is also in danger of exciting unhappy animosities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most desirable career , and the lack of a post as something like an ignominy . At many points , Secretary Taft 's military emissaries found the chief difficulty of the situation to be that the insurgents expected to take up office as fast as they laid down their antiquated firearms . In fact , the trouble that has to be dealt with in Cuba is the innate ' propensity of the outs to shoot their way in . It may be said that such sentiments do little credit to our wards ; their sensibilities have to be considered all the same . ' We do not doubt that Gov . Magoon 's clean sweep is justified on all practical grounds . We hope , however , that his zeal will be tempered by the recollection that life in the bush is a delightful recreation in Cuba , while the Cuban insurgent is a much more fcirmidable antagonist than his colleague , with whom Mr. Magoon is more familiar , the revolutionist of the Isthmus . A steady increase in the number of college men entering politics in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published by the Evening Post a few days before election . This Directory contains the names and a brief characterization of all the candidates to be balloted for in Greater New York . This autumn 123 , or more than a third of the whole number , were trained either in college or law school . The significance of these figures appears from a comparison with figures for four years The following table shows both the totals and the distribution of candidates among the several colleges : deleted table The preponderance of men from the free College of the City of New York is , of course , to be expected . The interest of college men in politics is a gratifying sign : it means among our office-holders greater intelligence . ' We believe it also means higher character . So far as our own observation goes , however , the defect of our office-holding class to-day is moral , not mental ; the members of the New York Legislature , for example , suffer less from ignorance than from instability They are clever enough , but they are afraid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with conscience Andover Theological Seminary 's low estate ip again brought to public notice by the figures of this year 's enrolment There are , it seems , but eleven students , all told  --  actually fewer than the professors . This is a sorrowful pass for the ancient seminary , once regarded as head of all the theological schools of the country . The alumni and trustees have made great efforts to keep the institution going , but discussion will now be renewed , we presume , of the project to settle , like the Episcopal Theo- , logical School , under the wing of Harvard at Cambridge . It is commonly supposed that the decayed prestige of Andover is due to doctrinal reasons . The " Andover controversy " is ordinarily referred to as the cause of the marked falling off in the number of student 's . That acrimonious theological struggle , no doubt , had something to do with the seminary 's decline , but it probably did little more than accelerate the working of a larger cause The " drift of the cities " has strongly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized Christianity and charity , on a large scale , has become the great desire of theological-students . They " pine for their slums , " as Professor Park of Andover once sarcastically put it . At any rate , New Haven and Chicago and Hartford have grown at the expense of Andover . Union Seminary in this city had its own theological hatreds , and was at one time almost taboo by the Presbyterian Church ; but the pull of the city brought it students as before . The old conception of a theological seminary as a quiet place where a man could do athletic reading and needle's-point thinking , is giving way . These are the days when the theologian , too has to " hustle " and " do things . " Christian Science and mental healing . N% ere the topics to which Dr. Pierre Janet of Paris , chiefly devoted himself in a recent lecture at the Lowell Institute on " Psychotherapeutics " In some cases he admitted that healers had accomplished good results ; but he complained of the absence of precise data in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 , and even of 98 per cent . had been claimed , but no diagnosis of the cases was made , and the statistics were scientifically inconclusive . This neglect of diagnosis and contempt for the medical profession has been characteristic of all healers since P. Quimby 's labors in 1840 . Cure by faith resembles the old medieval " theriac , " a mixture of drugs , some one of which might prove to be a good shot , and hit the bull's-eye . Dr. Janet thinks that the miracles of Christian Science are on a higher plane than those of Lourdes , but he puts hypnotism above the method of either . Every educated Frenchman is surprised that faith-healing should be with us a religious process . But in demanding of the Christian Science advocates a diag- ' nosis of the cases cured , and authorita , tive statistics , Dr. Janet is surely addressing deaf ears The virtual abolition of the Mathematical Tripos at Cambridge University was briefly announced in the dispatches a few days ago . The reasons for this step now appear more fully in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , eleven of the Cambridge professors and lecturers in mathematics , including Robert S. Ball , G. H. Darwin , A R Forsyth , and J J Thomson , set forth their arguments in support of the change , then pending They felt that the old system involved " too great a sacrifice of the educational interests of many students , the character of whose work during their course at Cambridge is dominated by the requirements of the final examination . " Men spend " far too much time in elaborating the details of the general mathematical course " One of the chief objects of the new scheme is " to provide for the needs of the important class of men who ought to spend part , but not the whole , of their time at Cambridge - in studying mathematics . " The problem aL Cambridge is in one point the reverse of that which American universities , with the elective system , are forced to consider Here the difficulty is to keep too many students  --  especially those who have no definite career in view  --  from dissipating their efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this tendency toward diffusion is met in some institutions by the offering of " honors " and other prizes for excellence in one line . In no American university , however , have we an honor which carries the distinction accorded to the leader of the Mathematical Tripos at Cambridge , the senior wrangler , and consequently there is not such a general temptation to concentration along one line . Yet our prizes , such as they are , together with a desire to hasten preparation for professional work , indubitably encourage the ambitious in the tendency deplored at Cambridge  --  immature and excessive , specialization . Premier Clemenceau has received the extraordinary vote of confidence of 395 to 96 . The programme that elicited so unprecedented an expression may be briefly characterized as radical . The Premier engages to enforce the Separation Act , though the method is not specified ; to vote old-age pensions , a progressive income tax , and increased privileges to labor unions " Democratic " vas the word chosen to describe the Government projects . In a general way , the Clemenceau prospectus is merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evidently , the keeping of these promises depends mainly on money in hand , and the large deficit in the current budget pretty well reduces the more costly plans to pious wishes . As regards European policy , also , M. Clemenceau will apparently continue in the footsteps of Rouvier and Bourgeois , confirming the new friendships with Italy and England , while abiding by the Dual Alliance . We have already pointed out that the actual sincerity of that compact was in doubt from the very beginning . Its value to-day is largely factitious . But it seems as if , beside the more genuine understandings which are gradually forming , there must be maintained a solemn equilibrium of paper alliances  --  if only to please an international Mrs. Grundy who ' still dominates the chancelleries . M. Clemenceau 's tenure , finally , is by no means as comfortable as his great majority indicates . He has ahead the thorny problem of applying the Separation Act and of financing his humanitarian projects . His course is perilous and will require a skilful pilot . - , A possible solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the Separation Law is suggested in the Revv , e Politbalte , by M. Esmein , an eminent authority on public law . M. Esmein finds the crux of the difficulty in the failure of the law to make specific mention of the Catholic Church But if it is impossible for the bishops to accept the associations of public worship prescribed in the law , why may not the laity proceed with the formation of such associations , taking care to insert in their by-laws the fullest guarantees that the bishops may demand ? If the bishops will not accept religious associations organized under an obnoilous law , it is within their power to bring about the formation of associations before the law comes into effect Up to that date ( December 11 ) they would retain power over the Church property and be the only judges whether any association formed is in conformity with the general organization of the Church Such an association can make itself , in fact , the instrument of the bishop 's will . If the faithful are wise and anticipate the enforcement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orthodox association will be in possession and beati possTdentes " Which is worse  --  to be blind or to be deaf and dumb ? Kant discussed that question in his " Anthropologie , " and concluded that the blind were less to be pitied that the deaf-mutes , whom he found , as a rule , more morose . The eminent Beilin oculist , Dr. Ludwig Cohn , considers the same problem in the Berlin Tagebiatt , apropos of the one-hundredth anniversary of the opening of the first asylum for the blind in Germany . All the blind persons whom he has questioned hold their affliction to be more endurable than that of the deaf-mutes . Yet at social gatherings , and in the theatre , not to speak of the opera , the eye makes amends for the lack of hearing to a much greater degree than the ear does for the absence of sight . But " if we ask a deaf-mute if he would change places with a blind person , he always answers , No . " The latest published figures , for 1900 , show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaf-mutes , as against 34,334 blind . Much more has been done for the deaf-mutes than for the blind in enabling them to earn their own living ; and Dr. Cohn regards it as one of the main problems of the future to devise means of making the blind self-supporting . To that problem humane people in this country have applied themselves with much success . If certain practices now common among email tradesmen and domestic servants continue much longer , there will be little need of agitating for a graduated income tax , or for a limitation of great fortunes . The wealth of the unhappy employers will be - distributed in commissions . In his famous advice to servants , Dean Swift ob-serves : Take all tradesmen 's parts against your master , and when sent to buy anything , never offer to cheapen it , but generously pay the full demand This is highly to your master 's honor , and may be some shillings in your pocket , and you are to consider , if your master has paid too much , he can better afford the loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking commissions on all articles bought for household use has grown until many cooks receive more from the purveyors than they do from their employers . Some marketraen will pay as much as 10 per cent . to a cook to keep the patronage of a large family . No one maintains that competent domestic servants are greatly overpaid . Often they render services which no wages could secure . But if a large percentage on the cost of provisions is to go into the servant 's pocket , then employers will no doubt seek some way of self-protection . The commission system , which is bad enough in the kitchen , is even worse in the stable . No doubt the blacksmiths and harness dealers would themselves welcome a remedy for the present state of things , when the employer 's purchasing power is too often regulated by the ? coachman 's greed . A struggle of twenty-five years in the Colonial Parliament of the Bermudas has ended in the appropriation of ? 70 , - 000 for the deepening of the channel of St. George 's Harbor . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the open sea . By this project the Bermudians hope to create such harbor facilities as will make their islands a great coaling station for steamships plying the North Atlantic . As Bermuda lies in the trade routes from the Continent to the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea , her position as a port of call is singularly advantageous . At present , she can not boast of one safe or convenient anchorage for coaling . The advocates of the St. George 's channel scheme met with strong local opposition . Even the Imperial authorities frowned on the project . But after the Spanish-American war the Home Government withdrew all objection . To-day , public opinion in Bermuda is unanimously in favor of the improvement The change of feeling is largely clue to financial depression . As the winter tourist trade will not make up to the colony for its other losses , the Bermudians have concluded to make a- bid for the Atlantic coaling trade . -                     