@@430065

 | Andrew Johnson , seventeenth president of the United States , was inaugurated on the morning of April 15 , 1865 , only a few hours after the death of his martyred predecessor . The ceremony took place at the Kirkwood House , the hotel in Washington at which he was temporarily residing , in the presence of the Lincoln cabinet and a few members of Congress . The oath of office was administered by Chief Justice Chase . Thus quietly and under the shadow that had so suddenly overspread a triumphant nation , began a period of our history in regard to whose achievements men will probably always differ . The close of the war found the government confronted with several grave problems , but without a precedent to aid it in solving them . First of all was the difficulty presented by the eleven seceding States of the South whose political organizations had gone down with the Confederacy . What was their status ? Had they , ( as some were disposed to claim ) , committed suicide ? Or , reasoning from the principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as conquered territory ? If this view should prevail it was obvious that the white people of the South ? then the political people ? must be entirely at the mercy of their conquerors . For the war had been a civil struggle and had of course been followed by no treaty . The national government , moreover , found itself hampered by a written constitution which guaranteed to every State a republican form of government . It was also embarrassed to some extent by the absence of any political organization at the South with which it could deal . To the constitutional difficulties thus presented was added the no less grave social problem growing out of the emancipation of the slaves . What was to be done with and for this race whose homeless , landless condition excited universal sympathy ? to say nothing of the admiration their conduct during the war had aroused . The future relations , moreover , between the two races in the South gave the goverment much concern . How were conflicts to be avoided ? How far must the white population of the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its fundamental law some of the results of the war . These were a few of the questions which met Mr. Johnson at the threshold of the White House . Rarely in the history of the country had the times so urgently called for a leader of fairness , ability , and character . Thrust into office by the same messenger of death that had prostrated the idol of his countrymen , Johnson was now in the fifty-seventh year of his age but unqualified , either by nature or experience , for the performance of the mighty tasks facing Congress and himself . His difficulties were further increased by reason of the lack of accord between his own political aims and theories and those cherished by the majority of the dominant party . There was an active democratic minority in both houses of Congress , but justly or unjustly it had been discredited by its attitude throughout the war now flickering in the socket . To the republicans , firmly intrenched in every department of the government say e the executive ? the successful North was ardently attached ? assigning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the old leaders of the South were virtually excluded from all participation in State and national politics . In the impending duel between Congress and himself the president had several chances in his favor and of these one of the most promising was a breach in the ranks of the party in power , ? an event that had already been threatened in the lifetime of Lincoln when the more radical and violent section of his party on several occasions vehemently opposed his liberal , statesmanlike policy . In such a position of affairs two courses lay open to Johnson : He might either head the radicals or form a new party of his own out of the democrats and the liberal wing of the republican party , ? a policy Tyler had vainly attempted to pursue when he succeeded to the presidency under somewhat similar circumstances . The bolder step of constructing a party out of the recalcitrant elements in the South does not appear to have then occurred to him . On the contrary he at first assailed the vanquished chiefs of the Confederacy with a bitterness that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarmed the more sober and conservative section of the republican party . Shortly after his inauguration several delegations called upon the new president to ascertain his views regarding the South .  | To one of these Johnson declared , " I know it is very easy , gentlemen , for anyone who is so disposed to acquire a reputation for clemency and mercy . But the public good imperatively requires a just discrimination in the exercise of those qualities . The American people must be taught to know and understand that treason is a crime It must not be regarded as a mere difference of political opinion . It must not be excused as an unsuccessful rebellion to be overlooked and forgiven . " No small wonder , therefore , that those whose root and branch policy had been thwarted ' by Lincoln under the executive power exercised during the war now looked upon the accession of the vice-president to the chief magistracy as an evidence of divine favor . " Johnson , " exclaimed the fiery Wade when the Committee on the Conduct of the War met him , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be no trouble now in running the government . " But neither Wade nor his faction had taken Johnsons 's measure . Indeed , the president had not even measured himself . The war was now practically over and its legacy of difficulties ? not to mention the bitterness created by Lincoln 's assassination ? was sure to result in the development of a policy very different from that forshadowed in the third and fourth years of the struggle . Seward , however , early won over the president to his own broad , views which were essentially those of Lincoln . These were adequate enough had there been no other problem than that of the restoration of the Southern States to their normal relations towards the government , but there yet remained the duty of providing for the emancipated blacks . Could this not be left to the States as Johnson desired , or must the nation itself take the matter in hand ? Whatever steps were to be taken much suffering could not fail to follow . Unfortunately for the Southern States the president 's voltface produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the radicals and made possible the extreme measures of reconstruction . It should be borne in mind , moreover , that those who began to distrust the overweening influence acquired by the clever secretary of state , were not always actuated either by factional strife or sectional bigotry . Congress was jealous of its privileges , especially of its right to lay down the rules to be observed in re-admitting representatives  | from the Southern States , while a few earnest men thought the time a favorable one for carrying into effect those ideas of human rights which had been developed by the debates on slavery . At the same time the speeches in the national legislature throughout Johnson 's administration rarely rise above mediocrity and there is an abscence of statesmanship and foresight throughout the entire period . Political influence had already shifted to the inexperienced West . The North had sent most of its able men to the war , who with returning peace had gone back to their callings , while the South was unrepresented . Four years of warfare , moreover , under the guidance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of ability in either house . The temperament and antecedents of the new president , moreover , were not such as to make for harmony . Johnson was distinctly a man of the people . Of English extraction and born at Raleigh , North Carolina , his poverty and environment had deprived him of early educational opportunities . Indeed , it is said that he was unable to read until after his marriage when his wife taught him the alphabet . Whatever measure of truth may be contained in the current stories regarding his youthful illiteracy , Johnson as a lad was gifted with an ambition and force of character rarely encountered among the more shiftless of the Southern whites , ? qualities that stood him in good stead not only while apprenticed to a North Carolina tailor but also later on , when as a young man , he removed to Greenville , in east Tennessee , to follow his trade under the inviting influences of a new country . It was here that he began to cultivate his mind and with such success that we soon hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned his trade he entered politics as a democrat of the Andrew Jackson type , whom he made his model , became a leader of the workingmen , and held several important local offices . In 1843 we find him a member of Congress . Afterwards he served as governor of Tennessee and was a senator from that State when the war broke out . Later on , when Tennessee went hesitatingly with the South , Johnson gained national renown by declining to relinquish his seat in the senate and was therefore considered the spokesman of the loyal element in the South ? whose numbers were always exaggerated , ? the brave , rugged champion of the Appalachian folk . In 1862 Johnson was  | appointed military governor of Tennessee . Two years later , on account of his Southern origin and notwithstanding his States right notions , he was elected vice-president on the Lincoln ticket . Johnson 's naturally coarse and intemperate nature had been developed by a long struggle with adversity as well as by reason of the influence of the fierce antagonisms he had encountered on the stormy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made him vain , egotistical , self-assertive . It was easy for such a man to fancy himself a second Jackson . It was no less easy for this opponent of slavery to share the prejudices of his class respecting the black man and to become in turn the slave of his own wild , untamed passions . The gulf , moreover , between himself and Jackson was broad and deep , but the early personal experiences of the two men , as well as their names , were strikingly similar . Both were born in the same commonwealth , cradled in obscurity , and swept across the mountains by the same tide of migration that robbed the older portion of the South of some of its most energetic spirits . Both , too , made their homes in Tennessee , where they entered politics and rose to the highest offices under the State and federal constitutions . Here , however , all superficial points of resemblance between the two men disappear . In habits of thought and action they were as unlike as two men could possibly be . Jackson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was firm , Johnson was obstinate . In Jackson the Indian fighter , the hero of New Orleans , there was a dash , a courage , a natural leadership that bore down all opposition and won for him the hearts as well as the votes of his followers . These looked upon Old Hickory as part and parcel of a great democratic movement . Johnson , on the other hand , was largely the creature of a shocking calamity and could inspire neither confidence nor enthusiasm . His following was necessarily a local , personal one . There was nothing for him to lead . Distrusted at the North , he was despised at the South . In politics a democrat of the strict constitutional school , he was suddenly placed at the head of the republican administration and at a time when , if ever , a broad interpretation of the national authority was required . But it would be a grave mistake to underrate the capacity of the new executive . He had much in his favor . A good , forcible speaker and endowed with a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the art of practical politics . At some other stage of our country 's development , when popular feeling was less inflamed , he might well have gained a more commanding place among the presidents of the United States . But it so happens that of all our executives he is at once the least understood and the most cordially disliked . The country required something else than a pair of bellows which , in spite of a Union label , soon displayed an unexpected capacity for mischief . But while his faults were many and grave , we are not to forget that in his struggles with Congress Johnson did not a little to preserve the executive prerogative from the revolutionary onslaughts of the legislature , while his views have since received , in several instances , the tacit approval of the Supreme Court . The two most important domestic problems that confronted the government in 1865 ? namely , the status of the Southern States and the negro question ? were largely the result of that spirit of compromise which pervaded the entire constitution . That instrument had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairness , two different , though not necessarily hostile , social and political systems . Was such a thing possible ? After an experiment of more than three score years and ten , during which time the institutions of the two sections had been still further differentiated , the futility of such a compromise became apparent . It was the recognition of this truth that had brought on the war . The task before Johnson and Congress was therefore the reconstruction not only of the Southern States , but of the Union itself . His initial error lay in his failure to discern this fact . It is not clear that Johnson ever shared the convictions of Congress regarding reconstruction . He certainly never expressed opinions approaching those held by such men as Sumner , Davis , Wade , or Stevens , but was disposed to adopt a policy looking to the punishment of individuals as such rather than to the punishment of States . It is generally conceded that Seward , who occupies an interesting position in this administration , was responsible for Johnson 's changed attitude . The secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of restoration , ? a policy designed to prevent anything approaching a new form of sectionalism . No plan could have been more magnanimous had not other difficulties intervened . Shortly before his death , for example , Lincoln declared with great force and clearness his own views on the subject of the Southern problem . " We all agree , " he said , " that the seceded States , so-called , are out of their practical relation with the Union , and that the sole object of the government , civil and military , in regard to those States , is to get them into that proper practical relation . I believe that it is not only possible , but , in fact , easier to do this , without deciding , or even considering , whether these States have ever been out of the Union . . . . Finding themselves safe at home , it would be utterly immaterial whether they had ever been abroad . " These sentiments went straight to the heart of the subject and were in harmony with those expressed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1861 , wherein it was declared that the war was not prosecuted in any spirit of oppression , nor for the purpose of conquest or subjugation ; that it was not the purpose of the government to interfere with the rights or established institutions of the Southern States , but to defend and miaintain the supremacy of the constitution and all laws made in pursuance thereof , and " to preserve the Union with all the dignity , equality , and rights of the several States unimpaired , " and that as soon as these objects were accomplished " the war ought to cease . " These resolutions were carried in the house by a vote of 117 to 2 ; in the senate , by a vote of 30 to 5 ; but as Professor Dunning , of Columbia University , has forcibly shown , the length and fierceness of the war , to say nothing of the difficulties introduced by the emancipation of the slaves , caused this position to be abandoned by all save the democrats . In his message of December 8 , 1863 , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority " within the States wherein " that authority has been suspended , " and in his proclamation issued at about the same time gave a form of oath to be taken by those who wished to resume their allegiance to the government . He further declared that " the constitutional obligation of the United States to guarantee to every State a republican form of government is explicit and full , " but he added that there must be a test oath , for  | it would be absurd to revive a government constituted of the very element at war with the nation . Lincoln 's proclamation excepted from the amnesty extended certain classes , chiefly those above a certain official rank who had served in the army , navy , and civil service of the Confederacy , but provided that as soon as one-tenth of the voters under the State laws of 1860 should take the required oath and otherwise conform to the terms offered they might reorganize their State governments . State governments had been organized under these provisions in Louisiana , Arkansas , and Virginia , while Tennessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the North who opposed the president 's views these governments were derisively spoken of as " ten per cent . governments ; " in the South those who took the oath of allegiance were looked upon as renegades . Lincoln adhered to his plan of restoration , notwithstanding growing opposition to it . It is claimed , moreover , by Alexander H. Stephens , who was vice-president of the Confederate States , that in the conference held between himself , Lincoln , Seward , Hunter , and Campbell , on board a steamer in Hampton Roads , February 2 , 1865 , the president was asked what position the Confederate States would occupy towards the others if they were there to lay down their arms . Stephens claims that the question was directly put as to their representation in Congress . Lincoln is said to have very promptly replied that his own individual opinion was that the seceding States would be given representation in Congress , but he declined to enter into any stipulation on the subject . His opinion seems to have been that when resistance ceased and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored to their former relations towards the Union . According to Stephens this was a form of expression repeatedly used by the president during the conference , whenever he spoke of the restoration of the Union . The actions of Seward , Grant , Sherman , and others tends to prove that Stephens correctly reports Lincoln 's views . General Sherman says , moreover , that he had Lincoln 's ideas in view when he made his famous agreement with General Johnston near Durham 's Station , North Carolina , April 16 , 1865 . But President Johnson repudiated the liberal terms offered by Sherman , and  | eight days afterwards Johnston , now in command of the bulk of the Confederate forces , surrendered on the same terms Lee had accepted from Grant . On May 10 the president issued a proclamation declaring that armed resistance to the government was at an end , and on May 22 the Southern ports , which had been blockaded the greater part of the war , were declared to he open to the commerce of the world . In view of the distressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grave issues before the country , Johnson would have been wise had he called an extra session of Congress , which had adjourned March 3 to meet again at the regular time the following December ; but instead of doing so he relied on his own counsel and that of the Lincoln cabinet , which he retained . It was composed of William H. Seward , of New York , Secretary of State ; Hugh McCulloch , of Indiana , Secretary of the Treasury ; Gideon Welles , of Connecticut , Secretary of the Navy ; James Harlan , of Iowa , Secretary of the Interior ; James Speed , of Kentucky , Attorney-General , and William Dennison , of Ohio , Postmaster-General . Factional dissessions brought about some subsequent changes in the cabinet , but these were the men on whom Johnson at first mainly relied and especially on Seward . On May 29 Johnson began in earnest the work of restoration by proclaiming a general pardon , with certain designated classes excepted , to all who had taken part in the secession movement , provided they took the test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holden provisional governor of North Carolina . Acting under the directions of the president Holden summoned a convention which adopted a constitution embodying some of the results of the war . A legislature was soon afterwards chosen , and representatives to Congress elected . Within the next fortnight six other States were restored to the Union in a similar manner . William L. Sharkey was appointed provisional governor of Mississippi ; Andrew J. Hamilton was given a similar position in Texas , while James Johnson , Lewis E. Parsons , Benjamin F. Perry and William E. Marvin were appointed provisional governors of Georgia , Alabama , South Carolina , and Florida , respectively . Johnson recognized in Virginia the Pierpont government , organized during the war under the Lincoln plan . The governments that were already established under Federal supervision in  | Louisiana , Arkansas , and Tennessee were continued . But the rapid development of the president 's policy aroused increased opposition , especially after reports of turmoil in the South , garrisoned by Federal soldiers , began to find their way to the North . Meanwhile , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south . For the apprehension of the former a reward of $100,000 was offered , and on May 10 , 1865 , he was arrested in Georgia ; but after an imprisonment of two years was released on bail . He was never tried . His treatment while in prison did much to embitter the Southern people . The masses of the Southern people , in spite of the violent deeds of lawless bands of ruffians , accepted in good faith the results of the war and were counseled by their leaders to work for the upbuilding of their ruined section . In this work no one took a nobler part than Lee . On June 11 , 1865 , he was made president of Washington College ? now called Washington and Lee University . A wealthy man before the war , his estate at Arlington , across the Potomac from Washington , had been confiscated by the Federal authorities ; but some years after the war the government , in conformity with a decision of the Supreme Court , reimbursed the Lee heirs . Meanwhile , Paine , alias Powell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was slain , was captured in Washington at the residence of a Mrs. Surratt . The latter was also arrested . A few days later Booth , the murderer of Lincoln , was surrounded in a barn near Port Royal , Virginia , and on refusing to give himself up was shot while taking aim at one of his pursuers . The four persons who were accused of having conspired with Booth , namely , Paine , Harold , Atzerott , and Mrs. Surratt , were tried , found guilty , and early in July , 1865 , were executed . Much popular sympathy was manifested for the latter , regarding whose guilt there has always been more or less doubt . During the excitement caused by the conspiracy efforts were made to implicate the Southern leaders and the Roman Catholic Church , but they were soon abandoned . The remains of Lincoln were carried to his old home in Springfield , Illinois , and laid to rest there . At Andersonville , Georgia , September 20 , 1865 , the graves of 12,000 Union soldiers were marked . No feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North than the treatment received by the Union prisoners at this place . A fortnight after the marking of the graves at Andersonville , Wirz , the keeper of the prison , was tried and executed for his brutality . Meanwhile , by December 18 , Seward was able to announce officially that the thirteenth amendment to the constitution , abolishing slavery and involuntary servitude , had been ratified . The president 's proclamation during the war had not applied to all parts of the Union , but now by the supreme law of the land slavery was no longer possible in any part of the United States . The negro was now a free man . Would the rights of citizenship be accorded him ? At this time he could vote in but few of the Northern States . TO BE CONCLUDED IN THE NEXT NUMBER.                     