@@474319

HEN you have drunk of the red waters of the Colorado you will be filled with an infinite longing to linger within sound of its voice . You may wander afar , but never again will you cease to hear the river calling . Some day you will obey and we will see you again , " the Indians who dwell along its banks will tell you , and many a white man who has felt the indescribable charm of this mighty American Nile repeats the Indian legend in explanation . Like the Nile , the Colorado owes its being to the melting snows of mountains thousands of miles from its mouth , flows through arid lands , and terminates in an immense delta as large as the State of Massachusetts . Unlike the Nile delta , renowned for the many generations to whom it has given homes and sustenance , the great delta of the Colorado , equally if not more fertile , has lain almost idle for ages . It is the home of the Cocopa Indians , and they alone have raised scant crops in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their houses of arrow-weed , Pinches serirea , with supports of willow or poplar , and conduct their crude husbandry according to the river 's moods . Each recurring spring the released waters rush from their mountain fastnesses and swell the river to resistless volume and current . Then follows a period of awaiting the river 's pleasure to all who dwell or roam within the sphere of its influence . To casual observers there is naught of good , but much of seeming wanton destruction , in the annual bursting of the river 's bonds and bounds , for the floods carry enough wreckage and sediment down to the sea each year to make a goodly State . Its quantity can only be estimated in thousands of tons , and its bulk is yearly crowding the ocean waters farther south by slowly but surely filling in the Gulf of California . As the sea recedes , the characteristic flora of the region as constantly advances . As with most impetuous rivers , the Colorado floods subside as suddenly as they appear , and the river recedes to its usual channels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the ever-thirsty earth absorbs all lingering traces of the overflow with surprising rapidity . Dr. D. T. MacDougal abandoned his duties as assistant director of the New York Botanical Garden for a trip down the Colorado early in March , and we made a hurried run across the continent . It was midnight when we were cast adrift at Mellen , a solitary station which the railroad people insist upon calling To-pock . Kindly the brilliant Western moon arose to light us to welcome rest on a near-by hilltop . A hundred feet below , the Colorado was speeding on its ever-restless way , and beyond it the strangely worn and eroded Needles presented a singular medley of dignified and fantastic forms , silhouetted against the western sky . Daylight broke upon us seemingly before we had time to settle down cozily in our sleeping-bags , and the Needles appeared to have moved close upon us during the night from across the river in California . In these lands of constant change one almost feels that he must be witnessing the birth of a new world . Re finds the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , and the mountains are affected only in less degree than the shifting sands which break into ripples and ridges at the behest of every idle wind . At one point in the great desert is a chain of sand-hills averaging a hundred feet in height , which are slowly but steadily moving across the plain in the direction of the prevailing winds . The wagon road which skirts them has been shifted many times , else it would have been covered . Ahead of them is the typical desert vegetation of the plain . The hills carry with them plants peculiar to themselves , and behind them , on the plain bared by the march of the hills , a flora distinctly different from either has appeared . Erosion and weathering have honeycombed the Needles with pits and hollows and carved their summits into numberless domes , turrets , and pinnacles . Many of the more needlelike of the pinnacles are completely perforated . The sinking sun gleams through the openings with strange effect , and these sunlighted eyes suggested the mountain 's name . This year the river @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ten to twenty years . Nothing approaching its power of destructiveness ( " X11. ? Nn 671. - 98 had been noted since 1891 , when it did not reach the height of this year 's record by several feet . Not for a decade will the conditions be likely to prove so favorable for study of the river 's action and effects . To those dependent upon it for transportation or supplies the discomfort was proportionately great . The explorers were joined at daybreak by Stanley Sykes , of Flagstaff , Arizona , who was to guide them down the river to Yuma , some three hundred miles distant . A folding canvas boat , twelve feet long , but broad of beam , and a skiff about as long , but much narrower , were depended upon for safe and speedy voyage . Volunteer advisers shook their heads ominously when they saw the little crafts loaded to their full capacity with camp-outfit supplies and apparatus , and all along the route we heard of danger-points just ahead which the tiny boats surely could not pass ; but if those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ever-interesting moods , and realize what it is accomplishing in the development of a new and exceedingly interesting land will trust the river , even in its wildest moods , in the very fulness of its strength , it will not betray their confidence . With ordinary precaution and the watchful observation that alone can make such a trip of any value , the journey can he and was made in a boat that two men could carry anywhere if portages were necessary . Camping alternately on the California and Arizona shores , delayed a day in camp near the mouth of Bill Williams Fork by a rain-storm , and a second day at . Ehrenberg by a sandstorm , we reached Yuma on March 22 , having accomplished the trip in eight days . The upper valley of the river had received a maximum of rainfall , and numberless small annual plants , which in years of minimum moisture might not develop at all , had clothed the generally bare rocks and levels in green . The river was still rising in irregular stages and cutting into banks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the shifting current , destroying alternate banks at every turn , added hundreds of living trees and tons of soil to the debris it was sweeping to the sea . One day we rude the crest of a rise of two feet ; it passed us while we slept that night , but quickly swept us onward to its head when we resumed our oars the next morning . That day the current carried us eighty miles in about seven hours with but little work at the oars . The giant cactus , Ceretis giganleus , was found to grow as far north as Bill Williams Fork and to cross the river there into California ? interesting discoveries to the botanist as extending the known area of distribution of these remarkable plants . It has hitherto been supposed that the eastern bank of the Colorado marked the western limit of the plants . Sand-storms are of frequent occurrence on the extensive gravel mesa at Ehrenberg . The sand-laden wind obscures the view like a fog , and in the teeth of the gale the driving sand stings like needle-points . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnitude , and eating an affliction , for at best a due proportion of sand must be swallowed . The larger plants , especially the giant cactuses , suffer severely front these natural sand-blasts , and bear the scars of the encounter for many days . They are weird plants in their way , showing best perhaps standing , as they did in California , high up on rocky shelves on the mountainside , like giant sentinels ready to warn comrades on the plain below of any impending danger . Most people have been made familiar with the general appearance of the plant by numerous illustrations of it , but no photograph can convey the effects of its singular beauty amid its natural surroundings , nor tell the tale of the quaint music awakened by every breeze at play among its many spines . The Gila River enters the Colorado just west of Yuma , and we crossed its angry waters through a maze of eddies and whirlpools through which immense quantities of driftwood were whirling in mad race . Escaping the worst of the turmoil , we reached the town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our journey accomplished . For eight days we had been cutting through the desert , but had found no barren land . Cuttonwoods and willows lined the shores on either hand , to the exclusion of all view of the sandy wastes ; in many places only a few feet behind the leafy screens . Tall canes diversified the scene at numerous points , and where the mud-flats prevailed the green blades of the cattail gave a familiar aspect to the scene . Most of the poplars ? or cottonwoods , as the Western man invariably calls them ? are a white-trunked variety : the white remarkably pure and the tree exceedingly handsome . They and the willows grow rapidly at the slightest opportunity . Thus it occurs that a mud- flat escaping a single season 's flood becomes a veritable nursery of young trees the following year . In our rapid run down the river we had witnessed the destruction of dozens of such nurseries . At most places alongshore the river had reached the line of older growths and was levelling the larger trees by hundreds wherever a bend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the far shore . Trees ten inches in diameter and twenty to thirty feet high were constantly toppling into the insatiable river . The fall of these larger trees was always graceful . The first intimation of it was a distinct shiver that ran through the entire tree , but was most marked in the upper branches ; a moment later the tree would bend gracefully forward as if bowing to its enemy . An instant 's pause and it would sink slowly into the rushing waters that had reached to and loosened the inshore roots . Tree after tree of this larger growth would start down the river broadside to the current . Slowly at first , it would roll over and over , tangling its branches into a great skeleton wheel , roiling faster and faster AS the branches became more impacted and presented fewer projecting Points to catch and hold a moment in the shallower reaches . Eventually the branches would be worn off in such progress , leaving only the tougher roots to retard it . Then the denuded tree would give up the struggle , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head on down-stream until caught by the spreading roots in some shallow . Such snags anchored in favorable situations quickly gather and hold a tangled mass of drift , rising ten feet or more above the water . Others lie well submerged , with only a ripple above them to warn the navigator of their presence . Mud banks , too recent to have developed vegetation , are absorbed by the river with even greater facility . Undercut by the current , such a bank will slough off in great masses , the size governed by the height of the bank and the tenacity of its composition . Visible bars are not the only ones absorbed by the rapacious river . Floating over a surface level as a board , a ripple breaks under the bow of the boat and is rapidly followed by others of greater and greater height , and before the little craft can be fairly turned aside it is pitching and plunging over waves of sometimes dangerous dimensions . At other times the turmoil is heralded by a sudden boiling upheaval of the waters that almost irresistibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a like upheaval . Quicker even than in the first instance , the boat is tossing on a more dangerous sea , choppy in character and usually foam-crested . In both instances the river has attacked submerged bars , and in the former is cutting it away in long slices , and in the latter in great cubes . The ultimate destination of all this sand and silt and vegetable debris is the delta , lying idle under a tropic sun , awaiting a conqueror . At Yuma we found Godfrey Sykes awaiting us ; and E. H. Goldman , of the United States Biological Survey , also decided to join the expedition to make collections of small mammals , birds , and reptiles . A larger boat was needed , and the Sykes brothers built one with a carrying capacity of a ton . We left Yuma with the new boat and the small skiff loaded to their fullest extent . At three points the river cuts directly into the Sonora mesa . At these points the absolutely dry sand and gravel rise forty feet above the water , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hank . The result is three of the most graceful sweeping curves in all the river 's winding course . A light gale was blowing as we passed the upper mesa . Light as it was , it had started hundreds of streams of sand flowing from the top of the bank as freely as water . One of these streams was fully eighteen inches in diameter . As we ran rapidly past the lower end of the exposure a ton or more of sand fell from the top of the bank . We made a short stop on one of these exposures , and again were confronted with evidence of the persistence of desert vegetation and the fertility that no one would expect to find on the vast expanse of sand . The plain was liberally dotted with white lilies blooming luxuriantly . Yet more plenty was a diminutive plant quit ? like the moisture-loving forget-me-not , in full bloom . Shrubs were plentiful enough to appear to form quite close thickets in the near distance , but all strictly desert plants are of individual habit , and none are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in variety and in beauty of form and blossom compare well with plants of more favored climes . Four families of Cocopa Indians were found at Colonia Lento . They had laid out melon-patches along the river front , and each group of seedlings occupied the centre of a depression six feet in diameter and a foot deep , excavated to retain moisture . We engaged Cocopa Mike , the head of the colony , to help us row the big boat against the current of the Hardy ? or Hardy 's Colorado , as it is generally known . A short run took us to this river 's mouth , and three days later we reached a point where the main channel runs for several hundred yards along the base of a spur of the Cocopa Mountains . Here we camped for ten days . Back of this spur lies an extensive gravel mesa , and we found the desert expanse gay with flowers . The tall , thorny , rugged ocotillo uplifted its gaudy crest of crimson flowers . At frequent intervals throughout . the plain the yellow blossoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to every passing breeze . The lyeium , or matrimony-hush , was ablaze with its brilliant red fruits , and the crested quail feasted upon them to repletion without being able to reduce the quantity appreciably . Farther northward , evening-primroses , some of most delicate pink , others a lemon yellow , bloomed abundantly ; while on the stonier mounds and levels to the southward varieties of cacti displayed their beautiful blooms . The river banks were guarded by heavy thickets of mesquite and willow , affording shelter to innumerable birds . Across the narrow river , as far as the eye could reach , stretched the flooded delta that some day will be brought under subjection and bent to the will of man . Climb high on the spur or mountain as one might , and the view of the flooded plain was merely extended . Laughingly we called our camps our happy homes , but this one was the brightest and most interesting of nil . Many living plants and a large variety of specimens of small mammals , reptiles , and birds were collected . Extensive observations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sketch map as a contribution to the geography of the country . The mysterious Coeopas , long so called because of their inaccessibility and the little there was known about them , had been fairly well conquered . In the closing days of the expedition we followed the hardy to its head at Volcano Lake , and spent a day in examining the many active mud-volcanoes , which cover an extent of some two square miles overlooking the lake . The land all about is strongly impregnated with salts and sulphur , but even here sesuvium sessile was abundant in places , and in a hot spring near the volcanoes was found an alga hitherto only reported from Algeria . The expedition disbanded at Calexico , a town too young to yet be indicated on any man . It is located on New River , and the boundary-line between the TTnited States and Raja California is all that separates it from its Mexican neighbor , Mexicala . It is an object-lesson in what at slight control of the abundant waters will accomplish in the delta of the Colorado . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an area devoted mainly to fruit and grain , and its people talk enthusiastically of four to six crops of some farm products in a single season . Expert gardeners who desire to develop the finest of fruits and flowers seek the woodlands and swamps , and there laboriously gather leaf-mould , the wreckage of forest and stream . Carefully they combine this with sand , lest the plants become cloyed with the overrich food or sodden from improper drainage , and not a plant ever fails to repay them their intelligent care . And this is precisely the work that the Colorado is performing , and the product is stored in the great delta of the American Nile .                     