@@430061

 | The purpose of this paper is to sketch the course of political events in Louisiana from 1862 to 1866 , from the time when President Lincoln , with the noblest of intentions , first began through the agency of the army to reconstruct the government of the State until the reconstructed government had been put by the people into the hands of their familiar leaders . The melancholy pall of a bloody riot overhung the last months of 1866 , and early in 1867 the reconstruction legislation of Congress set the popular government aside and put the military commander in supreme control again , with authority to appoint officers and administer government . Military government of civil affairs is an interesting paradox which has more than once come to pass in the history of the United States . The system of military government that prevails in an army which is face to face with its armed enemy is one thing , but quite another is the system which prevails when the alarm of battle is not imminent , when the population among which the army is encamped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious detriment to the purposes of war . It is a veritable dells ex machina . It is effective . It brings things to pass , and generally with substantial equity towards individuals and with real advantage to the public weal . It directs that the affairs of industrial life and civil government shall go on according to the established forms and usages of civil law ? except as and until otherwise ordered . It limits and alters the recognized rules of civil law and procedure at will as the exigencies of the situation dictate . But as fast as the civil authorities show that they are competent to manage affairs it circumspectly withdraws into the background and gradually disappears , unless some fateful emergency calls it again into activity . Let there be a populous region of country in revolt against the government to which it has hitherto yielded obedience ; let the  | revolt be entered upon with enthusiasm , with bright prospects for success , and with whole-souled , sincere belief in the righteousness of the cause ; let it be supported by numbers and wealth , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force its way steadily and surely into the land and at length set itself down among the revolted people with force and arms to govern them ; let them be made to feel keenly that their conduct is odious in the eyes of their conquerors , whose confidence they have in consequence forfeited ; but let them , finally , be invited to abjure the past and swear to uphold that which they have been unable to pull down , with the assurance that those who thus qualify themselves will be allowed to resume self-government under surveillance and may hope for the full restoration of political privileges in due course of time : is this generosity ? or cruel irony ? Will not those who were exiled for loyalty to the old government return to receive power and wreak vengeance ? Will those who have not forfeited the confidence of the conquerors command the respect of their fellow-citizens ? Who is there who at once enjoys the confidence of the conquerors and the esteem of the conquered ? Can their accepted leaders be permitted to lead them still ? Can they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Orleans on May 1 , 1862 , and the martial law of the Federal army was at once proclaimed . Many people had found it expedient to leave , but a large proportion of the population of the city remained . Some of them not only cherished hatred towards the invaders , but exhibited their animosity in various ways . Others , a large number indeed , looked to the Union army for protection of property and business and for personal safety , subordinating sentiment to more material ends . Many foreigners , actual and alleged , belonged to this class . Using their foreign allegiance as a cloak now under Federal , even more perhaps than formerly under Confederate , control they demanded trade facilities scarcely consistent with military discipline . The Union sentiment , which indeed soon found public expression , was very weak and very dependent on the army . The  | most prominent representatives of it were not yet returned from exile and those who had remained in the city were still further diminished by enlistments in the army . It came chiefly , though not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Matters of police and sanitation claimed most immediate attention , and the opening of trade with the North came next . All of the functions upon which the peace , industry and safety of a city depend were called into activity . If the old forms were deemed inconvenient new forms were devised . If institutions civil in form were found unsuitable purely military ones were used . The restoration of some State functions was also thought necessary . President Lincoln commissioned General G. A. F. Shepley military governor of the State , with power to appoint his subordinates . Judge Howell , whose commission antedated the secession of the State , and whose service had been continuous under both National and Confederate authority , was deemed a suitable man to continue and he was ordered to do so . Other judges were appointed and one whole court , created by proclamation of President Lincoln , composed in part of former residents of Louisiana and in part of northern men , embarked from New York for New Orleans and began business in December , 1862 , having jurisdiction throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Shepley caused an election to be held on December 3 , 1862 , for the choice of two members of the national House of Representatives in the two districts which were then nearly but not completely embraced within the military lines . Michael F. Hahn and B. F. Flanders were chosen and in due time admitted to Congress . The Committee on Elections held that they had been duly chosen in an election which , in spite of irregularities and peculiar conditions , did nevertheless express the undoubted will of the majority of the loyal people of Louisiana within their respective districts ; and the House endorsed this opinion by its action . President Lincoln 's preliminary emancipation proclamation had been issued in September and Governor Shepley had presented its admonitory terms as an incentive to participation in the December election . On the other hand General Butler had  | openly advocated the abolition of slavery . Such things as these must have intensified the social ferment ; for these are the things on which General N. P. Banks , the new commander , dwelt most emphatically in the pacificatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close of the year . He assured the anxious slaveholders that their property was as yet untouched by military decree , he rebuked the agitation of the abolitionists ; and he recommended the slaves in mandatory terms to remain on the plantations . The agitation seems to have subsided materially . It called forth no mention in subsequent dispatches . Perhaps it was kept in check by the new regulations and stricter discipline of the new commander . The change of commanders in itself , the fact that all of Louisiana within the union lines was excepted from the terms of the emancipation proclamation of January 1 , 1863 , and the reception which Representatives Hahn and Flanders received in Washington were calculated to mollify . Three things are interesting to note from the facts : the presence of abolitionists , the presence of slaveholders enjoying enough freedom of speech to express their sentiments regarding slave property , and finally the inflammable nature of the colored population . As early as June , 1863 , two parties had become differentiated in that portion of the population which professed active , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been proclaimed , each of which masked a distinct purpose and pointed to an appropriate course of action . One party held that the constitution of 1861 had abrogated the constitution of 1852 and also that it was itself a nullity because it was unlawfully made and because the power that had sustained it had failed . The other considered that the constitution of 1852 had been in fact suspended during the year and more of Confederate sway , but that it had revived again and become operative with the return of the Federal power . The former wanted a constitutional convention called to fill the void which its theory contemplated . This was the free-state party ; it wanted to secure the abolition of slavery in the whole state and it looked upon the making of a new constitution by a convention as the least embarrassing and most  | certain opportunity of accomplishing its end . The other wanted an election called to fill the existing but vacant offices . This was the conservative party : it did not want to jeopardize slavery unnecessarily , to state its position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1852 , not omitting the clauses guaranteeing slavery . The two parties essayed to carry out their respective plans contemporaneously and both failed . The conservative party was rather small , was positively discouraged by President Lincoln , and encountered the official interference of Military-Governor Shepley . The free-state party had the support of the president . He did not accept its premises ; but he did endorse its plan and encourage it in its purpose . Yet it accomplished nothing . Its promoters tried afterwards to create the impression that they had worked industriously and had made continuous though slow progress from spring until fall . The President , however , wanted results which they seemed unlikely to procure ; and just at the end of the year , ignoring them , he committed the task of reconstruction to General Banks . II . The desired ends were promptly secured . On the fourth day of March , 1864 , State officials were inaugurated and on the sixth day of April a constitutional convention was organized. ; - General Banks , by military proclamation , ordered the election of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in force ? except the clauses regarding slavery , which he suspended in deference to the progress of events and of northern sentiments . However binding the constitution might be upon others under this order , he himself did not hesitate to alter and amend it further as circumstances gave occasion , or even to call the constitutional convention by military order . Governor Hahn , after his inauguration , issued a duplicate call as civil governor . But soon after he too received from the President a complimentary commission as military governor of the State , with the rank of brigadier general . Thus the reconstructed government was at bottom a  | military government , though administered by popularly elected officials according to the forms of the law and the constitution of the State ? when not otherwise provided . Both the free-state and conservative parties decided to participate in the election . The former in its nominating convention split on personal grounds and the heat of the campaign arose from the friction between the two factions . The election , on February 22 , resulted in the success not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , which polled less than one-fourth of the total vote cast , but of that wing of the successful party which was most in sympathy with General Banks 's method of reconstruction . The election of delegates to the constitutional convention took place on March 28 . Local and personal issues figured more than the greater general issues . Indeed it seemed to be accepted as a foregone conclusion that slavery would be constitutionally abolished ; and so it happened , though the question of compensation to " loyal owners " did cause some discussion . One hundred and fifty delegates from forty-eight parishes would have constituted a full convention . Ninety-eight delegates from nineteen parishes were actually seated . The convention contained among its members some of the ablest and most respected of the old citizens of New Orleans ; and also many who were now called for the first time into public life because the men participating in the movement were few in numbers and were without their usual leaders . Some of the delegates were particularly pleased to have a tiptop bar conveniently supplied with the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did some foolish things and some bad things ; it did also some very conservative , yet reasonable , things and some very progressive things . Seventy-six , threequarters of the actual attendance , were made the quorum because it was one more than half of a full convention . Slavery was abolished in name and in fact . The legislature was instructed to provide a free school system for the blacks as well as for the whites , and was given authority to extend the suffrage to the negroes . But in neither particular did it follow its instructions and exercise its privilege . The provision of the new constitution making the judges of the State courts appointive was the culmination of a reaction begun in ante bellum days . The influence of  | New Orleans was predominant . The convention was held in the city and two-thirds of the delegates present were its representatives . As a matter of course the convention tore away the limitations which the country parishes had in former years jealously put upon the urban influence . New Orleans was made the capital and representation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total population . The secession debt was repudiated , but participants in the secession movement were not disfranchised . The times were not yet ripe for that . The policy still was to leave the door of return open wide for all who would resume local obligations . The constitution of 1852 was the basis and in many cases the convention adopted its provisions unchanged . The new constitution was ratified on September 5 by a large majority of the vote cast . The opposition votes numbered only 800 in a total of 5,400 in the city ; and barely 1,600 in an aggregate of 8,400 for all the region participating . On the same day a general assembly was chosen and also five representatives in Congress . The influence exerted upon the election by the military commander directly and indirectly was considerable . In the three weeks immediately preceding , military orders of questionable liberality and energetic canvassing added 1,200 or 1,500 names to the registry books in New Orleans . Most of these seem to have voted and , presumably , for the constitution and the successful candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a majority for the constitution was manufactured out of a majority against it . Moreover it is nowhere alleged that people voted for the constitution through fear , or were prevented by fear and intimidation from registering and voting against it . It is only alleged that some voted for it who should not have been allowed to vote at all . If the election failed in any particular to represent the will of the " loyal " people of Louisiana the fact was due rather to the neglect of the opposition to exercise the right of suffrage . For this class was quite numerous , but chose not to vote .  | The registration of voters in the parish of Orleans , the only parish in which registration took place or was required by law , had amounted in the spring of 1864 to something more than 7,000 names , as nearly as can be ascertained . Of these , 6,000 voted in the election of February 22 for one or the other of the three gubernatorial candidates . In the election of March 28 , for the choice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than 4,000 . It had fallen off by nearly as many votes as had been cast for the conservative candidate for governor . In September the aggregate registration had been run up to about 9,000 names , of whom only some 5,500 voted . Among those who were not registered , or being registered did not vote , were , first , the Durant faction of the free-state party , who objected to the prevalent military influence in the State affairs in general and who by this time had come to object more strongly still to a constitution which did not enforce negro suffrage ; and , secondly , the McClellan faction , which objected to any procedure disturbing the organic law of the State as it existed before the ordinance of secession . How far the party which six months later began to support Governor Wells was composed of the registered , and how far of the unregistered , element of the population can not be determined . As the months passed by it undoubtedly gained its chief strength from among the many who were returning from the Confederate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each house delegates representing half the area , and two-thirds of the population , of the State , estimated on the basis of the census of 1860 . Nine of the twenty-five senators and forty-four of the eighty-four representatives were from the parish of Orleans . As the year closed the reconstruction of the civil government of the State seemed nearly complete . A reasonably satisfactory constitution had been made and adopted ; the executive branch of the government had been in operation since the preceding March ; a legislature was in session ; and a new act for the organization of the supreme court had been passed . But the judges had not yet been appointed , no general election had been ordered for the  | choice of local officers , though about half the parishes in the State had been organized and were running smoothly in charge of military appointees ; and , even in New Orleans , there had been no popular choice of officers to replace the military appointees who were managing the municipal government . The army , during this period , had done efficient service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distance the Confederate army and the un-reconstructed refugees ; internally it had performed some things very necessary and some other things very desirable for the preservation of order , the administration of justice and the conduct of business . There was scarcely a phase of governmental activity in which the military did not bear a part , or the whole , of the responsibility , actually if not nominally . The commanding general made public protest against the conditions . They were unwholesome , strange and suspicious . Possibly the presence of the army was necessary to prevent the seizure of the government by those who would still have declared their allegiance to the Confederacy . Quite certainly the shadow of its impending power was necessary to prevent measures which , loyal in name , would have prematurely inflamed Congress . But this is not enough to explain the complacency with which those who gave public expression to their political opinions viewed the presence and activity of the military . It seems to have been generally realized that all who would engage in political agitation must submit to the censorship of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite apparent that those who were in power preferred to hold on by military authority if necessary rather than risk the expression of a popular choice and lose ; while those who were likely to be left out preferred to be governed by the army rather than by those of their fellow-citizens who were their political opponents . The legislature reassembled early in January , 1865 . It made a number of changes in the laws affecting local administration , adopted the thirteenth amendment to the national constitution , passed the necessary appropriations , and imposed an excise tax on trades , professions and industries , which , if we accept the  | evidence of the news and advertising columns of the " Times " newspaper , were better able to contribute to the support of the government than real property . On January 9 the legislature gave Governor Hahn the empty honor of an election to the United States Senate for the term beginning in March following . Three days later the senate in executive session confirmed two , out of the five , nominations to the supreme bench which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political quarrel in the course of which Lieutenant-Governor Wells , as president of the senate , made some apparently arbitrary decisions and the body was for days at a time without a quorum . On February 27 , however , a quorum assembled to accept Governor Hahn 's resignation and the matter in dispute , whatever it might have been , was allowed to drop . After the inauguration of Governor Wells he nominated three men for the vacancies on the supreme bench and his nominations were promptly confirmed . One year before Governor Hahn had been elected as the candidate of one wing , and Lieutenant-Governor Wells as the candidate of both wings , of the free-state party . Now this party had lost control of affairs . Governor Hahn had resigned and Governor Wells had deserted . Up to the adjournment of the constitutional convention he scarcely came into public notice . There is nothing tangible to show what might have been his possible ambitions in accepting the second place on the State ticket . But from 1864 to 1876 he managed with considerable cleverness and success to forsake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far in advance of each crisis as to share with the victors in the honors and emoluments of the change in the political situation . If we may attribute to him in 1864-5 the same principle of action which his later conduct uniformly exhibits , we shall have a reasonable working hypothesis and a clue to the political situation in Louisiana at that time which will put the known facts in an interesting and , I am confident , in their true connection one to another . Following this clue we may say that the anxiety shown by General Banks and others at the failure of so many to participate in the election of September , 1864 , was not unfounded and not  | exaggerated ; that the result of that election indicated the greatest strength of the free-state party ; and that as time passed on Governor Wells came to see in the people who were eligible , but would not register , and in those who had registered but would not vote , the coming party of the majority in the State . Governor Hahn 's resignation gave him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The opportunity was further extended by the close of the war and the return of the soldiers under parole and by the reorganization of the country parishes . His power of appointment was uniformly exercised to the advantage of the " rebels " and was limited only by the number of local civil offices in the State . Even the supreme court had a majority of his appointees . Only the members of the legislature and half a dozen general State officers elected with him were beyond the reach of his power to remove . The other offices were either still vacant , as many of the parishes had not been fully organized ; or filled with military appointees whom General Canby removed at his request ; or with " temporary " appointees of Governor Hahn whom , as the courts ruled , he could remove. * It was at this time , also , that public criticism began to be directed to the September election . The validity of the constitution was challenged because only the people in a small part of the State had the opportunity to vote upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal right to do so . The legislature was also challenged on the ground that without the members elected by votes illegally cast , it would not have a quorum . The evidence was not so specific as the charges ; but it is quite true that military orders changing the qualifications of electors and judicious canvassing among those who had recently come as soldiers or in the wake of the Union army swelled the registration list . However , the constitution was recognized as de facto ; but a new convention was clamored for and especially a new registration . Governor Wells was the trusted representative of this party at home and abroad . The courts ruled in harmony with his plans . General Canby assisted him . President Johnson gave him hearty support . The party was on the high road to success . But its opponents were not silenced . The free-state party still main- tained its organization . It criticised Governor Wells very severely for his conduct ; it supported the constitution , and it advocated the disfranchisement of only a few of the highest civil and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a republican party , so-called . It had few members and received little attention from the others . Its significance lies in its similarity to the republican party of the North , with which it seems as yet to have had little or no intercourse , and in the fact that it advocated negro suffrage and agitated among the negroes . In November of 1865 a State election was held for the choice of general State officers , representatives in the national Congress and representatives and half the senators in the State legislature . A new registration of voters had long since been made . Only two parties nominated candidates and took part in the canvass : the **27;0;TOOLONG , or Banks-free-state , party , and the democratic party . In the convention of the former only twentyfive parishes were represented and eighteen of them wholly or partially by proxy . Aside from its nomination and support of Governor Wells its canvass is not especially noteworthy . The convention of the democratic party was attended by delegates from twenty-seven parishes . It too nominated Governor Wells ; but he later would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure-head than as the trusted leader which he quite certainly was during the spring and summer preceding . The utterances of the convention were barely kept within the bounds of prudence by its more conservative members and in its canvass it took occasion to appeal to the pride of the old southerners . The ex-Confederate governor , Allen , was also nominated and he drew about one vote in five of the total poll , a number not much smaller than that polled by the ticket of the conservative party . But there were no other candidates on the ticket with him and there was no organization openly supporting him . The victory of the democrats was decisive but not complete . The republican party received barely a notice in the columns of the " Times " newspaper , during the campaign . Only now and then were the dark deeds of some evil-witted persons hinted at . It appears , however , that this party , in addition to advocating negro suffrage , had adopted the theory that Louisiana was conquered territory and should be given a territorial government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " Territory of Louisiana , " elected by negro voters at its own polls and it demanded of the president the appointment of a territorial governor . To what extent it had provided polling places in the city and the suburbs , and what amount of ill-will and violence was shown the movement is nowhere stated ; neither does it appear whether the interference of which it complained was official , semi-official , or purely the work of a mob . The " Times " newspaper , on the morning after the elections , stated that there was " no disturbance worth mentioning in any quarter of the city . " If this statement had reference merely to the localities in which the regular polling places were located , it must still have been applicable to the whole city also , or this newspaper deliberately and successfully concealed noteworthy items of news . One week after the election , on November 13 , the republicans held a meeting and put into the form of resolutions the statement that they had elected a delegate to Congress by a large number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been for violent inter ference , and that the negroes who voted had not been assessed a dollar apiece . A prominent speaker at the meeting , Mr. B. F. Flanders , asserted that the officers elected by the democrats , with the exception of Governor Wells and Congressman-elect Barker , were all disloyal . The credentials of the republican delegate and of the democratic congressmen were all alike referred by the house to the Committee on Reconstruction . Governor Wells called a special meeting of the legislature soon after the election to consider several important matters , of which one was the condition of the levees . It is quite noticeable , at this time and later , that in such matters as these , involving the expenditure of large sums , the legislature fully trusted and supported the governor , whom in political matters they were coming to oppose most bitterly . The presence of an opposition in the legislature was first indicated in the fact of a minority report to the house on the question of calling a constitutional convention . Finally , however , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the irresolution of the democrats and their deference to the wishes of their advisers in Washington which caused the defeat of the measure at the regular session in January .  | The remaining episode of the regular legislative session to which attention need be drawn relates to the calling of local elections throughout the State . A bill was passed over the governor 's veto directing him to call an election of charter officers for the city of New Orleans on the second Monday in March . Two days later an act was passed , also over his veto , which " authorized and directed " him to call elections for the choice of parish officers throughout the State on the same day . The former direction he obeyed after some hesitation , but the latter he ignored ; and on March 2 the legislature provided by act that parish elections should be held on the first Monday in May and that the governor should commission the officers then chosen . Thus the governor was at odds with the democrats in the legislature . A simple reference to the record of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviate the necessity of harmonizing his position after the election of 1865 with his conduct in the spring of the same year , or of attempting to explain the change on any other than practical grounds . The conduct of the democrats in Louisiana was seen not to be pleasing to the dominant party in Washington . He himself sought to convey the impression that at the time of his nomination by the democrats in October , 1865 , they already considered him so conservative that through him they might hope to win the consideration of the national Congress in spite of its radical tendencies . Certain it is that Mr. Flanders called him " loyal " in contrast with the others , and that the national conservative union party had so far forgiven the treatment it received at his home inrthe spring that it put his name at the head of its ticket . It is nowhere suggested that the inquiries which President Johnson at this time made into the affairs of the city were instigated by the democrats of the State , nor does it appear that the president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a city election . On the contrary the president is said to have had confidence in him up to a much later period . Even in New Orleans , if he was entirely out of harmony with the democratic leaders , he had not yet gone so far as to identify himself with the republicans openly and completely . Two tickets were nominated in preparation for the city election in New Orleans on March 12 , 1866 , one by the " union " or city- hall party , and one by the democratic party , whose candidate , ex-Mayor Monroe , was the officer whom General Butler had deposed and banished in 1862 . The canvass was very spirited . At one time the democratic party seemed to be fearful of defeat ; and finally its candidate for mayor was elected by a rather narrow majority . Though no direct evidence was found , the circumstances suggest that it was the vain hope of Governor Wells that his friends would succeed , which led him to call the election in the city . while refusing to call one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong . After the result of the municipal election was known he and his co-worker , Military-Mayor Kennedy , sought to prevent the installation of the officers-elect ; but they failed . General Canby , clearly acting upon a mutual understanding with the new officers , revoked the militav order of May , 1862 , by which the city had up to this time been governed , permitted the new officers to be installed and then suspended Mayor Monroe and one alderman until they could go to Washington and get special pardon from the president . The parish elections were held May 7 . The democratic candidate for sheriff of New Orleans , ex-Brigadier-General Hays of the Confederate army , procured a special pardon from the president in advance of the election ; for again the man whom this party chose to honor with high office had need of such a dispensation . The " union " party put his name at the head of its ticket , but he refused to accept such a nomination . To some of the minor offices , the candidates of the " union " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the democrats . Of the elections in the country parishes , scarcely a mention was made in the local papers . IV . Thus the local government and most of the state offices except the higher were in the hands of the men who had controlled affairs before the coming of the Federal army , and who had conducted the war against the Union . It did not long remain in their control . Considering the temper of the leaders in Washington and throughout the North it could not have long remained  | so . In less than a year the inauguration of reconstruction had thrown the State affairs again under the control of a military governor . But one event may be added to show the last desperate effort which the local republican party made to secure control . The so-called republican party in the State had taken on a new form meanwhile . Indeed few characteristics of the former party remained except the name , the fact of a continuous history , and the heritage of support which the party had now come to receive from the republicans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a fraction of the old free-state party grown rabidly radical . The " conquered territory " doctrine was no longer preached . The party had even given up the idea of having a new constitutional convention , one initiated by military authority and based on restricted white and universal negro suffrage . Instead it was proposed to resurrect the old free-state convention of 1864 which , for reasons that were good at the time but had long since become invalid , had adjourned " subject to the call of the president . " Some of the leading republicans opposed the idea in vain . General Sheridan peremptorily refused to give it military aid ; but his duties called him to Texas and the second in command , General Baird , unfortunately threatened to interfere with the police if they interfered with the free assembling of any orderly body of citizens . The republicans at Washington showed some sympathy but gave no specific endorsement . Governor Well endorsed the movement ; and it was LieutenantGovernor Voorhies and Mayor Monroe who carried on the fatally inconclusive negotiations with General Baird . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a republican , refused to act ; but Judge Howell , the president pro rem , consented . A secret meeting on June 26 and Judge Howell 's public call on July 8 for the reassembling of the convention marked the progress of the republicans from deliberation to action . But the attitude of General Baird prevented the civil authorities from interfering by legal process . On July 30 twentyfive out of the original ninety-eight members assembled in con- vention and adjourned for lack of a quorum after the usual formalities . The troops were in their barracks below the city ; the city police were in their quarters ; the sheriff had sworn in no deputies . The streets about the place of meeting were well filled ; a procession of negroes led by a drum or two approached and entered the building just as the convention was adjourning . A negro began to harangue a near-by crowd ; a white boy baited some negroes ? and the riot was under way . The police joined in . The negroes and conventionists were arrested or driven from the from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sixty or seventy were injured , including several policemen ; and the fury of the mob had well nigh exhausted itself when the troops arrived . The conventionists made no further efforts to meet . Investigations were made and partisan reports have erected a perpetual monument to the melancholy event . Incendiarism and other kinds of lawlessness abounded for some weeks . Then things settled down somewhat , but drifted on in the same turgid stream as before : and a dispute was pending between Governor Wells and the city authorities over the holding of a regular municipal election when General Sheridan received the anticipated orders and took charge under authority of the Reconstruction Act which Congress had just passed . So , in the closing days of March , 1867 , ingloriously ended the presidential effort to reconstruct Louisiana . Who was to blame ? The selfishness and passion of men or the weakness of human nature ?                     