@@473904

IN his life of Sir Stafford Northeote , Mr. Andrew Lang records with pride the noble stand taken , not by any mere individual Englishman , but by the English government itself , on an occasion when the purity of the speech was threatened . Negotiations for a treaty were going on at Washington between the United States and Great Britain . The subjects for discussion and settlement were of the utmost gravity . Controversy existed about the Alabama claims , about the Canadian fisheries , about the San Juan boundary , besides other matters , of minor importance indeed compared with the foregoing , but nevertheless of importance in themselves . On numerous points under consideration there was naturally wide difference of opinion . Proposals and counter - proposals were constantly exchanged . According to the account given in the biography , a difficulty , wholly unnecessary , fell to the lot of the English commission . in addition to the inevitable disputes with its opponents it found itself a good deal annoyed and hampered by instructions from the home government . At last an agreement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which , in the opinion of some , assent should never have been given . There was one point , we are told , upon which the home government was sternly inflexible . " For it , " says Mr. Lang , " much may by literary persons be forgiven them . " It telegraphed that in the wording of the treaty it would under no circumstances endure the insertion of an adverb between the preposition to ( the sign of the infinitive ) and the verb . Mr. Lang feels justly the heroic nature of this act . Much might be yielded on questions in dispute which all knew would ultimately involve expenditure of money , and indeed implied at the time admission of previous wrong - doing ; much might further be yielded in the ease of certain things which the biographer himself seems to regard as points of honor . Still , on these minor matters it was thought advisable to give way . So much the more must our tribute of admiration be paid to the English government for remaining as immovable as the solid rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of severing the close tie that binds to the infinitive the preposition to . " The purity of the language , " observes Mr. Lang , " they nobly and courageously defended . " Of the serious nature of this assault upon the integrity of the speech Mr. Lang has the keenest appreciation . The biography mentioned above is not the only place in which he has expressed an opinion similar to that just quoted . In 1890 he brought out a lecture which had been delivered by him at the South Kensington Museum . It was entitled " How to Fail in Literature . " In the course of it he assures the one who is aiming at such a desirable result . that he can not be too reckless of grammar . There is always a certain vagueness in utterances of this sort when taken by themselves . Ever since the schoolmaster started on his journey abroad , there have been about as many kinds of grammar as there are kinds of schoolmasters . It is therefore pertinent to inquire whose grammar is meant . All of us keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according as men conform or fail to conform to them we - test the linguistic soundness or frailty of our neighbors . Fortunately Mr. Lang comes to our help in this instance , and illustrates recklessness of grammar by saying that one " should always place adverbs and other words between to and the infinitive . " He concedes indeed that there are persons who are guilty of this atrocity who have attained popularity . But though they may have succeeded in alluring the public to buy their books , they have failed in literature ; and it is about literature that he is speaking . This dictum contributes something towards solving what has always been a perplexing problem . It may be difficult to determine exactly what literature is ; but we are now furnished with a short and easy method of determining what it is not . Writings which contain an adverb inserted between to and the infinitive may be enjoyed by the herd , but they are not literature . But even the herd have rights which the most superior person is bound to re spect . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they shall have pointed out to them the precise character of the peril which led the English government to hurry nobly and courageously to the defence of the English tongue from the crafty assaults of the American commissioners , who , by the very fact of being Americans , were necessarily engaged in devilish devices for corrupting the speech . Let it be conceded that the practice censured is improper . But why is it improper ? What is the nature of the particular havoc wrought to the language by the insertion of a word or words between to and the infinitive ? On this point the objectors to the usage in question , along with the severity of their attitude , maintain a silence so profound that the suspicion inevitably suggests itself that they communicate no information about it , they advance no arguments against it , because they have neither information to furnish nor arguments to present . Of expressions of personal opinion , however , both of the usage and its users , the supply is ample . It consists mainly in the application to each of derogatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a solecism . It is held up as a glaring example of the corruptions which are invading our speech . But again the question comes up , Why is it a barbarism , a solecism , a corruption ? On this point a scrupulous reticence is maintained . Since , then , we have no arguments to meet , we must contentourselves with the consideration of assertions . Of these the constant charge of its being a corruption holds the foremost place . Yet the truth is that the practice of joining to the simple infinitive the preposition to was itself a corruption originally . In our early speech to belonged strictly to the gerund , or , as it is sometimes called , the dative ease of the infinitive . Of this practice we have now in our tongue no small number of examples . Locutions like " rooms to rent " or " houses to let are genuine representatives of the original usage , though the verb has been shorn of the ending which once proclaimed its distinctive character . But with us to was not at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early Teutonic tongues in which such was the ease . We still retain traces of the primitive linguistic virtue we once universally possessed . After certain common verbs , such as bid , make , let , hear , and a number of others , we rarely or never use to . It is not the normal construetion . To say , " I saw him to do it , " would strike every one as unidiomatic . It would surely kindle the indignation of those who devote all the leisure at their command to the preservation of the purity of the speech . Let us imagine , then , what must have been the feelings of the purist of the twelfth century ? for the purist , like the poor , we have always with us ? when he saw the preposition to transferred from the gerund , to which it properly belonged , and prefixed indiscriminatingly to the infinitive proper , where it had no business to be . He doubtless foresaw in the act the approach of the ruin which was soon to overwhelm the tongue . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rescue of the imperilled speech . The powers that be were then talking French and cared nothing for English . There was no one of sufficient authority to organize a successful opposition . In consequence the distinction between the use of the infinitive with to and without to broke down entirely . Accordingly , when in the fourteenth century a great literature began to be created , it found fastened upon the language this monstrous impropriety . It was there . It could not be dislodged ; and , further , there was no desire to dislodge it . For the usual result had followed . Vice , the poet tells us , is so hideous that the moment we see it we hate it ; but if we see it often enough , we begin with enduring it and end by embracing it . So it has been in this case . Devotion is but a weak name for the affection now felt for a usage which in its origin was a corruption . In the eyes of many the tie that unites to and the infinitive surpasses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by them as so essential that the existence without it of a verb in this mood is hardly suspected . It is to this conception , or rather lack of conception , that we doubtless owe that most extraordinary specimen of grammatical terminology which gives to the separation of the preposition from the verb the name of " split infinitive . " It is plain from this historical survey that the prefixing of the preposition to the regular infinitive had in its origin all the distinguishing marks of a corruption . But it is by no means plain that the insertion of an adverb between to and the verb can be so designated . The burden of proof assuredly lies upon him who niches an assertion to that effect . For let us consider the abstract propriety of the usage . The infinitive , we all know , is a verbal noun . Between other substantives and the prepositions governing them words are constantly introduced . Indeed we are frequently compelled to insert them in order to convey our meaning fully . When we remark , for illustration , that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " no one could possibly regard as improper the insertion of the definite article and the possessive pronoun between the prepositions and their objects . Why , then , should this verbal noun enjoy the distinction , denied to all other nouns , of having the attendant to directly connected with it . in every case ? What dignity hedges it about ? It is all the harder to comprehend because the preposition in the position indicated has in the large majority of instances lost its proper prepositional force . Some grammarians , indeed , have treated it in such cases as an adverb . Others have designated it by the vague generality of " particle . " There is certainly groundfor the difficulty they have experienced in its characterization . Prefixed to the gerund it meant something . But with the simple infinitive it merely precedes ; it does not govern . It has become little more than a mechanical device to indicate that the verb following is in the infinitive mood ; and this it would indicate whether joined to it directly ur separated from it by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valueless in itself that when it is omitted , as it regularly is after certain verbs , its absence is not even felt . Enough has been said to dispose of the charge of corruption brought against this usage . But besides this , we are told that it is an innovation . This of itself could never be deemed a convincing argument fur its avoidance . If an innovation is a desirable one , it is to he welcomed and not to be eschewed . But the principal difficulty with this objection is not its fallaciousness , but its falsity . More than twenty years ago the late Fitzedward Hall ? that terror of those indulging in loose and unfounded assertions about usage ? showed conclusively that the . practice of inserting words between the preposition and the infinitive went back to the fourteenth century , and that in a greater or less degree it has prevailed in every century since . He had not been the only one to observe the fact , but he was the first to announce it ; and , above all , the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrative extracts that nobody had previously taken the pains to bring together . His essay settled definitely that whatever be the sanctity that attaches to grammatical constructions from age , it belongs in an eminent degree to this particular one which purists are now often accustomed to stigmatize as a modernism . In the light of the facts just given we can therefore feel justified in looking with indifference upon the charge of corruption brought against this usage . That is a distinction which every grammatical form must have enjoyed sometime during its existence . We can further treat with scant ceremony the charge of innovation . That owes its origin to ignorance of the facts . But there remains another and much more serious accusation , It is the one inti " TO " AND THE INFINITIVE . mated and indeed almost directly asserted in the opening paragraphs of this article . It is there implied that the practice has never met with the sanction of good writers . If true , this would be a convincing reason for its avoidance . A usage deliberately rejected by all authors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a lower class employ it unhesitatingly . But the same difficulty attends this assertion as attended the previous one . It is not in accordance with the facts . It was most effectively disposed of in the paper of Dr. Hall , to which reference has just been made . He showed that the practice had not only existed in every century from the fourteenth to the present , but that in every century it had been indulged in by good writers . Let us throw out of consideration the passages he furnished from the works of authors who , however highly esteemed in their own generation , are to us hardly so much as a name . Still , without reckoning these , the examples he adduced are not to be sneered at for their number any more than for the quality of those contributing them . They begin with Wycliffe in the fourteenth century . He is found employing such locutions ? of which I have modernized the orthography ? as " to this manner treat , " " to never have received , " " to evermore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The following century was one not much given to literature of any sort ; but examples of the usage are furnished by two of its most distinguished names ? Bishop Pecock and Sir John Fortescue . Then follow Lord Berners and Tyndale in the sixteenth century ; and in the succeeding centuries Sir Thomas Browne , Bentley , Defoe , Dr. Johnson , Burke , Southey , Coleridge , Lamb , De Quincy , Matthew Arnold , Charles Heade , and Ruskin . Coming down to the names of men of to-day , Dr. Hall gave examples from Herbert Spencer and Leslie Stephen , to name two out of several from whom he cited illustrations of the practice . It can hardly be denied that this is a very respectable gathering of men who have failed in literature . Some of them might even meet the approval of the " literary persons , " as Mr. Lang terms them , whose hearts swelled with joy at the opyea , 617. - 91portune succor brought by the British government to the imperilled speech . But these are not all the well - known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it be deemed a crime . To the list given by Mr. Hall can be added examples from the writings of Benjamin Franklin , Byron , Keats , the Brownings , Lowell , and Oliver Wendell Holmes . Even the great poet of Scotland has to be included among the offenders . It was Burns who , in one of his most famous pieces , spoke of Wallace as one Who dared to nobly stem tyrannic pride . Doubtless many more names could be added to the catalogue given were an extended examination made of the usage of the prominent writers of our literature in reference to this particular point . Especially would this be the case if we directed our attention to those of the nineteenth century . Even as it is , such an array of imposing authorities might at first sight be deemed sufficient to settle the question . But let us be just . A discussion of this sort ought not to have for its aim a onesided presentation of the facts . All that has been said has been truly said ; yet it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfair . It tends to give the impression that there has never been any genuine reason , based upon the practice of great writers , for finding any fault with the usage here under consideration . This is far from being the case . For while the custom of inserting an adverb between to and the infinitive goes back to the fourteenth century , while , furthermore , it has been found in every century since , it is not until a comparatively recent period that it has been found frequently . From the middle of the sixteenth century down to the beginning of the nineteenth the probabilities are that the practice has against it the weight of authority . On this point , as on so many similar ones , there has never been an exhaustive examination of the works of our foremost authors ? hardly even an approximation to it in a single ease . Accordingly , all assertions of this nature must be taken subject to correction . Still , so far as investigation , necessarily imperfect , justifies the making of any statement whatever , it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoided by the large majority of the great writers of our speech . Perhaps it would be better to say that the thought of resorting to it has never occurred to them . Furthermore , it may be observed that most of those who have employed it in the past have done so rarely . With our present inadequate knowledge no hard and fast rules can be laid down . In the fifteenth century Dr. Hall found frequent instances of it in the writings of Bishop Pocock . In the Elizabethan period Donne used this word-order without hesitation . On the other hand , but one instance was pointed out in Dr. Johnson , and but one in Macaulay . It is of course to be kept in mind that the employment of the infinitive without any adverbial modifier is almost immeasurably more frequent than its employment with one . Against a single example of the latter usage in any given work can always be found scores of the former . But with the information we have , it is fair to assume that the best writers of our literature have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objection to it , based upon this general disuse , is therefore one which can not be set aside lightly , still less dismissed contemptuously . If the feelings in regard to the practice which held sway in the past continued to prevail in the present , the only course open to him who is solicitous about conforming to the best accepted standards of expression would be to refrain from its employment . But these feelings no longer prevail . As constantly happens in the history of language , the old order of - things is changing . Usage which can impose a restriction can also take it off , if it so chooses . That in this case it is choosing to take it off is perfectly plain to the student of speech , whose business it is to note things as they are , and not as in the eyes of grammarians they ought to be . The practice of inserting an adverb between the infinitive sign and the infinitive has steadily increased during the last fifty years , and goes on increasing still . Even a slight examination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England and America , will make clear that the universal adoption of this usage is as certain as anything in the future well can be . That to some it is and will continue peculiarly offensive there is no question . That is indeed a point upon which they will not neglect to keep us fully informed . But the ranks of those who employ the construction will be steadily swelled by new recruits who will use , not only ' without scruple , but without thought , a method of expression which they meet with everywhere in print and hear everywhere in conversation . The mere weight of numbers will eventually settle the dispute . The time indeed will come when men will be unaware that there has ever been any dispute about the matter at all . But until that time comes there will continue to be on this point both diversity of opinion and diversity of usage among educated men . Some even who approve of this denounced word-order in theory and recognize the inevitableness of its universal employment are certain to be so affected by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refrain from resorting TO it in practice . Among writers at all periods there are those who shrink from the new , even when they look upon it as desirable in itself . On the other hand , there are those who accept without hesitation any neologism whatever , if they think that thereby they can secure additional clearness and expressiveness . The varying attitude of modern authors towards this particular usage is strikingly exemplified in the works of the two great representative poets of the Victorian era , Tennyson and Browning . No one possessing an atom of discretion will venture to maintain a ' universal negative unless he has carefully gone over the whole ground in dispute . I therefore content myself with observing that if Tennyson ever inserted an adverb between io and the infinitive , it has escaped my notice . Such abstention on his part from a usage which in his time had become comparatively common would he in accord with the conservative tendencies he generally exhibited in matters of grammatical construction . - Whatever innovations he made were in the way of reviving the obsolete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was far different . The practice so violently condemned by many , among whom are doubtless some of his admirers , was one to which he was peculiarly addicted . His fondness for it is manifested in both his earlier and later pieces . Take , for illustration , the tragedy of A Blot in the ' Senteheon . In that play we find " to merely have reproached , " " to plainly make the charge , " and " to only signify . " It is , however , more convincing as well as more satisfactory to test Browning 's attitude towards the usage by his prose . In poetry the necessities of the measure may sometimes force a writer to commit what he himself will confess to be a fault ; but nevertheless a fault voluntarily committed in order to produce a striking beauty . But in prose no excuse can be pleaded on this score . In that the writer who resorts to any disputed practice does so with his eyes open , does so deliberately , not to say defiantly . Now in Browning 's play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely in prose . With the question of this usage in mind , the following extracts from this comparatively short piece clearly indicate his opinion of the matter : I had despaired . of ever being able to rightly operate on mankind through such a deranged machinery as the existing modes of government . It becomes a truth again , after all , as he happens to newly consider it and view it in a different relation with the others . I only desired to do justice to the noble sentiments which animate you , and which you are too modest to duly enforce . In the whole of this second part there are just six instances of adverbs qualifying the infinitive ; in three of these , as we observe , it precedes it directly . Browning 's course is so illustrative of the later attitude of men generally towards this usage that it may well serve as an introduction to an account of its wider modern extension . " Paracelsus , " his first acknowledged work , was published in 1835 . In this poem appeared several instances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verb . This of itself is fairly conclusive evidence of the headway which the usage had already gained . There is every reason to believe that this method of expression was then employed by the poet unconsciously . It probably never occurred to him at the time that any objection had been or could be made to the practice . Later in life , with the clamor raised about it , he could hardly have remained in this happy ignorance ; though if knowledge came , it did not affect his action . At all events , the unconsciousness of linguistic criminality , which he seems to have felt at the beginning of his career , was shared in by no small number of his contemporaries . The usage , though long before in existence , did not apparently begin to obtrude itself upon the attention of the public until the latter part of the eighteenth century . Notice was then occasionally taken of it in the reviews ; but so far as my own observation goes , it was treated as a singularity and not denounced as an enormity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account with Madame d'Arbley by any critic , though she gave ample occasion for it by the frequency with which she resorted to this particular arrangement of words . Thus the usage , little heeded , gained ground steadily . By the middle of the nineteenth century it had become comparatively common . Then the champions of purity of speech suddenly woke up to the gravity of the situation . Following the time-honored fashion of locking the stable door after the horse has been stolen , they started a systematic crusade against the practice . It has been kept up with little interruption from that day to this . At no period indeed has the attack upon the usage been so virulent as during the past dozen years ; and at no period has its futility been so apparent . The purists had been aroused from their torpor too late , if indeed their awakening at any time would have made any difference in the result . One further point remains for consideration . What are the reasons which have led to the wide extension of this practice in modern English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are quite obvious . This particular change in the order of the words is but an illustration of that conscious or unconscious effort always going on in language to give greater precision or strength to the meaning . The users of speech feel , whether rightly or wrongly , that they can secure either added clearness or added force by putting the qualifying adverb directly before the verb it qualifies . There are numerous instances where the adoption of the wordorder usually followed occasions a certain degree of ambiguity . Scores of illustrations could be found from the works of well-known writers . Let us take , for example , one from the dedication to Lyttelton of the novel of Tom Jones , " I have endeavored strongly to inculcate , " wrote Fielding , " that virtue and innocence can scarce ever be injured but by indiscretion . " In this sentence does strongly modify endeavored or inculcate ? It can do either properly ; and though little doubt exists in this instance , cases are always likely to occur in which the sense will be distinctly uncertain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to many to deprive expression in some measure of strength . " To adequately illustrate the subject " is to the popular apprehension a more forcible way of expressing one 's self than to say adequately to illustrate it , or to illustrate it adequately . The inherent right or wrong of the apprehension does not come under consideration , nor how men ought to feel about the matter . What they do feel has been the allcontrolling influence which induces them in many instances to change the order of the words , and has made them unsatisfied even with placing the adverb after the infinitive . This latter , too , is in some cases impossible . It is apparently in this way only that the single instance , so far recorded , of Macaulay 's resort to this method of expression can be explained . It occurs in the essay on Lord Holland . That nobleman had died in 1840 , and Macaulay 's article appeared in the Edinburgh Review for July of the following year . As it was originally published in that periodical , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order fully to appreciate the character of Lord Holland , it is necessary to go back into the history of his family . " In 1843 Macaulay brought out an edition of his essays carefully revised . In that the beginning of the sentence just quoted had been . changed so as to read , " In order to fully appreciate the character of Lord Holland . " This is the form which was retained in subsequent editions . There seems no other reason to give for the alteration than the belief on the part of the essayist that thereby he imparted greater force to the assertion . For Macaulay was never careless about his expression . What he did he did designedly . He must have believed that in thus departing from his usual practice he had secured the additional emphasis for which he was striving . Such is a brief outline of the fortunes of this so-called corruption . It is hardly necessary to say that throughout this article the term corruption has been used not in the proper sense of the word , but in that given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes going on in language which have not the good fortune to meet with their personal approval . If men come seriously to believe that ambiguity can be lessened or emphasis increased by changing the order of words in any given phrase , we may be sure that in time the habit of so doing will he adopted whenever it is deemed desirable . It is clear that most of those who now refrain from the practice under discussion no longer do so instinctively , as was once the case , but rather under compulsion . They refrain , not because they feel that it is unnatural or unidiomatic , but because they have been told that it is improper . Artificial bulwarks of this sort will never hold back long a general movement of speech . If the present attitude of men towards this particular usage continues ? and of this there seems every likelihood ? they can be relied upon to brush aside the objections of purists as summarily and as effectively as they have done in the ease of the passive form is icing . If they proceed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxiety as to the injurious consequences which will befall the English tongue . It is not by agencies of this nature that the real corruption of speech is brought about . Were such the case , our language would have been already ruined any number of times and at any number of periods .                     