@@474637

DIFFICULT as it is in many cases , and impossible in some , to trace the dividing line between expressions which contribute to clearness and those which contribute to energy , there is one division of them which belongs unmistakably to the latter class . These go under the general name of intensives . In them is seen most sharply exhibited the action of this one of the two principal agencies which bring into being words and phrases seemingly unnecessary . From the point of view of the mere understanding , intensives are the most superfluous locutions to be found in the whole range of expression . Yet they arc not merely more in number than those of all other kinds put together ; they are the most frequently heard in colloquial speech . The impression they continue to make depends upon the infrequency of their use . Yet the repetition of them is so constant that in many cases it impairs in time their original vigor , and they sink into the ranks of hackneyed phrases without special significance , and therefore without force . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high degree of cultivation that they begin to appreciate the efficacy of understatement ; that if properly and skilfully employed it is far more effective than the most emphatic assertion . The common mind thinks to convey the impression of strength by the strength of the language employed . It in consequence comes to employ this so much that the words lose at last the force they were originally intended to convey . We see this exemplified in the constant use of the adverbs awfully , terribly , horribly , where the things qualified indicate nothing awful , nor terrible , nor horrible . This is in no way peculiar to our speech . The users of all languages convey their feelings by resorting to such methods of expression . Of colloquial Latin no adequate representation has survived . Were we in possession of it through all its periods , we should see this principle of growth as fully exemplified in that tongue as in our own . Take the adverb valde , equivalent to our " mighty . " Cicero , for instance , speaks of a man as voids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean " mighty assiduous and diligent . " The word in this sense must have come at first into use in the language of conversation . At the outset it signified , doubtless , just exactly what it said . In process of time its original force was worn out by frequency and inappropriateness of use . Hence it came to be employed in serious discourse in about the same sense as our " very . " One proposition there is which needs to be stated emphatically at this point . Words and phrases which are amply sufficient for the understanding are often altogether inadequate for the expression of the feelings . The result of this mental dissatisfaction with the communication of mere knowledge is most conspicuously illustrated in the wide prevalence of profanity . Into the discussion of this practice its moral and religious aspect does not enter at all . It is purely from the linguistic side that it is here to be considered . So looked at , its existence and the extent of the indulgence in it bear out the truth of the principle just announced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the fact that men are aiming to state strongly what they feel strongly . The habit is , in consequence , subject to the general law governing intensives . To a very great extent the practice of swearing is specially characteristic of a rude and imperfect civilization . With the advance of culture profanity declines . It declines not so much because men become peculiarly sensitive to its viciousness , but they do to its ineffectiveness . The growth of refinement both in the individual and in the community tends more to its disuse than all the exhortations of moralists or the rebukes of divines . Much must always be allowed in the case of particular persons for the influence of early training and association . Exceptions are , therefore , too numerous to lay down any positive rule ; still , it is safe to say in general that a man 's intellectual development is largely determined by the extent of his indulgence in profanity . No one , indeed , doubts its wide prevalence at the present time . Rut compared to the practice of the past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for centuries . This does not prove that men are better morally or intellectually than they were . It does show , however , that there exists now a higher average of cultivation , which renders the habit distasteful to increasingly large numbers . No one , indeed , who makes himself familiar with the history of English usage in this particular can fail to be struck with the extent to which profanity once prevailed among all classes of our race . One oath especially was so general a favorite with our ancestors that it became the distinctive appellation by which for centuries they were designated . The historian Brantiime tells us that when Joan of Arc was imprisoned at Rouen , - she was visited by the Sire de Luxembourg , accompanied by two or three of the English nobility . In reply to a question of his she expressed her feelings about the prospect of the conquest of France by the invaders . In so doing she called them by the term by which they were frequently if not commonly designated on the Continent . The word was apparently used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which could be deemed a disparaging reflection upon the hostile race ; though it must be admitted that it is never safe to assume the certain knowledge-of what is passing through a woman 's mind . " I know well , " she said , " that the English will do me to death , believing that after my death they will gain the kingdom of France ; but if there should be here one tutdred thousand Goddems more than now , they shall not have this kingdom . " This speech belongs to the fifteenth century ; but in the nineteenth Byron represented Don Juan as not recognizing a word of English save this shibboleth of theirs , as it is termed , which he supposed to be merely a salaam equivalent to " God be with you . " Shakespeare , whose all-embracing eye nothing seems to have escaped , did not fail to notice this distinguishing peculiarity of his countrymen . In his time religion was coming to the aid of culture in arresting the progress of profanity . The Puritan hostility was as pronounced to the oath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this feeling the dramatist puts into the mouth of one of his characters the protest of unregenerate and uncultivated human nature against the effort to substitute mild , euphemistic utterances for the more emphatic expressions then current . Incidentally , indeed , he may have had an intention of conveying indirectly a compliment to the Queen , who was distinctly noted for the profane as well as vigorous vernacular in which she occasionally indulged . In Henry IV. , Hot-spur 's wife is represented as saying , in reply to her husband 's demand for her song , " Not mine , in good sooth ! " It is not the denial , but the words with which they are accompanied , that excites her lord 's anger . " Not yours , in good sooth I " is his contemptuous repetition of her answer . She swears , he tells her , like a comfit-maker 's wife , in using expressions like " As true as I live , " and " As God shall mend me , " and " As sure as day . " She gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never walked farther than Finsbury . Then in the following words he sets forth the attitude towards profanity which found favor in the circles of the court as opposed to the practice of the Puritan city : Swear me , Kate , like a lady as thou art , A good mouth-filling oath ; and leave , In south , And such protest of pepper-gingerbread , To velvet-guards and Sunday-citizens . One general principle can be laid down , though subject to exception . Expletives primarily designed to convey clearness usually hold their ground . Those which serve merely to impart energy die out with the progress of culture . It is not hostility to them which produces this result , but the loss of force from frequency of repetition and from misapplication . If the use of them could be reserved only for special occasions , they might last indefinitely . But rarely are single words or phrases which strike the popular fancy long confined to their original signification . Blizzard , as one example out of many , though in existence some time before , came into general use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and drifting snow accompanied with intense cold , from the fury of which man and beast found safety only in shelter . Such was its sense in the far West . After its migration to the East it lost largely that distinctive meaning . Now there is hardly a snow-storm so meek in itself that it does not receive from some one this appellation , provided only that it be accompanied with wind . But in the discussion of the loss of force by expletives there is nothing of the kind so striking as the history of double comparison which prevailed for about three centuries in our speech and then died out from the language of literature , not from any known attack upon it , but merely from the burden of its own weight . The additional strength it originally imparted to expression ceased to be felt . This made it an easy conquest to that desire for strict regularity which is latent in the hearts of us all , and rages violently in the hearts of those who aim to be , what they deem , grammatically pure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thirteenth century . In its case the usage was distinctly due to the desire of imparting to speech not perspicuity but force . The particular shape it took came from the coalescence in our tongue of the native and Romance elements . The original Anglo-Saxon terminations for expressing degrees of comparison are represented in modern English by - er and by - est . On the other hand , the French indicated these then , as it does now , by plus and is plus . Upon this model more and most were introduced for the same purpose into our speech . When the Romance element be came a constituent part of the language , the foreign adjectives receiving the right of citizenship could not in the great majority of cases receive the native endings for comparison without rendering them particularly difficult to pronounce . Hence the two methods came to be treated with equal respect , and whenever possible were used indifferently . This has continued to our day . At the present time it is mainly , perhaps altogether , a matter of euphony to which method preference should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taste , which can not be decided by any fixed rules . Efforts are made at times to set up such . To some extent they may have influenced the practice of many ; but in themselves they are merely the creation of grammarians and have no warrant in good usage . Difficulty of utterance is the all-sufficient reason for preferring more and most to - er and - est in the comparison of adjectives ; and that in any given case is a matter to be decided by the individual judgment . These two methods of comparison were flourishing side by side in the fourteenth century . Then the practice began of employing both with the same adjective in order to impart additional energy . The usage is found not unfrequently in " Piers Plowman " and Chaucer , and naturally in the writings of their successors . In the reign of Elizabeth and the first Stuarts it flourished luxuriantly . Especially did it abou-nd with the storytellers and the dramatists ; but it is not absent from grave discourse . All of us are familiar ? at least presumably familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he declared that " after the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee . " As the construction is not common in the authorized version , it is to be presumed that the translators were here seeking to make emphatic the assertion of the apostle that he belonged to the most bigoted section of the most exclusive religious party among the Jews . It may be added that the recent revision , by dropping most , has gratified the devotees of modern grammar and removed from the view of common eyes another landmark in the history of the speech . It is hardly necessary to say that in Shakespeare the usage is very frequent . One , indeed , of the passages of his containing it ? " the most unkindest cut of all " ? has become a stock quotation . His indulgence in the practice caused great grief to some of his early commentators ; but he was not in the slightest degree singular in resorting to this method of expression . Apparently no one disapproved of it in his day ; certainly no one seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So far , indeed , was it from being regarded with disfavor that approbation was publicly bestowed upon it by the greatest scholar of the time , at all events the greatest scholar among men of letters . In his English Grammar , Ben Jonson cited a sentence of Sir Thomas More , in which occurred the double comparisons " more readier " and " most loosest . " He approved the usage . " This , " he remarked , " is a certain kind of English Atticism , or elegant phrase of speech , imitating the manner of the moat ancientest and finest Grecians , who for more emphasis and for vehemency 's sake used so to speak . " Such was the opinion expressed in the former half of the seventeenth century by him who was then reckoned the head of living men of letters , the one writer to whose knowledge and judgment all deferred . Yet at the very time the doom of the usage was sealed . Its fate illustrates the truth of the dictum that overemphasis prepares its own death-bed . The usage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had practically sunk to the speech of the uneducated . Soon its employment was imputed as a reproach to the men of the generation gone by . How completely it had fallen not merely into disuse , but into disrepute , is made manifest by the words of Dryden in his Defence of the Epilogue to the second part of the Conquest of Granada . This piece appeared in 1678 . In it the poet struggled to maintain the superiority of the contemporary dramatists to the giant race who had flourished before the great cataclysm of the Civil War . The latter could not equal the men of his own age , he affirmed , because " the times were ignorant in which they lived . Poetry was then , if not in its infancy among us , at least not arrived to its vigor and maturity . " Wit had now come , as he expressed it , " to a more high degree . " As a proof of the lack of refinement existing then in the language he instanced the use of double comparison . He cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not as a specimen of the carelessness of the dramatist . but as an impurity of expression into which he had fallen by conforming to the faulty practice of his age . " I think , " he wrote , " few of our present writers would have left behind them such a line as this : Contain your spirits in more stricter bounds . But this gross way of two comparatives was then ordinary , and therefore more pardonable in Jenson . " During the eighteenth century the use of double comparison in literature is confined to the speech of the inferior characters . Readers of Fielding will recall that in Joseph el ntiretes Mrs. Slip-slop , the lady's-maid , terms the hero the " most properest man " she ever saw . In a similar way in Tom Jones Mrs Honor , Sophia Western 's maid , indulges in such expressions as " most whitest " and " most handsomest . " Again in Charlotte Lennox 's Female , Quixote , the heroine 's waiting-maid , overcome with compassion by the lover 's letter , can not refrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard-heartedest lady " she has ever known in her born days . Occasionally this all-sufficient fulness of utterance strikes us as both peculiarly expressive and impressive . In a medley published in 1753 , entitled Mother 's Midnight Comical Pocket-Book , the writer relieves his mind by terming the person to whom a poem is addressed the most completest ass " that ever looked into a mirror . in the lives of all there are moments when we experience a keen sense of the inadequacy of ordinary speech to denote satisfactorily what we think and feel . Such affluence of energy as has just been exhibited is a painful reminder of our present penury of expression . One at times can hardly keep from a sigh of regret that modern grammatical effeminacy has debarred him from the privilege of setting forth all-sufficiently the idea he entertains of some one of his fellow beings by surrounding and strengthening his opinion of him with this triple fortification of intensity . All through the eighteenth century double comparisons of the sort here given could be quoted almost endlessly from its light literature . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been dropped , if one can trust to his necessarily limited acquaintance with the abundant mass of fiction produced for a long time past . On the other hand , it has occasionally made its reappearance in poetry . In Tennyson 's " tEnone , " as it is found in the volume of 1833 , the nymph declares that Paris was to her " more lovelier than all the world beside . " This disappeared from the edition of 1842 , when the whole poem was recast and largely changed throughout . Again in Taylor 's Philip van Artavelde one of the leaders of the White Hoods declares to the hero 's sister that her charms would kindle valor " in the most coldest heart of Christendom . " As a final example , in Swinhurne 's Atalanta en Calydon the chief huntsman in the speech which opens the drama addresses the Sun-god in these words : Rise up , stretch thine hand out , with thy bow Touch the most dimmest heights of trembling heaven . Such locutions , being intentional revivals , differ in character from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of the ending denoting comparison was not perceptible in worse and less . Hence the regular suffix came to be appended also in their case . Lesser , which sprang into being in the fifteenth century , has lasted down to our own time , and its propriety has been but little challenged . Worser has not fared so well . Not uncommon in the writers of the Elizabethan period , it practically died out in the times succeeding . In the nineteenth century it was revived , and is occasionally found in good use . Page after page could be taken up with the history of expletives that have come and gone . New ones are likely to spring into existence at any moment ; old ones are similarly certain to die out . We rarely notice their redundant character while they are alive . It is only when , after their death , the ghosts of these buried locutions occasionally reappear that they startle us . We all use expletives in some form or another , generally without being aware of it . When , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and such a course , few of us reflect that , strictly speaking , there is no reason whatever for the " whatever , " Nor are these locutions due always to the desire for greater clearness or force , though that is responsible for the majority of them . Numerous , indeed , are the causes which bring expletives into being . There is the influence of alliteration , joining together two words , one of which , if it does not directly convey the idea of the other , implies , nevertheless , its existence . Such , for illustration , are first and foremost , hearth and home . Again , resort is sometimes had to expletives merely for the sake of varying the expression , or from the influence of that subtle feeling which in classical grammars is called the sense of euphony . Thus we not unfrequently say oftentimes for often . But the truth is that expletives seem frequently to come and go by the operation of some mysterious law , the working of which we in many cases do not fully comprehend . Take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperative , ? as , for illustration , in Chaucer 's " as do me right . " Such a usage has now ' entirely disappeared . Of a formerly fairly common employment of this same particle we have a solitary survivor in the literary speech . For no brief period in the history of our language as was joined to adverbs or adverbial phrases indicating sometimes place , but more usually time . Were " as now , " which occurs not unfrequently in Chaucer and his successors , heard to-day , it would seem distinctly objectionable . In such a common sentence , however , as , " I have not seen him as yet , " there is an instance of precisely the same character to which no one takes exception . Not merely in Chaucer 's time , but in Elizabethan English end later , this particular expletive use of as was far from uncommon . Not to burden the page with examples , it suffices to be said that iu " Paradise Lost " Milton speaks of God 's applying his doom to Satan " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not even died out at the end of THE COMING AND GOING or EXPLETIVES .. 1Oti the following century . In 1783 a correspondent of one of the London papers called attention to certain objectionable peculiarities prevailing at that time in Parliamentary diction . From him it appears that in speaking of a matter that was to undergo discussion in one of the Houses , the member would announce that it was to be brought forward , say , for illustration , " as Monday night . " Even as late as 1814 another relic of this once-prevalent usage can be found in so classic an author as Jane Austen . In one of her novels she describes a certain character as having " left them all well at Mansfield , and was to dine , as yesterday , with the Erasers . " One of the most noticeable of the expletive usages which beset the rapid writer is the repetition of that after a sentence containing an intervening proposition bearing upon the main statement . Few authors , indeed , there are who have not at some time experienced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this verbal pitfall . The difficulty of avoiding it is due to the fact that all the traditions of the speech are in its favor . The repetition of the conjunction in such cases has a very ancient and honorable history . It is frequent in Anglo-Saxon ; and the same statement is true of later English . Chaucer , for instance , says : There is a law that sayeth thus : That it a man in one point be aggrieved , That in another he shall be relieved . There are occasions , indeed , when this repetition becomes necessary to preserve clearness in consequence of the intervention of several clauses . In modern days , however , the practice has been so frowned upon that the employment of the second that has been reduced to its lowest possible limits . Yet idioms die hard ; and this one has been so ingrained into the texture of the race that few persons there are who , after composing rapidly , do not find it incumbent upon them to cut out a redundant that which in an unguarded moment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was which left a peculiar impression of itself upon a portion , at least , of our earlier literature . This was the tendency to employ two or more words , not widely different in meaning , to express The same idea . It is a usage so common in Chaucer that it might fairly be called a distinctive peculiarity of his style . To modern ears it has been made somewhat familiar by the language of the Prayer-book . There we find such combinations as " acknowledge and confess " and " assemble and meet together . " This used to be explained as an effort to appeal to the two different elements which made up the population . For this purpose native and Romance words were supposed to he purposely brought into conjunction . Were all phrases of the kind just quoted , the explanation might be deemed satisfactory . But in a large number of cases the application of this rule breaks down , Naturally , indeed , this particular sort of combination would be met with frequently ; for our language , owing to its double @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements . The usage seems accordingly to be rather the result of the abundance of these than of any design . This is further indicated by the fact that synonyms of native origin are sometimes joined together , as also those of words derived from foreign sources . Chaucer , for instance , in his translation of Boethins is often in the habit of rendering one Latin word by two English ones . To select a couple of examples out of many score that could be cited . liquet appears in the English version as " it is clear and certain , " and exeellenti8simo es " right excellent and noble . " This very marked characteristic of our earlier speech , or at least of certain writers of it and of certain writings in it , seems to have largely died out by the beginning of the seventeenth century . This subject of expletives has been far from exhausted , though the reader 's patience may have been . There is an important but purely rhetorical side of it which lies outside the province of these papers . Of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are rare in prose , but are found not ' infrequently in poetry . In the hands of the great masters the usage is apt to have a peculiarly impressive effect . When Milton tells us that " in the lowest deep a lower deep still opens wide , " the meaning is perfectly clear to the imagination , though it may not be easily gauged by the meas. uring-rod of the understanding . There are , again , realms of the expletive lying in the border-land between grammar and rhetoric . They abound in locutions and constructions which are sometimes used for greater clearness , sometimes for making emphatic the particular matter under consideration , but most commonly for poetic effect . The doubling of the subject may be taken as a fair representative of the class . " The baptism of John , was it from heaven or of men ? " asks Christ of the chief priests and the scribes . Here we have an imitation of the French construction , or at least a coincidence with it . Take , again , a sentence in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thy rod and thy staff , they comfort me , " says the Psalmist . No one will pretend that the they of this sentence ? unfortunately left out in one or two of the sixteenth-century versions ? is necessary to the comprehension . He who is so little steeped in the diction of our highest literature as to be unable to appreciate its effectiveness can never be made to feel its charm by any process of reasoning . 