@@486651

That public opinion is the parent of legislation , is an important truth which is now so generally recognized that it passes for a truism . That laws themselves are in many countries , and notably in modern England , the creator of that public opinion which may be called legislative or law-making public opinion , and which leads in the long run to fundamental and even revolutionary changes , may sound a paradoxical assertion . My aim in this letter is to justify this paradox and to show the importance of the truth which it embodies . Laws are often the creator of legislative public opinion ; they gradually create , that is to say , a state of feeling which in its turn favors legislation of a particular character . It is not hard for any one who watches the course of legislative changes in England , to understand how it happens that an Act of Parliament may greatly affect public opinion . Statutes are more often than not passed , not with a view to carry out any wide and recognized principle , but with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some special evil or hardship which happens to arrest the attention of the public . A member of Parliament is assaulted by garroters ; the demand is immediately made that garroters shall be flogged . Some philanthropist discovers that the houses of artisans are ill-built and unwholesome ; he draws a striking picture of the misery caused to the working classes by habitations which are productive of disease ; a proposal is immediately made that a law of one kind or another shall be passed for the pulling down of dens of disease , and the erecting in their place of solid , wholesome dwelling-houses for artisans . A notorious usurer displays the cruelty as well as the craft of Shylock ; general indignation is excited by the sufferings of its victims , who are hastily assumed to be as innocent as they are reckless ; newspapers and the readers of newspapers forthwith advocate the revival of laws against usury . Children , it is found , are ill-treated in certain factories , and women who are not children suffer in health from overwork in Ill-ventilated workshops ; the suggestion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the employment of children shall be regulated or prohibited , or that women shall be protected against ill-usage by being deprived of the right to dispose freely , on their own terms , of their own labor . These demands and a score more like unto them may be reasonable or unreasonable  --  on this point it is my intention to say nothing whatever  --  but they and other popular cries , even when defensible as they often are on grounds of reason , have two alarming features in common , namely , that they are demands that a law shall be immediately passed dealing off-hand with some particular case or cases of great real or apparent hardship , and that Parliament shall , when engaged in meeting some patent evil , pay little attention to the general principles which govern legislation , and shall direct the whole of its power towards putting down some particular and definite abuse . This being so , let it be further noted that such cries for a law which may put an end to a particular case of hardship have , during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great Reform Act  --  generally received attention and satisfaction ; and laws , originally of an exceptional character , have been again and again passed to meet some particular grievance . The earlier Factory Acts had a limited scope and affected one particular clasp , of factories . The acts which have revived the punishment of whipping were , and are , enactments passed to punish particular offences which happened , at a given moment , to excite the indignation of the public The recent Money Lenders ' Act , 1900 , may , without much exaggeration , be described as an enactment for the suppression of Isaac Gordon ; but ( and this is a point calling for special attention ) a new kind of law framed to meet a specific and immediate evil always does , however little the legislature which passed the act may be aware of the circumstance , rest upon some principle or assumption which , whether sound or unsound , is of wide application The first Factory Act contained within it the principle or admission that it was the business of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a hesitating and very partial manner , provided for the housing of the working classes , involved the assumption that the supply of habitations for the mass of the people can not be left , like other branches of trade , to lie governed by the haggling of the market , but must be the special concern of the state . The revival of whipping as a punishment for crime rests on the old idea , attacked by the wisest philanthropists of a past generation , that the severity rather than the certainty of punishment is to be relied upon as a check upon crime . Isaac Gordon 's Act  --  to call the Money Lenders ' Act , 1900 , by the name which best describes it  --  rests upon the assumption , for which as yet no argumentative basis has been found , that Bentham 's argument against the usury laws admits of confutation , and that these laws ought to be more or less revived Now the one thing which is certain as to the course of legislation is , that principles which are the foundation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or prestige among the ordinary public . It is also certain that a principle once recognized by law will , if of wide application , be , as time goes on , widely applied . To this we must add  --  and , as regards England , at any rate , the point is one of great importance  --  an act of Parliament is a precedent ; and the well-known dictum of a judge that an ounce of precedent is of more importance than a pound of theory , holds good quite as much in Parliament as in the law courts . It is absolutely certain , for instance , that , to take an example from legislation which most persons rightly hold beneficial , the Married Women 's Property Act , 1870 , which to a very limited extent and in a very tentative manner gave property rights to married women , was , though Ineffective in its direct results , the precedent which justified in the eyes of Parliament and of the nation the Married Women 's Property Act , 1882 , which , with some subsequent amendments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from one point of view more than the property rights , of an unmarried woman or of a man . In dealing with the matter under consideration , I have purposely made use of the word precedent , for it suggests the true and most important conclusion that in England Parliamentary legislation , or , in other words , legislation by Act of Parliament , bears a very close analogy to judicial legislation  --  that is to say , to rules of law originating in the judicial decision of particular cases . It is admitted on all hands that judge-made law is in reality the gradual development , through adherence to precedent , of general principles involved in the decision of given cases . But Parliamentary law bears in this matter much the same character as judge-made law . An act is passed to meet a particular case , e. g. , the overworking of children in a particular kind of factory . Little attention is paid to the principle on which the act logically rests , yet it is soon perceived that , if a law regulating the labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is applicable to almost any factory or even any workshop . Meanwhile , as the sphere of the Factory Acts is extended , a public opinion is formed in favor of state intervention . A host of acts dealing with particular cases obtain more and more the force of precedent , till at last the long line of what we may call " Parliamentary judgments , " beginning with the Health and Morals Act , 1802 , is closed , for the time at least , by the Factory and Workshop Act , 1901 , and the state regulation of labor stands forth as a recognized principle of modern English law . Note , further , that this course of legislative action has at each step stimulated the - growth of public opinion in favor of state intervention , and has produced a body of collectivist sentiment or conviction which , in its turn , has given birth to large bodies of collectivist or , as some would say , socialistic laws . This action of law by way of precedent on the growth of law-making or legislative opinion , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point which certainly requires explanation in the development of English law during the nineteenth century ; it further reveals the existence of a danger which has hardly been sufficiently noted by the critics of English institutions . Any one who studies the evolution of English law during the nineteenth century , is ultimately met by a problem which it is easier to raise than to answer . How has it happened that legislation which may be called revolutionary because it tends tow ards fundamental social changes , has in many instances been promoted by men who called themselves , and really were , Tories ? The fact itself is past dispute . What is its explanation ? It may partly , no doubt , be found in the desire of a party whilst in opposition to gain at any cost popular support It may be found in part in a real affinity between a certain type of Toryism and socialism . Nor can any one doubt that Tory philanthropists , such as Southey and Sadler , did , even during the heyday of Benthamite Liberalism , propound doctrines which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less socialistic But these explanations do not go very far in the way of answering the question I have raised , they hardly apply to the case of Lord Shaftesbury . He was , from many points of view , a genuine and even a stiff Tory Socialism , as he understood it , was in his mind associated with infidelity , and he was not consciously a whit more inclined towards any kind of collectivism than towards religious scepticism , yet no one man did more than he to promote the factory movement ; and this movement has developed into a system of state interference with the conduct of labor which , we may suspect , would have excited his Lordship 's astonishment and condemnation . One explanation , though a partial one , of the course pursued by Lord Shaftesbury , and by men like him , is to be found in the influence , which I have already traced out , of laws on the formation of public opinion . Lord Shaftesbury lead certainly no intention of promoting any kind of socialism . When he became the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly by religious and humanitarian feeling . His aim was to put an end to the overworking of children in factories ; and he , in a manner very characteristic of English philanthropists , recommended legislation which he was convinced would free wretched children from ill-usage , without thinking it necessary to form any very clear idea of the principles on which the Ten Hours Bill was based . His intellectual dulness increased his moral authority ; his obvious honesty and his sincere Toryism made it impossible either for himself or his followers to believe that he was the advocate of socialistic legis : lateen The moral and religious weight of his character had much to do with the , success of the factory movement . The so-called Ten Hours Bill became an- Act of Parliament , its provisions were gradually extended to one kind of factory after another , and Lord Shaftesbury naturally rejoiced over a triumph of legislative humanity . But to the end of his life , we may suspect , he did not recognize the real nature of his success . The Tory peer , whilst fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconscious promoter of collectivist legislation , which in its turn produced a body of collectivist opinion destined ultimately to create a condition of things under which a leading politician of to-day could assert that nowadays we are all Socialists A danger with which English institutions are threatened is the occurrence of gradual though ill-considered revolution This peril is immediately connected with the effect of legislative precedent on law-making opinion At the present moment the English Constitution is not seriously threatened by sudden and avowed attacks upon its fundamental principles The vigor of the resistance to Mr. Gladstone 's Home Rule policy must convince even Home Rulers that the characteristics of the present time do not favor any course of action which is avowedly revolutionary , but the annals of the nineteenth century show that in England innovations which can not be accomplished by a political coup de main , may often be achieved by the passing of laws which do not appear to effect any large change , but set a precedent for following some new and wide-reaching principle . Let any one who doubts this weigh the great effect which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of acts , none of which , taken alone , may have appeared of great importance , but which , taken together , have gone a great way to sanction the principles of collectivism . With this gradual process of change there would be no reason to quarrel were it not that the habit of legislating with a view to particular and exceptional cases introduces into English institutions wide and far-reaching innovations without the nation ever having had the opportunity , or ever having taken the trouble , to consider or discuss adequately the principles on which alone far-reaching changes can be defended . It is not my wish to express any opinion either against or in fayor of the Education Bill of the Government , but a critic may be allowed to note one indisputable fact . Habits of piecemeal legislation , combined with respect for precedent , have produced a condition of things which no man of sense , whatever his political or his religious beliefs , would have dreamed of creating if , from the first , the subject of national education had been discussed in Parliament as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with it on broad and intelligible principles The influence of laws , as precedents , both on opinion and on legislation , is assuredly not without its obvious evils . AN OBSERVER                     