@@473402

ONE of the most interesting and among the least known of the monuments of the American mound-builders stands neglected and dis-integrating near the site where the city of St. Louis is preparing I. lie World 's Fair of 1903 . Unguarded from the elements , unprotected from the plough , the great Cahokia mound , which rises , in terraces , from a base eleven hundred and eighty by seven hundred and fifty feet , to a height of one hundred and two feet , cov-ers an area greater than that occupied by the Great Pyramid of Egypt . The Cahn-kia mound is itself a truncated pyramid , the type of a series of truncated pyrami-dal mounds constructed in the rich soil of the Mississippi Valley by probably the most powerful and highly civilized of the aborigines of the United States . Of these unique memorials of the past , whose history is yet undeciphered , the Cahokia mound is by far the most imposing , as VOL. ( 117 . ? No.it is , indeed , of all the aboriginal mounds . It is situated in Madison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The entire archeological exhibit of the State of Illinois at the World 's Fair of 1893 is said to have been made up of pottery and weapons found in a single excavation not far from one of the sixty smaller mounds lying near by and subordinate to the mass of the Cahokia . What scientific treasures may there not be in the interior of this mightiest vestige of the earlier Americans ? What an opportunity it presents for exploration ! The interest in all things American which is already aroused , and will be continuously increased as the date of the St. Louis Fair draws near , could be no better utilized than by - taking the right steps to preserve the Caliokia - mound in a public park , free from taxation , under the auspices of the State or of the national government . This course has already been adopted with gratifying results in regard to some of the animal effigy mounds of Wisconsin , the Great Serpent mound , and the Fort Ancient embankments in Ohio , as well as the conical mound at Kalamazoo , Michigan . Two of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college campus of the University of Wisconsin at Madison . They are both bird-shaped. rising to a height of from two and a half to three feet above the surface . The first shows the outstretched wings , thirty feet each in length , of a symbolic bird forty-three feet from the end of the beak to the tip of the tail . The second has a split tail , suggestive of the swallow . On one side the half tail , which is nearly straight , extends to a length of sixty-six feet ; the other part of the tail , which is curved , is forty-eight feet in length . The body of the bird effigy is fifty-eight feet long , and shows , curiously enough , a double set of wing or cross embankments , which measure thirty-six feet from tip to tip . In these effigy mounds practically nothing has been found , although they are generally in the vicinity of ancient villages and burial sites which have been found productive of fragments of pottery , household implements , and weapons , and in some cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class by itself , the Fort A ncient embankments follow the brow of the terrace of the Little Miami River , and of the two small ravines through which brooks flow into the river near the little village of Fort Ancient , named after the aboriginal fortification . The latter is an earth-work about twenty-two feet at its highest point , and extending nearly four miles , in the contour , roughly , of a figure 8 . It walls in artificially the area naturally enclosed by the Little Miami River and the two creeks . It is now preserved in a public park , like the Great Serpent , Ohio 's other famous aboriginal earth-work , and , like that , is controlled for the public good and preserved for posterity by the Ohio State Historical Society . Nor should it be forgotten that the good work initiated by Professor Putnam of the Peabody Museum at Harvard , and followed by the Ohio State Historical Society , is of the highest value to the coon try at large and to future generations , as well as deserving of the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Great Serpent appeals peculiarly to the imagination . About its story , which is yet to be told , the fancy of the twentieth century weaves traditions of serpent-worship in a forgotten civilization , or dreams of Eden and Man 's first disobedience . On the top of a rocky promontory extending into the beautiful valley of Brush Creek , in Adams County , Ohio , in the year 1848 , Squier and Davis , the pioneers of American archaeology , located the Serpent in a dense forest , and first described it . An earthen effigy , complete and symmetrical , the Great Serpent measures from the upper jaw to the tip of the tail twelve hundred and fifty-four feet , in folds so lifelike , as they rise near the head to a height of five feet above the ground , that their very view inspires the beholder with awe . In front of the mouth lies the outline of that part of this monumental ea rth-work which has been called the Egg , around which open the jaws of the Serpent as if in the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oval , or Egg , the tip of the Serpent 's tail is four hundred and ninety-six feet distant . The Egg is itself one hundred and twenty feet long and sixty feet at its greatest width . The Serpent 's jaws are banks of earth seventeen feet wide each , and sixty-one and fifty-six feet respectively in length . The distance across the open mouth , from lip to lip , is seventy-five feet . In the centre of the oval there is now standing , as there has been from time immemorial , a mound of burnt stones . This sacrificial mound , or altar , perhaps , has in past years been uprooted by white men in the vain search for buried gold , but still preserves its identity ; at the base of the cliff upon which the Great Serpent was constructed similar stones showing the action of fire in past ages have been found in comparatively recent years . Fortunately further depredations have been prevented by the purchase of the Great Serpent and the surrounding land with a fund raised by private subscription among the ladies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trustees of the Peabody Museum in Cambridge . They in turn made over the Great Serpent Park to the people of the State of Ohio , who now protect it by legislative enactment under conditions similar to those by which the Fort Ancient Embankment is safeguarded . This , the first successful attempt to preserve American antiquities of this description for the American people , was heartily encouraged by the Legislature of Ohio , which , on March 27 , 1888 , passed an act exempting from taxation all lands upon which are situated prehistoric earthworks " not held for profit . " Similar legislation has been agitated in the States of Michigan and Colorado and in the Territory of New Mexico . The Legislature of Illinois would in all probability follow that excellent example and preserve the great Cahokia mound were the subject properly brought before the lawmakers . The associations which link the Great Serpent and its rough altar of charred stones to the religious history of remote ages conduct the imagination back to human sacrifices on the mountain altars and templed plateaus of the Aztecs , and reconstruct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altar , the human sacrifice , the unmoved priest , and the people arrayed in solemn ranks upon the surrounding plain . The preservation for future generations of the site upon which such scenes may have been enacted by our predecessors ? if not ancestors in our own country ; the safeguarding against the waste of time , and the desecration by ignorance of this colossal memorial of that civilization of which we have such scant knowledge ; the exploration by skilled hands of the interior of this American pyramid ; the discovery of its import and the deciphering of its records and relics ? surely all this would be a fitting task for the American people , and especially for the people of the State of Illinois when about to celebrate at St. Louis , close by the Caliokia site , other and later events which perhaps are no more intimately bound up in our common history . Mound-exploration has been carried on , in the past , under the auspices of the American Museum of Natural History of New York , the Bureau of American Ethnology , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being done in this line . Of the simple type of conical or burial mounds , a good example is preserved in Bronson Park , in the city of Kalamazoo . No mounds of this description have yet been found in Maine , Massachusetts , or Vermont , and only one in New Hampshire . There are a few in Connecticut and Rhode Island ; and several in the vicinity of Buffalo and in western New York . These conical burial mounds are most numerous , however , in the Mississippi Valley . I have had the opportunity of exploring several in British Columbia , besides many in the United States . They generally have the form of a low dome , varying in height from a few inches to sixty feet , and in circumference up to many hundred feet . It is especially in southern Michigan , Wisconsin , Iowa , eastern Tennessee , Ohio , and Kentucky that the burial mounds are found . In Mason Conn ty , Kentucky , I have explored mounds and graves for the American Museum of Natural History . Here a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these skeletons were found in stone graves ; and in a number of instances pottery of interesting design and form , stone hatchets , knives , and similar objects were unearthed . The stone graves are not coffins , having no integrity independent of the ground about them . The rough slabs of - which they were made in the Mason County mounds and graves were brought by the Indians in comparatively recent times from the beds of near-by water-courses . In some cases a bottom slab , or row of slabs , would be walled up by side stones , and the rude structure completed by a top layer . In others there were side slabs only ; in still others a top layer of stones only , to protect the body from injury from above . In some of the stone graves beads were found made of shells that had been brought from salt water ou either the Atlantic or Gulf coast . Arrow-points , stone axes , and other implements of war , probably also used insecuring food , were found in great numbers , as well as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pottery vessels . The handles to some of the vessels were of exceedingly peculiar shapes . It is of unusual interest to notice that thirty-five per cent . of the adult skeletons , both male and female , showed the effects of terrible bone diseases . But there is no warrant to reason from the known contents of tho conical burial mounds , the commonest form of aboriginal earth structures , to the unknown interior of the great pyramid called the Cahokia mound . No pyramidal monument of any size approaching this has yet been scientifically explored . Of them all the Cahokia mound is the chief of the type . Its contents , which could properly be laid bare only after weeks of patient effort , by hundreds of laborers , working under skilled direction , may prove to be of farthest - reaching importance . The fancy may run riot at the contemplation of such a store of scientific treasure . Assuredly the secrets of the Cahokia mound , if properly exploited , would constitute an exhibit , at the World 's Fa i of 1903 , which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of his own country at heart , as well as the archaeologists from all over the world . Prompt action is necessary to prevent the ploughing down of the sides and the heedless digging away of the structure and contents of the Great American Pyramid . 