@@486896

Last week the Governor of Alabama signed twenty-one bills for fixing railway rates in that State , bills which had been hastily passed by the Legislature in extraordinary session . They were enacted indiscriminately , and almost without discuasion . Indeed , in his message to the Legislature , Gov . Corner declared that the only issue was whether the State or the railways should be supreme . Accordingly , all these laws were made what was boastfully called " injunction-proof . " That is , it was provided that the penalties for violation should be enforced from the day that the railroads took any of them into court to test their legality . Thus it was exultingly said that the companies would bankrupt themselves by the very fact ot attempting to secure their rights in court . In the case , for example , of the passenger fares prescribed by statute , Penalties amounting to $2,000,000,000 might be enforceable against a railroad assessed for taxation in Alabama at about $30,000,000 . But almost before the ink of the Governor 's signature of these bills was dry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Circuit Court from enforcing any of them . It was the injunction-proof laws that did not " go . " They could not , so long as the Constitution of the United States exists , and the decisions of the Supreme Court are executed . The very situation contemplated by these Alabama laws has been passed upon by the Supreme Court . In the Kansas City Stock Yards case , Mr. Justice Brewer reading the opinion asked- Do the laws secure to an individual an equal protection when he is allowed to come into court and make his claim or defence , subject to the conditions that upon a failure to make good that claim or defence , the penalty for such a failure either appropriates all his property , or subjects him to extravagant and unreasonable loss ? After citing various illustrations , the court held- it is doubtless true that the State may impose penalties such as will tend to compel obedience to its mandates by all , individuals or corporations , and if extreme and cumulative penalties are imposed only after there has been a final determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be very different from that here presented . But , when the Legislature in an effort to prevent any inquiry of the validity of a particular statute , so burdens any challenge thereof in the courts , that the party affected is necessarily constrained to submit rather than take the chances of the penalties imposed , then it becomes a serious question whether the party is not deprived of the equal protection of the laws . Plainer notice could scarcely have been served that such an attempt as this one by Alabama to shut off access to the courts , would itself be enjoined by the Federal courts . It is not a question of State rightS . The States themselves , by adopting the Fourteenth Amendment , waived all pretence to such alleged rights . The whole matter comes down to the fundamental right of citizens of this country to be protected in their property , and to be afforded " the equal protection of the laws . " As it was put by an Alabama State Senator , in a speech at Montgomery on November 12 , the theory upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicial inquiry , was that in case of conflict between an act of the Legislature and the Constitution of the United States , it was the former that was to be held sacred , while the latter was to fail . This preposterous doctrine was happily knocked in the head by another Alabamian  --  former Confederate , ultra State-rights man , and himself once Governor of the State ? Judge Jones of the Fifth Circuit Court . He promptly clapped an injunction upon the injunction-proof laws . In all the outcry against " government by injunction , ' no man who knows anything about the law , or whose opinion Is otherwise worth considering , has ever denied that the use of the injunction to prevent what may be irreparable injury , is sometimes absolutely necessary . This is a principle embodied in the jurisprudence of the States , as well as in our national laws The Alabama Supreme Court , it has been pertinently pointed out , has repeatedly enjoined the enforcement of statutes or municipal ordinances pending the determination of their constitutionality . In one leading case , Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecutions under an ordinance which would destroy or impair property rights to the irreparable injury of the owner , may be enjoined , pending the determination of its legality . " The usual rule is to maintain the status quo while awaiting final adjudication But these Alabama railroad laws undertook to collect penalties from the very moment of appeal to the courts . To prevent such an act of tyranny , it was inevitable that a Federal court would intervene . The laws are not set aside ; their operation is merely enjoined until it can be decided whether they were beyond the competence of the Legislature The ordinary presumption is , ot course , that the Legislature proceeds with full knowledge of the facts Hence , as the Supreme Court itself said in a case against the Railroad Commissioners of South Dakota , an inquiry by a court " whether the rates prescribed by a State Legislature for the carriage of passengers and freight are reasonable " is both " difficult " and " perplexing . " Yet this fact , it added , " affords no excuse for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Legislature itself should first have made the due examination . That the Legislature of New York did not , before passing the two-cent fare bill , - was Gov . Hughes 's main reason forvetoing that measure . But Gov . Comer of Alabama urged his Legislature to act , as it did , without investigation . The bills were passed in bundles . That tact alone would lay them open to suspicion , and make them a fair subject of judicial inquiry ; but to prevent the latter by an odious and crushing levy of penalties was the whole plan of this legislation . That it will be broken and disallowed by the Federal courts is as certain as anything in law can be . This part of the Alabama bills must be held to be unconstitutional , even if it be finally decided that the rates and regulations governing the Alabama railroads are reasonable and should be upheld No court can hold that an appeal to the courts can be lawfully penalized . It was not only , be it remembered , the protection of the Federal courts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State courts was denied to the railroads . As State Senator Bowie clearly stated at the Montgomery mass-meeting : The purpose to deny these people the equal protection of the laws is written in every bill when it says that the penalties can be collected and enforced , notwithstanding their orderly suspension by a court of justice having jurisdiction , even though that court be a State court . That is in there  --  it is in them all . There could b- ) no clearer case for invoking Federal jurisdiction . The Alabama legislators must have known that they were rushing upon an injunction They had but to - read the Fourteenth Amendment and the laws passed by Congress in pursuance thereof , with the decisions of the Supreme Court interpreting the same , to be certain that what has happened was bound to happen . Yet , we admit , they might have alleged one hopq . Having successfully set aside that Part of the Fourteenth Amendment which forbids any State to " abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens ot the United States , " they might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbidding any State to " deprive any person of property . " But they have found that property is more sacred than the suffrage . THE TREASURY NOTES . The abrupt cutting short of the issue of one-year government notes , at a moment when probably not $15,000,000 out of the announced $100,000,000 had been allotted , we take to be the Treasury 's admission of the fact , to which the Nation called attention when the plan was published , that the troubles of the banks were being rapidly removed through natural processes of relief before the government intervened . Hence the expedient of 3 per cent . notes , quite apart from the objections to the plan itself , was never needed . Each successive day since the unfortunate Treasury bulletin of November 18 has added evidence of what was well known in experienced banking circles before that date  --  that the panic had reached its climax and was on the wane , and that distribution into bank reserves of the gold engaged for America before the middle of the month would of itself in a couple of weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this belief we relied on the lesson of similar crises in the past . By this test , and by this alone , can the nature and probable outcome of a period such as that through which we have just passed be judged . The severest criticism which must be passed on Secretary Cortelyou is that he acted in this grave matter without obtaining the counsel of bankers most closely in touch with real conditions , and apparently without knowledge of the history that foreshadowed the course which events have subsequently taken . The government has thus abruptly suspended the sale of its 3 per cent . notes , not at all , as we understand it , because of a failure of subscriptions . . Deeply as the conservative financial community distrusted this engine of indirect inflation , the inducement for banks to invest was inviting . We deem it fortunate that the grave risk incurred by throwing $150,000,000 new securities on a panic-stricken market , should have been escaped . How largely the financial distrust which culminated in the October crisis , was a result of the fail , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be difficult to say , but those incidents contributed to the general uneasiness What the narrow escape from failure by the two national loans in 1894 involved , most of us remember ; and it is not the smallest item in the blame which the Treasury must incur , that it exposed the public credit to at least the chance of a shock which refusal to take the loan must have invited . But if offers for the new notes were not lacking as a whole , the kind of bids on which , the ' treasury had apparently reckoned with most confidence were entirely absent . One great purpose of the issue of government securities was professedly to " draw out " the cash of money-hoarders , who were presumed to be so distrustful of credit that they would put back the money neither into bank deposits nor into ordinary investments . But in this conception of the money-hoarder , Mr. Cortelyou seems to us to have missed the truth entirely . The speculative hoarder keeps his cash in hand with a view to the premium on currency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks are to maintain so ' : vency or not . That neither class was looking for something new and safe in which to invest is proved by the result of the note-issue ; but that result adds little or nothing to the knowledge , derived from previous occurrences of the sort , of the fundamental tendencies in a hoarding mania . Mr. Cortelyou deserves credit for lacing the facts and undoing as tar as he could the unlucky note experiment . He also deserves praise for his firm stand against one extremely vicious project which he was besought to incorporate in the plan ; that is , to authorize tacitly the clearly illegal use of these 3 per cent . notes as bank reserves To this he gave absolute refusal . But the best that can be said of the whole affair is that the Treasury has learned a lesson by experience . The news of this result will be read with considerable humiliation in certain quarters across the ocean . No financial episode in our time has been so amazing as the sudden clamor , in toreign financial circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action by our government . This extraordinary state of mind  --  which has led astray some of the highest banking dignitaries of the Old World  --  can be explained only on the ground that financial London itself was in a mental panic and spoke , if it did not act , as panic-stricken people do . The London Economist , organ of financial conservatism , opened its discussion of our money crisis by remarking : Before a complete failure of the public confidence , no credit system and no currency in the world could hope to stand But for the moment it is clear that the currency is the crux of the situation , and that some means must be devised to remove the existing premium , to enable banks once again to cash checks freely , and to induce business men throughout the States to bring their money back into the ordinary channels of banking . Nothing could be more sound . And how is this wholesome rule applied ? By examining thoroughly the nearest precedent of a money-hoarding American panic , that of 1893 , in which , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreshadowed , and in which the crisis was surmounted by the automatic processes of the markets ? Not at all The Economist declared with emphasis that there was no way out of our dilemma save through issue of government fiat money One can imagine Walter Bagehot turning in his grave . OUR POLITICAL , DISPUTANTS . Mr Bryan never showed more clearly the clerical bent of his mind than in his speech  --  sermon , we had almost said ? at Washington last week His " heads of discourse " would have delighted a professor of homiletics . There were the ' four things that Roosevelt had stolen from the Democrats ; the ' four things that he dared rot steal ; the four things that were all his own and that were fearfully un-Democratic . The whole was a beautifully balanced sermonic plan . It all recalls what Leslie Stephen said about Blair  --  twat his sermons were merely " essays composed by a professor of rhetoric to illustrate the principles of his art . " And Bryan 's use of Democracy , . in the purely abstract sense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given by Stephen : To thee , oh Devotion , we owe the highest improvement of our nature , and the merit of the enjoyment of our life . Thou art the support of our virtue and the rest of our souls in this turbulent world . Thou composest the thoughts , thou calmest the passions ; and , in short , givest me an excellent opportunity for finishing a paragraph with an admirable prosopopcela , according to approved rules of art . Of all this attempt to trace current political doctrines to their party origin , and to decide who stole whose clothes , we think the country is heartily sick . People have left off caring about the whence , and are giving their attention to the what . It makes little difference what was the origin of a policy if its effects are pestiferous . And there is really no end to this kind of recrimination when once you embark upon it . While Bryan and Roosevelt are disputing as to who was the only begetter of plans which they alike favor , Tom Watson rudely bursts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Populists . And we must say that he has an unpleasant amount of circumstantial and documentary evidence to prove his case If one turns back to the platform of the " People 's Party " of 1892 , he will find embedded in it several Roosevelt doctrines , including the graduated income tax , and the distinctive Bryan doctrine of government ownership of the railways . But the whole inquiry is barren and wearisome . The country is today less interested in origins than tendencies And it emphatically does not hanker after a party or a candidate that can only echo the political wisdom of Bre'r Mud Turkie ( we thinli it was he ) , who said : " I know where I come from , but I do n't know where I 'm gwine . " Let it be admitted that no party has a monopoly of ideas , any more than of virtue . It is doubtless true that political managers take their own wherever they find it ; and that in the vast ferment of opinion in a democracy like ours , notions find their way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exactly how But all this , in a situation such as we have upon us to-day , is of no practical benefit . It leaves you , as the Scotch-man said of claret , very much as you were before . Some way of getting on is what we ask political leaders to suggest ; and if all they have to offer is personal and party recrimination , the general verdict will be very apt to be , A plague o ' both your houses . Some things are clear in the flux of political convictions and the break-up of parties . One of them stands out of - the very conditions under observation . Party labels signify less than ever . There is no rallying power or inspiration in the name Republican or Democrat , merely as such The parties have exchanged rapiers too often , like Hamlet and Laertes , to leave the people wholly certain of the identity of each , or with what weapons it will fight . It is not the title , but the programme , of parties that will really count next year . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the men they put forward to carry it into execution . Now , at this point , both parties have to face a fact which is implied in a statement made in Washington last week by Representative Loudenslager ' of New Jersey , secretary of the Republican Congressional Committee . He said , speaking of the effort necessary to keep the Republicans in control of the House , that the election of Representatives next year could not be achieved by a simple " Hurrah for Roosevelt ! " The magic of that name would be lacking It is certain , too , that if Bryan is the candidate of the Democrats , there will be no magic on that side , either . A. stale and twice-defeated nominee can put no elixir vitCe to the lips of his party ; a sleeping potion is the most that could be expected from him . The outlook is that the voters will be singularly free , next year , from all kinds of political incantations No orator will be able to arouse hysterical applause by simply announcing , " I Tin o+ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience to tears . People will coldly insist upon knowing what kind of Republican , as what kind of Democrat . And if either party thinks to lay a spell upon the citizens of the country , whether by some kind of hocus-pocus of issues , or the fan-cied glamour of a personality , it will be doomed to a sorry disappointment . Sober-minded and independent Americans can not regret the prospect of a campaign in which reason bids fair to have much more play than usual . In our recent financial disturbances , the dema-gogues and quacks fell suddenly silent Nobody wanted to hear from them . It was the men who knew , and who had steadiness and power , to whom the people looked . And it may well be that in the disturbed political conditions which we are fronting there will be a similar demand for grave and well-poised men They may not be able to feed excitement , but they can gain confidence . And they may prove that the most effective political magic is , after all , that which is exercised by sound judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Contemporary interest in the relation of football to faith calls attention to the fact that bodily exercise has from the beginning of history been closely asso ciated with some spiritual idea , whether religious or political . We need not go to the Australian corroboree or the Indian ghost dance for illustrations , or even to the games which the Greeks instituted with specific religious intent . " Muscular Christianity " has a more modern ring , though the idea of it may possibly go back to the time when the aturdy monks from the Egyptian laurce used to invade Alexandria and with their cudgels chastise the Hypatias and Thaises of that sinful town . Rulers and statesmen have always contended that a people 's safety rests largely on the physical prowess of its members . Under ordinary circumstances , a nation of athletes will easily overcome a nation of mollycoddles . This was understood by Agesilaus of old Sparta , who pointed out to his soldiers the fair , tender bodies of his Persian prisoners and their costly garments , and said scornfully , " See whom you are fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are people in England who , alarmed by the alleged decline in the nation 's physical stamina , are expecting that some day a second Moltke will address the same words to a German army corps encamped in Hyde Park . It is not , however , in its development of the bodily capacities of the individual that the chief value of the higher athletics lies It will be remembered that the Olympian games were to the Greeks a notable symbol and bond of national racial and national feeling that modern athletics achieves its most useful function . It is hard to say whether any system of Chamberlain preferential tariffs could hold the British Empire so firmly together as the regularly recurrent contests between the cricketers and football players of Australia , South Africa , and New Zealand and the men of Yorkshire , Surrey , or All-England . There has even been a tendency to ground Anglo-Saxon friendship across the Atlantic on international athletic contests ; though there , it must be confessed , an excessive preponderance of victories for one side or the other seems to bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But athletics , to exercise its full unifying force , must be the recreation of more than the small number of perSons who can possibly participate in an eight-oared race or a tennis match . In other words , the political value of physical exercise is best displayed , not in teams , but in such organizations as bowling clubs and gymnastic societies . Of this use of the higher athletics we find a striking example in the political situation in Austria-Hungary , as described by Archibald R. Colquhoun in a recent number of the North American Review . Speaking of the active propaganda that is being carried on for creating among the various Slav peoples of the Hapsburg realm , and of Europe in general , a sentiment of racial unity , he says : The principal organization for keeping these people in touch is a system of gymnastic societies , known as Sokols Branches , numbering over a thousand , are established in all Slav countries , and in communities of Slays in. foreign countries like Germany , France , and the United States . In 1907 they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all nationalities attended ( five hundred from America ) , and - manoeuvred in a manner which surprised the Austrian and Russian staff officers who were present In 1885 , when Bulgaria threw off the Russian tutelage , there was no native organization save the Sokols , which , however , numbered 40,000 men , all trained and disciplined , and largely helped to save the situation . . . . They exhibit an amount of organizing and concentrating power at variance with the accepted character of the Slays . A few such organizations exist even in Russia where , of course , they do not enjoy the favor of the officials . Yet it was the belief of one enthusiastic Russian at the Prague celebration that if the Sokols were well developed in his country , she would have a constitutional government to-day ! Nor are the Slays the only ones to make use of gymnastics as a political lever . The European nations are quick in borrowing from each other the newest ideas in popular propaganda , and , along with the general strike , the " pacific " strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely . Thus the Italians in southwestern Austria have their own gymnastic societies , whose object is as much the acquisition for Italy of the Tyrol and Trieste as actual proficiency in manipulating the dumb-bell and the Indian-club . Some time ago there was published in this country , and repeatedly reproduced , a picture showing some hundreds of young Italian gymnasts going through their exercises in the Vatican gardens in the presence of the Pope . This is evidence that the Catholic organizations are determined not to be left behind by their Socialistic and Masonic opponents . Rumor has it , even , that young King Alfonso has been enthusiastic in popularizing tennis in his country , out of the conviction that the sporting spirit helps to keep a nation in good health . Conceivably it is because the Spaniards prefer to be spectators at games rather than participants , while the English have always been fond of nine-pins , single-stick exercise , and wrestling , that the Armada was defeated . Athletics is sublimated when it becomes the embodiment of such ideals as Mr. Colquhoun ascribes to the Slav @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  their basis is the homogeneity of the Slav race , the preservation of Slav languages and culture . . . . No word of German was heard at the Prague festival , and at the national theatre a significant tableau was displayed which represented the Sokoto releasing the spirit of the Slav from the fetters imposed by German influence . Y et , curiously enough , political athletics is really a German invention . It was Friedrich Wilhelm Jahn , the Turnvuter , as he is known to all Germans , who in the hour of Prussia 's deepest degradation , following the disaster of Jena , hit - anon gymnastic training as a means of bringing about his country 's physical and spiritual rehabilitation . The enormous success of the Turner idea , with the part which it played in the overthrow of the Napoleonic domination , and in the later democratic movement within Germany , is well known . Our own country can show no parallel to the historical Turnvereine ; but the advent of the college athlete into politics , most often as the guardian of the purity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with such phenomena as the election of a Milwaukee county judge on his star record as a halfback , is not a bad sign . A COLLEGE UTOPIA : A FANTASY . In commenting on the gift of several millions of dollars to Swarthmore on condition of abandoning intercollegiate contests in athletics , a correspondent has urged acceptance of the money , on the ground that some college should deliberately try the experiment of favoring scholarship as against athletics . The institution , he admits , " might lose popularity for a time , " but he thinks that in the long run it might " attract the class of students which is most desirable . " This revolutionary suggestion is worth more detailed consideration We are aware that the great majority of our colleges must , as our correspondent says , " conform more or less to popular sentiment " ; that the president , the faculty , and the trustees do not dare run counter to the feelings of the undergraduates and those noisy and half-baked young graduates who yell for the athletic teams and who are supposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceive of a college  --  of course as an abstract ideal , impossible of realization  --  in which the authorities estimate the tumult and the shouting at their exact value , and steadily pursue the true aims of education . This academic Utopia , a mere dream , we shall describe more fully , fortified by President Woodrow Wilson 's recent declaration that the world needs more dreamers This conception of ours , we may add , is by no means original . It has been seriously presented in private conversation by an eminent educator , whose name we withhold in order to save him from ridicule . For a site we should choose some city or town in New England , because traditions of culture there are so old and well-established that an institution singly devoted to it may be less likely to excite hostility than elsewhere . Boston and its suburbs are out of the question ; for Harvard already has a long start and overshadows everything . New Haven is also impossible : people there would not tolerate a college that was indifferent to the activities to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college which we have in mind might be built on the ruins , say , of Bowdoin , or of Dartmouth , Brown , Amherst , Williams , Trinity , or Wesleyan . Each of these colleges has a considerable " plant " which might , under certain conditions , be utilized for higher education . The first of these conditions is a strong faculty . At present our smaller colleges are constantly raided by the larger , which offer higher salaries , better equipped libraries and laboratories , and in general wider opportunities for fame and usefulness Every small college has a few able men who , because of inertia , loyalty , or social ties , are not to be tempted away ; but in general the more promising members are steadily drained off . In order to hold them , the small college should pay salaries ot $5,000 or $6,000 , so that its teachers might buy books , might attend the annual meetings of scientific and literary associations , and might go to Europe in summer , to visit the Bodleian , the th6que Nationale , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be overburdened with teaching , but should have a fair chance for scholarly research and production . To maintain a large faculty on these terms would be impracticable ; and accordingly the college would be forced to the plan which has had such admirable results in the Canadian colleges  --  the plan of giving comparatively few courses , and giving those well . This would mean cutting off most of the feebly conducted graduate work  --  leaving that to a real university  --  and concentrating energy and ability on the important courses in classics , modern languages , philosophy , history , economics , mathematics , and the sciences . The college would not be so big on paper , but its product might be tar more completely finished . If a faculty made up of men of intellectual distinction could be held together for a generation we should have an institution uniqUe in its kind  --  a Johns Hopkins for undergraduates . That would , of course , imply a body of ambitious students , and a code of discipline based on that ambition . We would by no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social gatherings . All these have their place in a scheme of education ; but they are , after all , subsidiary to the main issue . Such a college as we have sketched might lift from the shoulders of its teachers la great burden by sweeping away all committees on football , glee-club con-                     