@@486730

Co , will assuredly gain many new readers among whom appreciation will see certain subtleties quite absent in much of our recent writing for children . We prefer the quiet simplicity and quaintness of the cover design for this story to the-pretentious color scheme for Rand McNally 's edition of Miss Mulock 's " The Little Lame Prince , " which is nevertheless deserving of examination , the ' color work shows a certain excellence , though possessing little feeling . Certainly it is devoid of the old-time color which Cecil Aldin has caught for his pictures in Irving 's " Old , Christmas " ( Dodd , Mead ) , a most commendable Yuletide gift in which our early American author presents his impressions of the rich English traditions There are very few Christmas books as , such in our season 's output . Such an anthology as " The Book of Christmas " ( Macmillan ) , with its introduction by Mr. Mabie , is in come ways striking evidence of our fragmentary hold upon the healthy legendary spirit that educators are driving out , along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the undoubted appeal of Norman Duncan 's " The Suitable Child " ( Revell ) , which tells of an orphan boy's-Christmas eve on an express train , we welcome his cry against those whose ethics would steal from childhood an atom " of innocent delight . " There is no end of picture books for the youngest readers , the parent , we hope , has a natural antipathy toward the glaring supplement style which we were surprisedi to find adopted by St Nicholas , when Dens-low 's pictures and verses , now gathered together in book form , under the title , " When , I Grow Up " ( Century ) , ran as a serial . The- " ambitions " savor , both in observation and in imagining , of the Sunday comic section , of the newspaper . In direct contrast comes the modest and distinctive description of " The Animals in the Ark " ( Duffield ) from , the French of P. Guizou , with Vimar 's delightfully humorous sketches . In " The Circus , " which is a fairly attractive oblong book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided falling off-from his Santa Claus of last year , and from , his initial volume recording the fun in Noah 's Ark ( Houghton ) When his brush becomes literal , it loses its felicity . His-humor is usually reached through his- " asides , " and he loses his own facility in , trying to keep abreast of three rings in a " faithful " manner . The Walter Crane picture book , " The-Song of Sixpence " ( Lane ) , contains three sets of remarkable drawings by that superior nursery illustrator . The " fairy ships " - launched by him bring joy to more eyes-than those in the curly heads of youngsters . Of grosser nature , though purporting too have refining effect , Gelett Burgess 's " BlueGoops and Red " ( Stokes ) illustrates the power of conversion whereby the naughty blues are changed into model reds We fear Gelett Burgess will soon reach the extreme limit of his manners . B. Cory Kilvert 's " The Kite Book " gives sufficient adventure ( Dodd , Mead ) to please the youth . needing stimulus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he counteracts by action-sufficiently exciting . He has done better-work , and we have seen color plates morel exactly registered on the press There are two volumes of somewhat sim -- Iron for a Farthing , " by the Macmillan liar character Millicent Sowerby 's " Yesterday 's Children " ( Duffield ) is sentimentally charming , while Jessie Willcox Smith 's " Seven Ages of Childhood " ( Moffat , Yard ) is up to this artist 's average level What strikes us as most distinctive about the latter volume , is the verse by Carolyn Wells , with a flavor of excellence rather unexpected , where verse is made to order Publishers have different ideas regarding-what constitutes the complete Mother ' Goose . The Stokes edition , claiming dis tinction on account of Miss Betts 's illustrations in color , differs greatly from the large book which is issued by the Dodge Publishing Company This latter volume , according to the title page , is edited by Walter Jerrold , the same who is responsible for that remarkably sumptuous " Big-Book of Nursery Rhymes " ( Dutton ) , which all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dodge Co. to be careful hereafter with their cover designs , This " Mother Goose " is ' copiously and well il , lustrated by John Hassall , though he is hardly to be compared with Charles Robinson in his grace and easy use of lines . The field of biography shades from collections of short accounts , to individual life stories ; from individual effort dependent on character , to fame based on historical importance . Unlike Mrs. Wiggin and Miss Smith , who seem to have a-monopoly now on all types of folk-lore , and who this year continue their " fairy literature " with . " Tales of Wonder , " the fourth in a series ( Doubleday , Page ) , Mr. and Mrs Andrew Lang find it necessary to turn to the heroic in real life Still retaining their rainbow enthusiasm , they call their newest product " The Red- Book of Heroes " ( Long-mans , Green ) , in which are presented satisfactory accounts of such figures as Palissy the Potter , the Marquis of Montrose , and Florence Nightingale . The publishers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual " lives " narrow down in number to four with any special distinction Prompted by the same commendable intent which marked her " Boys ' Life of Lincoln " ( Century ) , Miss Helen Nicolay has written in similar vein her " Boys ' Life of Grant . " Mrs. Laura E. Richards , chosen by the Appletons to prepare a story of " Florence Nightingale " for young people , succeeded in making a slim volume , which , if it is slightly marred by a certain condescending style , nevertheless accomplishes a difficult and delicate task with much skill From the Appletons , also , there comes a more youthful and appropriate biography of " Louisa May Alcott " than Mrs Cheney 's " Life and Journal , " which has , up to the present , been the only available record of this great author 's career for children to read Miss Belle Moses has written this very direct and sympathetic book , and she has pleasantly and simply accentuated the charm of the woman whose charm is so easily felt in " Eight Cousins " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Heroes of American History " ( Harper ) by writing , with his customary fullness and picturesque knowledge , an account of " Sir Walter Raleigh " What one might well take to be a human record is the volume compiled by Miss M G. Humphreys from Catlin 's " My Life Among the Indians " ( Scribner ) ; it is a book which boys will welcome heartily as being stranger than fiction , however careful the fact The illustrations are from Catlin 's drawings . Biography readily shades into history and into literature . Francis Jameson Rowbotham 's " Story-Lives of Great Authors " ( Stokes ) introduces seven men in a pleasing and anecdotal manner , while the illustrations by their imaginative character serve to decorate the text . Agnes Carr Sage 's " The Boys and Girls of the White House " ( Stokes ) sweeps over all our administrations in an interesting style , and mingles history and diplomacy with the home life of " Presidential children " John T Faris 's " Winning Their Way " ( Stokes ) is modelled along the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more definitely arranged according to special activities , and gives to each subject considerable spa:e We may reach history through the suggestive " Decisive Battles of America , " modelled by the editor , Ripley Hitchcock , on books of similar character , though not of equal thorougnness , it is an appropriate companion to Creasy 's book ( Harper ) . The chapters are indeed ample in scope , and each one is prepared by a specialist , this type of book , carefully planned , with adequate maps and full index , is one that teachers as well as the layman should welcome Tudor Jenks , also , in " When America Won Liberty " ( Crowell ) , has written a very satisfactory account of this country 's struggle for independence , he- has done this in no stereotyped spirit , but has applied the excellent method of viewing a movement or an event in perspective , of picturing the force primarily , and of stating the fact secondarily An age lives if treated thus . HISTORY OF THE HARVARD LAW SCHOOL . History of the Harvard Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By Charles Warren . 3 vols . Illustrated . New York : Lewis Publishing Co. $25 . In these volumes , with only two of which we have to deal , the third being a catalogue of past members of the school , Mr. Warren has construed liberally the duty of an historian of the Harvard Law School . The result is that , while the history appeals most strongly to the interest of those who have been connected with this particular institution , it has nevertheless a not inconsiderable value for any member of the profession interested in legal history and legal education in America . The first dozen chapters , comprising approximately half of the first volume , give a brief history of the early American bar . A short chapter suffices for the consideration of New England Law and Lawyers in the Seventeenth Century , this is followed by a somewhat fuller account of the law and the lawyers in all of the colonies during the eighteenth century , while The Bar and the Law , 1789-1815 , especially the Massachusetts . bar , receive adequate attention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth cen tury , of the early law professorships , the first of which in America was founded at the College of William and Mary in 1779 , and of the influential Litchfield Law School started five years later Mr. Warren has also a word to say on the lawyers and the law of England during the seventeenth and the succeeding century ; he calls attention to early American barristers and bar associations , and to the early American law books ; and he points out the obstacles and prejudices which , from the Revolutionary Var to the founding of the Harvard Law School in 1817 , worked against the growth of , the bar and the development of legal studies as a science These early chapters , with another picturing Cambridge and Harvard College " in 1817 , are a fitting introduction to the history itself . , The first law professorship in Harvard College was established in L815 , when Isaac Parker , Chief Justioe of Massachusetts , was chosen Royall professor . His inaugural address , delivered in the following year , contained , to quote Mr. Warren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the founding of a separate school of law . " Asahel Stearns was appointed University professor of law . He began with one student , and five more entered the first year . The first degree of LL.B. was not conferred until 1820 . Mr. Warren 's history of the Law School falls , naturally , into half a dozen periods , beginning with the decade or so when the school , was under Professor Stearns . The almost complete failure of the school  --  there seems to have been but one law student in the spring of 1829 ? Mr. Warren does not lay at the door of the hard-working professor ; he attributes it rather to " the expenses of life . at Harvard , the lack of a proper building for the school , the prejudice ire States outside of New England , as well as within , against the supposedly ultra-Unitarian proclivities of Harvard , the depressed conditions of the national finances during many of the years 18171829 , and especially the rise of other law schools more conveniently located . " The endowment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months after Stearns 's resignation led to the immediate appointment of Joseph Story as Dane professor . During the same month the Royall professorship , which had remained vacant since the resignation of Judge Parker two years-before , was filled by the election of John Hooker Ashmun . These two appointments set the Law School on its feet again . Furthermore , Ashmun 's untimely death in 1833 . necessarily brought Story into closer relations with the school . Ashmun 's successor as Royall professor was Simon Greenleaf . With his appointment opens one of the most brilliant and interesting periods in the history of the Harvard Law School -- the twelve years ending with Story 's death in 1845 . Dane Hall had been completed in 1832 . The number of students grew during these years from about forty to one hundred and fifty ; the school became increasingly national in character . It was prosperous financially . The school was in " full blast , " as Story expressed it ; and though he himself was in Washington part of the time ? " sick at heart and longing for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for resigning the bench , " as Greenleaf wrote to Charles Sumner , and though the burden of carrying on the school was not light , both professors worked with enthusiasm . Story was an enthusiast , and , for all his discursiveness as a lecturer , fired his students with something of his own spirit . Greenleaf , on the other hand , was concise and clear , confining himself closely to his subject . " Story , " writes a student of the early forties , " magnified the civil law and told us of the indebtedness of the world of law to it . Greenleaf magnified the common law and told us of its superiority over the civil law . " The completion of an addition to Dane Hall was celebrated in July , 1845 , shortly before which time an arrangement had been made whereby Judge Story was to resign from the bench and give his whole time to his Law School work . His death occurred , however , before this plan was carried out . What Mr. Warren terms the transition period lasted from 1845 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Story , Greenleaf was transferred from the Royall to the Dane professorship , and William Kent , son of the ex-chancellor , was appointed Royall professor . This position he held only one yea , ? , and Joel Parker , Chief Justice of New Hampshire , was chosen his successor . Greenleaf 's ill-health brought about his resignation of the Dane professorship in 1848 . Rufus Choate declined the appointment , and Theophilus Parsons was made Dane professor . In the period between the resignation of Greenleaf and the appointment of Langdell in 1870 , Joel Parker , Parsons , and Emory Washburn , chosen University professor in 1856 , were the chief figures in the school In spite of the high standing and distinguished ability of the members of the faculty , considerable dissatisfaction had arisen with the condition of the school during the sixties . The resignation of Professor Parker in 1868 , and then of Professor Parsons , foreshadowed a revolutionary change in the methods of instruction . Parsons 's resignation was accepted in January , 1870 , and on the same day , C. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time in the history of the Harvard Law School there was chosen as professor " a young man of no legal reputation ( except among the few lawyers who had employed him ) , a man of no national fame , and a lawyer who had had substantially no court practice . " What this appointment accomplished for the Harvard Law School and for legal education Mr. Warren shows in his last eight chapters , covering the administration of Professor Langdell from 1870 to 1895 , and of Professor Ames from the latter date to the present time Of especial interest is the account of the decade between 1871 and 1881 , when the'case system and the stricter requirements of the school were on trial . The final chapter sums up the influence of the Harvard Law School and of the case system . The system is well described by Prof. J. B. Thayer : The Case System at Harvard is not a method or system of teaching . It is a system of studymg law . The whole essence of the Case System as we understand it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a student a text-book on which he has to prepare himself for the exercises with the instructor , there is placed in his hands a very carefully chosen series of cases selected by an expert , and he is expected to prepare himself upon them . The whole essence of the Case System lies , then , in this preparatory study of the subject in hand by very carefully selected cases . Interesting , too , is the sketch , quoted from Professor Beale , of Professor Lang-dell as a teacher : When we entered his lecture room , we were struck by the massive intelligence of his brow . We admired his severe and almost impassive face , and we seemed to find the quiet , intellectual atmosphere of the cloister In our time , as a result of his failing sight , he never used the Socratic method m his teaching He simply talked , slowly and quietly , stating , explaining , enforcing , and reenforcing the principles which he found in the case under discussion Our note books read like his articles on Equity Jurisprudence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close study to follow them Only now and then , when some subtle point was raised by Judge Mack or Professor Williston ( not then judge or professor ) , his face would , light up , and he would think aloud , to the vast delight of those members of his class who could follow him Those were halcyon days And once in a great while , something would amuse him , and he would throw back his head with a laugh that seemed to have the full strength of his mind in it When it is remembered that there are no official law school records before 1870 , so that for the official facts relating to the school between 1817 and 1870 it was necessary to go to the Harvard archives in general ; when , moreover , one notes the large number of extraneous sources from which material for this history are drawn , the great amount of research and labor which Mr. Warren has given to these volumes is apparent On the whole , he has done an excellent piece of work , of permanent value in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. B. Scott as a former dean of the Law School of Columbia University ; giving to genial Dr. 0 . W. Holmes the title of Reverend ; alluding to Col Shaw of Fort Wagner fame as Robert Quincy Shaw , and to the Georgia statesman as Alexander F. Stephens . Unfortunately , however , the errors chargeable to the publishers , rather than to the author , are glaring and inexcusable . The first volume is prefaced with two pages of errata ; but a careful reading of these volumes discloses almost as many more errors of which no correction is made It is seldom that a book comes from the press with more , or more exasperating , typographical faults . Very unsatisfactory also , both in form and in matter , is the third volume an " Alumni Roll " of the Law School , for which Mr. Warren disClaims responsibility . The illustrations , mostly portraits , are poorly done . In view of the somewhat authoritative way in - which a history like this is almost necessarily brought to the attention of former members of the institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain quasi-moral obligation on the part of the authorities of the school to guard against the shortcomings of a publisher , which , in the present instance , have resulted in lessening to an appreciable degree the value of the work . 