@@486689

The hearings on the tariff by a subcommittee of the Ways and Means have now been in session at Washington for more than a week ; and it is hard to say whether they should be characterized as a tragedy or a farce . If the intention is to find out the attitude of the country or the drift of public opinion , the proceedings are a farce . When Cobden was agitating for the repeal of the corn laws in England he complained bitterly that the people who came forward to besiege the members of Parliament were those whose selfish interests led them to protest against any change . The men whose pockets were filled by the tariff were loud and active , while the consumers , who suffered under the weight of an indirect and Invisible tax , were relatively apathetic . This human trait is certainly receiving fresh illustration at Washington . No one has spoken in behalf of the " forgotten millions , " although Mr. Taft is reported as " expressing the conviction " that the consumers " should take steps at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business men who have thus far addressed the committee , a small minority is willing to have lower duties . Most of the others , not content with present conditions , want the rates raised Their arguments are a striking exhibition of the greed which produces a tariff and is in turn nourished by it Stewart Chaplain and John E. Pennock , for example , representing the Semet-Solvay Company of Syracuse , makers of coke and its by-products , admit that , under the present law , the retort coke ovens used in extracting these by-products have increased in the past twelve years from 400 to 3,000 , and that no difficulty is experienced in finding a profitable market for the whole output . And yet these men urge that the various coal-tar products be taxed so that the manufacturers may " have a wider market and snake more at it . " George R. Bower of the Henry Bower Chemical Company of Philadelphia likewise confesses that fertilizers are profstably manufactured in this country . and yet be wants more protection in order to get still greater profits . N. B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American manufacturers , without any protection , would be perfectly able to compete with the foreign product ; nevertheless be would keep the present duty of 35 per cent . Again , I. P. Stone , Frederick Schoelkopf , and S. Hartford of Buffalo , makers of coal tar colors , ask to have the duty on their product raised from 30 per cent . to 40 , and some of their raw material put on the free list  --  this in the teeth of an admission that under the Dingley schedules they have doubled their plants and their profits Then the people interested in the mining of barytes , an earth from which white lead is manufactured , wish the duty raised from 75 cents a ton to $5 . The Prospect of a long and acrimonious fight against lower rates is certainly not a pleasant one for Mr. Taft to face ; but at least it will afford him an opportunity to show at once of what stuff he is made . If he and his trusted advisers lack the intelligence and courage to pass a law that shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be written down at the start as a failure ; and thousands of citizens will be driven to the conclusion that the Republican plat-farm vras a sham , and that the only hope of relief lies in reorganizing the now demoralized and impotent Democracy . Mr. Bryan 's detailed comment upon the election , in the Commoner , shows him in a very amiable light personally , but plunged in darkness politically He takes his defeat in manly fashion , submits cheerfully to the popular verdict , and says that no one need worry about his future . But then he goes on to argue that the result of the voting was " a mystery " He says with truth that the campaign was regarded as uncertain ; that there were many indications of a drift to the Democracy ; and that the Republican managers were worried But there was no mystery after the returns were in . The uncertainty before the election was wholly about the silent vote , but the result showed that it was chiefly against Bryan . In some districts in this city he did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of Democrats and independents all over the country said nothing , but firmly made up their minds never to vote for Bryan . The only mystery is that he can not see this fact , In connection with the New York Senatorship , an active politician is reported as saying : " Chloroforming of Little Tim is now in progress . " This medico-political way of snuffing out Mr. Wood-ruff 's Senatorial aspirations can not be agreeable to the chairman of the State Committee . Indeed , he has rallied to his support the Republican Senators and Assemblymen from Kings County , and he is making some show of resistance . Yet the political doctors who are standing about him know that it is only a question of time when he will take the chloroform easily . They have , according , to the most approved modern method of administering annethetics , made the process pleasant for him by first allowing him to have a little laughing gas . Under this exhilarating influence he has seen the Senatorial toga dropping gracefully over his flowered waistcoats ; and when his anaesthetization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wearing it , he will not need to ask the conventional question , " Where am I ? " He has been there so many times before that he will know , We would not make merry over the repeated disappointments of Woodruff . He may possibly be philosopher enough to agree with Lessing that the joys of pursuit are greater than those of attainment . But there are serious moral and political lessons in his career . For one thing , it illustrates the ingratitude of the party machine . The ingratitude of republics is nothing to it . Woodruff has worked for the organization with slavish subservience , all these years . His convictions and his purse have been at its service Yet its rewards have not been for him . A purely ornamental and extrugutshing office , like the Lieutenant-Governorship , may be flung to him now and then , but the real prizes have always been reserved for others . Satan asked with insinuating malice if Job feared God for naught . Woodruff has certainly feared the machine for naught . It may be a kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to name a man who has worked harder in politics and got less . This Tantalus experience to which he has been condemned , conveys its own warning . Woodruff is a horrible example of what a boss like Platt can do with a rich young man . Platt was always scheming , in the heyday of his power , to entangle such men as Woodruff . They were to go into politics , especially to put their money into politics They were to grovel before the big bosses ; to be admitted to party consultations ; to be made captains first of fifties and then of hundreds ; to be allowed to pose as political oracles ; to at on platforms and to be very busy and conspicuous at conventions . The implication was , too , that they might entertain high political hopes . Platt would give it to be understood that , in his opinion , Woodruff was the kind of young Republican who would go far . But it was never seriously meant . Governorships , Vice-Presidencies , the Senatorship , have all been jerked away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Root could leave no better legacy to his successor in the State Department than some formal embodiment of our friendship with Japan . Whether it be treaty , joint declaration , or a mere exchange of notes , an arrangement that shall publicly summarize the results of our negotiations with Japan during the last two years might free us for a time from such performances as those of Hearst and Hobson . The time is favorable for calm deliberation . The Pacific fleet is getting further and further away from Japan , and the chances of Togo 's blowing It up are lessening . Hearst 's showing at the polls has not been such as to encourage his editors to loud insistence on any of his favorite policies . More important still , the Japanese Government has given repeated , unmistakable proofs of its desire for peace and a policy of non-aggression . Yet such conditions may be patent enough to the thoughtful public , without keeping the sensational journalist from his firebrands . He finds his opportunity in the general ignorance of our exact relations with Japan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our being an good terms with that country might help toward a continuance of our friendly attitude . Secretary Metcalf 's resignation can hardly be said to weaken the Cabinet despite the usual eulogies from the President ; and it Is idle to attempt to conceal the differences which had aris-1 en between him and Mr. Roosevelt . Mr. Newberry is the sixth Secretary of the Navy to sit in Mr. Roosevelt 's Cabinets , his predecessors having been John D. Long , Justice Moody , Paul Morton , Charles J. Bonaparte , and Mr. Metcalf ? six in seven years . Several of them were not in the office long enough to master the business . The natural result of such changes is inconsistency of policy . The real head of the department is likely to be the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation , or , rather , there are several heads  --  the departmental clique  --  who can see no possibility of bettering the Department or any of its methods . It is to be hoped that Mr. Taft will be able to find a man who will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and radically reorganize that Department . Possibly , Mr. Newberry may be the man . He has , at least , shown that he is broader and abler than the retiring Secretary . The Postmaster-General 's latest plan for reducing the huge deficit in his department will not be adopted except over the dead bodies of statesmen-lobbyists of the school of T. C. Platt . Mr. Meyer 's proposal sounds innocent enough . He would establish a local parcels post in the rural delivery service , ! enabling the farmer to get his small household supplies , and relieving the country storekeeper of much work . This arrangement would accommodate 18 , - 000,000 people and yield an annual revenue , Mr. Meyer estimates , of about as many dollars . But there are the express companies . Their business , to be sure , could not be much affected by the local distribution of local supplies through letter-carriers . But suppose the parcels post is given a fair trial in the villages ; in a few years there will be a demand for the delivery of packages from village to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and finally the whole country will invite the express companies to make competing and reasonable rates . The Postmaster-Gen- ... eral s proposals , therefore , will be fought to the bitter end by the same interests which have kept the Government out of internatnonal agreements for a parcels-post . The Liberal victory in Cuba on Saturday is perhaps the logical outcome of the American government 's policy of reconstruction since the fall of the Palma administration . Jose Miguel Gomez and Alfredo Zayas , now chosen President and Vice-President , respectively , were foremast among those who brought about the revolution of 1906 . Their election is , therefore , a ratification , so to speak , of that movement . At the same time , it is only proper to point out that their opponents , Gen. Menace , and Dr. Rafael Montoro , represented more stable elements in the community , the land and property owners , who have everything to gain by honest government and tranquillity . They are also abler and better balanced men , though no one can deny Sefior Zayas 's ability as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba would have fared better in Gen. Menocal 's hands , we are none the less earnest in hoping for the success of the Republic , so soon to be reconstituted . It will have the moral support of the government at Washington , and should have that of all loyal Cubans The quiet and orderly manner in which the elections were conducted is a favorable augury , as are also the assurances of Gen. Menocal that there will be no revolution by the Conservatives . Under these circumstances , every one who has at heart the welfare of free Cuba should be ready to cooperate with Sefior Gomez . Another collapse of the Republic might have serious consequences for the United States and Cuba alike . Unfortunately , the best elements in Cuba have not yet come forward to assume their share in the work of governing Even Gen Menocal was reluctant to stand as a candidate . He was doing well with his large business enterprises , had lost one fortune for the sake of the Republic , and felt that he might therefore be allowed to remain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rapid growth of his party gave rise to hope that men of ability and standing would hereafter take a part in politics . There is every reason why patriotic and high-minded Cubans should do so Cuba will not be actually free until an orderly and honest government has been established for at least ten years , and the minority has learned to abide by the arbitrament of the ballot . The problems confronting the Cuban people are very pressing and complicated The difficulties before Messrs . Gomez and Zayas are intensified by the recent entire reconstruction of the body of law under which Cuba has lived . Again , the treasury is in by no means so favorable a position- as when the Americans intervened . The surplus has gone and a $20,000,000 bond issue is talked of . And , finally , the rich planters of all nationalities hope for annexation , that their profits may be greater and their property more secure . Whether , under such circumstances , the Americans should withdraw as early as January 28 next has been a mooted question . Some believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be left in Cuba ; others long for a minister-resident , with the powers of a Cromer , to see that the resuscitated ? infant republic makes no missteps for a full dozen years to come . But those who reel as we do that there would be better prospects before the new government if a longer time for preparation had been taken by Mr Roosevelt and Mr Taft , must bear in mind that the Republic might at best have to stumble a half-dozen times more before achieving success , and that there is nothing lake trying to stand alone in order to learn how Moreover , the early withdrawal of the troops proves to the world once more the sincerity of our intention to give Cuba her liberty . And the more the Cubans are studied , the less easily can one picture them an integral part of the American Union . If the laborer is worthy of his hire , he certainly is , of his minimum wage ; and $1,200 a year for a clergyman living in New York city is now fixed by the Episcopal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clergyman with the bricklayer , , . while leaving him worse paid than the carpenter or . electrical . worker . At the same time , he is rompelked to adopt a mode of life more expensive , than that of the skilled artisan , whose , income is as great or greater. : For married clergymen , the Convention established $1,500 as the minimum . Even this advance will mean a struggle to make both ends meet The sufferings of the under-paid , of which we hear so much , are often most acute in the case of educated people . Ministers and teachers are really among the neglected classes , as regards money rewards . Statistics show , we believe , that the average salary of clergymen , the country over , is less than $1,000 , Rut in a rural parish , where living is cheaper and where the salary includes a certain amount of land and other incidentals , it is possible to exist on a money income that would mean starvation in New York city . Lawrence University , at Appleton , Wisconsin , will henceforth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trustees acts favorably upon a petition presented by the Alumni Association . We chronicle this isolated phenomenon in the history of American higher education , because it is astonishing in itself , but , more than that , because ' it is not the act of some eccentric benefactor who has hit upon this peculiar condition for lending spice to his charity . In cool blood , or at least in a state of such coolness as is conceivable at an alumni banquet , Lawrence University 's graduates have decided that Alma Mater should no longer sail under false colors . Yet the institution has an attendance of nearly 600 , and a faculty of thirty-three , which , as Western universities go , is doing well ; and it is reported to maintain a college or liberal arts , supplemented by " schools of expression , commerce , music , and correspondence " As if to express , mathematically , the - Jesuit of the tension between Englano and Germany , Premier Asquith announc ed last week in the Commons a new definition of the " two-Power standard " for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent That is , England must have a total of fighting ships not only equal to those of any two nations , but one-tenth as , many more . - The statement was greeted with cheers from all sides of the House Does n't Mr. Asquith wish that he might get such cheers for his measures . of educational and social and temperance reform ! Those are hooted at and fiercely attacked , but the mo --  ment the appeal is for fresh burdens pf , taxation in-order to prepare for war , party lines are broken down and everybody applauds . The Conservatives rush in effusively to hold up the hands of the Liberal Ministry , just as the Republicans in Congress hastened to " stand behind " President Cleveland when his Venezuelan message hinted war with England . That , however , did not prevent the Republicans from going ahead to turn the Democrats out of power , and Mr Asquith 's temporary popularity for intimating that six or seven Dreadnoughts are at once to be built , will not stay the efforts of the Tories to deprive his party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of England 's two-Power standard  --  which is so obviously a sliding scale , and may next read two nations plus 25 per cent  --  is the German Emperor . He would not meet Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman 's proposal for limitation of battleship building in 1906 , and by his subsequent indiscretions has induced the English people to prove to the world that they can build battleships better and more rapidly than any other country . Civilization brings with it the vices of civilized man ; and Japan , having ac. quired the former , is to-day working to suppress the latter . Race-track gambling , which has come into vogue in late years , is now the object of the Japanese reformer 's assault . Since the judicial authorities stamped out the Formosa lottery , zeal against the bookmakers has been redoubled . One of the leaders in the movement is the Osaka Asahi , a newspaper which seems to have borrowed Gov . Hughes 's arguments , In Japan , as here , the betting at the races is a ' pure gambling operation , in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in evading the law ; and the government has been accepting the plea - aat the business must continue " in order to improve the breed of horses . " Luckily , the law forbidding gambling is so explicit that the public prosecutors and COMAS are in a position to proceed against offenders without waiting for further legislative enactments . And in some towns , according to the Asahi , they are doing so with gratifying results . In many respects , this Japanese crusade is even more re .. markable than the Chinese war on . opium ; for gambling is an inherited Asiatic weakness ..                     