@@486857

The President 's Message is so long that few people will read it through . We can not but regard a less lengthy document , which deals with a few important subjects , as far more effective . Such a Message  --  like Cleveland 's famous deliverance on tariff revision  --  concentrates public attention and thus , indirectly at least , spurs Congress to move along the desired lines . On two matters of actually pending legislation , the President speaks brief-la . A bill to prohibit corporations from fraking political Contributions has already passed one house of Congress . Mr Roosevelt urges its final enactment . He might have referred with regret to the scandalous diversion of the money of policyholders in aid of his own election ; but he has , at any rate , recommended a wholesome and needed law . Congress should give heed . Another bill , that for shipping subsidies , has gone through the Senate and is now before the House , and the President was expected to bestow upon it his blessing . But it is only half=hearted support which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be done for our merchant marine ; admits that preceding subsidy bills have been " objectionable " ; declares that the pending bill is " as nearly unobjectionable as any can be " ; but goes on to say that " if it prove impracticable " to pass it , he hopes that , at least , provision will be made for better communication with South America . This is too plain a preparation of a line of retreat to promise hard fighting . It goes with Mr. Roosevelt 's description of himself some time back as " not much of a subsidy man . " His failure now to make a " ringing " appeal for the bill will put heart into its opponents , and we hope foreshadows its defeat . - Two aspects of race prejudice the President discusses at much length . With most of what he says on lynching ( almost wholly a race question ) we thoroughly agree , and his appeal for equal opportunities for blacks and whites , in the schools and in the trades , is manly and truly democratic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses great plainness of speech in denouncing anything like discrimination against them . His recommendation that the Japanese who desire it be allowed to become naturalized American citizens will not be popular on the Pacific Slope ; but - international decency will remain international decency , and Presi. dent Roosevelt deserves high praise for exalting it as he has done . The chief interest of his message lies , however , in his discussion of the courts and injunctions ; his new plans for control ofcorporations by license , or otherviiSe ; " and , above all , his coming out- for a-graduated inheritance tax and a graduated income tax . These tax laWs he does not urge Congress to enact ; they are for the " future " ; and the reasons for presenting these projects to Congress at the beginning of a short and crowded session are not apparent . Nor does the President urge his proposals for taxation as a means of raising revenue . Had he spoken out for the abolition of inequitable and oppressive tariff taxes , and then proposed these other taxes in order to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different air . Whatever may be the Constitutional and other difficulties in the way of a graduated income tax , there is much to be said in favor of a graduated inheritance tax Economists whose orthodoxy is unquestioned have approved this device But they have approved it as a means for securing the money to carry on government . President Roosevelt emphatically bases his argument on another principle  --  his desire to reduce " swollen fortunes " and to promote a greater equality between the classes . We . are not advocates either of swollen fortunes or inequality , but we do not believe that under our democratic polity the Government may safely attempt the regulation of this matter . We would have the laws against oppression by combinations of capital severe and severely enforced . We think imprisonment rather than mere fines the proper penalty for officers of corporations which defy the law . But , with full realization of the perils of capitalism , we can not look with anything but dread upon attempts to limit the size of fortunes honestly acquired . That way danger lies . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He professes great abhorrence for " sinister demagogues . " They are almost as hateful to him as " ultra-conservatives . " He is the safe man of the middle course . His radicalism is of the sort necessary to preserve the Government . The benevolence of his intentions is , we grant , beyond question . Yet the good will of a President and the amiability of a Legislature are no warrant for an innovation that smacks not of the freedom and individualism of our political system , but of meddling paternalism . THE NEXT WAR . Japan has suddenly taken the place Of Germany as the country that " we must fight next . " Of course , we have got to fight somebody . That is one of the fixed points To let our navy rust unused would be sinful  --  a manifest impairment of the vested rights of our shipbuilders Besides , some nation or other is always getting too insolent , and needs to have its comb cut . Seven years ago , the swaggerer that it was our bounden duty to trim was Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grocery-store oracle could explain to you just why it was necessary for the United States to teach the Germans better manners . But that watched war has not boiled ; and now we discover all at once that the great fight is to occur in another quarter . Japan , voila l'ennemz ! Such is to-day the watchword of the bellicose Washington correspondents And every American official returning from the Orient is gloomily convinced that they are right To their godlike reason , looking before and after , the skies are filled with portents . The clash with the Japanese in California is only a minor incident . A race-struggle and a world-conflict are before us , if we may believe the prophetic imaginations of these young . diviners of the newspapers Is not the President visibly troubled ? Then there is Secretary Root busily looking up precedents ; while the Army and Navy Club is already deciding where the Japanese army of invasion will attempt to make a landing , and where the tremendous battle will be fought between the two fleets And as for the bearing of the Panama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is absolutely necessary to finish the canal before the Japanese move against us , and that at the same time it is absolutely certain that they will strike before we have got it finished . At present , says the Paris Mahn , the Pacific Coast is " at the mercy of a Japanese surprise , " so how can we expect the Japanese General Staff to be so stupid as to wait till we get them on the hip with our canal ? We have scarcely exaggerated , in the foregoing , the kind of talk which one sees more and more frequently in the Dress , and hears with increasing frequency in private conversaVon . Much of it , no doubt , is idle gossip  --  the sort of stuff that is all the while being invented to fill an empty column or a vacant mind . But it has a serious aspect It betrays a misdirected and even dangerous mental habit . If a people is continually to echo Hamlet 's estimate of bloody thoughts as the only ones of worth , from this time forth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For a great industrial democracy to make war its preoccupation is not only absurd , but well-nigh criminal Where the heart is , there will the treasure be also . Why should we think it necessary to fight anybody " next " ? The steady ongoing of peace ought to be as much the basis of our hopes and calculations as is , to the farmer , the march of the seasons War talk , even when there is actual danger of conflict , is usually a needless inflammation ; in time of assured peace , it is nothing less than incendiary . It would certainly be a portentous thing if the ultimo ratio of kings should become the first resort of democracies . Yet to such a result does - all this ran and premature muttering abcrut going- to war surely tend Patient investigation and honorable adjustment will come to be regarded as too slow and irksome . In the present friction with Japan , for example , there is not a particle of reason for supposing that the matter can not and will not be peacefully and satisfactorily arranged It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cocky . " If they are , we do not know what would be the proper adjective to describe the Californians in their dealings with the emigrants from Japan . What is certain is that the Government of Japan is asking only what she is entitled to as a nation with an assured rank now among the great Powers , and what she et least may assert as a prima-facie right under her treaty with us . It is clear , too , that Secretary Root is bent on doing all that he can to settle the difficulty in a way to redound to the honor and sense of justice of both countries . Under these circumstances , the duty of real patriots is to uphold the efforts of the Administration to arrive at a peaceful solution , and not to go about predicting war and bragging of the way in which we are going to whip the Japanese . No one has advanced a single credible reason why the Japanese should want a war with the United States Japan has all she can do to stagger under the burdens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and chances for her commerce , she has all that she can at present desire in Korea and Manchuria On our side , we are under heavy bonds to keep the peace Our presence in the Philippines makes it imperative , as Congressman McCall has again pointed out in the Atlantic , for us to avoid a conflict with Japan , since we should lose those islands at the outbreak of hostilities But all military and Imperialistic questions aside , our responsibilities and opportunities as the leading republic of the world put their veto upon such a war . We could wish that they also stopped silly talk about it . THE HOUSE OF LORDS . Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman scarcely exaggerated when he declared recently that the Lords had made of the Education Bill a " travesty " of the measure which was passed by the Commons . That the Peers would alter the bill in some particulars was fully expected ; that they have made havoc with it , in the face of numerous warnings , has enraged the National Liberal Federation . The Archbishop of Canterbury admits that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the time-for haggling is at hand . Meanwhile , the situation has revived the old discussion whether the House of Lords should not be abolished . It is a great opportunity for the Radicals ; indeed , Mr. Lloyd-George has been stumping the country for months , declaringlthat the- , xpjger -- leivp shonlI ? be . thrown on the political scrap heap as soon as possible . That any radical action will result from the opposition of the Lords is not at all likely . The Premier is determined that there shall be no tampering with the main principles of the bill , and insists that a way can be found to make the wishes of the country prevail . But that does not mean that the House of Lords will be done away with over night . Lord Rosebery once said that " it must mend or end , " and there are plenty of ways of mending it or of forcing it to yield to the will of the people , before abolition need be considered seriously . Moreover , this talk of abolishing an upper house is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country , notably when the Senate was so slow in repealing the Sherman Silver-Purchase Act in 1893 , when there were loud calls for its extinction . Undeniably , however , there has been a steady growth of feeling in England against the Lords . This is largely based upon its general ineffectiveness . Yet thousands upon thousands of middle-class Englishmen fairly blessed the Peers when they put an end to Giadstone 's Home Rule bill . Then faults were speedily forgotten , and the House of Lords appeared the saviour of the na.tiOn which the traitor Gladstone wished to dismember . A similar change of sentiment has been observed in the United States when the Senate rejects hasty and ill-considered legislation sent to it by the representatives . Had Mr Gladstone desired to abolish the House of Lords , 1893 , when the second Home Rule bill was defeated , was the right time . Yet the Liberal Govern . anent not only declined to lead a crusade against the upper chamber , but even failed to avail itself of the opportunity to force measures through by the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of a large number of Liberal Peers pledged to vote for the desired legislation This recourse was easier in 1832 , when there were less than 400 lay and spiritual Lords , than to-day , when there are over 600 Indeed , if the present Prime Minister were desirous of packing the House , he would have to induce the King to create more than one hundred Liberal Peers . The threat of such action would undeniably influence the Peers not a little ; for the older nobility is by no means desirous of having the aristocracy further enlarged . The use of such a threat has , moreover , always been held legitimate in bludgeoning the Lords . Aside from those who , like John Burns and Mr. Lloyd-George , insist upon abolition as the only remedy , many persons offer plans for improving the procedure and membership , before destroying a body which , . they maintain , can be made a valuable , check upon- the Com , mons Take the Trades Disputes bill , awaiting action by the Lords . Thousands of Liberals , otherwise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lords will defeat a measure which makes of the trades unions a privileged class in the eyes of the law . These remonstrants recall Oliver Cromwell 's words : " I would not undertake such a Government as this , unless there might be some other persons that might interpose between me and the House of Commons , who had the power to prevent tumultuary and popular spirits . " They remember , too , that no Constitutional writer of any standing has asserted that Great Britain or its colonies can safely be governed by a single Chamber . As a writer in the Ntneteenth . Century has pointed out , the Conservatives themselves have several times moved in the direction of reforming the Lords . In 1887 , Sir Michael Hicks-Beach urged a " wise and careful change , " which should give the Peers " greater popular authority and weight " than they possess . He wished the Lords to purge themselves of their black sheep , and suggested the awarding of life peerages , similar to those now held by lawyers and bishops , to able laymen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , was then certain that a reform must speedily come from the Conservative party and the Lords themselves In accordance with this view , . Lord Salisbury in 1888 introduced a bill for the creation of life peerages and the elimination of disreputables . He had twenty years previously declared that it was the duty of - the Lords to yield whenever " the opinion of your fellow-countrymen has declared itself , and you see that their convictions  --  their firm , deliberate , sustained convictions  --  are in favor of any course . " Otherwise ; he added , " the machinery of government could not be carried on . " If public opinion is outspoken enough now , the House of Lords will yield . If not , Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman may seize this occasion to insist upon changes which shall make the Lords- a really responsible and hard-working legislative body . THE li " OPENICK CAPTAIN . Wilhelm Voigt , the renowned " Captain von KOneniek , " has done much more than give all Germany the heartiest laugh of a generation . It was not because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard him as an ordinary malefactor , and that his mild sentence of four years has pleased the public . Gifts of money and clothes , the promise of an annuity , and offers of aid of one kind or another , have poured in on hire from all over Europe ; his achievements have already been dramatized , and , until the police interfered , Germany . was'ilelngect vith picture post-cards celebrating his feats . Yet none of these things can be accredited to love of the startling , or to the German sense of the humorous There is ' a deeper reason . It is as an unwitting protest against police tyranny and militarism run mad that Voigt 's spectacular impersonation has struck home with the masses . Badgered as they are by iron-handed authority , the people openly rejoiced that the laugh was on those whom they too often regard as their natural enemies . And when the criminal was , by the merest accident , captured , the story of his life made him friends wherever it was told . He had gone wrong when very young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served no leSs than ten years Coming out of prison helpless and friendless , always under police surveillance , he was next caught in an attempt to rob the strong-box of a court . He and his accomplices were armed when taken , but made no use of their weapons ; they had hardly begun the breaking and entering when arrested ; yet his sentence was fifteen years . That this was barbarous injustice Voigt has insisted since his arrest , with the newspapers agreeing . Moreover , when he complained of this wrong at his trial , the court went out of its way to confirm his assertion that the sentence was indefensible , and that he had been illegally deprived of the right.of appeal . But the folly of the state did not end there . Serving his full fifteen years , Voigt left , jail determined to lead an honest life He settled first in one town , then in another . In one he plied his shoemaker 's trade diligently , and established an excellent business . And then the police ordered him to move on Wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the police demanded his papers , found him to be a jail-bird , and compelled him to go elsewhere . With the authorities apparently bent on making it impossible for him to be decent , he hid himself in Berlin and thought out , by himself , a plot which shows that under more favorable circumstances he might have been a man of force , with an honorable career . It is this phase of Voigt 's story which has stirred all Germany , this revelation that the police would make a man once a criminal always a criminal . The passport system ? advocated by Senator Tillman and others for Southern negro criminals since the Atlanta riots  --  stands revealed as a method , of placing a man 's destinies absolutely in the hands of the police . They decide where he shall live and whether he shall have a chance to rehabilitate . himself . Naturally , Voigt 's biography has brought out other stories of injustice . A man caught in the act of stealing a pair of slippers was thrashed by the owner and allowed to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the culprit received eight years at hard la bor . Plainly , the German criminal code ? indeed , the whole attitude of the Government toward the criminal  --  calls for a complete overhauling . The newspapers and individuals who are urging reform are naturally grateful to the Captain von Kopenick ; his feat has called ' public attention to abuses which might otherwise have lacked publicity for years to come . Capt . Dreyfus 's martyrdom accomplished much for the reform of French military procedure ; the Captain von Kopenick may achieve in the ' history of German penology a similarly honorable position . Wherever his story is read , it should prompt people to ask whether modern humanitarian methods determine their country 's treatment of all offenders . As for the military side of the incident  --  the German uniform has been of late years a modern form of Gessler 's hat , before which all must bow down . Army officers have ever been a privileged class ; but their privileges have . never rankled more than to-day , thanks largely to the propaganda of the Social- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible the spectacle of a physically broken ex-convict who had never shouldered a rifle , assuming the rights of a captain , issuing orders to common soldiers , and seizing a whole town . Such an absurdity brought many persons back to earth . The spread of civilization is steadily subordinating the profession of arms ; any attempt to make of its members a supreme social class , aristocratic and overbearing , is bound to fail . For , sooner or later , there will always come a shoemaker from his last to show how easily a uniform may be donned , a ? swagger assumed , and the hero of braid and brass reduced to terms of flesh and blood . LA FOADIO HEARN ON STYLE . Among the hundred and one points of . interest in the correspondence of Lafcadio Hearn are certain observatidns on the writer 's art . Whatever Hearn was or was not , he was one of the finest artists in words of our time , and fully conscious- of the processes that made his own style One should recall also that few writers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the French Romanticists , he fairly outbid them in the tropical exuberance of his early works . After forty , and as a result of his increasing interest in psychology , he ' forged himself an English of extraordinary delicacy , reserve , and precision . He did this in the face of what would seem insuperable obstacles . Beginning with the scantiest education , he was for a score of years an active journalist  --  the worst training , one would imagine , for the attainment of anything like severity or precious4ess in style . He succeeded , perhaps , through the clearness with which he distinguished between his journalism and his literature Writing to his friend , the musical critic , H. E. Krehbiel , he says : Let me dwell upon an art principle Both you and I have a trade : journalism . ' We have also an art : authorship The same system of- labor can not be applied to the one as to the other without unfortunate results Let the trade be performed as mechanically as is consistent with preservation of one 's reputation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes to writing a durable thing  --  a book or a brochure  --  every line ought to be written at least twice , if possible three times . In the very act of copying , new ideas of grace , force , and harmony will make themselves manifest Without this , I will venture to say , fine literary execution is impossible Clearly , this is pretty muck Flaubert 's creed of the " single word " that is worth vigils and fasting ; and Hearn continues to preach the true doctrine to his friend , by counselling the perusal of etymological dictionaries . " Such books give one that subtle sense of words to which much that startles in poetry and prose is due . " A query and an exception to this view must be dealt with . Is Hearn 's atti'bide to journalism quite fairly expressed ill the above words ? and , Is style so purely a verbal matter as this passage implies ? As for the first question , Hearn 's associate on the New Orleans Tunes-Democrat can witness that he was reckoned as very much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surplus of effort that he recommended another to withhold . Indeed , his work for this newspaper was , on the whole , the rarest bit of luck that befell him . Nowhere but in New Orleans could he have written for a public to which translations of Gautier and Loti were an attractive journalistic feature . We doubt , also , if there was another office in the land where Hearn 's luscious , yes , over-luscious , fantasies would have possessed permanent " news value . " In short , this young genius was enabled to make a living from the unlikeliest source  --  in a sense , to ply his experiments in literature at the expense of the enemy journalism . The transaction naturally does honor both to himself and to his employers , but the passionate quest of the rare word and perfect phrase in those New Orleans days hardly explains the writer he afterwards became . As everybody knows , he pretty well gave over his especial ambition for a poetical prose ? " like chants wrought in a huge measure , wider than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irregular , like ocean-rhythm " and sought the more compact forms . He imperilled the considerable- popularity his ornate style had won Om - for the sake of a larger intellectual satis- - faction. - In the same letter of - 1826 - in v4414 he 41=5 : liO4big11.0.4.04.133I ) journalism for his -- -literature , Hearn writes : - A friend disciplined me to read Herbert Spencer . . . I found unspeakable comfort in the sudden and , for me , eternal reopening of the Great Doubt , . which renders pessimism ridiculous , and teaches a new reverence for all forms of faith . This experience pretty well marked the end of his Romantic absolutism on the score of style . But it is interesting to note that the conception of style as the inevitable expression of a richly stored personality had come to him even earlier . Writing in 1883 to the Rev. Wayland . Ball , Hearn describes the four things that " enrich fancy " ? to wit , benythology , history , romance , poetry . He urges that the " monstrous and the terrible " should be cultivated especially  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new idea in flight , he adds : But there is one more absolutely essential study in the formation of a strong style  --  science No romance equals it . If one can store up in his brain the most extraordinary facts of astronomy , geology , ethnology , etc , they furnish him with a wonderful and startling variety of images , symbols , and illustrations . With these studies I should think one could not help forging a good style at least  --  an impressive one certainly . It must be said that this novel theory is held in somewhat crude fashion . Cumulation is still the ideal , and rhetorical perfection the goal , but there is in the passage , all the same , an inkling of that strange mixture of impressionistic vision with scientific analysis which gave Hearn his unique position in English letters . It might , indeed , be argued that those last fruitful years of his life were consumed in subduing the romanticist to the scientist . How difficult the readjustment was , many of the leters from Japan . attest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of modern literature We need a reconciliation of some sort between- the freedom , nay , the caprice , of the instinctive artist , and the scrupulous method of the man of science . There surely will never be a time when the matter of verbal ingenuity will be unimportant to a true man of letters ; but it will be increasingly important to perceive that the pen writes merely Out of the fulness of the whole experience behind it . In this sense , Lafoadio Hearn 's admonition that , with all a literary man 's getting , he should get science , is likely to remain a guidepost. - Perfection certainly lies nearer that road than it does to the short-cut of the etymological dictionary . 