@@430306

During the present year the planet Mars , which has given astronomers so merry a chase during the past few years , arrives at one of the favorable oppositions when its distance from the earth will be less than forty millions of miles , and details upon its surface will therefore be more easily seen than they usually are . Since public curiosity will soon be aroused , there is a certain timeliness in the nearly simultaneous publication of two books upon our interesting neighbor . The first of these is an essay by Professor E. S. Morse , who has spent most of his long life in zoological studies . The study of life upon the earth has produced in him an intense interest in the question as to whether intelligent life exists in other worlds . Believing that any man possessing a fair amount of intelligence is competent to make a critical estimate of the work of astronomers upon Mars , he has essayed the task of sitting as judge upon their labors , of sifting the observational evidence at hand and pronouncing judgment in no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the book the calm attitude of the man of science who looks at the matter in hand from all sides , examines the evidence pro and con , and then states his conclusions with the modesty which befits one who is aware of the uncertainties pertaining to the subject . The present author takes the viewpoint , rather , of the special pleader , marshals the evidence that bolsters up the theory he is advancing , ridicules opinions divergent from his own , and leaves the reader in a state of wonder as to what arguments might be advanced on the other side of the question . Such a course , however , when adopted by a man whose rhetorical ability is undoubted , at least leads to the production of a very readable book . The general trend of Professor Morse 's argu-75 ment is as follows : First , life in other worlds is inherently probable . Second , a network of lines marks the surface of Mars . Third , the lines are most easily accounted for on the supposition that they mark the courses of irrigating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by intelligent beings . This simple line of argument the author elaborates , enlivening nearly every chapter with personal allusions to well-known astronomers who have had the fortune , or the misfortune , to express opinions upon Mars . He has apparently overstepped the limits of polite language when he makes the following comments upon some astronomers and astronomical writers whom he mentions by name : " But what could we expect of the mentality of the senior assistant of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , who , with the great vault of heaven crowded with enigmas awaiting an answer , should waste a particle of gray matter in trying to ascertain precisely where Joshua stood when he commanded the Sun to stand still so that he could have a little more time for his bloody work . " " I appeal to any honest and unprejudiced mind if a more incompetent person of the class to which he belongs could have been found in England for the Directorship of such a body . " His attempt is as childish and ridiculous as the theory he conjures up . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only it would seem in this case that a larger and more diversified corps of specialists , including alienists , is needed to attend to that class of astronomers who are suffering from mental strabismus . It might be advisable to call in the services of a bacteriologist to make cultures of new forms of microbes winch may be involved in rendering men incapable of estimating the value of evidence . " Professor Morse spent a month at the Lowell Observatory in Arizona , where he was given opportunity to observe Mars on every clear night with the 24-inch telescope . Here he came to appreciate the difficulties connected with the study of the system of canals . On pages 80 ? 81 he describes his initial sensations . Imagine my surprise and chagrin when I first saw the beautiful disk of Mars through this superb telescope . Not a line ! not a marking ! The object I saw could only be compared in appearance to the open mouth of a crucible filled with molten gold . Slighter discolorations here and there and evanescent areas outlined for the tenth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be seen . Had I stopped that night , or even a week later , I might have joined the ranks of certain observers and said ' Illusion , ' or something worse . And right here it was that my experience with microscopic work helped me ; for , remembering the hours ? nay , days ? I had worked in making out structural features in delicate organisms which my unprofessional friends could not see at all , I realized that patient observation would be required if I was to be successful in my efforts . My despair , however , was overwhelming when Professor Lowell and his assistants , looking for a few moments at the same object , would draw on paper the features which had been plainly revealed to them , consisting of definite shaded regions , a number of canals and other markings , of which . with the utmost scrutiny , I could hardly detect a trace . " In replying to the natural objection that physical conditions on Mars may be so very different from those on the earth that such forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , the author has written a very interesting chapter in which he shows the astonishing variety of circumstances under which life of various forms exists upon the earth . Animals of marvellous delicacy live at the bottom of the ocean in darkness and under a pressure of many tons to the square , inch . Some forms of plant-life thrive in water nearly at the freezing point , and others exist in that which is almost ready to boil . Even men live in temperatures ranging from 130 ? in the shade to 70 ? below zero ; they can work at an altitude of 19,000 feet , or under an atmospheric pressure of twenty-five or thirty pounds to the square inch , without injury . Anyone who is at all interested in the question of the existence of intelligent life in other worlds may well pass a pleasant evening in perusing the pages of this entertaining book . Of a very different sort is Professor Lowell 's latest book on " Mars and Its Canals . " Eleven years ago he issued a very attractive popular work on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; stants have assiduously observed the ruddy planet at every favorable opportunity . These observations have strongly confirmed the opinions originally expressed by Professor Lowell , and have enabled him to fill in details in gratifying fashion . The observations have been made at his private observatory at Flagstaff , Arizona , where a 24-inch glass , of Alvan G. Clark 's workmanship , is mounted at an elevation of eight thousand feet above the sea . In order to make out delicate planetary detail , it is absolutely necessary that the atmosphere at the observing station be both clear and steady . One who merely works with a microscope in the quiet air of a laboratory has no adequate conception of the difficulty of seeing minute details when one has to look through many miles of an agitated atmospheric ocean , laden with dust and water vapor , and often charged with ice-spiculae in its upper layers . Apart from the question of the existence and function of the Martian canals , the author believes that the following conclusions , from his own observations and those of others , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially like our own . Second , that its enveloping  | atmosphere contains water vapor , carbonic acid , and oxygen , and is quite rare , the barometric pressure being probably no greater than four inches . Third , that water is very scarce , as shown by the infrequency of clouds and the rapid melting of the polar caps in summer . Fourth , that the temperature is colder than ours , but above the freezing point of water except in winter and the extreme polar regions . Fifth , that vegetation springs up when the polar snows welt , and dies away in due course . The difficulty of the observations which lie at the basis of all reasonable theorizing about the much-discussed system of canals and the existence of intelligent beings on the planet , may well be described in Professor Lowell 's own words . " When a fairly acute-eyed observer sets himself to scan the telescopic disk of the planet in steady air , he will , after noting the dazzling contour of the white polar cap and the sharp outlines of the blue-green seas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as of a thread stretched somewhere from the blue-green across the orange areas of the disk . Gone as quickly as it came , he will instinctively doubt his own eyesight , and credit to illusion what can so unaccountably disappear . Gaze as hard as he will , no power of his can recall it , when , with the same startling abruptness , the thing stands before his eyes again . Convinced , after three or four such showings , that the vision is real , he will still be left wondering what and where it was . For so short and sudden are its apparitions that the locating of it is dubiously hard . It is gone each time before he has got its bearings . By persistent watch , however , for the best instants of definition , backed by a knowledge of what he is to see , he will find its comings more frequent , more certain , and more detailed . At last some particularly propitious moment will disclose its relation to well-known points and its position be assured . First , one such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then he will note that each always appears in place . Repetition in situ will convince him that these strange visitants are as real as the main markings , and are as permanent as they . . . . Not everybody can see these delicate features at first sight , even when pointed out to them ; and to perceive their more minute details takes a trained as well as an acute eye , observing under the best conditions . " Our author has devoted half his book to a detailed description of observations of the canals and to theories as to their nature and origin . These tantalizing objects were even photographed ; joyful was the day when this feat was accomplished ! " The eagerness with which the first plate was scanned as it emerged from its last bath may be imagined , and the joy when on it some of the canals could certainly be seen ! There were the old configurations of patches , the light areas and the dark , just as they looked through the telescope , and never till then otherwise seen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grosser of those lines that had so piqued human curiosity , the canals of Mars . . . . By chance on one of the plates a temporal event was found registered too , the first snowfall of the season , the beginning of the new polar cap , seen visually just before the plate happened to be put in and reproduced by it unmistakably . Upon the many images thirty-eight canals were counted in all , and one of them , the Nilokeras , double . Thus did the canals at last speak for their own reality themselves . " We are now ready to ask for an explanation of the nature of these delicate markings . The author shows that their complex behavior may be accounted for by a theory which he unhesitatingly advocates . This theory is that there are narrow waterways extending in a complete network over the surface of Mars ; when the polar snows melt , the released water flows equatorwards through these waterways , quickening vegetation along their banks and causing it to develop from the polar regions onward . This vegetation flourishes for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasonally . If we grant that vegetation somewhat similar to our own exists , the author asks us to admit that animal life , which is closely coexistent with vegetable life on the earth , is likewise associated with it on Mars . On page 358 he says : Once started , life , as palxontology shows , develops along both the floral and faunal lines side by side , taking on complexity with time . It begins so soon as secular cooling has condensed water vapor into its liquid state ; chromaceax and confervx coming into being high up toward the boiling point . Then with lowering temperature come the sea-weeds and the rhizopods , then the land plants and the lunged vertebrates . Hand in hand the flora and fauna climb to more intricate perfecting , life rising as temperature lowers . " Professor Lowell believes that the water would not flow along the canals from a pole downward across the equator unless artificially helped ; this help he ascribes to beings of a high order of intelligence , who have fashioned the canal system . He calls particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark spots which are scattered over the planet 's face , going with geometrical precision straight from one " oasis " to another . These " oases " he considers centres of population . The population he esteems " necessarily intelligent " and of a " non-bellicose character . " How firm his conviction is may be judged from the first sentence of the last chapter , which reads as follows : That Mars is inhabited by beings of some sort or other , we may consider as certain as it is uncertain what those beings may be . " Whether the reader can accept the author 's conclusions or not , he will at least be forced to admit , after reading " Mars and Its Canals , " that the book is an exceedingly able and interesting exposition of the subject .  |                     