@@430245

THE NEW MANCHURIA . Now that Russia and Japan as well as China are busy seeking to adjust their respective policies and positions to the radically altered condition of Manchuria consequent upon the late war , it seems opportune to set forth clearly the real status of that country as it is , and as possibly it will be in the near future . In doing this , it may be appropriate to lay particular stress upon Japan 's attitude toward China , inasmuch as the insular Empire has risen to a commanding position in the Far East . In the following pages , the writer will endeavor to present the consensus of opinion expressed by the press and publicists of his country , rather than voice his own views . It , is needless to say that the main contention pertaining to Manchuria was disposed of by the peace treaty of Portsmouth ; but there were no less important details which that monumental instrument left unsettled . Although the Peking treaty recently concluded between Yuan Shi-kai and Baron Komura goes a long way toward the ultimate settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor that furnishes cause for uneasiness . The resourceful Russian Minister , M. Pokotiloff , is now active , plotting and cajoling at the yamen and the court at Peking ; and the Muscovite bugles have already rung out clearly enough for such as have ears to hear , heralding , as it were , that the Slav , despite a hundred disasters overtaking him both at home and in the Far East , is not to withdraw his grasping hands once fixed upon the dominions of the Celestial Empire . Who knows that the Northern Colossus may not once again set the terrific snowball rolling down from the frozen shores of Baikal on to the borders of the Flowery Kingdom ? The Muscovite diplomats embrace no moral code but that of the dying patriarch who offered this advice to his first-born : " My son , get money ? honestly , if you can , but get money . " Far from sharing the view of the uncompromising Russophobe , who finds in Russian character nothing but duplicity and treachery , we are none the less forced to admit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the diplomatic policy of Russia is invariably opportunist , regarding a treaty as an instrument to be adhered to only so long as it is convenient for her to do so . The Muscovite is careful to make pledges as sparingly as circumstances will allow ; and when driven to make one as a last resource , he often does so without the least intention of abiding by it . Unscrupulous and audacious , he does not hesitate to sacrifice the principle of justice or of diplomatic morality upon the altar of his territorial ambition . The question of time does not trouble him any more than the consideration of right or wrong . When he is confronted by an obstacle which seems insurmountable for the time being , he changes his front , and waits and watches events , preparing the while to seize the first opportunity which may come his way . He is too shrewd to brave a war when he can possibly avoid it . He has learned it to be the least expensive method of attaining his desires to act as opportunity serves , falling upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking the other way . His strength of purpose has survived defeat in battle ; and , the signs of the times not failing , it will survive even the disastrous effects entailed by the late war . In face of this knowledge , it is alike difficult and delicate to predict the ultimate fate of Manchuria . Without , however , venturing into the field of conjecture , let us consider what the status of the country in question will be in the immediate future . Recent advices from the Orient apprise us that the Russian representative at Peking is concocting new designs upon the Manchu Dynasty , trying to extort fresh concessions and immunities not only in Northern Manchuria , but in Mongolia and Sin-kiang . This information should surprise nobody who has the slightest acquaintance with Russian diplomacy . Count Witte sounded a fundamental keynote of the traditional policy of Russia when he declined , at the Portsmouth conference , Baron Komura 's proposal that Russia promise not to hold or obtain thenceforth such immunities or privileges as would prejudice the integrity of Manchuria . Indeed , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could not enter into any agreement restricting Russia 's future activities in Manchuria , which is recorded in the proceedings of the conference recently made public by the Government at Tokio . And yet many a person , by no means non-observant , has been led to interpret the last clause of Article III of the Treaty of Peace as expressing a pledge for the future on the part of Russia . In fact , a distinguished contributor to a recent issue of an eminent American magazine goes so far as to regard it as an outcome of clever " tricks " played by the Japanese representatives who " considered it wise to put Russia on record . " Had such really been the case , it would have been more fortunate for both China and Japan , even though Russia might have disregarded her pledge the moment she deemed it to her advantage . As it stands , however , the treaty has , even on paper , no power to prevent the Muscovite Government from wresting from the Manchu ruler such privileges and immunities as would imperil the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprehended that the former will soon play the same game in Northern Manchuria as she did in Southern Manchuria previous to the war . It appears to be Russia 's tactics to ( lodge the negotiation with China as long as possible , expecting in the mean time to solidify her position in the northern part of the Eastern Three Provinces . Whatever may be the final outcome of the pour parlers between the Muscovite representative and the Mandarinate , one thing seems certain , that Russia will retain the same advantageous position in the province of Nei-lung-16=g and Northern . Kirin as that obtained by Japan in Sing-kiang and Southern Kirin , thus splitting Manchuria into two spheres of influence . Small wonder , then , that the Czar 's Government is already reported to have thrust before the Peking Court a number of preferential privileges , includ ing the lumbering concession in the Sungari regions and the mining and railway concessions in Kirin and Hei-lung-kiang . That Russia is eager to secure such concessions , not from a harmless commercial motive , but as a means of satisfying her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ominous news has already circulated pointing to Russia 's unwilling ness to conform to the stipulations of the evacuation agreement . So long as Russia does not withdraw her troops , the casus belli which pro voked the late war remains intact , and the Japanese would be fully justified in assuming such precautionary measures as would counteract Muscovite duplicity , if it be incumbent upon them to be faithful to a cause they have espoused in behalf of China . Indeed , Japan will never tolerate the violation on the part of the Russians of the spirit and letter of the peace treaty ; and it is consoling to think that her soldiers to be quartered in- Southern Manchuria as railway guards will as such serve as a barrier in the way of Muscovite advance . Moreover , lessons taught by the late war would have been sufficient to force the military Tchino viks and the warlike entourages of the Czar to recognize that the " dwarf ish islanders " are no weaklings to be trifled with . Besides , the opening of Manchuria as a place of international trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to check the Russian encroachment upon that country . It has always been St. Petersburg 's policy to exclude the foreigners from its newly acquired territory or its sphere of influence in the Far East , it being the intention to conceal from the world her military operations . By the treaty of Aigun , the Russians obtained the exclusive right to navigate the Amur , the Sungari , and the Ussuri , forbidding vessels of any other country except China to utilize these waterways . At Vladivostock it has long been the rule not to permit more than two foreign vessels to enter the harbor at a time . At Newchang and Port Arthur , the Russian administration issued numerous notifications practically nullifying the advantages of a treaty port ; and on April 18 , 1903 , the Czar demanded of the Peking Court to agree not to open any new treaty ports in Manchuria , or permit new consuls without previous consent of St. Petersburg , or employ any foreigners , except Russians , in any administrative capacity in said country as well as Mongolia . By dint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absorb his weaker and backward neighbors before the world suspected it . But now that nearly all the most important places in the Eastern Three Provinces , including several strategical posts on the Russo-Manchurian frontier , are thrown open to the commerce of the world and as places of residence for all nations , the Russian policy of exclusion is , let us hope , for the most part superseded , which will in turn seriously handicap the Czar 's favorite modus operandi in the Far East . And the " open door " will no longer remain merely recorded on paper , but will be practically enforced under the vigilant surveillance of the Japanese . The treaty of Portsmouth , supplemented , as it were , by the ChinoJapanese treaty , would have placed Japan in much the same position as that of Russia prior to the late war , but for the fact that the former stands for the " open door " and the principle of equal opportunity . In the first place , Japan has secured the lease of Port Arthur , Ta-lien , and the adjacent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , the extent of the lease is anything but clear . Indeed , the popular misconception on this point has been such that even the author of the brilliant book " The New Far East " is worried not a little , because in the Russo-Japanese treaty of peace the term " Liao-tung peninsula " instead of " Kuan-tung peninsula " is used in describing the territory covered by the leasehold which Russia has transferred to her victor . As a matter of fact , the word " Kuan-tung " is no less ambiguous a term than " Liao-tung , " and needs to be so defined as to admit of no misconstruction . Consequently , Article V of the Russo-Japanese treaty , wherein the territory in question is defined , deliberately avoids referring to either the one or the other of these terms , but unmistakably indicates that Japan 's acquisition in this respect is neither greater nor less than what Russia held in the peninsula before the war . In order , however , to ascertain the exact alignment of the leased territory , it behooves us to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1898 , as well as to the convention concluded a little later between Ilsu-to-jen , the Chinese minister at St. Petersburg , and the Russian Government . According to these documents , the leased territory covers the whole of that portion of the Liao-tung peninsula lying io the south of an imaginary line drawn from Pu-la-tien , at the head of an inlet on the west coast , to Pi-tsu-wo , a village on the east coast of the peninsula . To the north of the territory thus leased there is a " neutral zone " stretching to a line drawn from the mouth of the Kai-thou River to the south of the district city of Kaiping on the west coast , to a point on the Tayang River and down its right bank to the sea , and including the village of Ta-ku-shan on the east coast . In the neutral zone , China retains her jurisdiction , but relinquishes the right to quarter troops except with the previous consent of the power in behalf of which the lease is established . Such are the exact limits of the territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lease is fixed at twenty-five years , out of which some seven years have already elapsed under Russian rule. , Inasmuch as Japan , in the new treaty with China , is pledged to adhere to the stipulations of the Russo-Chinese treaty of lease , she must withdraw from the Liao-tung peninsula at the expiration of the succeeding eighteen years unless the term be extended by the mutual consent of the high contracting parties . Next in importance is the acquisition by Japan of the railway between Chang-chun-fu ( or Kuan-thong-tsu ) , on the north and fort Arthur ' on the south , covering some 456 miles , as well as the following three branch lines : Ta-shih-chiao to Yinkow , 13 miles ; Ta-ho-shin to ' Fa-lien , 4 miles ; Nan-kuan-lig to Dalny , 11 miles . All told , the railways ceded by Russia to Japan amount to some 484 miles , for the building of which the former expended some 76,222,000 roubles . In virtue of the RussoChinese agreement of September , 1896 , the concessionnaire country for these lines must hand over to the Peking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expiration of eighty years from the day of the opening of traffic along the main line of the Eastern Chinese Railway , i.e. , 1903 . Besides , the Chinese Government has the right , on the expiration of thirty-six years from the time of completion of the main line and its opening for traffic , to take over the lines entire , on refunding to the concessionnaire country all the outlays made on them . In addition to the railways ceded by Russia , the new ChinoJapanese treaty allows Japan the right to reconstruct the military railway between Autung and Mukden , amounting to 184 miles , into a permanent line to be utilized for commercial purposes , the duration of the concession being fifteen years from the day of the completion of the reconstruction work . According to an additional clause of the above-mentioned railway agreement between the Peking and the St. Petersburg Court , the Eastern Chinese Railway enjoys the right to police a strip of territory extending for fifteen versts on either side of the railway line , as well as the exclusive right to exploit any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads us to the consideration of the much talked-of coal mines of Yentai , Fushun , and Wa-fang-tien . The Yentai coal mines , which had been worked by Chinese until the Eastern Chinese Railway acquired them by purchase , lie north of Liao-Yang and in the centre of an enormous coal basin reputed to cover several thousand square miles of territory and to be sufficient to supply the country with fuel for centuries . The coal mine in the Fushun district and the Wa-fang-tien mine in Southern Liao-tung were also opened up by Chinese many years before the coming of the Russians . Since the Russians had taken pos session of these mines , their poor management of business was respons ible for so little improvement that the coal raised was insufficient to supply even the southern section of the Central Manchurian Railway . Besides these three mines , the Eastern Chinese Railway worked several seams , but in an aimless and shiftless fashion , abandoning them after a short experience . Under the efficient management of the Japanese , this deplorably nebulous state of things will be promptly readjusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without utilizing which the Chan-chun-Port Arthur railway will never be turned into a commercial success , withstanding the formidable competition offered by the famous junk-traffic on the Liao River and the Chinese railway on the other side of that waterway . Now we come to the question of lumbering concessions , which furnished the world a topic of startling stories immediately preceding the Russo-Japanese war . The semi-official corporation , the Yalu Lum ber Company , having an imposing head-office in Port Arthur , was con cerned with the lumbering on the Manchurian as well as Korean side of the Yalu . This enterprise , political rather than commercial in its aim and nature , ( lid not hit upon a working plan , and was already on the verge of dissolution , having some 4,000,000 roubles to the Company 's debit , and being embroiled in directorial troubles over the question of the division of spoils . In consequence of the new agreement between the Tokio and the Peking Governments , the lumbering industry on the right side of the Yalu River shall be undertaken by a joint-stock com @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividing the shares equally between Chinese and Japanese subscribers . The corporat ion thus inaugurated shall be a semi-official one , directly supervised 1 ) y the Manchu Government , although the shareholders may appoint represen tatives to look after their own interests and to insure that a fair share of profits accrue to them . At present , the natives , felling the Yalu timber in a very In ? imitive fashion , are said to derive an annual income amounting to sonic $2,500,000 ; and it , is quite safe to assume that this d industry , when carried out by modem methods and on sound business , principles , will prove the source of no insignificant income . Important as is Japan 's acquisition of the rights and properties above described , it sinks into comparative insignificance when we come to consider the attainment by her of an end which is the sine qua non of the Chinese policy of Japan ? the realization of the " Open Door . " Faithful to her Manchurian policy , Japan has persuaded the Tsin dynasty to open the following sixteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade " : This list has to be enlarged by five additional ports , of which Newchang ana Talien have practically been marts of international commerce for a number of years , whilst the remaining three , Antung , Tatun-kow , and Mukden , though nominally opened in October , 1903 , as a consequence of the joint agitation of the - United States and Japan , have remained unutilized owing to the contingency of tke late war . All in all , twentyone cities and towns in Manchuria will soon be thrown open to the commerce of the world . A glance at the map of Northern China reveals how carefully these places are selected . Taking the newly opened sixteen ports , we perceive that their opening is of the utmost importance for the benefit not only of China and Japan , but of all nations standing for the maintenance of the integrity and the promotion of the economic prosperity of the Celestial Empire . Viewed from a strategical point , the five frontiers or semi-frontier posts , Manchuli , Aigun , Khailar , Iunchun , and Ninguta , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious obstacle to Russian aggression upon Man churia , for . through them , the frontier armaments and military activities of the Muscovite in the Far East will be readily exposed to the world at large . The remaining eleven towns include most of the important trade entrepots in the maritime province and interior of Manchuria . Liaoyang , probably the oldest town in the Eastern Three Provinces , lies astride of the railway commanding the fertile Liao valley , which , famous with giant crops of kao-long , or the tall millet , veritably flows with milk and honey . Tieling , Hsin-min-tun , Fakumen , and Tung-kiang-tsu are also situated more or less closely to the Liao River , the greatest trade artery in Manchuria , down which the produce of the far interior of that country and Eastern Mongolia are carried to the port of Newchang . About half way between Tieling and Harbin is the prosperous city of Chang-chun ( Kuan-cheng-tsu ) , which is aptly called the clearing-house of inland Manchuria , being the distributing centre for trade to and from Kirin , Hei-lung-kiang , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old city of Kirin , the capital of the province of the same name , which , situated in the heart of a splendid timbered country , is so famous for the building of boats and junks that it is well styled the " dockyard . " Finally , we come to the famous railway city of Harbin , which is the key of the Eastern Chinese railway , and its brains , ordering the coming and going of every truck and car . The opening of these towns will be effected as soon as possible after the withdrawal of the armies of the Mikado and the Czar , which is to be completed before April 14 , 1907 , in conformity with the evacuation agreement concluded between the commanders of the formerly belliger ent forces in Manchuria . No sooner will the colors be removed from Man churia , than a Japanese civilian population will flow into these treaty ports . Even under exceedingly adverse circumstances prior to the war , there were some 2,500 Japanese in Manchuria engaged in various lines of mercantile pursuits ; and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy these figures will be heavily augmented . Quick to seize every opportunity , the Japanese merchants and traders are already planning to open , in the coming autumn , industrial and agri cultural expositions in Mukden and Tieling . Thus , the substitution of the Japanese " open door " for the exclu sive policy of Russia will prove a strong stimulus for bona-fide commercial enterprises which have been kept in abeyance under the influence of the perverted business principles of the Muscovite . Apart from the bribery and graft that prevailed in Manchuria under Russian rule , the Muscovite policy w a s in direct contravention of the rights of trading nat ions . I n 1901 the " ' fines " correspnn ( lent in the Far East . wrote that the Russian admin istration at Ialny had refused to ( permit Americans to build go-downM for the storage of American kerosene , announcing the intention to exclude American oil altogether from Manchuria . The Americans were looked upon with keen suspicion if they ventured further than a couple of miles from Newchang . The Russians refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British subjects travelling in that country must possess Russian passes which could be procured from Port Arthur only , with great difficulty and considerable delay . With the inauguration of the " open-door " policy , however , the entrepreneurs and traders of all countries will equally enjoy the privilege of exploiting the wonderful country of Manchuria , whose three hundred thousand square miles contain enormous natural resources , and whose buying capacity can be developed almost without limit . The evacuation clause of the Treaty of Peace ' does not affect the railway guards in Manchuria , which the high contracting parties reserve the right to maintain to a number not exceeding fifteen per kilometre . As a consequence of the publication at Tokio of the proceedings of the peace conference , it has recently transpired that Count Witte objected to Baron Komura 's proposal to fix the maximum number of such guards , which is very significant in view of the fact that it has always been Russia 's policy to utilize the railway as the forerunner of her conquering army . The Russo-Manchurian railway is a military strategical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarded , with blockhouses every three or four miles , and with garrisons at every important point adequate to quarter large numbers of troops . - Viewed in this light , the restriction of the number of railway guards is of no small importance . Had not Baron Komura 's insistence prevailed upon Count Witte , it is highly probable that Russia night have indefinitely stationed in Manchuria a formidable army on the plea of protecting her railway lines . At the recent Peking conference , the Chinese plenipotentiaries expressed the desire to have the Japanese and Russian railway guards withdrawn as soon as possible , in response to which Japan consented to withdraw her guards in the event of Russia agreeing to take a similar step . It seems , however , very unlikely that Russia will listen to China 's request ; and Japan , in order to cope with what odds the Russian railway guards may bring about against her , will have to station her troops along her railway lines until China shall have become capable of protecting herself as well as the lives and property of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some 669 miles of railway , including the southern portion of the Eastern Chinese Railway and the Autung-Mukden line . At fifteen men to a kilometre , she can station some 16,032 soldiers along these lines . Russia , on her part , still retains some 967 miles , which will give her the right to keep about 23,208 men . Thus we see that the maximum of fifteen soldiers per kilometre totals no meagre figure , and it might reasonably be apprehended that the maintenance of such large forces could not fail to prove preju dicial to the sovereignty of China , were it not for the fact that Japan , adhering to her promise , will utilize her railway guards , in case of ne cessity , for the purpose of checking Russian encroachment upon the integrity of Manchuria . It has been persistently rumored that Japan and China have entered into a clandestine understanding which is of no smaller importance than the treaty made public by the respective Governments . But this so-called " secret agreement , " as we learn from an authoritative source , is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mukden-Hsin-min-tun railways . It will be remembered that at the Portsmouth conference Japan originally demanded the whole of the Port Arthur-Harbin section of the Eastern Chinese railway , and that Witte 's refusal of this demand resulted in a compromise by which Russia retained to herself the HarbinChang-chun section of said line , recognizing in lieu thereof Japan 's right to build the proposed line between Kirin and Chan-chun . At the Peking conference , however , the Chinese plenipotentiaries declined to endorse this agreement made between the formerly belligerent nations , and the Mikado 's representatives were forced to yield to another com promise , agreeing to construct the Kirin-Chang-chun line in conjunction with the Manchu Government . This line , though only eighty-four miles long , was sought by Japan , because its connection with the Port Arthur-Chang-chun road will greatly enhance the value of the latter . When the Russian Government contemplated the construction of that road in 1902 , the semi-official Novoe Vremya said as follows : This branch is important both for commercial and strategical reasons ; for if our railway did not touch Kirin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Manchuria . More trading routes pass through Kirin than through any other town in the province . It is a kind of junction for all the commerce of China with northern Manchuria , Korea , and the Amur regions , and through it pass the main roads leading to Mukden and Peking , to Korea and the Russian frontier . Another arrangement made by the so-called secret agreement relates to the military railway connecting Mukden and Hsin-min-tun , built by the Russians during the war and afterward occupied by the Japanese . As this road does not belong to the Eastern Chinese Railway , Japan can not convert it into a permanent line to be maintained for commercial purposes without first securing the consent of the Chinese Government . Having failed to secure such consent , Japan has made a conciliat ion in virtue of which China is to build said line with funds to he supplied by the Tokio Government . The third and last settlement contained in the secret agreement is to the effect that the Peking administration shall not build a compel i tive line to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unpublished agreement , which rather testifies to the modesty of Japan 's demands , there is no reason why it should give rise to such intense anxiety as has been entertained in certain quarters in Europe . I have stated that at the Peking conference Japan made several important concessions in favor of China . She had fought China 's battle as much as she had fought her own , sacrificing thousands of lives and spending hundreds of millions of dollars , and yet the Manchu Govern ment did not hesitate to deny her a few railway concessions which she was fully justified in claiming . But Baron Iiomura , adroit and foresighted , tolerated China 's ungrateful attitude and conceded many points , thus hoping to convince the Chinese Government and people of Japan 's sincere wish for the welfare of their country . Outside of the conference rooms , he spared no pains to be friendly with the Empress Dowager and the high officials of the Yamen . He was aware that China was too large a country to be controlled by Japan , or , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game and try to make the most of her oppor tunities , resorting to bullying and bluster in her dealings with the Man chus , her Chinese policy could only result in failure . Although China 's attitude toward Japan has become distinctly friendly in the past few years , " it will require , " as Mr. Weale says in his brilliant work , " The Re-Shaping of the Far East , " " the greatest deli cacy , the most firm but magnanimous policy , and the most far-seeing and liberal treatment on the part of Japan to exact the full value which these remarkable years should give . " In spite of M. Alexandre Uler 's rose-colored description of the " Rus sification " of Manchuria , we are forced to believe that this Russification has been something of a myth , made possible by gigantic bluff . Gar nering in all Russia 's gold , twenty million Manchurians look at the Muscovites none the less with distrust and disdain , and the Russian military commissaires and their lieutenants have never made headway with the provincial officials of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and outrages will never convince the Chinese , and Japan must not repeat Russia 's history extorting privileges and concessions from the Manchu dynasty . It is highly gratifying to note that recent events all conspire to solidify the friendly relationship existing between Japan and China . The nine thousand Chinese students pursuing various lines of study in Japan , and the hundreds of Japanese employed by the central and local governs ctl ( 5 of China , will greatly help the two nations to pave the way to the ultimate establishment of an entente cordiale , destined to play a conspicuous role in the future developments of the political situation in the Far East . In the mean time , the fact should not be lost sight of that the war and the consequent settlements have immensely increased Japan 's respon sibilities in China . It can not be expected that Russia , submitting to her recent misfortunes , should abandon all her hopes of territorial ag grandizement in the East . On the contrary , the Empire of Muscovy will ever strive to expand eastward at the expense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a quid pro quo for the loss of southern Man churia , Russia will surely lay her covetous hands upon Mongolia and Sinkiang , besides preparing to seize every opportunity to recover her shattered influence in northern Manchuria , thus making the question of the Russo-Chinese land-frontier infinitely more complicated . Would Japan defend the integrity of Mongolia and Sinkiang with vigor and determination as she did in the case of Manchuria ? This is a most perplexing question . Should Japan , in the event of Russia encroaching upon Chinese territory in the direction of Central Asia or Mongolia , answer China 's request for help with a diplomatic non pos sumus , the result could be naught but that the pendulum of the Man darinate would again swing toward the Muscovite bureaucrats in the impairment of the most dearly-bought rapprochement between the Tokio and the Peking Courts ; and the islanders of Nippon may ware up one morning only to find the flames of war once again lighting the hills and plains of Manchuria . Single-handed , Japan might find it difficult to cope with such a grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the attitude of Downing Street .                     