@@473231

IT will be one hundred years , come December 20 , 1903 , since the old Ca-bildo held within its walls that great event of its history , the official ceremony of the transfer of Louisiana by France to the United States . The new Cabildo , it was then , fresh from the munificent hand of Don Andres Almonester , the Alferez Real . The great stone stairway , easy and majestic of ascent , now blackened and hollowed by a century 's footfalls , was then clean and smooth ; the noble front , now worn andweather-stained , was then virginal in its beauty ! A goodly domicile it was held to be , and indeed it was , for the Very II us t r ious Cabildo , and no mean-looking Capitol for that domain , superb though it was , that twice in its council-chamber was signed away to different powers , like a dower to a grasping spouse . Twenty days before the eventful December date the French had taken possession of the city and official possession of the territory . They had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish colors had waved , as the populace were wont to believe , in secure and proud dominion of the earth and sky of Louisiana ; they had bowed out of the Cabildo its whole " Illustrious " company of couneillors ? Alcaldes , Alguacils , Regidores , Escribanos , the Contador , the Alfe'rez Real , the Gobernador ; had closed the huge tome of the Spanish Register , the ponderous plodding chronicle of municipal deliberations and decisions for thirty-seven years past ? proceedings they could hardly be called ? and they had opened a new volume in the name and language and under the date . of the French Republic . Between one volume and the other , as we see them before us , stretches the whole extent of the French Revolution ? the whole space of difference between imperial Spain and republican France . The last page of one tome marks the crawling progress of the city ; the first page of the other the colossal stride of a Power through the world ? his Catholic Majesty and Napoleon Bonaparte . The Supreme Court of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Very Illustrious Cabildo held theirs ? in the room where the two Transfers took place . Busts of former Chief Justices on high pedestals around the tribune , and , thick hung along the walls , . portraits of eminent jurists who have passed away , suggest , with some solemnity , a watch and guard that is more than metaphorical ? they represent , and represent well , that American domination into whose keeping Bonaparte ceded the great territory ? the territory which he predicted would affirm forever the power of the United States , and give England a rival that sooner or later would lower her pride . The 20th of December fell upon a Tuesday in 1S03 , a day that dawned with such radiance , and in such contrast with the ' dull , dark Wednesday upon which the French took possession , that the new proprietors , the Americans , claimed it as a particular compliment from Heaven to their flag ? and so demeaned themselves . As they did not know that bright and beautiful days are the common coin of the climate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but they were not pardoned ; on the contrary , their conduct and language were considered so unmannerly by the polite Creoles that deductions unfavorable even to the Constitution of the United States were drawn from them ; and although the chronicles of the time do not mention the fact , no doubt more than one Creole gentleman , and all the Creole ladies , remarked , with ill-concealed disdain , that if old Don Andres could have foreseen what ceremony his stately edifice was called upon to subserve , only live years after his death , he would have lifted not a finger towards repairing the ruin and desolation of the fire sent by God to punish the city for its sins , as the priests accounted for it , on Good-Friday , 1784 . Indeed , if , lying over there under the altar of the Cathedral ( which he had also built and presented to the city at the same time of affliction ) ? if , Tying over there in his coffin , he could even now dream what was going on outside , uo matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , as compounded for with the Church , every Saturday afternoon at the ringing of the Angelus , was there a prayer in the Church that could ease him of his spite I The crowd began gathering along the route of the procession , Chartres Street and the Place d'Armes , betimes : not that this means more than the idlest curiosity and wanton excitement , for all the city rose by daylight in that day , and the city all lay within easy stone's-throw of the Cabildo , securely within the Ramparts raised by the careful government to guard against the political accidents that befell so many promising governments in that revolutionary period ; tumblings of children out of bed at night  - -  to speak as the Spaniards did . Every household within the Ramparts could be , and in fact was , timed by the Cathedral , timed both for here and for hereafter . Outside the Ramparts it was different . There lay the Faubourg St. Marie , the American quarter , that rough , rude , boisterous , riotous , irrepressible settlement of flatboat men from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the Western country , who , with their wild talk about rights of deposit and ownership of the mouth of the Mississippi , had kept the Spanish Governor in a constant state of preparation for attack , and the President of the United States in a state of preparation for their filibustering capture of the city from Spain , or a no less filibustering capture of the West by Spain from the United States . It was the Faubourg St. Marie , the American settlement , that handful of squatters , that , in truth , forced the hand of Jefferson , and making the cession of New Orleans the critical political necessity of the hour , had secured it . At nine o'clock the militia began to arrive and form in the Place d'Armes . The Colonial Prefect , Citizen Pierre Clement Laussat , stood upon the central balcony of the Cabildo to look at them . Robin , the genial historian and traveller , was in New Orleans at the time , and he relates that upon that eventful morning he accompanied Laussat to the Cabildo and stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as from the roof of the building to-day , the eye could sweep unobstructed up and down the river and take in the crescent curve of the bank and all its magnificent possibilities of harborage . Across the Place d'Armes , at the government landing , and along the levee to the right and the left , lay a full complement of vessels loading and unloading . Where the vessels could not be seen , there rose their masts , decked for the day in gala bunting . On each side of the Place d'Armes ran Don Andres 's handsome row of buildings , two-storied , with iron - balustraded balconies and high , pointed , red-tiled Spanish roofs the choice location of the city for trade , on the ground-floor , for residence above . Along the line of the levee could be seen the roof-trees , thick and close , of the warehouses and counting-houses and shops ? wholesale and retail ? the growth of healthy , vigorous trade . And the Cabildo itself was hardly handsomer than some of the residences about it ? hOtels , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their porte eocheres , courtyards , pigeon-houses , cellars , arching doorways , and marble mantels brought from Italy , and furniture imported from wherever in Europe it was made most luxuriously . Robin writes that , pending the arrival of the American commissioner , Laussat and he walked up and down the balcony , conversing upon the event about to take place , their eyes , we dare say , losing naught to be seen ; gathering in the city VOL . C11.  - -  7511 5 ) 8 - 32 not only in general , but also in detail : the motley composition of the crowd , the gallant bearing of the gentlemen militia , the gayly dressed ladies on the balconies surrounding the square , the radiant blue and white sky overhead , and under the sky , , so close to it as almost to seem , what it was so often described to be in the fulsome eulogy of the day , a heavenly meteor , the Tricolor , waving proudly , gracefully , beautifully , serenely , at home . It is easier for pride to abandon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt keenly that day . He knew what Bonaparte only pretended to know ? the value of what France was giving away . Robin discreetly does not publish their conversation ; but Laussat did not conceal his sentiments in his despatches . " The Americans , " he wrote , " have given fifteen millions of dollars for Louisiana ; they would have given fifty millions rather than not possess In a few years the country as far as the Rio Brazos will be in a state of cultivation . New Orleans will then have a population of from thirty to fifty thousand souls , and the country will produce sugar enough to supply America and part of Europe . .... What a magnificent New France have we lost ! .... The people are naturally gentle , though touchy , proud , and brave . They have seen themselves rejected for the second time from the bosom of their mother-country .... Their interpretation of the cession , and their comments on it , show too clearly the extreme bitterness of their discontent . .... Nevertheless , they have become tolerably well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adimntages in the Constitution of the ' united States of which it will be impossible to prevent them from experiencing the benefit .... And being once freed from her colonial fetters , it would be unnatural to suppose that Louisiana would ever willingly resume thew .... At half past eleven o'clock was heard the impatiently awaited cannon-shot that announced the marching of the Americans from their camp above the city . Another shot announced their entrance into the city through the Tchoupitoulas Gate . Then came from the forts a salute of twenty-four guns . As twelve o'clock was ringing , the Americans filed in front of the Cabildo ; Governor Claiborne and General Wilkinson , the American commissioners , riding side by side , followed by ( the enumeration makes it appear small now , but in the vista of time and under the glowing light of tradition it was indeed a grand procession ) fourteen dragoons in red uniforms , four pieces of artillery served by forty cannoneers , two companies of infantry , one of carabineers , with an escort of grenadiers from the city 's militia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers . The American commissioners , dismounting , ascended the Cabildo stairs and entered the great council-chamber , where the Colonial Prefect awaited them , surrounded by his staff and all the dignitaries of the city , civil , military , and ecclesiastical , by Spanish officers , and by all the notable citizens of the place . Laussat led the way to a chair of state with a smaller and lower chair on each side . He took the seat of honor ; Claiborne placed himself on the right , Wilkinson on the left . The secretaries of the commission stood in front . The ceremony was opened by the French commissioner , who in a few words stated the object of the assembly . The Treaty of Cession was then read by the secretaries , in English and in French . Laussat read aloud his credentials , those empowering him to receive the colony from the Spanish authorities , and those directing him to transfer the territory to the agents commissioned by the United States to receive it , after which Governor Claiborne read aloud the credentials empowering him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French government to deliver it . Thereupon Laussat made the formal announcement that he put the United States in possession of the lands , countries , and dependencies of Louisiana in conformity with the articles of the treaty , under the same limits and conditions as he had received them by the Treaty of St. Ildefonso . Taking the keys of the city , he presented them to the American commissioner , and turning to the assemblage in front of him , pronounced these words : " I declare , in virtue of the powers with which I am invested , And the commission with which I am charged by the First Consul , that all citizens and inhabitants of Louisiana are from this moment relieved from their oath of fidelity to the French Republic . " He then changed places with the American commissioner . Governor Claiborne , on taking his seat , offered the people his congratulations on the event which , he said , had irrevocably fixed their political existence , and no longer left it open to the caprices of chance , assuring them that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be protected in the enjoyment of their liberty , property , and religion ; that their commerce would be favored , their agriculture encouraged . The secretaries then read aloud the proce's-verbal of the transfer , in French and in English . After these papers were signed and sealed by the commissioners , and reciprocally interchanged , the ceremony was declared over , and there was a moxement of the audience towards the front of the building . The commissioners walked out upon the central balcony and stood together . Their appearance was the signal for the lowering of the French flag . Slowly , trembling , fluttering , it descended . The flag of the United States as slowly ascended . When the two came together , midway of the staff , they paused a moment , mingling their colors and their folds . A cannon-shot broke the silence , and it was followed by a hoarse roar from guns all over the city ? from the forts , from the ships , from the pieces in the square ; the soldiers fired their muskets , the men shouted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waved their handkerchiefs ? whether saluting the flag going down or the flag going up is not certain ; but certain it is the flag that went up and the flag that went down , each went up and went down in the heart of every onlooker . A French officer standing at the foot of the standard received the Tricolor in his arms , and with all its folds around him , silently strode away with it . Men fell in , one by one , behind him as at a funeral procession ; the American soldiers presented arms as they passed ; the citizens in the street uncovered before them and made way for them . The United States banner , despite all efforts to relieve it , hung for a moment embarrassed from the peak of the staff , and an anxious quiet fell over the Americans as they gazed upwards at it ; but by degrees the great folds slowly unwound , caught the breeze , and like a flower burst open against the sky . Then such shouts arose from the Americans ; they tossed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their best so loudly , that that moment at least was theirs . The Colonial Prefect in a few gracious words presented his successor to the people , and the American Governor , the first American Governor of the Territory , made what may be truly called an inaugural address . " Louisianians , my fellowcitizens .... " His language was unintelligible to all but a few , as unintelligible as the government he praised and propos61 to inaugurate . The Cabildo itself was not more unresponsive to the patriotic eloquence flowing from its balcony than was the crowd upon whom it flowed . But a hundred years have made a difference . As for the eloquence that has followed Claiborne 's from the Cabildo , did words wear away marble like footsteps , the outside of that old building would be more worn than its stairway ; did language flow not merely in metaphor , its old walls would be furrowed and Tilled like mountain-sides by torrent streams . Since 1803 time has passed lightly over the stolid building , lightly over the old quarter . As in other cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but by the architects ; and as in. other cities , the architects called their operations a renaissance . It was not time that changed the front of the Cathedral , that replaced the pointed Spanish roofs of the Cabildo with French mansards , and tricked out the old buildings of Don Andrees row in the furbelows of a new regime . It was not time that cut up the fine old martial square into parterres for flowers , and Schilinger-paved the gravel walks ? the pleasant evening promenade of so many generations of saunterers . Nor can we reproach time with the long low railroad warehouse that shuts out the view of the river from Cathedral and Cabildo ? a view that they owned , we might say , by right divine . The old quarter was " reborn " between 1830 and 1850 ; and reborn , it was fondly hoped and proclaimed , American ; which then , as now , meant enterprising , progressive , rich . It was a strenuous effort on the part of the artistic French and Spanish Creoles ; and a praiseworthy effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the appreciative Americans , who applauded and encouraged , and we may say practised , the renaissance incessantly then , as they still do in their own peculiar domain ? the American quarter of the city , as it is called by the Creoles ; ? practising every imaginable step architecturally away from the original taste and temperament of the city , and towards what they , rightfully or wrongfully , call Northern ideals . But as the young Creoles of to - day anglicize their names and forswear their language to Americanize themselves with no better result than to accentuate their ineradicable foreign charm , so the " slang " and brusque manners imposed upon the Creole quarter by the well - meaning architects bring only into higher relief the vestiges that remain there of foreign ideals ? the massive dignity of proportion , the noble lines , the graceful archings , the winsome coquetry of balcony and window-seat , the fragile elegance of hand-wrought iron-work . In view of the approaching centennial anniversary of the cessiun of Louisiana , the Louisiana Historical Society is prOposing that a fitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stale would be to provide for the preservation of the fine old building in which the actual transfer took place ; to maintain it as a perpetual memorial of the 20th of December , 1303 , by transforming it into and endowing it as a historical museum , where could be stored and treasured such mementos of the past as it is pleasurable , and needful too , for a wise country to carry into the future . The Cabildo , pensioned oil and cared for , would be the State 's veteran , living to all time , an immortal old Granther in his arm-chair telling his stories , over and over again , unwearily to the children clustering about his knee .                     