@@486839

Walker Was content with the old , spacious , four-cornered division of the field into Production , Exchange , Distribution , and Consumption . After exorcising in his opening paragraph all aspects of value save value in exchange as being essentially foreign to political economy , he inconsistently devoted a few- lines of approval in his book on . Exchange to Jevons 's theory of final utility . But with this exception , and with the exception of his refreshing repudiation of the Ricardian theory of Wages , Walker was , after all , -a thinker of the old school . In England , Marshall recognized the untenable character of the old four-fold - schematization . But he revamped it by identifying Demand with Consumption , Supply with Production , and their equilibrium with Exchange Exactly why he should ever have sought to identify Value ( spelled with a capital V ) with Distribution has , however , remained a puzzle for these many years . When President Hadley faced the - same problem ( of arranging his material in a compact logical system ) , he sought refuge in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his standpoint . The ordinary run of general treatises of late has been built on zhe same general plan . - By contrast to this inconsistent attempt to mediate between contradictories stands the present volume . Value is here recognized as everywhere dependent on the relation of wants to goods To this fundamental conception every theory is made to bow , whether it is rent or interest or price which is the object of economic analysis . The old schematization is thrown away , and the abstract theory is divided into two parts  --  the " Value of Material Things " and the " Value of Human Services . " The first main division is resolved into the - three problems of " Wants and Present Goods " ( a lucid formulation of the theory of marginal utility ) , " Wealth and Rent , " and " Capitalization and Time Value . " It is in the second of these problems that Fetter swing 's into his masterly exposition Rent , according to him , is the net usufruct , or the value of the net usufruct , of durable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value of the use-bearer or thing itself " ( p. 55 ) . That all kinds of durable agents vary in the uses or usufructs derivable from them , and that their respective yields may be computed by the employment of the differential formula , Fetter accepts from Clark But the age-long pretension of land to the monopoly of this method of differential measurement is here shattered into a thousand fragments . Rent being calculated by the marginal theory of value , the value of the rent-bearer , or durable good itself , is seen to be merely the series of , prospective rents discounted to their present value . ' This is the essence of the theory of " Capitalization and Tune Value . " Here Fetter 's general obligation to Boehm-Bawerk is manifest . But , for Fetter , capital is " economic wealth expressed in terms of the general unit of value " ( p 115 ) , and , " at any given moment of time , includes all est. : nomic goods in existence , when they are thought of in terms of their value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fetter has at best only combined and adapted concepts of Clark and Boehm-Bawerk , it may be said that he has combined the hints afforded by these two most suggestive and penetrating thinkers into a consistent theory while avoiding the difficulties and errors into which they both have fallen . Boehm-Bawerk , by clinging to the outworn conception of capital as " produced means of production , " has never quite escaped confusing the technical and - the economic aspects of the productive role of capital , while Clark not only adheres to the natural - productivity theory of capital , but has elaborated an esoteric concept of " pure capital , " which , like the Platonic " Ideas " and Kant 's " Thing-in-Itself " is past all finding out . Whatever be the final verdict OD Fetter 's work , its logical coherency and compactness are undeniable . In this respect it is conspicuously superior to any other recent general treatise . If the vulnerable points of the volume be canvassed , they will be found on a lower level of considerations Whether economic history will minutely substantiate Fetter 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to , the money loan on usury is the explanation of associating the renting contract with land and the interest contract with city wealth , remains to be seen . It is quite immaterial from the theoretical standpoint , but it is a very interesting question , on which Professor Fetter owes the economic world the evidence in extenso . The treatise is designed for an introductory college text Here its bulk is against it , as there are over 560 closely printed pages . Moreover , the exposition , while ever severely self-consistent , flags sometimes in point of style , though the frequent note of vivacity relieves the tedium . Experience alone can demonstrate the book 's success as a text ; as an economic synthesis bottomed on the accepted modern theory of value and extended to all phases of economic analysis , it stands unsurpassed The Ancient Landmark . By Elizabeth Cherry Waltz . New York . McClure , Phillips &; Co . The Irrational gnot By G Bernard Shaw Brentano's. 1905 . The ' Ancient Landmark ' is a tale of Kentucky life , dedicated to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who walk in the light of it . " The practised reader , taking the dedication and the title together , will easily conclude that he is to assist at the removal of some ancient landmark which his fathers have set and his contemporaries find inconvenient The landmark is , in fact , the irrevocable nature of the marriage tie , and we fear that Mrs. Waltz 's readers are more likely - to be surprised at the backwardness of Kentucky society than shocked , as the Kentuckians were , by the divorce which is the central interest of her story . Even in Kentucky we should have thought that long-continued                     