@@430208

 |p1155  OF all forms of error , says George Eliot , surely prophecy is the most gratuitous . Conscious of this truth , I aim in what follows not so much to anticipate coming events as to forecast the probable working , in the course of the next thirty years , of the mounting tendencies discernible under the surface of American society . Surely it is permitted to project a little the curve on which we are already travel-ing ! The sharpest corner American society has turned since the destruction of slavery was turned in the early nineties , when the last homestead in the rain belt was taken up . This event , more pregnant by far than the demonetization of silver , the McKinley Act , or the Battle of Manila Bay , closed the expansive free land epoch that has extended through our nascent period and ushered in the era of limited natural opportunities and intensive development . The arrest of expansion in the late eighties and the early nineties was almost dramatic in its suddenness . In the five years ending 1884 , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the average annual enlargement of our food bearing area was near seven million acres . In the five years following it was less than three million acres . In the succeeding ten years , 1889-1899 , it was eight hundred thousand acres , and would have been a minus quantity had not millions of acres of meadow lands been plowed up . Between 186o and 1890 the median point of cereal production moved west about 120 miles a decade , whereas during the nineties it migrated only 25 miles . During the seventies the median point of improved farm acreage moved west 131 miles , ( luring the eighties 107 miles , during the nineties only 57 miles . During the nineties the center of population shifted west only 14 miles , as against 48 miles in the eighties , 58 miles in the seventies and an average of 50 miles per decade during the first century of the Republic . In the last four census years the contribution of the farms to our domestic exports was respectively 92 , 82 , 73 and 6o per cent. , showing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the crop bearing area slackens . There is , to be sure , a great irrigable area , but its development will be slow and costly . This land , that costs upward of twenty dollars an acre to make fruitful , is not an opportunity for penniless families such as used to flow out upon Government land and achieve financial independence . Hitherto the discontented American has enjoyed an option ? to move up or to move on . He can no longer move on and , as " room at the top ! " is the gospel for the exceptional man , it is hard to escape the conclusion that for the ordinary man the circle of opportunities is relatively narrower . The superior man , on the other hand , finding in our commercial and manufacturing development a widening scope for the exercise of his powers , more and more differentiates himself economically and socially from the common sort . Population being more highly refracted by the economic regime of to-day , it is likely that the social spectrum will be lengthened . Our population has always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinning out toward the sunset . But when the onrushing tide of migration broke into spray on the Hundredth Meridian , the viewless coast of the fertile expanse beyond the Mississippi , the backwash began to proportion population to the man-supporting power of the different sections . As West and South thus acquire their due quota of people , factories and cities will multiply in them , and the interchange of goods between crowded East and farming  |p1156  West will become less exaggerated . The natural currents of exchange run between January lands and June lands , so we may look for North-and-South traffic to gain on East-and-West traffic . Consumers will spring up at the Western farmer 's door and his surplus will go to feed American city populations rather than European . Home markets will diversify crops and the soil will no longer be worn out in growing only exportable staples like wheat , cotton and tobacco . Farming will become intensive and the unit of tillage will become smaller . In the first half of the nineties threefourths of our domestic exports were agricultural products ; in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we come to seek outlets for our surplus manufactures rather than for our superfluous foodstuffs and raw materials we shall turn on our heel and address ourselves more to the under-developed countries of South America , Africa and the Orient . The gashing of the Panama Isthmus will hasten our industrialization and make the Pacific coast almost our front door . Once the East with its ships and mills , the Center with its furnaces and forges , the South with its slave-worked plantations , the West with its farms and the Far West with its ranches and mines constituted so many distinct basins in which unlike types of society developed . Henceforth they will more and more merge into a single great national basin filled with one rich and highly diversified social life . Steam massed people , but electricity is dispersing them . When the mechanic comes to think nothing of living ten miles from his work the slum will vanish and the city will diffuse itself into the country . Already telephones , free mail delivery and interurban trolley lines are revolutionizing the farmer 's life . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long the comic papers will have one butt the less . The clodhopper and the cobble-trotter types are both doomed . Nowhere will the spirit of association thrive so mightily in the course of the next thirty years as among wageearners . Throughout wide areas of employment the individual bargain , with underpayment and oppression in its train , will give place to the collective bargain , and the sellers of labor , equalized at last with the buyers in respect to bargaining power , will command approximately the true market worth of their services . Workingmen will associate , just as capitalists associate , under legally prescribed forms which standardize the constitution and practice of the best existing labor unions and duly safeguard the interests of the minority and of the individual member . Labor organizations , once outlawed , now tolerated , will eventually enjoy in law and in opinion equal rank with corporations as pillars of our society . It is safe to predict that within our lifetime neither Kropotkin 's Utopia nor Marx 's will be realized . The half million establishments in this country will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State will bulk bigger than it does to-day and the net of regulation it casts over business will have a finer mesh . It is thinkable that certain strategic businesses ? telegraph , railroad , insurance , coal mining ? may , on account of their regulative influence , be taken over by Government . Certain it is a thick collision mat of administrative bureaus and commissions will be interposed to shield the public from the sharp corners and rough surfaces of the public service corporation . Boards will be charged with looking after banking , insurance , gas , electric lighting , street cars , mines , factories , railroads , shipping , tenements , elevators and stock exchanges . As corporate undertaking spreads and the army of shareholders swells to many times its present size , corporations will have to al low their inner workings to be radiographed upon the screen of publicity . Government will become a giant purveyor of exact and statistical information . As the taxable social product grows , philanthropy and education will be fostered with a more generous hand . The public onslaught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific warfare , and State aid to research will reach proportions yet undreamed . It is hard to say whether our twoparty system will persist or will yield to a system of deals between parliamentary  |p1157  groups , such as prevails in most European countries . Certain it is that the line of cleavage will shift . In our political history the clash of sections ? manufacturing North and consuming South , lending East and borrowing West ? has played a leading role . With the inevitable assimilation of sections and differentiation of society within each section class strife rather than sectional strife will become the substance of our politics . The party will become an alliance of definite social groups with kindred sympathies and interests . The foundation of future party opposition will hardly be the feud of liberal and conservative , as in England ; the clash of city and country , as in Germany , nor the antagonism of nationalism and State 's rights , as formerly in this country . The political cleavage most natural to our next phase would give us one party championing a type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man 's title to consideration , weight and benefit depends upon the amount of his property , and another party standing for a type of social union where ( as in the labor organization ) a man 's title to participate is his manhood . Capitalism and humanism ? under whatever banners we battle politically in the future ? this unavowed difference will lie at the bottom of our strife . And what of the soul of the American people ? What spiritual crises , what rebirths shall we look for ? The pivot fact in the moral life of a people is the reigning standard of human worth , for this fixes the shining goals toward which the ambitious press . A healthy community will grade its members by a composite standard that gives due weight to family , personality , character , prowess , culture and possessions . This standard we still apply to women , but for men the sheer money standard wrought out among heavy spenders has within recent years triumphed in our great cities and spread with alarming rapidity to the minor centers . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to commercialism . Yesterday the office , the sanctum , the club ; to-day the pulpit , the studio , the laboratory ; to-morrow , perhaps , the court of justice , the council chamber , the Senate ? such is the progress of the invasion . Naturally enough the result has been a whetting of greed and thereupon an unprecedented carnival of boodle , graft , fraud and monopoly extortion . Who among us has not felt the tug of this vicious undertow that is wrecking characters , setting adrift the old buoys and tearing the piling from under our free institutions ? This plague can not last , for it is too deadly . Relief from Mammonism will come , however , not from a hallelujah revival , but from a revolution in opinion ; not change of heart , but change in the standard of human worth . The coming standard will not be birth , for the old aristocratic principle is dead . It will not be prowess , for the sword arm can not put itself in evidence now that war is passing away . Culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can never become the universal measure of worth in our hustle civilization . Character standing alone does not appeal strongly to the many and does not admit of easily discriminated degrees . The only graduated test of man 's worth that can dispute the sway of the pecuniary standard , the test that is as congenial to our industrialism as prowess was to militancy , is efficiency . When to-morrow 's morrow , graft-stricken and desperate , lights Diogenes ' lamp and looks about for an honest man it will find him in the trained expert , fortified with a professional ethics , who next to a living for Molly and the babies cares for nothing so much as the " Well done , old man ! " of his brother experts . No Savonarola will uprear the new goal , but certain regenerative forces that are quietly gathering at the heart of society . Our crowded colleges are rearing a breed that will not dance before the golden calf , and from these centers most of the social leadership of the future is bound to come . From schools of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public service moral ozone will spread into new quarters . Over against the dollar standard of success professional schools , associations and periodicals will raise the standard of workmanship . In the public service the trained sanitarian , statistician , accountant , teacher , engineer or warden will  |p1158  oust the henchman . The mere votegetter with his buncombe and makebelieve will retreat before the businesslike expert , bent on really doing the work for which he draws the wage . Tho all who experience this antiseptic , professional training seem but a handful beside the votaries of Mammon , it is possible they will not be left to fight the battle alone . The toiling millions value men in terms of efficiency and instinctively pay homage to workmanlike traits . Hitherto they have been too unconscious and mute to have a hand in shaping the reigning standards of human worth . Their inertia , indeed , is not to be wondered at when we see even the active commercial section capitulate to the leisure class and blindly worship the tinfoil gods set up by idlers and pleasurers . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The great and growing movement of association among laboring men promises to release into society a purifying current of opinion . It may be that labor will not become sordid in proportion as it becomes successful . When , through fellowship and converse , the workers come to themselves , they will perhaps pluck up the courage to champion their own sound ideals against the gilt , swag-bellied idols of our day . Free land gone , we shall soon see an end of the West , that buoyant society of the rising sap where opportunity is equal , ownership general , manhood at a premium , birth and station at a discount . The Westerner has always been " ismy " and radical . Again and again his individualistic and leveling impulses in the form of Jeffersonian and Jacksonian Democracy , Lincoln Republicanism , Grangerism , Populism and Bryanism have swept coastward and Americanized the crusting , stratifying East . The frontiersman thought of this country as the Atlantis of the poor , the Eden of the aspiring , free from class distinctions and the social power of wealth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wave after wave of ire , protest and radicalism , which have rolled over the startled East and broken its moorings to the Old World . With no longer this leavening West , whence shall we expect new avatars of the American spirit ? The social principles that now seem native to our soil ? respect for the Divine in man , faith in moral forces , confidence in the rule of the many , democratic feeling ? had their origin in a century of free and facile expansion over a fertile . continent . With the dying away of this process the principles must lose something of their pristine vigor . The mounting influences of machinery , industrial organization , city life and economic differentiation can not but assert themselves nakedly , and slowly assimilate us to the West-European societies , save as the traditions the past has lodged in our souls may hold us : Backwoods , prairie and placer bred notions of equality and freedom ; mill , railroad and department store breed notions of hierarchy and discipline . For generations the reaction of successive receding Wests has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever more " American . " Henceforth we are likely to obey the main current of Occidental development and move more nearly parallel to transAtlantic societies . Free land , one of the twin mammy of democracy , is well nigh dried up . But , tho the physical West passes , there is a spiritual West we shall never lose . From time to time appear freshening , emancipating spirits who spurn manmade distinctions of place , rank and money , and whose hearts leap toward every man as toward a brother . These are the prophets , the humanizing Isaiahs , Garrisons , Hugos and Tolstqys , who recall us to natural fellowship , who impress us with our likenesses even when conditions are exaggerating differences , who level us even when social terraces are rising . Of these there will be no lack . May this spiritual West that can not dwindle perpetuate the institutions and ideals the physical West brought forth !                     