@@486848

Secretary Root 's speech at the- meeting of the Pennsylvania Society in this city last week , appears to have been misunderstood . It seemed to be taken as a rampant plea for centralization of all power at Washington . Rightly read , we think it stands as a warning against such centralization , with an indication of the one way in which it may surely be prevented : Mr. Root was not exalting the Federal Government . That is not necessary ; the drift is , as he said , all that way . He was rather pointing out the method of magnifying the States . Instead of holding up as the ideal an all-absorbing Government at Washington , riding over the governments of forty-six States , he called upon those States so to legislate , so to enforce the laws once made , that nobody would think of riding over their rights The only reason why a different view of the Secretary 's speech is held by some must be that they studied only his premises and neglected his conclusion He pictured in a few rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blind can see , are creating a strong national sentiment in this country , and binding the different parts of the land together . There is getting to be a clear sensus commands among the citizens of the United States regarding many matters of general concern . Respecting them , they wish that the voice of the people , as expressed in the laws , shall be harmonious and unmistakable . In some way , that powerful desire is going to translate itself into statute and action . That was the point which Secretary Root made emphatic ; and upon it turned his urgent appeal , which really was , not for further congestion of power at Washington , but for Re freer and more efficient exercise inp the States . His exact words were : I submit to your judgment , and I desire to press upon you , with all the earnestness I possess , that there is but one way in which the States of the Union can maintain their power and authority under tho conditions which are now before us , and that way is by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own duties to the country at large . Now , as a matter of fact , such an awakening is visibly beginning in this country . Many influences are at work to bring the States into cooperation and a reasonable degree of unity , as regards important subjects of legislation . The movement is partly official . Such a step as the issue at Albany of bulletins of comparative legislation , has been imitated with good results in other States . In Wisconsin , particularly , the method has been useful , both in- furnishing information and in guiding the drafting of laws . In Oregon , in Maryland , in Indiana , Rhode Island , and elsewhere , a similar practice has been started , with the aim- of bringing about a sort ' ottacit codification of the statute-books ? of various States , in those matters of law-making which interest them all . In addition , there are the volunteer and unofficial agencies which are working ' powerfully upon the several Legislatures to cause States that are backward in their divorce laws , or their child labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These signs of the times can not be ignored by any one who keeps his eyes open ; and the movement they represent ought to be quickened by Mr. Root 's summons to the States to preserve their dignity and authority by wise and efficient laws , and so check " the tendency of the people of the country to seek relief through the national Government , and to press forward the movement for national control and the extinction of local control . " Efficiency in government will , in the long run , prevail over theories about government  --  though , of course , no goternment can be called efficient which does not consult and satisfy the wishes , and even prejudices , of the people as concerns its form and methods . It the majority of the citizens are convinced that public affairs should be conducted in a given way , it is not really efficient to try to conduct them in another . But there is no hard-and-fast rule . No absolute line can be drawn . On this whole question of centralization as opposed to local control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in women 's clubs or leagues for political education , than that of John Stuart Mill in his essay " On Liberty " : I believe that the practical principle in which safety resides , the ideal to be kept in view , the standard by which to test all arrangements intended for overcoming this difficulty centralization , may be conveyed in these words : the greatest dissemination of power consistent with efficiency , but the greatest centralization of information and diffusion of it from the centre . In any case , Secretary Root was quite right in calling upon the States to magnify their function , as the surest way to retain it . Power clings to him who power exerts . If there still resides in State governments enough of the ancient virtue , enough of the constructive talent , the flexibility able to meet changing conditions with changed laws , and if these powers are put vigorously into play for the common weal , then no one need dread that they will be taken away - PREVENTING LAND FRAUDS . If the solution of the public land problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed for regulation of the public domain , then the Roosevelt Administration might already be credited with aaLmishing ' progress toward that solution : It is doubttry took a genuine pride , were paradoxically kept out of the hands of men with scruples . So long as these underlying conditions exist , it is vain to suppose that any series of prosecutions , even if the whole Senate should be put behind the bars , will scare away the land-thieves once for all . The laws must bei liberalized in one direction as they are made stricter in another . The Timber and Stone act , the Desert Land act , and the corn- ! mutation clause of the Homestead act , are suggested by the President for repeal or modification , as they were by his Land Laws Commission of last year . These suggestions are not new President Cleveland wrote in his second annual message just twenty years ago I recommend the repeal of the preemption and timber culture acts , and that the homestead laws be so amended as to better secure compliance with their requirements of residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also recommend the repeal of the desert-land laws unless it shall be the pleasure of the Congress to so amend these laws as to render them less liable to abuses . But while the need for amending the land laws has long been perfectly well known , this may be a propitious time for President Roosevelt to urge the reform . The prosecutions of the last two ' years have interested Eastern commupities which scarcely realized before that there were any such things as land laws and the public domain . Let another period of apathy ensue , with the laws in their present condition , and the old frauds are certain to reappear On the other hand , a carefully worked out system of leasing range land , selling standing timber without selling the land , rand otherwise permitting effective use of natural resources , will help toward honest administration of the much-abused Land Office . " 00AL FAMINE " AND THE RAIL-WAYS . The extraordinary reports which are coming from the Northwest regarding the failure of railways to supply coal , are for the most part of a piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation system The country hears much of a " fuel famine , " because of the actual suffering . It has perhaps heard less of the failure of railways in the Northwest to carry wheat to market fast enough to relieve the country storehouses ; yet for weeks the wheat markets ; have been agog with accounts of great piles of grain actually rotting on the ground because there was neither elevator room nor transportation facilities . In. less degree , every producing and distributing industry is affected similarly . Railway men are well aware that the unusual number of railway accidents . this season reaults directly from the crowding of tracks with freight trains . The railway manager answers complaints by declaring that existing facilities are overstrained by unprecedentedly large harvests and by the equally unparalleled volume of general trade . President Stickney of the Great Western defends the companies , on the ground that , " if the business were sensibly and properly distributed , over the entire year instead of being massed in a few months , " there need be no trouble In such respects , Mr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is like the traction problem in New York " No doubt ; the subway and elevated trains would be less crowded if the majority of people did not insist on going downtown between 8 and 9 A. M. , and on returning between I and 6 P. M. , and no doubt , also , railway freight fa : cilities would be more nearly equal to demand if dealers and consumers would buy their coal in midsummer , and their grain and cotton five or six months after harvest . But people will not do this , for reasons satisfactory to themselves ; and so long as they will not , the railways must provide , for the actual public requirements . James J. Hill of the Great Northern was lately moved by the existing situation to extremely pessimistic utterances . He went so far as to declare that the inability of the railways to handle a season 's freight signifies commercial paralysis , " which , continued , means slow commercial death . " He admitted that the trouble arises largely from actual lack of tracks , arguing that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past ten years , railway mileage has increased only 20 per cent. ; but he also declared that to build the 116,000 or more miles of track needed at once to take care of the country 's business " would cost as much as the Civil War . " " There is not , " Mr. Hill concluded , " money enough or rails enough in the ( world to do this thing . " Other railway officers have taken issue with Mr. Hill , and have argued , with President Harahan of the Illinois Central , that the freight congestion " is not a question of tracks , but of cars and locomotives and prompt handling by the carriers . " Thus- the doctors disagree But the truth undoubtedly is that all of these ( causes contribute . In the famous " Pittsburgh blockade " of November , 1902 , when failure of the Pennsylvania Railroad to move the freight offered it , caused actual closing of some important iron works , the chief trouble was lack of motive power ; but tracks were also inadequate . In the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with " rush orders " from famine-stricken Europe could not get a chance at the great , store of wheat in our Northwest , lack of cars was responsible , the real shortage on Western roads being aggravated by the habit , among Eastern lines , of keeping in use and not returning the cars sent from the grain district . The problem is anything but simple . As for the " coal famine , " there is evidence of had management . Where the nature and magnitude of the requirement were known , failure so complete is inexcusable . The railway managers should have looked more clearly into the future . The broader question of transportation can not , however , be so readily dealt with . A great part of the responsibility for the condition of which Mr. Hill complained  --  slow extension of railway trackage in response to expansion of business  --  rests upon the railways themselves , through their deliberate choice . The increase in railway mileage in this country , during the past half-dozen years of unprecedented trade activity , has been smaller , both in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , than in any corresponding period since the Civil War , excepting times of actual adversity . The well-known cause is the prevention of the old-fashioned competitive railway-building . It may well be asked whether this process has not gone too far ; whether , in endeavoring to avoid the " rate wars " and the " speculative paralleling " of a generation ago , the companies have not deprived the country of facilities to which it was entitled . Mr. Harriman is responsible for the assertion that we have railways enough already . If he means trackage enough , he is mistaken , as is sufficiently shown by Monday 's announcement of the Chicago , Milwaukee and St Paul that it is about to raise $100,000,000 to strike through the far Northwest to the Pacific Coast . The difficulty is complicated by the already overstrained demand for capital . But for that , too , the railway managers are at least in part to blame . How much of the credit of the companies and the resources of investors has been locked up in securities issued to buy up other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Wall Street " boom " ? . THE GERMAN ELECTIONS . The German Government enters the electoral campaign for the new Reichstag with no inconsiderable advantages . Its bold and unexpected- defiance of the Centre and dissolution of the Reichstag have impressed the public , and the appeal to patriotism to uphold the honor of the flag is sure to rally some following . Again , by directing the attack-upon the Centre , the Government leaders are able to confuse the issues . Were the question merely whether the colonial policy should or should not ' be sustained , the chances are that-the Government would be facing a severe censure . But the cry , " Down with the Clericals ! " now raised by the Government , has already caught the Liberals , who have rightly seen in the past alliance of the Clericalist Centre with the Government a positive menace to political progress in the Empire The Clerical , that is , Catholic influence has been dominant ; in Prussia it was recently strong enough to obtain a reactionary school law . Something of the same spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is simultaneously Making itself felt in England , Spain , France , and even in Italy , may therefore have to be reckoned with in the contest now being waged . Already three of the minor Radical groups  --  the German Volkspartei , the Radical Volkspartei , and the Radical Union  --  have issued a joint manifesto calling attention to the unhappy influence which the Centre has exercised upon public life by reason of its numerical superiority . Naturally , the Clericals retort.that the attacks are not upon them , but upon the Catholic Church , and they therefore call upon the faithful to rally to its defence . Just what effect this will have on the Socialist vote , if any , is the puzzle of the campaign . Count Ballestrem , the aged presiding officer of the Reichstag , who has declined to stand fir reelection , is quoted as saying jokingly that his place will be filled by Herr Singer , the Social-Democratic leader . This may be one of the true words spoken in jest . Certain it is that the religious issue will affect the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Social-Demia-% crats have recruited their three miltAn voters , remains to be seen . Here the enormous rise in the price of meat , which has made it a luxury beyond the means of thousands upon thousands of people , is more likely to be a potent factor . Indeed , the interim elections have afforded no ground for belief that the extraordinary growth of the party of Hebei has really experienced any check . Moreover , the widely expressed popular sympathy with the Russian struggle for liberty is not without significance . None the less. , it is not at all likely that the election will actually return a Socialistic majority in the next Reichstag , and thus precipitate that dread contest upon the outcome of which , many persons - think , will depend ' the future of Parliamentary government in Germany . The antiquated ele , ctoral laws work great hardships upon the Social-Democrats , which in Government sir . ties is a weighty reason for- the refusal to alter them . Should the Centre , however , lose some seats and the Socialists gain them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Clerical representation in the dissolved house ' Was 102 , while the Social-Democrats nUmbered 79 and the ConSs ; - 6-  " byes 72 . The National Liberals controlled 52 seats , while the Radicals of all types had dwindled to 26 members , lacking coherence and leadership . It is this group , as well as the National Liberals , which hopes to gain at the expense of both the Centre and the Conservatives The Government is openly leaning in the direction of the National Liberals ; but , since Conservatives and Liberals totalled but 124 in the last Reichstag , it is not quite clear where Von Bulow expects to get the other 75 votes he needs for a working majority : Possibly , he looks to see the Clericals so severely rebuked as to make their diminished numbers reenter the Reichstag in a wholly submissive frame ot mind and ready to do the Chancellor 's will . That the colonial errors , cruelties , and extravagances will play a great part in the campaign , remains true . For these the Centre has to share a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Colonial Bureau has been particularly unhappy . Germany is a nation of able and progressive business men , and as such it has not found much satisfaction in the colonial balance sheet submitted by the new director , Herr Dernburg , asserting that $250,000,000 , or a " milliard ot marks , " represents the German capital actually invested in the colonies . Careful examination has shown that $75,000,000 would be a more accurate figure , which is a small sum , indeed , when one considers the hundred millions of marks which have been spent in the course of the Southwest African war alone . This poor showing is not wholly counterbalanced by Herr Dernburg 's promise to prosecute all guilty officials and put the whole colonial administration on a business basis , just as he has already terminated the monopolies of the Wbrmann Steamship Line and the firm of Tippelskirch , the army contractors . The ? glory of colonial acquisition ' - dms faded only a little less quickly than that eathusiasin which marked the American expansion in the Philippines . There , as here , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakness has become widespread . And when a people in the midst of great national prosperity is crying out fOr less taxation , cheaper food , more liberal laws , the decrease or exhaUsting army and navy burdens , and social reforms of every kind , the call to waste more treasure and more lives in far distant lands ought to need something more than an appeal to patriotism to make it effective , or even palatable . ITALIANS IN PARIS . The course of lectures just given by Guglielmo Ferrero at the College de France , had , a prodigious success , both academic and social . In addition to the evidence showing the contemporary habit of speaking of life in theatrical terms , gave the phrase quite another turn . It is a favorite thesis of his that modern reproduction of historic conditions enables us to penetrate to their real meaning more successfully than our predeeessors in the teaching of history . Thus he contends that our age is best fitted to understand the Augustan epoch , Now , as then , we see empires of vast extent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each , and peace , if not forever assured , at any rate the rule and the expectation . It is for such reasons , asserts Signor Ferrero , that we feel on good terms with Augustus , and can understand him better than we can Charlemagne ; so that it is possible to-day to write a history of Augustus that will set right the mistaken ideas of the past . He faces fully the criticism that will be made : I know very well that the contradiction between my history and tradition will awaken in many minds a sort of hostility They will ask if it is possible that the whole world has been deceived for twenty centuries , and that we had to wait till 1906 to know the exact truth about the Roman Empire of the year 6 But these twenty centuries really are reduced , in so far as it is a question of comprehending Augustus , to a hundred years , or a little more . As Augustus was the last representative of a world that was disappearing , his figure very quickly became obscure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new mentality which was , for so many centuries , to deprive man : kind of the delightful spectacle of the classic and pagan world . Speedily the mist thickened , until Augustus became only a phantom But to-day , the full sunlight has returned I do not profess to be a magician , nor to have a miraculous power of intuition If I have been able to rectify many errors , it is only because I have been the first one to observe closely , at a momem when it has at last become possible to see and ' to understand . In swinging open her academic doors for such suggestive teachers , France takes toll of the nations She has so much to give because she so freely receives . Such courses as that of Ferrero ? and Fogazzaro is soon to follow him  - -  show that free trade in intellect still rules in Paris . FOSTERING MUSICAL GENIUS . The complications which have arisen lit Washington in regard to the Copyright bill are likely to exclude composers of music from the benefits of the measure . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no urgent need of legal protection of American composers , so far as prolongation of their copyrights is concerned . There are only three or four American consposers whose works are likely to be in the market more than four decades . The law which , after years of wrangling , was recently passed by the British Parliament , is less in behalf of composers than of publishers It was intended primarily to put a stop to the selling , for a few pennies , of pirated editions of sheet music by curb hawkers . This object , according to recent reports , has already been practically accomplished But now the composers are lifting up their voices to point out how little , after all , the new law has done to help them  --  that is , those of them who pursue serious aims . Sir Charles Stanford , al , a dinner given to T P O'Connor , who engineered the Copyright bill , intimated that what had been done was to secure the safety of " those works which produce the quickest returns and the largest profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this benefit , the publishers ought to feel in duty bound to devote a portion of their increased profits to the publishing of music which appeals to a smaller but an earnest circle of music-lovers . He had in mind symphonies , concertos , and other orchestral works , chamber music , sonatas for various instruments , important pianoforte music , and classical songs . By way of emphasizing English shortcomings , he referred . to the publisher Belaieff , who has greatly helped the best Russian music to make its way over two continents . The publishers , as was to be expected , took up the gauntlet thus flung clown . The Novellos , in their monthly periodical , the Musical Times , explain that this Belaieff was an amateur music publisher  --  a millionaire , in fact , who chose to spend his money for the advancement of his country 's music . To make sure that his good work might be continued after his death , he bequeathed a large sum to the Russian composers , Glazounoff , Liadoff , and RimskyKorsakoff , to be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Busse is therefore quite an exceptional thing . Would Professor Stanford suggest that publishers generally should run their business on these lines ? Is there any particular duty imposed upon the publisher exclusively to pull the chestnuts out of the fire which is kindled by the student and fed on manu-scripts ? William Boosey , the managing director of Chappell &; Co. , has also expressed his opinion on the situation in vigorous terms . He thinks the future of young English musicians is " appallingly dark , " and he puts the blame for this on the public , the teachers , and the composers themselves . The recent popularity of orchestral music has killed the taste for chamber music ; hence that particular market is spoiled , while the demand for orchestral scores is , of course , very limited . Then there are the professors who , for the most part , " insist upon the students writing in certain forms that have no commercial value . " Still another firm , the Messrs . Metzler , have declared that " not one song in a hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either as regards its artistic or market value " ; yet , they add , " we have some magnificent songs , but ca n't sell them " Sir Charles Stanford does not deny that the British publishers of music have done much for the furtherance of the art to which they minister . They have liberally encouraged oratorio and church music ; they have produced cheap editions of classical master-works ; and they have generously supported the schools of music . But the complaint is that the Principal personage , the composer of merit or promise , has been overlooked . For him , little or nothing is done ; the battle of life is , for him , as hard as ever . The publishers lack confidence  --  they do not look ahead , as some of the book publishers do , taking their chances . How , Sir Charles asks , would English literature be rated in Europe if its staple were six-shilling novels , while the works of Tennyson , Browning , Darwin , Huxley , Lecky , and Green remained in manuscript ? Yet that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alive , and living in England , and sent in his " Erlking , " the publishers would return it with the comment that its difficult accompaniment would interfere with its sale . Possibly , the British publishers , now that the new copyright law has restored to them due profits , will heed these words of reproach . If they do not , the salvation of the English composer must be sought in the person of some British Belaieff . Indubitably , the munificence of that Msecenas has done a great deal to make living Russian composers known in Europe and America . The thought suggests itself that perhaps the Belaieff fund is behind the astonishingly numerous concerts of the Russian Symphony Society in New York The American composer can only pray for r similar patron On the wholes however , it can not be said that the latter has very serious cause for complaint so far as the publishers are concerned . The catalogues of Ditson , Schirmer , Breitkopf &; Hartel , Arthur P. Schmidt , the John Church Company , and others , teem with American compositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is because the public taste is turning away from ' sonatas and symphonies ; yet when a MacDowell writes a sonata , or a Paine a symphony , the publisher is glad to get it Publishers , no doubt , have their faults ; yet , in surveying the whole situation , one can not but feel that Sir Charles is barking up the wrong tree . If ' mimics : genius is insufficiently fostered , the fault- lies less with the publishers than with - the public , the conductors , the ? singers , the players , and the critics , most Of whom are apt to ignore what is new unless it is also sensational . 