@@430269

 | IN the year 1904 the Philadelphia Woman 's Joint Committee was engaged in a campaign for the suppression of the smoke nuisance , and issued an appeal for funds , the circular being signed by the Committee 's Chairman , Mrs. Rudolph Blankenburg . Many encouraging responses were received , including the following : " I will contribute to your fund for the suppression of the smoke nuisance if you will agree to join me in a movement for the suppression of that interminable , pestiferous nuisance , Rudolph Blankenburg . " This was the estimate of Rudolph Blankenburg , the active reformer , by many of his Philadelphia neighbors two years ago . To-day he is City Commissioner , elected by the largest majority of any of the candidates upon the reform ticket at the last November election , and no man is more universally respected by the honest and intelligent citizenship of the Quaker City , or more thoroughly hated and feared by its grafters , than he . For forty years he had been content to be in the minority , to be regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jeered at , and yet feared , with no thought of official promotion or of substantial reward of any kind , because he believed from the bottom of his heart that municipal government could not be successfully administered by grafters , and that the time would come when the people of Philadelphia would be compelled to place in charge of their municipal affairs the same kind of men they would choose to manage and administer their own great private enterprises . Time has vindicated Mr. Blankenburg 's faith in popular government and in the necessity of the employment of the best brains and the highest character in its administration , and within the short period of two years the whirligig of time has brought him the revenge of being regarded as one of the most conspicuous and trustworthy men of his adopted city . What manner of man is this Rudolph Blankenburg ? In the most American of American cities he is a foreigner by birth , and , while reasonably successful in business , is easily outranked in point of wealth by scores of the successful men of Philadelphia who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a consequence have never been heard of outside of their immediate circle of moneygetters . The son of a German Reformed minister in one of the rural villages of the Fatherland , his early religious training was ingrained into his very nature , and he does not seem to have read into the catechism which he was taught in his early days , that the chief end of man was to become richer than any of his fellows . Consequently , when , at the age of twenty-two , he emigrated to the United States to begin his life career , it did not occur to him that his adopted country was suffering from a lack of millionaires . He had imbibed , by reading when a boy a German translation of " Uncle Tom 's Cabin , " a lasting hatred of the institution of slavery , and his feeling of antagonism to all that partook of intellectual or bodily bondage was further stimulated by his association with the Society of Friends , with whom he had the good fortune to become acquainted almost immediately after his arrival in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Civil War , and he embarked with enthusiasm in the business activities which followed the close of that memorable conflict . Finding employment with a leading dry-goods firm , he mastered the business , married , and within ten years had set up for himself as the senior member of the firm of Rudolph Blankenburg and Company , merchants and manufacturers , a firm which is more prosperous than ever after thirty years of continuous existence , demonstrating his possession of exceptional business capacity . Successful as he has been in business , however , the pre-eminence of Mr. Blankenburg consists in his unselfish civic  | page deleted  | entertaining companion , loves a good joke , is hospitable in the highest degree , and one of the wittiest after-dinner speakers in Philadelphia . One of the striking characteristics of Mr. Blankenburg consists in his stubborn adherence to what he considers sound principle in public affairs . A better illustration of this trait can not be cited , perhaps , than that of his prompt resignation from the famous reform Committee of One Hundred in 1881 , when that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mayor of Philadelphia . Stokley had served three terms as Mayor , and , while a man of commanding executive ability , had been to a large extent subject to the domination of a Gas Trust led by a shrewd political manipulator , the late James McManes . Some prominent friends of Stokley had been included in the membership of the Committee of One Hundred , and , by the device of supporting the nomination of two well-known reformers for the offices of Tax Receiver and City Solicitor , had managed to include also the indorsement of Stokley for a fourth term . When the indorsement of Mayor Stokley was announced , Mr. Blankenburg arose , and , in a voice that rang throughout the chamber , said , " I joined this Committee believing it to be a body organized to secure certain reforms in the city government . Being now convinced that the purpose for which the Committee was formed is at an end , I herewith tender my resignation . " The resignation was promptly accepted , but within a month the members of the Committee who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Stokley , and invited Mr. Blankenburg to re-enter their ranks . The one man had converted the hundred , because he had clear insight from the first and possessed the courage of his convictions . It will be noted from this that Mr. Blankenburg is a man who does not scare easily . He has been a conspicuous target for the innuendoes and malignity of the machine cliques for many years . Detectives have followed him for weeks seeking some clue with which to assail his character . He has been the subject of cartoons in organization newspapers , has been caricatured by the minstrels , and threatened in anonymous letters . Notwithstanding all this , he has never faltered , has been good company for himself when others would not flock with him , and has remained from first to last the most cheerful , goodnatured , and hopeful of the little group of stanch reformers who have been trying for years to liberate Philadelphia from municipal misrule . Probably the most unwelcome experience of his entire political career came to him last year , when the leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gang from power decided that the exigencies of the canvass required Mr. Blankenburg to become a candidate for City Commissioner . During his entire career as a political reformer he had refused to be a candidate for office and had denounced the professional self-seekers on every suitable occasion . He felt keenly that if he accepted a nomination for any office he would in a certain degree lay himself open to the charge of hypocritical selfseeking , and when the proposition was first made to him to become a candidate he resolutely refused , declaring that he would support any other candidate the City Party Convention might choose with all the energy in his power , but that office-seeking for himself was impossible . The tide of popularity , however , had begun to run so strongly in his favor that his clear-headed associates , several of whom had been members of the Committee of One Hundred with him a quarter of a century before , insisted that it was a public duty for him to accept the nomination and thus throw the weight of his forceful personality into the canvass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims , but , having done so , he became the leader on the stump in the campaign that followed . He predicted his election in the first speech , and became the towering figure of the campaign of oratory which followed . He made three or four speeches every night for weeks , and overflowing audiences would listen patiently to duller speakers and remain in crowded halls till ten or eleven o'clock at night if assured that Blankenburg would turn up  | page deleted                     