@@430035

 |p465  IN September , 1900 , there was tried in Minneapolis an important experiment in politics . The Minnesota primary election law , passed by the State Legislature during the session of 1899 , and called by Senator Washburn the greatest political proposition ever introduced into American politics , " was so worded that its first trial should take place in the largest city of the State , and there alone , with the purpose of bringing to light the merits and defects of the system before it should be applied to the entire State . The general outcome was such that the law , in an amended form , was extended by the last Legislature so as to make the nominations of candidates for all except State offices matters of direct popular choice . The author of the Minnesota primary election plan , Mr. Oscar F. G. Day , of Minneapolis , claims originality for it in the following particulars : " 1 . Concurrent primaries for all parties on one day , under compulsion . " 2 . Primary election held on registration day for general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election , thus saving expense . ' ' 4 . Alternating of positions of names of candidates on ballots , so that every other ticket has names in different locations . " Add to these features the Australian ballot , almost the same as voted at the general election , and you have the Minnesota primary election plan in a nutshell . " These fundamental features of the law made it an instrument of popular government combining great force with great flexibility . What may be done with it will appear in the future , when it shall be further tried . It is a sincere attempt to reform elections . It is the despair of the " machine " politician . It enables the citizen to express his individual choice in public affairs with a freedom never before known in large political States . In 1899 , two or more rival bills were before the Legislature . Each encountered violent opposition from enemies of reform , besides having the others to fight . Finally , a " compromise bill , " preserving the best features of the most radical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being changed so as to apply to one county only , was pushed through on the last day of the session . It was passed as an experiment .  |p466  The public at once became deeply interested in the new power placed in their hands , and ample information was given , through the newspapers and otherwise , regarding the provisions of the law and the way to comply with them . The law itself embodied all the details involved , even to the form in which the ballots were to be printed , the space to be allowed each name , the shape and size of the spaces left for the X of the voter . The tickets were to be made up of names previously approved by a certain number of voters , upon petitions circulated on behalf of the candidates and placed in the county auditor 's hands not later than twelve days before the date fixed for the primary election , the interval allowing time for the printing and distribution of the ballots . The entire ballot , including margins , was only eighteen inches long . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three registration days required by law to precede the general election , the date being , in 1900 , September 18 . After duly registering as a qualified elector in his precinct , the voter received the Republican and Democratic ballots , pinned together ; he was told that he could vote but one of the two ( no other parties presented candidates for nomination on this occasion ) , and the ballots themselves showed the number of candidates to be nominated for each office . He stepped into a booth such as are furnished for voting at the general elections . A few seconds only were needed to select from the list the names he desired to vote for , and the X made , his task was done . Stepping from the booth , he handed the two ballots , still pinned together and folded , to one of the election judges , who deposited them in a ballot-box . Instead of the concurrent primary , with its 125 candidates , proving cumbersome and impracticable , it was most simple and expeditious . The voting proceeded even more rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city turned out to take part in the primary , and yet the first district to make its return did so only two hours after the poll closed . The fact that made this rapid voting possible is one it would be hard to rejoice over too much . The voter was intelligent . He knew before seeing the tickets which one he was going to vote , and what names on his ticket he should select ; because , having been aware that he could take part in the nomination , he had seen and heard the candidates or knew their record , and had formed decided preferences . And it was to the candidate 's interest that the voter should cast an intelligent , as well as a free and secret , ballot . The immediate results of the primary were unforeseen . There had been an idea that , at all events , a popular vote would keep to party lines , and would establish beyond a doubt who were the " favorite sons " of each political family . The outcome was different from that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing , at least , ? namely , that under the new law people can and will nominate whom they choose . This fact was forced home upon the politicians . They recognized it as a menace to their interests . They raved of amendments and maundered of repeal . Mr. Washburn said : " 1 have heard many complaints about the new law , but if you will notice , they have a general source in the professional political manipulator , to whom its provisions are not advantageous . " An instance where the people broke over the lines laid down by party managers was in their choice for judge of probate , an important office that ought to be safe from the machinations of party . Two years is the probate judge 's term of office . A good judge might hope for a second term ; but , under the old system , he might on no account be allowed to aspire to three . Judge Harvey was nominated by the people for a third term . A number of similar cases might be cited . In general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men for the office ; where they were displaced , their opponents were , as a rule , better men . The fostering of the Scandinavian vote has long been a feature of party politics in Minnesota . Scandinavians form a numerous element in Minneapolis , and they usually receive their full share of representation on the Republican ticket ? the one that counts on their support . Swedish and Norwegian candidates for nomination at the primary of 1900 were plentiful on both tickets , and the majority of Republican votes for one of the best-paying offices were carried by a Norwegian , the former incumbent ; but many more failed of nomination . The Republican ticket , as finally made up for the general election , showed fewer names of that nationality than would have been thought necessary under the old system . This fact indicates that the Scandinavians did not vote as a unit at the primary and are less clannish than was supposed ; also , that the new law tends to do away with the fostering by parties of race or class feeling ? a tendency to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their places and dispense with bad ones , as a rule , regardless of the principle of rotation in office and others equally dear to politicians . The election was admitted to be a fair one , and to express the people 's choice . The tickets , as finally made up , were not what they would have been if the nominations had been made in the old  |p467  way . In general , those candidates favored by the machine were not chosen by the people . In particular , the Republican nominee for mayor " would never have been nominated by a convention . " He was afterward elected , and he has not justified the expectations of those Republicans who voted for him ? reluctantly ? as not unlikely to make a pretty good mayor after all . And those who opposed the primary law all along point triumphantly to the fact that this man was able to get the nomination under it as proving the law a had one . Probably no conceivable political situation could better have brought out the salient features of the law than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the mayoralty . Dr. Ames has for many years carried with him a certain devoted following into whatever political camp he chose to enter . Twenty-five years ago he was elected mayor of Minneapolis as an independent Republican . In 1882 , having joined the Democrats , he was elected to the same office . His administration was characterized by serious faults ; but still it was said , when he came up for renomination two years later , that he " had hosts of friends among the Republicans . " He was nominated , but lost the election through disaffection in the Democratic ranks . The next term of two years he served as mayor for the third time . In 1893 , he ran again as an independent candidate on the merits of his former administrations , obtaining about 5,000 votes ; and previous to the primary election of 1900 he formally declared his intention to return to his first love , and said , I will bring those 5,000 people with me into the Republican party . " His personal popularity got him the required number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? with its distinctive feature , the secret ballot ? enabled him to secure the nomination , though out of favor with both parties as such . His majority at the primary election over the candidate favored by recognized Republican leaders was about 20 per cent . The general opinion was that " the Democrats did it ; " and great was the blame heaped upon the primary law , which , it was said , made it possible for one party to nominate the candidates of the other . At that time the mayor was a Democrat . His renomination was considered certain , but a clique of his party desired his defeat . The theory was that just enough Democrats voted for him to insure his nomination , while the rest , in two battalions , invaded the Republican lines , ? one bent on putting up Ames because Gray could beat him , the other because he could beat Gray . The former counted on the animosity toward Dr. Ames of old-line Republicans ; the latter , on his popularity with Gray Democrats . No more humorous situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the above explanation was regarded as the sober truth , but Republicans through the State discredited it . However , the Republican party leaders were forced to accept Ames , nominated by Democrats or not , as the people 's choice . This showed most unequivocally how powerful an instrument of popular government was the new primary law . The Ames affair has been very damaging to the law in the minds of persons who can not distinguish between a necessary and an incidental consequence . In connection with the grand jury 's recent arraignment of the administration , the matter has been fully aired , and has been misconstrued , where the Minnesota primary plan is under consideration , as arguing gravely against the law , or at least against the concurrent primary and the secret ballot . But these are the very features of the law which , by placing the power of free choice in the voter 's hands , most damage the machine . " Politicians have fought these from the first , and the present embarrassing state of things in the mayor 's office is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at its last session , so amended the law as to make it apply to all cities having over fifty thousand population , it did not neglect this important point , but further amended it by abolishing the peculiarity of the law which made possible a popular choice unhampered by party surveillance . The voter being now required to declare his affiliation with some one party , and his intention to support its candidates at the next general election , and being allowed to vote the primary ticket of that party and no other , the law has unfortunately become an instrument adaptable to the necessities of party politics , and it is difficult to see on what its success as an election reform now depends . A popular nomination may not be a wise one in a particular instance , but certainly one had administration does not prove democracy a failure . To change such a fundamental feature of the law is to change the law itself from the admirable instrument of popular expression it was originally into a more or less rigid party weapon . Its faults were the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular government could prevent occasional mistakes . A concurrent primary is a primary of all parties , at the same time and place , with but one ballot-box for receiving all the votes , the same judges , and the same machinery altogether . Voters of all parties step into the same booths , provided with the primary tickets of all the parties , and when they have voted , all are returned to the judge and deposited in the box without being P468 opened . There is no possible way of distinguishing between " Democrats " and " Republicans " at a concurrent primary . And such being the case , the compulsory concurrent primary election is almost as radical a reform as the A ustralian balloting system , and it is almost as violently opposed by party ' managers . It should be a feature of every primary law aiming at reform . Another advantage peculiar to the Minnesota plan is economy of time and expense , the machinery of the usual registration being used for the primary election . Under the old caucus system , the voter who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the direct primary takes only ten or fifteen minutes of his time . The minimum expense is secured by having the election take place on a regular registration day . The impartial arrangement of the candidates ' names on the ballot ? a third peculiarity of the Minnesota plan ? gives each a just share of the advantage gained by being first on the list for any office . The order is changed , by a simple device in the process of printing , as many times as there are names of candidates for any office . On the Republican ticket , last September , there were nine names for register of deeds . The top name went to the bottom eight times , this being done without taking the forms from the press ; and after the required number of tickets were printed , and previous to being blocked and cut , they were arranged so that the names should alternate as the judges tore them off the blocks . Thus no candidate had an undue advantage . Would it be an improvement to have but one ticket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular primary would do away with parties altogether . One day , one place , one vast gathering of the clans , one ticket or none at all , every man free to name the candidate of his choice . This is logical democracy , ? government by the people , the whole people , no one but the people ! But none except the wildest dreamer could contemplate such a primary election without seeing how it would immediately fall a victim to its own vastness . The cumbrousness of it , the immense waste of time both in casting and in counting the ballots , the chances it would give to " bosses , " traders , and bribers , would cause it to degenerate at once into just such a caucus as those with which we are now too familiar . There must be a certain degree of order , a certain amount of organization . Party , too , stands for principles dear to the average voter . Parties are a result of evolution , and the time to do without them is not yet . If ostensibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spirit . Party division , however , is the only arbitrary feature of the Minnesota primary law . If the alleged evil results of the recent election are to be laid to the law , it is this feature , and not the secret ballot , that should be blamed . You ca n't vote for the best men on both tickets , said the law ; you need not tell which ticket you vote , but you must vote only one . Without such restrictions a popular choice would at once have been recognized as such , and no trickery , such as the Democrats are credited with in the case of Ames , would have been suspected , because there would have been room for none . To try to remedy the defects of the law by replacing a minimum of restriction by a maximum , by substituting for the concurrent secret ballot ' , direct primaries under partisan auspices , " is manifestly absurd . The law ought to have had another trial before being touched . If capable of base uses , it is certainly less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been productive of regeneration in politics . If adopted in other States in its original form , its working should be watched with the above-indicated tendencies in view , ? namely , to bring about true popular government and abrogate machine politics , to do away with frequent and mechanical rotation in office , to break up the rigidity of parties . As amended , ? that is , minus the feature of secret balloting unrestricted by declared party affiliation , ? it will receive a trial in the spring of 1902 in St. Paul , a city nearly as large as Minneapolis and hitherto notoriously under the control of a political ring . It will be most interesting to see whether the same tendencies are again manifested , and whether the law as it now stands is equal , as a means for reforming municipal politics , to the original plan as tried in Minneapolis . Who oppose such a law , and why , is clear . Wherever one is introduced , party manipulators and politicians of every degree will oppose it , because their chance at the spoils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct primary to revolutionize . Previous to the passage of the act in Minnesota , it was extremely difficult to interest the people of the State in it . Now that it has been once tried , the people of the entire country are interested . Many districts in other States are returning to their legislatures representatives pledged to support such a law . Some radical election reform is an imperative need of the time . The selection of candidates by popular vote instead of by a party machine will at least abate the power of the machine , and with it the worst evils of city politics . If it should be generally adopted in this country , our form of government , from being imperfectly representative , would become truly popular throughout .                     