@@486895

cause several eminent financiers advocated the plan of a central bank In October of last year the New York Chamber of Commerce adopted the report of a special committee suggesting such a bank of issue , on the lines of the state banks of Germany and France , asi an alternative to such a revision of the present banking law as would provide asset currency . But the committee 's report conceded the political obstacles in the way of the expedient , and John Claflin virtually dismissed the project as impracticable . Nevertheless , at the discussion in Philadelphia , the plan of a central bank was revived by William A. Nash of the New York Corn Exchange Bank and the Clearing House Committee , by Jacob H. Schiff and Isaac N Seligman . Mr. Schiff was still inclined to the opinion that the country is not yet prepared to sanction a central institution with its wide powers . Mr. Nash , on the other hand , referred to this assumed public dislike as " a venerable and senseless prejudice which obstructs the national well-being , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this ghost . " Mr. Seligman , basing his argument on the great relief which such a bank would have been able to offer in the recent panic , was wholly in favor of it . No doubt , among the diverse schemes for banking and currency reform , this plan will get a more favorable hearing than it received a year ago  --  partly because the argument as to the service it iwoUld have done is sound , and partly because the distrust of a central bank can hardly be what it was in 1906 . To talk of a huge new banking institution , backed by the public credit , was mere waste of words when people had before their eyes one of the most reckless exploits , in abuse of credit by bankers and banking institutions already in the field . But the " boomers , " " promoters , " " syndicates , " and " multi-millionaires , " who built up that ill-fated Wall Street speculation of 1906 , are not likely , for some years to come , to repeat the experiment . Whether this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remove all suspicion for the future , ist another question . From a practical point of view , we suspect that the most formidable opposition to the scheme would come from the banks already doing business in this country  --  especially trom the small institutions , whose influence on opinion , through personal intercourse with customers , is very great . They would certainly be up in arms against a central bank with branches , and they might not look kindly on the surrender of a few of their own present priVileges into the hands of one great institution , even if the central bank were not to invade their territory . The Charleston News and Courier has made the interesting discovery that , for-the first time in many months , there is a surplus of height cars for the handling of the business of the Southern Railway in its city : It appears , after all , therefore , that the Roosevelt panic has not been confined to the gamblers of Wall Street . so intimate are the relations between the actual business operations of the country and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Things move , slowly in the South , but the truth will penetrate . By and by a further understanding of what has happened and is happening may be looked for The West , too , has awakened to the hard fact At first all Westerners declared that the panic would affect them not at all . Now they are realizing that New York is still the financial heart of the country , and that anything that disturbs its functions is certain to be felt in the extremities . That Wall Street speculation and dishonest or " wild-cat " banking have had considerable to do with the panic , we have steadily pointed out . - But rural editors may shortly be expected to recollect that the gamblers are comparatively few , and that honest bankers are with us in large numbers and honor the whole country , whose banking they so largely do . When all of these are affected , it is ridiculous to prate only of the gamblers . As for the slackening of trade in Charleston and elsewhere , the reasons for that are numerous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but there were economic and financial laws before they appeared , and will be even after the gamblers nave been taken in hand . Senator Foraker 's announcement that he is a Presidential candidate will be everywhere accepted in just one way . It is not that he can expect to win , but that he hopes to make some one else fail . His declaration is really one of war upon the President , and upon the President 's candidate Viewed in any light , it must be taken as one blow more to the candidacy of Secretary Taft . It means a nard fight , from now on , in every district of Ohio , for the control of delegates to the National Convention But unless political traditions are to be made over , the forcing of such a contest upon the " favorite son " of Ohio renders it certain that the wheels of his chariot will drive heavily in all other States . It even his own State is not heartily and unitedly behind him , how can Secretary Taft hope to arouse enthusiasm elsewhere ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure , but a good deal of political paper , even so endorsed , we see going to protest in these times . Senator Foraker rings the changes upon Mr. Roosevelt 's alleged determination to " eliminate " him from public life . It is clear , however , that it is the Senator 's main object at present to eliminate the Taft Presidential boom . It looks very much as if he would succeed . President Joseph Swain of Swarthmore has submitted to twenty-six other college presidents the problem raised by the Jeanes bequest  --  money offered on condition of abolishing intercollegiate athletics . His statement of the problem was ingenious . Have the trustees of a college the right to bind their successors to such a restriction in perpetuity , he asks , and then , concretely , have they the right to do so if the inducement is ( 1 ) a million dollars or ( 2 ) fifty thousand dollars ' ? The question would thei efore seem to involve a delicate point of " cashuistry " In defence of Swarthnaore 's practical rejection of the gift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from charter restrictions , because of which they have received large gifts . Brown , for instance , until the Rhode Island Legislature abrogates a provision of its charter , must always choose a Baptist for president ; Trinity is , we believe , tied to the Episcopal Church , and Wesleyan to the Methodist . These limitations were in accord with the spirit of times sixty or seventy years ago , but are now outgrown . Yet , if the Jeanes bequest had carried with it the condit'on of perpetual participation in intercollegiate athletics , we wonder how many college presidents would have seen so clearly a dangerous precedent , or a wrong to future faculties and trustees In the Canadian Parliament , which reassembled at Ottawa last week , the Japanese immigrant question should furnish one of the most interesting topics of discussion . We say discussion rather than debate , because it is not very probable that the Conservative opposition will espouse the cause of Asiatic immigration with exceptional zeal . The Ministerial statement declares that " the unexpected influx of immigrants from Oriental countries into British Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of the Canadian West , the sentiment of that section of the Dominion must naturally be more strongly reflected in the policy of both political parties , and it is apparent that the feeling of the Canadian West , whether due to real pressure exercised by Asiatic competition , or to the influence of labor agitators , as hostile to Oriental immigration . If the Conservatives , therefore , expect to recruit their strength from the West , in the not far distant general election , they are not likely to show themselves strongly pro-Japanese . The recent automobile show in . London has been hailed by all sections of the British press as proof that the English motor-car industry has overtaken its Continental competitors . The Mail insists that the English product " compares most favorably with the best product of the French and German workshops , " and it adds that the prices are lower . Naturally , the Spectator pounces upon this statement with glee , because the Mail , in advocating Mr. Chamberlain 's plans for protection , had been citing the motor-car industry as proot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says the Spectator , " the rise of the motor industry gives the strongest proof of how entirely unnecessary it is to foster an industry by protection , or , rather , we should say , how free trade is by far the best foster-mother . " If there ever appeared to be reasons for protection , it was in this industry , and Sir Gilbert Parker and other leaders quickly seized upon it . The nearness of the French and German manufacturers , the lower wages they paid , their earlier start , their indisputable aptitude for mechanics  --  all these things made it plain , according to the Chamberlainites , that there was no future , for the English automobile makers . But in actual fact , the severity of the foreign competition compelled the English manufacturers to produce as good an article more cheaply than their rivals . The protectionists must now look for another argument . The automobile , unlike Ibsen 's Master Builder , refuses to be intimidated by the knocking of youth , in the form of the airship , at its door Plans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Paris by way of Bering Strait , a project which has its inception in the recently concluded race frord Peking to Paris . At the present moment , one adventurous traveller is engaged in crossing Central Africa from the Indian Ocean to the Atlantic in an automobile , and an Antarctic expedition has equipped itself with power machines for crossing the vast ice-fields of the south polar regions What effect such arduous experiments will exercise on the evol ? tion of the automobile , is difficult to fore cast . Radical departures in construe tion are , of course , necessitated by the special use for which the machine is designed . Steel-spiked tires for Siberia and the polar regions , and enormously flat tires for work in the African jungle and marshland , are important departures from the original type . How far may such variations continue without destroying the identity of the type ? And to what extent may an automobile be hauled by Mongolian camels or carried across African rivers piecemeal on the heads of negro bearers , and still enable its owner to boast of having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age or eighty-seven , Florence Nightingale has been made a member of the Order of Merit , instituted in 1902 by Edward VII. , as a reward for conspicuous public service . Miss Nightingale should be at home in the distinguished company to which she has been admitted . Lord Roberts , Lord Kitchener , Marquis Oyama , Admiral Togo , and Lord Lister are in a position to discourse with interest and authority on the subject of the infliction and cure of gunshot wounds , though possibly the Angel of the Crimea may find herself a little behind the times on either phase of the art of war . She can not expect to enjoy her new dignity for many years to come , if " enjoy " is the proper word at all to use of a woman who at the age of thirty-six refused to receive the public honors offered her by the British people , and , her work done , fled surreptitiously to her quiet country home . To the world at large the appearance of her name in the newspapers must have been a surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enrolled among the immortals is still with us . Any one accustomed to the arrogant tone heretofore assumed by German military officials in discussing army affairs with mere civilians can only marvel at the speech of the Minister of War , Van Einem , last Friday . He was not merely defending the entire military caste , but was actually replying to the attacks of Bebel , the one Socialist above all others whom the army likes to stigmatize as an enemy to his country . Instead of the usual defiance and abuse , Von Einem was on the defensive throughout . The worst of the immorality brought out in the Von MoltkeHarden suit he denied , but , if the cable dispatches are to be trusted , he admitted that most have believed such a confession possible a few months ago , and it can be explained only on the ground that the public indignation and unrest over the recent revelations necessitated a clean breast of it . As it is , the army is humiliated as never before , and those who have been whispering that the Prussian troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grounds for their belief . It is a great opportunity for the Kaiser to do vigorous house-cleaning , to put a stop to the gambling , hard drinking , and profligacy which lead inevitably to worse practices . So far , however , he has never availed himself of a similar opportunity . Moreover , he would be the last to admit that the fearless opposition and criticism of Bebel make him a person of great value to the whole nation . The latest news from Portugal is that the danger of revolution has been greatly exaggerated . The opponents of the absolutist regime inaugurated by Premier Franco last May comprise all the political parties , Conservative , Liberal , and Republican . But it is only the latter that really possesses sufficient influence with the popular elements to make an uprising possible . The two other parties are shown to have pursued a policy of such consistent selfishness and disregard of popular needs that their ability to stir up the masses against the throne must be seriously questioned . King Carlos 's cause possesses a powerful support also in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend of Portugal , is probably unwilling to countenance a revolution which might let loose Spanish ambitions in the Iberian peninsula , and lead to the disruption of the Mediterranean entente which British diplomacy has labored so sedulously to establish in the course of the last few years . More disturbing still would be the effect which an upheaval in Portugal would produce on the colonial ventures in Africa . Portuguese West and East Africa would then become prizes to set German and British Imperialist hearts a-beating . Even as it is , British eyes in South Africa have been turning longingly to Delagoa Bay and its harbor , so conveniently near to Johannesburg . In the Russian Parliament the unexpected came again with last week 's great debate on the reply to the address from the throne , when the Duma , by a vote of 246 against 112 , declared that the title of Autocrat " is no longer tenable within the Russian state , and is incompatible with the regime inaugurated by the manifesto issued by Emperor Nicholas on October 30 , 1905 . " We need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority in the Duma in order to hole that the declaration is , nevertheless , largely significant of what parliamentary influence in Russia in the near future must he if it is to be at all . It must be moderate , opportunistic , ready to bear injuriee and insults in the hope of what the time to come may bring . That the Duma could become a mere reactionary tail to the autocratic kite , we have never believed , in spite of the swelling arrogance of the monarchist and ecclesiastical members , and of the difficulty of forming a working bloc of the Centre A Duma that will go back is impossible , because experience has shown that it is impossible for a number of intelligent men , no matter of what ultimate political creed , to come together without recognizing the absolute , pressing necessity of change . The so-called Landlords ' Duma may yet develop unsuspected reserves of Liberal thought .                     