@@486740

The Colombian canal situation looks more hopeful in the light of the latest rumors from Bogota . It is the old story of the news coming a full week behind the event , and in very vague form ; but it seems probable that the Colombian Congress has not committed the blunder of letting the Hay-Herran treaty lapse under the time limit without provision for further negotiations . It is reported that Congress , while rejecting the old treaty , has given President Marroquin full power to renew negotiations and conclude a treaty . This opens the possibility that the new agreement will follow the Hay-Herran treaty very closely in substance , or even be identical with it . To be sure , the situation is complicated by an impending erection . in Colombia , but the reference of the canal dispute to the Executive greatly simplifies matters . Pending more explicit news , the general situation warrants every hope that a way will be found out of the tangle . Our Government wants that canal , and Colombia is even more deeply committed to the enterprise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are likely to find a way . The recent advance in the price of silver has brought the bullion value of the new Philippine peso within three cents of the American half dollar ( gold ) . There is some trepidation at Washington lest it should advance still further and carry the peso out of circulation altogether . This will happen whenever its bullion value exceeds its legal tender value . How to explain this advance in silver is a puzzle . We would not affirm that our Commission.on Exchange , which has just returned from . Europe , has overdone its work , but we really think that it is time to call a halt . If Professor Jenks goes to China and gets into conference with the mandarins behind closed doors , anything may happen , and presently the Filipinos may be left with nothing better than American gold for the payment of wages and the transaction of their daily business . By a singular combination of circumstances , the money markets of New York and London have for a fortnight been converging their attention on nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain typical securites on the Stock Exchange . In London , British consols have for a couple of centuries been accepted as an index to the condition of investment capital . In New York , since the great promotion craze of 1901 , securities of the Steel Corporation have been accepted as an equally important index ; because , of all the thousands of millions of new industrial securities placed on the American market during and since that time , those of the Steel undertaking were most widely distributed among investors and for a time most highly regarded . Shortly before the Transvaal war , British consols sold at 114 ; at the opening of 1903 their price was 92. .0n Monday they were quoted for less than 88 , the lowest price in thirty-seven years . In 1901 , preferred stock of the Steel Corporation , paying 7 per cent . dividends , sold at 1017/8 , and the common , paying 4 , brought 55 . Last week these two stocks sold respectively at 6014 and 16 . What has added to the interest in these foreign and home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so extraordinarily low , no eager inquiry - from investors follows . Consols are selling 5 to 6 points below the price at which $160,000,000 were sold by the British Government last year ; the Steel shares , 20 to 30 points below the price at which the bankers placed them originally on the market ; yet , at these figures , the heaviest selling orders are ascribed to interests which ' had to do with placing these two securities . There are numerous ' broad ? conclusions to be drawn from such a situation ; but the most obvious is , that the " syndicate plan , " as conceived in the theories of 1901 , has broken down completely . Much has been made of the fact that a security of so high grade as British consols should have been sacrificed like the Steel shares , and for similar causes . But the grade of the security does not at all affect the matter , except so far as it may modify the violence of the declines . It has escaped the notice of many people that the $600,000,000 new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Part placed with banking syndicates , who took the risk of selling to the public at a profit later . The chance invited turned out against the syndicate ; - their judgment of the price at which investors would be able and willing to take up the consols holdings was erroneous , and , in the end , strain on the money markets where the syndicate had to borrow capital to hold the unsold bonds , grew so severe that the holdings were turned at any price into cash rather than face a possibly still greater loss . In Wall Street the situation has been parallel . It is suggested without a smile that Senator Hanna be appointed umpire in the dispute between the President and the union employees of the Government Printing-Office . Senator Hanna , so the Executive $oard of the Knights of Labor declares , is the friend of Labor and of the President , and accordingly the proper arbiter when the two have fallen out . We fancy that Senator Hanna , should it come to this arbitration , will efface himself , for it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor : " Fell low-workmen , you are in the impossible position of asking that the supreme head of the nation submit his appointments and dismissals to private organizations . You desire to make of every union which has members in Government employ a kind of Senate . You ask that Foreman Miller be dismissed because his subordinates in the Government Printing-Office have not confirmed his original appointment or reinstatement . Fellow-laborers , your plea is bosh . There is no ' dispute ' between you and the President . The fighting is all on your side , and you can stop it when you will ? the sooner the better . In these mat- ters the President does not argue , but decrees ; he needs no umpire except with Congress , which may impeach him . This ; fellow-unionists , is my decision , and remember that Mark Hanna is your very good friend . " We presume that Senator Hanna would hardly care to speak as much truth as this even among friends , and we do not anticipate that the Presi -- dent will urge his campaign manager to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Cripple Creek district , which was called some weeks ago by the Western Federation of Miners , the Colorado State Journal calls attention to the watchwords of that union ? " Faith , Hope , and Charity " ? and then states that the Cripple Creek miners had absolutely no grievance . " It is a sympathetic strike pure and simple , " Says the Journal , " for the miners have no direct dispute with their employers , who are paying them satisfactory wages and working them satisfactory hours . " In its attempt to live up to its published motto of faith , hope , and charity the Western Federation has succeeded in bringing the mining industry to a standstill at Cripple Creek , at Idaho Springs , at Durango , and at Telluride ; it has " paralyzed " the business of the small merchants at the camps ; and it has set the friends of the miners to inquiring into the quality of that " charity " that throws some thousands of satisfied miners out of work at the beginning of winter . The strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed  --  the shutting down of paying properties for a long period , and the total abandonment of others not so well developed  --  is too fresh in the , Western mind to permit a caln ; submission to the Federation 's orders , despite its beautiful motto . The promptness with which the State ordered its - militia to the scene in. large numbers to protect property and prevent lawlessness is a sign of this , as it is , a credit to Colorado 's executive . Samuel J. Parks again becomes the leading figure in the progress of organized labor by the action taken last week at Kansas City . The International Society of Structural Iron Workers , holding its annual meeting at that place , voted to sustain Parks in his content with Mr. Buchanan , the President of the international organization , and with Mr. Neidig , the President of the local body . In other words , the organization endorsed a convicted blackmailer , who is temporarily out of State 's prison and who is still to be tried under four indictments . It has deposed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men from contamination with the criminal acts of Parks , and to save the good name of organized labor from the disgrace attaching to his blackmailing operations . We can recall nothing quite so brazen and unbearable in the annals of organized labor . The worst enemies of the " union shop " could not ask for a better issue on which to continue the fight to a decisive battle in the long war waging in the building trades . A notable contrast to the doings of organized labor at Kansas City is found in the action taken by the British Trade Unions Congress , lately in session at Leicester , England . At this meeting the Taff Vale decision came up for consideration . This decision was rendered about one year ago in a case where the workmen on a railway in Wales had violated an arbitration agreement which they had made with their employers . The latter brought suit against the union and recovered judgment . The union was not a " registered society , " or , as we should say , an incorporated company . Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay the judgment . The decision created a great stir in England and the United States , and the principle seems now to be established in both countries that , for any violation of contract or infraction of law resulting in damage to property , the society committing the offence is pecuniarily responsible , whether incorporated or not . The method adopted by the Congress at Leicester to avoid such mishaps hereabter was to ask Parliament to pass a law declaring that the funds of trade unions should not be liable to seizure for any purpose except as authorized by the rules of the union itself . A resolution of this purport was passed , but not without strong opposition . Mr. J. Ward , representing the navvies or common laborers , said that Parliament would never pass such a law , and ought not to . It would , he said , be class legislation  --  a thing that wage workers ought not to seek , but rather to avoid . They could only claim their rights on condition of recognizing the duties they owed to the community . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see how he and other representatives of labor in the House of Commons could meet their fellow-members if they asked to be placed in a different position from all other persons under the civil law . The Taff Vale workmen had violated their own rules . Was it reasonable , he asked , that they should seek to avoid responsibility for their- own deliberate act ? Gen. John . C. Black , the new commander of the Grand Army , announced in Chicago on Sunday that it will be the policy of the organization to fight from now on for a pension for every veteran of the civil war more than sixty-two years old who saw sixty days of actual service ? " and for their widows after them . " Rich or poor , well or sick , moral or immoral , honest or dishonest , all whOr bore arms for sixty days , whether in the fortifications or in the field , are to step up to the Treasury and have a service pension paid to them . This is the logical outcome of the indiscriminate pension jobbery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for patriotic service in cases where the soldier is not actually in need have fairly demoralized the veterans . Altruistic devotion to one 's country is to be turned into so much cash ! Moreover , it is not asked as a favor , but is demanded as a right . For the benefit of the Spanish war " veterans " and the survivors of all our future hostilities is this standard set up for our patriotic young men to repair to . Gen. Black says that there was a service pension for the soldiers of 1812 and for the fighters in our inglorious Mexican war . Therefore , the saviours of the Union must also have it , no matter what the cost or the need , no matter what the ensuing demoralization , no matter what happens ! And then , of course , the Spanish-war and Philippine veterans will have the right to demand the same . The proposition is indefensible and must be disregarded , whether in or out of Congress . Undigested securities are not a circumstance to undigested political principles . Gov . Cummins of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sure of his interior hollow construction , he swallowed his own brave words about tariff reform . That was bad enough , and might well of itself have brought on appendicular colic ; but the ' Governor also attempted to bolt whole the raw inanities and self-contradictions of his victorious opponents in the Iowa State Convention . Naturally , after that , his firstcampaign speech ? sounds very much like the cries of one ? in mortal pain . Gov Cummins threatens woe to any wicked man or party that dares to say a word against the sacred principle of protection , but he also predicts that any Administration which does not do something to make trade conditions easier " will go down into history under the fierce condemnation of all the people . " What will the " stand-patters " care for such vague fulminations ? They may say that they do not know what- Gov . Cummins means , and allege that no more does he himself , which is quite likely , but in any case they will know that they need not bother themselves about him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again with gusto . One thing , however , may be safely said about such a wholesale swallower He ought not to attempt public speaking . Gov . Yates of Illinois is bitter about the treatment he receives at the hands of the newspapers of Chicago , and is appealing to the country editors to " vindicate " shim . He describes-the Chicago papers as the " Trust press " It seems not to affect his judgment at all that most of the journals involved were friendly to him before the scandals of the Kankakee Asylum were revealed , and before he broke his promise not to regard Park Board appointments as political spoils . The appeal to the country newspapers as the organs of unfettered speech is amusing . They depend on the favor of the Republican machine for their State and county printing , in many cases their principal means of existence . In reality , Gov . Yates is either deceiving himself or trying to deceive the public . He is being attacked by the press of Chicago because it is to a large degree independent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unscrupulous Governor . His resentment against the newspapers is not unlike that of Quay , whose State Convention in Pennsylvania devoted its platform almost solely to denunciation of the newspapers . One was led to suppose that all the ills complained of in that State were due to the flagrant injustice of the press . Men of this type are sensitive ; that is , they hate to be found out . Gov . Pennypacker of Pennsylvania recently made a speech at Wilkes-Barre in which he once more attempted to defend the Salus libel law , his approval of which brought down upon him a perfect storm of ridicule . He says nothing now about heads of offenders dropping into baskets , or the drawing and quartering of critics and malcontents . Indeed , he speaks in a strangely apologetic tone . He says that the new statute is not really a libel law at all ; that it leaves the whole matter of libel precisely where it was before ; and that it only imposes the obligation of reasonable care in pub : This is all quite true , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which editors have felt bound to respect . But the Governor can not pretend that he had any such view of the law when he urged its passage and gave it executive approval . He still must face his amazing memorandum filed with the . signed bill . He thought he had secured an anti-cartoon bill which would protect Quay and himself and the rest .. He found that they were all more mercilessly lampooned than ever before . Except to incite derision , the new libel law is almost a dead-letter . The Governor can not revive it even to excuse it . On September 22 there was submitted to the voters of New Jersey one of the most important measures which could possibly come before them It was a series of Constitutional amendments radically reorganizing the judicial system of that State . The subject was one which had engaged the attention of the Legislature , - andeen it the bar eafs the State took the deepest interest e Addresses were issued and newspaper articles printed by the hundred for the purpose of arousing the electors to the vital nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appeared that only about onefitteenth of the voters of New Jersey cared enough about a project so nearly affecting their interests to take the trouble to cast a ballot for or against it . The amendments were defeated on this scandalously light vote , and the disappointed lawyers  --  not the bar as a body ? are blaming the authors of the plan for maladroit presentation of it . This melancholy experience of New Jersey makes the scheme of having dozens of different laws referred every year to popular vote , as proposed by advocates of the referendum , seem truly chimerical . Results of the test in Boston last week of the new primary law are , on the whole , gratifying to the advocates of the direct primary . The law worked smoothly , checked the practice of voting the members of one party in the primary of the other , and brought out an unusually large number of voters . This last is to the friends of direct nominations the most important point Their argument has been that the voters would gladly embrace an opportunity to register @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the boss at the primary , and they can cite the Boston result as evidence . More than 56 per cent . of the total vote of the city in the last election for President was polled , and the percentage would undoubtedly have been much larger , but for the absence of contests for the nominations among the Republicans In the Democratic primaries , where there were several candidates , 75 per cent . of the vote cast for Bryan in 1900 was polled . How much better the nominations thus made are than the choice of the boss under the old method remains to be seen . The Atlanta Journal is one Southern newspaper which does not believe that colored criminals are as numerous as the rabid anti-negro agitators would have the public think . With the exception of those who commit the crime of rape , it is certain that the negro wrongdoers are not capable of doing as much harm to society as are the white- criminals . The depraved negro errs through impulse and the passion of the moment ; the " constructive deviltry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Journal also feels doubtful whether the percentage of negro criminals in relation to the negro population is much greater than that of whites to the white population . These views the Journal expressed apropos of the attack on-Booker Washington and Tuskegee in the Alabama Legislature . So far as we have observed , the violent antagonism of some of the Montgomery speakers has found little or no echo in the public prints . The intelligent men of the South are everywhere beginning to realize that it is impossible for their section of the country to exist in peace if the great mass of negroes are to live in a hopeless state of ignorance and degradation . If it is true that some graduates of Tuskegee have become offenders before the law , the same could also be said of Harvard and Yale But the latter fact would certainly lead no one to argue seriously that because of a few black sheep the higher education creates criminals and should therefore be done away with . The recent bye-election for a member of Parliament for Rochester , in place of Lord Cranhorne , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his fiscal policy . - It is a curious fact in cennection with the election contest that Mr. Tuff , the Unionist candidate , when interrogated , declared that he did not know what Mr. Chamberlain 's proposals were . ' But , " he added , " I am opposed to any tax that will increase the cost of living in. any way whatever . " The secret of Mr. Tuff 's election lies in the fact that , while roundly repudiating any import duty on food or raw materials , he advocated a duty on cement . Rochester is a cement manufacturing town , and latterly there has been a considerable importation of cement from the Continent of Europe . One Rochester firm lost an order for 87,000 tons because an equally good article was offered by a foreigner at a lower price . In. view of this fact , the correspondent of a Liberal paper , writing from Rochester a few days before the voting took place , said , " On cement the election may be lost or won . " Mr. Tuff was asked how he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his desire for a duty on cement . " What ! " he exclaimed , " do you call cement a raw material ? Go and look for yourslf . Count the barges that bring the chalk and the clay . Go and look at the kilns where the grinding , the mixing , and the burning take place . Talk with the engineers who have charge of the works , and ask how much their machines have cost . Raw material , indeed ! If cement is not a finished product , where will you find one ? " Civilized Russia has just witnessed the spectacle of Government troops escorting a mob which systematically sacked Jewish shops and maltreated their possessors . The rioting at Gomel was less bloody than that at Kishenev ; in some ways it is more disgraceful to Russia . The Gomel riots originated , not in ungovernable religious fanaticism , but in some petty squabble between Jews and Christian traders The Government was not , as before , in the position of failing to quell a riot ; it , on the contrary , sanctioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action will bring upon Russia the moral condemnation of the world . It also goes far to explain the indifference of the Empire to the ruthless massacre of its coreligionists in the Balkans . Russia does what she will with her own heretics , and by a kind of cynical logic lets the Turk have an equal license in dealing with his heretics . A certain light is thrown upon the approaching " evacuation " of the southern Nlantchurian. provinces ' by two recent official acts . Russia has extended beyond the Amur River the jurisdiction of Admiral Alexieff , the new Viceroy of the East , and has applied to Korea for protection of timber-cutting concessions beyond the Yalu . That is , the Empire is apparently making a crown colony out of the northern Mantchurian province , which was to have been given back to China , and is claiming a favored position in western Korea . It is frequently said , and with some reason , that the world would be the gainer if Russia should occupy and govern all of Mantchuria . This country , since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reason to look askance at suet an advance . But the Japanese have a very just on to dread the activity of Russia on the Korean boundary . Korea belongs , geographically and commercially , to Japan 's sphere of influence , as Mantchuria does to Russia 's ; Japan needs the peninsula as a market and as a possible field for emigration . The various attempts of Russia to got a foothold in Korea in the guise of trading stations evince a total disregard of Japanese sensibilities and contempt of Japanese resources .                     