@@474094

is the most perfect economist . She utilizes every atom ? 1 of material , turns to advantage all elements and situations . The limits of present possibility seem to have been reached in the spread of life on this earth . It descends to the uttermost depths of the sea , rises in the air above the mountaintops , is not daunted by polar cold or the heat of almost boiling springs . There appear to he no substances in the composition of the globe which have not been tested for nourishment for organisms , and few that are not compelled to yield it to further the insatiable impulse of life to spread and increase . It is probable that long ago was reached the fullest capability of the earth to support its population of plants and animals under natural conditions ? that is , although local changes are ever taking place as physical conditions ( land areas , climate , etc. ) alter , the sum of individual organisms remains substantially the same , and stands equal to the maximum that may find space and sustenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are mainly directed to surmounting two physical obstacles ? lack of water and excess of wind ; and the adaptations to meet these and accompanying hardships are exceedingly curious and interesting . A man from Arizona showed me , the other day , a harsh , dry , almost leafless little . hush . about as big as his two fists , all of whose branches curled in at the top , until the whole form was globular , with a small tuft of fibrosis roots at one side . A few days later I saw it again and it was greenish , had expanded a little , and unfolded minute leaves ; he had set its roots in the soil , and the long-dried plant had revived and begun to grow . This was one of a large class of plants ( Amarautus , Erigonium , etc. ) called " rolling weeds " or " tumbleweeds , " which are broken off or pulled up and then sent travelling by the gales . When they catch against some obstacle they drop their seeds there , or if roots remain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replanted ; and by this means their race is dispersed . The desert plants must , indeed , depend mainly on the wind for the scattering of their seeds , and so they turn to account one of their enemies . Few of the seeds are light enough to be carried far in the air ? there would be danger of their flying too far ; but as fleshy , pulpy fruits are rare , owing to the paucity of moisture , the round hard seeds characteristic of this group may he rolled far across the comparatively open ground . The globular form of the various tumbleweeds is characteristic of all the desert vegetation , and results from its sparseness . The supply of moisture is adequate only for a scanty and small-sized growth : the wonder is that any at all is possible , when the total rainfallmay be only four or five inches ( five times as much will not insure a crop of wheat to a farmer of excellent soil without irrigation ) ; and this falls almost altogether in a short series of spring storms , followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunlight . Hence each shrub stands at such a distance from its neighbor that it is never shaded ; and , equally exposed to light and air on all sides , becomes compact and rounded . This scantiness of growth shows that in the desert Lite plants have returned to primitive conditions . Their competition is not with each other for light and space , as in a forest or meadow , but with a niggard Nature for the very necessaries of existence ? a struggle against inorganic forces ; first , to obtain enough moisture and dissolved food from the arid and often sterile soil , and , second , to prevent losing it to the thirsty , restless air and the blazing sun . In a semi-desert , like the South-African veldt , or the Mexican cactus plains , animals must also be guarded against , and hence there all the bushes and trees are intensely thorny ; but in the real desert this danger is spared them , since large beasts are absent , and therefore little energy need be wasted upon providing armor . The defences in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or those of the drearier parts of the Kalahari country , the Sahara , Arabia , and Tibet , must be against the loss of moisture . The scarce and precious water is collected in various ways . In damp regions the roots of perennial plants sink deeply , and sustain a great growth above ground . in a moderately dry climate plants develop bulky roots , and store up supplies which outlast the summer drought ; or the plants themselves , as in the ease of the cactuses , become fleshy reservoirs of water and food . In the extreme desert , such as here considered , neither of these resources is available , and perennial herbs are consequently few . Only stunted shrubs and hardy annuals are able to exist at all , the former growing very slowly , with toughness of texture , the latter flourishing briefly during the spring rains , devotinglittle energy to making stein or leaves or flowers ? mostly inconspicuous and wind - fertilized ? and hastening ( while sometimes still of very small size ) to perfect the seeds by which alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of wetness gives a possibility of germination and growth . Frequently desert plants are overtaken by drought too soon , and must postpone blooming until autumn ; and plants such as elsewhere exhibit large , showy blossoms will here bear nothing worthy of the name of flower . The only source of moisture in the real desert is rain and dew , for there is no accessible store of underground water ; but dew is totally absent in some regions , as in our Death Valley , although said by Volkens to occur frequently in Egypt and Arabia . This chance moisture is gathered by the leaves somewhat , but mainly must be absorbed by the roots . Hence the roots of arid-district plants keep close to the surface , extending themselves far out in slender threads mesquit examined by Dr. Coville had roots fifty feet long ) , in order to exploit the widest area of absorption ; but while this practice gives a bush stability against the wind , it also renders its roots easily uncovered . Moreover , there is a limit to the extent of roots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain amount of vitality to make them . The ceaseless wind ? to digress a moment ? is a factor always to be reckoned with . Where the soil is loose enough it is heaped into hillocks , Which change and travel , exhuming herbage and trees in sonic places arid burying them in others . Yuccas were found by the investigators of the Desert Botanical Laboratory , established in Arizona in 1903 by the Carnegie Institution , that had grown up thirty feet through a slowly heightening dune of gypsum sand in the Tularosa ( Sonora ) " white desert . " The steady gales over the sand wastes of the Colorado Desert , in southern California , constitute a veritable sand-blast . " The western faces of the wooden telegraph-poles , " it is said , " are deeply cut within two feet of the ground by the sharp driving sand , and the railroad employees have found it necessary to pile stones about . the bases of the poles insome spots to keep them from being actually cut off . The creosote-hushes have been moulded into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lee of a small boulder ran its branches freely to the eastward , but the twigs that projected upward and outward beyond the protection of the boulder were killed by the sand-blast , so that the plant presented the appearance of a miniature box-hedge . " That any plants can withstand such conditions is amazing , yet some do , and even control them . Thus in the Tularosa Desert the most characteristic growth is a sumac , which forms low , dense , widely spreading bushes , whose trunks at or beneath the surface often reach three inches in diameter . " The binding and protecting effect of this bush is manifest whenever an old dune is cut down by the wind , for one or more columns of sand are likely to he left standing , protected from the rain by the close covering of the branches and leaves , while the sand in the column itself is bound together by the long , penetrating roots . One such column , observed by the laboratory workers above mentioned , was fifteen feet tall . The obtaining of water , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is only a part , and perhaps a minor part , of the problem before the xerophyte . The water gathered by a plant is carried along the roots , hearing food in solution , up the stem and branches , and then given of by the leaves and all suitable surfaces . Such transpiration is a vital necessity , by which life - functions are carried on . Where water is plentiful in the soil , the supply absorbed by the roots keeps pace with the transpiration ( exceeds it a little when making new growth ) , and all goes well ; but in a drought plants shrink and wilt because the evaporation from the broad green surfaces is then in excess of what the roots can supply . In the desert , drought ? killing drought ? is the normal condition . The very climatic situation which makes the district arid presupposes a local atmosphere extremely dry . It does contain some moisture , which is hygroscopically absorbed by thesoil and goes to feed the roots , but at best it is dry enough Lo suck moisture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hence for desert vegetation an even greater problem than the getting of moisture is the keeping and use of it ; and to this end very serviceable modifications have been gained by the plants of the arid wastes . Such annual herbs as sprout , flourish , and die during the two or three rainy months which suffice to perfect their seeds , are not much different from ordinary types ; but in the characteristic perennial herbs and shrubs , which must endure throughout the year , are seen many special adaptations for resisting evaporation . In general , the growth is very slow , the wood close-grained , hard , and resinous , and the bark , both under ground and above , thickened , corky , and relatively impermeable to water . In some cases the bark ' has layers of cells just beneath it , especially formed to retain water ? em arrangement developed mostly in regions , like the Mediterranean borders , where water may be obtained in some abundance by the roots , yet not sufficiently to meet ordinary transpiration during a long dry season . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most striking modifications are seen . First , these are greatly reduced in size . A leaf more than half an inch square is a curiosity in such deserts as those of southeastern California . None is thin and bladelike , but rather all are thickened , elongate , often needlelike , and erect , thus reducing the evaporating surface to a minimum . Some species no longer put forth leaves at all , their functions being performed by the greenish stem . One of these features is the habit of shedding all the leaves as soon as the annual rainy period and its stimulated growth cease , thus cutting off all the outlets of the plant , except a needful few on the stem , preparatory to the long hot rest-season . This adaptive habit has been acquired by many of the shrubs of the dryest deserts ; and where leaves persist they lose entirely , or in great degree , their power of transpiration . The general olive or grayish hue of the foliage of steppes and deserts , so noticeable even on the " sage-brush plains " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conserve their moisture ( and also to check the effect of too much light and heat ) by clothing themselves , and especially their leaves , with a screen of hairs . All parts of the world furnish examples . In the dry elevated plains of Brazil , Quito , and Mexico there are large tracts covered with gregarious , spurgelike growths and gray-haired species of Croton , and observers say that when the wind blows undulations are set up over wide extents of country , like a billowy sea of gray foliage . Speaking of the prevalence of these botanical characteristics in the flora of the Mediterranean district , Kerner may be cited as follows : The trees have foliage with gray qwq                     