@@486751

Secretary Shaw 's call for $25,000,000 of Government funds deposited in the banks was expected , and is necessary . It is the readiest way of covering the current deficit in the Treasury. - One can imagine , however , the sinister comments that would have been made had Judge Parker been elected and such a call followed so promptly " There , " people would have said , " you already see what havoc a Democratic ' Administration is going to work with the business of the country . " And there would have been dire talk of an increasing Treasury shortage , shrinkage in commerce , and prospective panic . Such pessimistic words would not have ? been justified then any more than tb.eY are now ; but it is remarkable that what , under Democratic auspices , would have excited grave concern , now passes without causing a ripple . At the same time , - the problem of making both ends meet in national housekeeping remains the same ; and this Treasury call is the first reaping of the harvest ' of unskilful Republican financiering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astonishing than ? the number and Variety of " vindications " given to political leaders at the last election . With Old'ell and Littauer vindicated in New York , and Grosvenor 's book-operations apProved " in Ohio , we have had approvals ' of " stand-patters , " tariff reformers , and men who stood for still higher duties. - Congressman McCall , hi the Eighth GengreSsional Dietri'ot of Massachusetts , has received , however , a remarkalble vote of- unmistakable confidence . Mr. McCall has been licensed for some time to run amuck among Republican doctrines precisely as he saw fit . His campaign review of the - Republican party in the Atlantis Monthly read , as one newspaper remarked , like a most-earnest plea for the success of Judge Parker in its advocacy of Philippine independence and tariff reform . Yet 21,551 of hiS constituents vot ed for him , while only ? 18,626 cast their ballots for Roosevelt . Recognizing the inevitable , the Democrats did not take the trouble to put up a candidate . The Socialists did , however , but their man received just 2,623 votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should run ahead of the President 's vote , Mr. McCallls success is all the-more striking since many Democrats plainly took pleasure in aiding a representative of great ability and usefulness , who despises the party lash and is entirely indifferent to The official statement of election expenses filed by Mr. W L. Douglas in Massachusetts shows that the successful candidate for Governor spent about $35 , - 000 on his canvass . As he is elected-for a term of one year at a salary of $8,000 , the figure is somewhat startling But it is most creditable to Mr. Douglas that he , regards the spirit as well as the letter of the law for publicity of campaign expenditures Rich men nominated for office have a perfect right , if they choose ; to contribute liberally to the committees , in charge of their campaigns Yet , from fear of misconstruction or other motive , they often prefer to help out the campaign fund indirectly An obliging brother or confidential friend may become a liberal contributor . It is very rarely indeed that a sum so large as that spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate 's expenses . The returns of Goys . Morton and Flower in this State , for instance , showed.that only very modest sums were contributed by those rich men to aid their canvas 's . " The old guard of Dingleyasna , the Boston Home Market Club , may the , but it will never surrender . In its defence of the beleaguered citadel of protection it occupies a strategic position where the enemy 's forces are already massed and walls have begun to - crack . Such men as Serene E. Payne and Nelson W. Aldrich publicly express the view that while the election was a magnificent victory for a stand-pat policy , the tariff-may nevertheless be revised , and this is trying for the men who assert , in so many words , that the specific schedules " of the present law are sacred . Only a stern sense of duty compels an organization professedly ' devoted to the up-building of Massachusetts ' industry to rebuke the president of the Boston Chamber of Commerce for advocating tariff revision . Yet the secretary 's report - terpreting the election results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I thank , " said ex-Congressman Walker , " that , instead of saying that no change in the protective tariff ' should be agitated , and that all changes should be resisted , we ought to take exactly the opposite position  --  namely , that if any one can point out any change that can be made in the protective tariff that wall be of advantage to this country , we Will gladly welcome it . " That ; of course , is sense  --  and therefore repugnant to the Home Market Club . But even if it should see fit to alter the tone of its public expressions , the real feeling of the ultra-protectionist will still Less than a week after Pennsylvania had rolled up its unexampled Republican majority , good citizens in Philadelbhia were preparing for an organized movement against election frauds . This is to be modelled after the efficient Voters ' League of Chicago , but is to be , independent of the old Philadelphia Municipal League . The two demands to be pressed upon the State Legislature are for a law requiring personal registration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigate abuses - without waiting for the initiative of a district attorney or court . As things now go in Pennsylvania , a Republican victory at the polls is just about as certain as a Democratic victory in Texas . It is an axiom everywhere else that when the election is purely a formality , the total vote falls off . Yet the Pennsylvania returns indicate on their face as much interest as most States display over a hard-fought election . The Philadelphia Ledger publishes some figures which help to explain . The six wards of the old city of Philadelphia , owing to the movement to the suburbs , had long been known to be decreasing in population . The census of 1890 gave them 104,154 ' , that of 1900 showed 95,734 population . The vote , too , fell from 20,622 in 1890 to 19,666 in 1900 . Yet this year it jumped to 27,828 , an increase of 41 per cent The census of 1900 indicated that there were only 33 475 males over twenty-one years old , including aliens , yet the registration of 1904 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seventh Ward there were 1,310 more names registered than there were men of voting age four years ago , and in the Tenth Ward 1 846 more These things might be explained by blaming the census enumerators or assuming a return of residents of the suburbs ; but the Philadelphians themselves have a simpler if less flattering explanation . The tendency of city and country to divide on party lines appeared in the late election mainly in the almost complete submergence of rural Democrats in the Northern States . In the present Congress there are seventeen Democrats who represent constituencies in Northern States outside of the great cities . In the next Congress there will be only Eve such . The Legislature of New York shows almost exactly the same drift on a smaller scale In the State Senate this winter there will not be a single Democrat from outside this city In the Assembly there will be six Democrats from up the State , four of them from counties containing large cities ? Erie , Albany , and Rensselaer . Last year there were three Democratic Senators and nine Assemblymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Black seems to be the storm centre of New York State politics . Mr. Delpew wants to be reelected to the United States Senate and Senator Platt is seconding the Wish . Governor-Chairman Odell , though professing high regard for Mr. Depew 's transcendent abilities , is disturbed by misgivings over Mr. Depew 's " Tack of assertiveness . " Presumably , Mr. Odell would prefer as Senator a man who exhibits this divine quality , . with which , it may be added , he himself is so richly endowed . Should he hesitate about taking the place for which he is thus eminently fitted , he would very naturally turn to Mr. Blank . The latter has been accused of lacking various things , Mg a delicate moral sense ; but assertiveness is not in the catalogue of his deficiencies . For this and other cogent reasons Gov . Odell is supposed to favor the movement for Black . Some genius in the gentle art of reconciling irreconcilables suggests that President Roosevelt remove the cause of difference between Odell and Platt by taking Black into the Cabinet as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for the possibility that both Roosevelt and Black may object to the plan . Then , too , the withdrawal of Blank from the contest would simply be dipping a drop from the ocean of pretexts for a quarrel that rolls between Platt and Odell . The root of the trouble is not Frank S. Black , but the fact that both Odell and Platt Want to run the Republican machine in this State , and only one can do so . It is the old problem of two bddies occupying the same space at the same time . Every day brings out a new touch of pouffe in the Panama Republic . A year ago we were recognizing it and lauding rt , and promising to protect this new " sister among the nations . " To-day , it appears mainly as a joke among the nations . The larger part of the army has " resigned , " and the police are vigilantly guarding the remnant . The latter is very much in the position of the - Irish patriots who would have risen and swept the English tyrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police would n't let them . It is now clear that the Panama revolutionists of 1903 could not , we will not say maintain themselves against Colombia in 1904 , but could not be prevented from flying at each other 's throats were not our military forces on the spot to make them behave . The truth is , that we have christened a lot of chronic conspirators and betrayers of conspiracy a " republic , " and must now take the con sequences . The ridiculous antics of the men whom we were but a few months ago acclaiming as heroes and patriots , are indeed a laughing matter ; but the laugh is distinctly at our expense . No one of England 's unofficial ambassadors to this country has come with better credentials than John Morley ; and the warmth of his reception at the dinner of the Chamber of Commerce last week was characteristic of the welcome he has received everywhere among us . He stands peculiarly as the inheritor and upholder of that great Liberal tradition ? the tradition of Cobden , and Mill , and Bright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States with those of his own country . In his speech , Mr. Morley ingeniously threw himself on the mercy of his audience as a hardened free-trader , obstinately unconverted even by the common argument of bidding foreigners just look upon this great Babylon which protection has builded . Moreover , he had the audacity to say , right on the heels of an election which was supposed to prove that all we are and have and hope for depends upon a protective tariff , that we should have been just as great and strong without it . And this heresy was cheered ' to the echo by the representatives of American commerce ! In the deep note which he struck when on the theme of Anglo-American relations , Mr. Morley passed instantly beyond the cheap talk , common to such occasions , about the two fleets side by side and a united front to the common foe , and spoke in a high strain of the union of the two nations in the diplomatic pursuit of the noble end of spreading freedom and peace and a humaner spirit wherever our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a hard time of it between the attacks of Mr. George W. Dickie , the manager of the ' Union Iron Works of San Francisco , and Mr Anson Phelps Stokes , at Thursday 's meeting of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers . The former spoke his mind very freely , describing the eight-million-dollar battleships as " complicated combinations of compromises so involved in structure and function as to be quite incomprehensible even to the experts themselves . " To keep these leviathans of the deep in good condition is a task , Mr. Dickie thinks , " beyond the ability of the officers and men in charge of this modern puzzle . " There was , of course , prompt objection to this view , but the essential facts upon which Mr. Dickie based his statements are unchallenged . The battleship is crammed full of the most elaborate mechanical devices , not merely for offensive purposes , but in order to make life on board a possibility . There are thousands of in'ricate devices , and the auxiliary machines run into the hundreds . And , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one portion of the vessel ; - if not - directly fatal , - is likely to produce a dangerous change of trim by flooding a single compartment . The length and shape of these ships make them dangerous to their friends , and their heaviest guns do not permit of their getting near enough for effective work if a harbor is protected , as is Port Arthur , by mine iields and strong fortifications . It will be a subject for thankfulness if , as these speakers predict , the modern battleship give way to cheaper and simpler vessels , or to floating batteries when it comes to coast defence . At the end of last week the Japanese mined and blew up Sungshu Hill fort . in the centre of the main perimeter of Port Arthur 's defence , and one of the Urlung forts near the eastern end of the semi-circle . Whether these positions were occupied or not , the dispatches do not state ; in any case , the breach has been made , and the capture of these points commanding the other fortifications from behind is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nogi is ' willing to sacrifice . Suggestive in this connection is the report that a thousand fresh troops a day are landing at Dalny . Everything points to an assault in the next few days , for the pressure of the Baltic fleet , though still several weeks away , is already felt at the seat of war . While the news from the besieged city is scattered and indefinite , it appears that Stoessel has had a crippling blow in the loss of Ms powder reserve . His guns also are reduced by a quarter in number , if the report of a correspondent who saw more than a hundred captured , at Dalny , may be credited . The sailing of Admiral Rozhestvensky 's ships from Dakar , Cape Verde , and the news that the second division of seven cruisers and five destroyers which sailed from Libau on November 16 is to go through the Suez Canal , reveal the plans of the fleet pretty clearly . This second division , which is composed of faster vessels than the first , is evidently to meet the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ceylon , and the combined armada will then proceed towards Port Arthur . Despite the delay , owing to the North Sea incident , Rozhestvensky 's ships have made fair progress . If , as has been reported , they will coal so far as possible only in French settlements , their next port should be the rocky harbor of Loango , in the French Congo country . Should their coal capacity permit so long a run , their next port should-be Madagascar , at which island colliers are known to have been waiting for some time . If unable to keep the sea for this distance , their only refuge will be an English harbor with a very frigid welcome . It is not surprising that a state council has already been held at Tokio , with the Mikado presiding , to determine the best way of opposing the Russians . Off Formosa would be the natural meeting-ground , if the Japanese fleet is foot-loose by that time ; if not , it would have to await an attack in its home waters . Obviously the Japanese longing to hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day to day as the Baltic flotilla approaches . - Russia 's refusal to join in the proposed Hague Conference is precisely what was expected . Neither the Czar nor the Mikado , in all probability , would be represented if the Congress were to be held at once . Hence the assembling of the delegates is likely to be deferred for some time to come  --  until the close of the war . This fact is another strong argument for ending the fruitless hostilities in Man'tehuria as soon as possible . The situation there grows worse and worse , it even being admitted in the dispatches that were an attack of one side or the other to succeed , it would have no other result than to expel the defeated force from the miserable holes in which they seek protection from the cold and the enemy 's eannonatle. lit bids fair , indeed , to parallel in some respects the winter in the Crimea , which was so fatal for the allied forces . Meanwhile , the desire of the other nations to take further steps in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well to note that hardly a week passes without the signing of a new arbitration treaty . Even Switzerland is to have such agreements with all the leading nations and join in the latest and best international " fashion . " Prince Mirsky has conjured a greater spirit than he imagined . The delegates of the popular local assemblies have declined to restrict their debate to matters of minor policy ; these representatives of the Russian people have begged protection against a tyrannical bureaucracy , and against imprisonment by extra-legal process , demanding freedom of speech and of the press , extension of suffrage for the zemstvos , confirmation of their original powers , and , finally , a national legislative body . In other words , they ask to-day what Alexander II . was about to give them freely when an assassin cut short his reign . The challenge to the bureaucracy personified in the fanatical Minister Plehve could not be more complete . No wonder , then , that Prince Mir-sky lost courage , and that the presidents of the zemstvos , who had been officially invited to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their deliberations characterized as private , and kept out of the newspapers . But as such an assemblage is well-nigh unprecedented in all the history of the Empire , its programme , once published , becomes a bill of rights , and its voice that of a States-General . And history will record this of the zemstvos presidents , whatever the immediate fortune of their plan . The Prussian Government 's latest plan for a Rhine-Hanover canal and for the canalization of the Lippe River has passed the first reading in the canal committee of the Prussian House of Representatives , and may thus be looked upon as certain of adoption , after a hard fight lasting several years . A compromise was arrived at as soon as the Government promised the Centre and certain members of the Conservative party that it would make a Government monopoly of the canal-towing business . This proposal had the warm support of the Agrarians and the National Liberals , as well as of the Conservatives , and is thus another step towards the national ownership of industries . The defeat of the Government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way checked this strong tendency in Prussia . That so conservative and centralized a Government should actually lead the way in the direction so earnestly advocated by Socialists and Communists , is remarkable . Why should not the next move be ownership of all shipyards , on the ground that they are necessary to a proper system of national defence ? There seems to be no good reason why this and other steps should not be taken if it is the Government 's duty to purchase the improvement of its waterways by such means or to fight the Trusts by creating cartels of its own . General Andse 's resignation of the office of Minister of War was inevitable . It had been fully shown that he conducted against his own officers a threefold espionage , filing in the War Office reports from the Masonic Lodges , from tale-bearing subalterns , and from anonymous accusers , and treating all these rumors as cause for retarding the promotion of officers in any way connected with the Church . General Andre has defended this system : by these covert methods he found it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assertion not the slightest proof has been produced . To realize the enormity of the system , one has only to remember that the blacklisted officers were , in most cases , proscribed simply for allowing their wives and children to attend the Roman Catholic Church . From these army revelations may be inferred whither M. Combes 's anti-clericalism really tends . In the name of liberty , the devout are to be attacked as such . Already one hears from General . Aaidra 's lips the sinister phrase that his army is full of " enemies of the republic . " A little poinmon sense would shatter that bogey of conspiracy , but , in the present anti-clerical fervor ; the lesson of General Andre 's dismissal may be lost . With the student riots at Innsbruck , the Italian-German dispute assumes a more serious aspect , and the experiment of establishing an Italian faculty in a wholly German town is thoroughly discredited . Three years ago the attempt was made to give law lectures in Italian at Innsbruck . It failed , because of the threatening attitude of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Various proposals were made to set up the Italian university in provinces largely peopled by Latins , as the Trentino or Istria . Indeed , Trent and Trieste are cities in either of which such an institution would have been welcomed . But the Austrian Government let itself be deterred by the dread of irredentism , and last October , finding that more than a hundred Italian students at the Innsbruck law school must be provided for , it resumed the Italian lectures without warning of any kind . The natural result was that the Italian students were attacked at their first Sommers by their German associates , defended themselves with revolvers , and finally were roughly handled by the police under the Pan-German burgomaster , Herr Greil . The whole incident illustrates the vacillation and hesitation of Austria towards her ally . It would have been hard to make a worse mess than this race-rioting provoked by what was intended as a conciliatory measure . It seems time for the Austrian Government to transfer the school to an Italian-speaking community . Such a settlement would be made easier by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Verona and Genoa prove haw serious the propaganda of the extreme Socialists has become . Just as our own unionists have striven to cripple the militia , the Italian " reds " find their most formidable enemy in the army . No one can deny that their sentiment is well founded . The army is their foe , not only because troops under arms have repressed Socialistic riots , but also by reason of the existence of an invisible army of reservists , who are subject to call to the colors . Nearly two years ago the Government thwarted the great rails road strike by mobilizing that class of the reserve , and , after the recent general strike in Northern Italy , Giolitti 's reprimand took the farm of a call to the reservists of the disorderly territory . Naturally , the Socialists would be glad to nullify so ready a means of repression . Their failure on Friday , in what was apparently to have been a general military strike , is reassuring to friends of Italy , though the attempt itself is ominous of - difficulties to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              