@@486925

Sm . The recent meeting of the New England Association of Teachers of English at Springfield for the purpose of discussing coordination and cooperation in English must have brought to the minds of many English teachers renewed question as to the need and possibility of cooperation and the reason for the difficulties that beset those who seek to bring it about . A speaker at Springfield attributed the hampering inertia of his colleagues to a lack of respect for the English department , due , in his estimation , to the relatively small amount of time given to English in New England high schools The trouble lies , I fear , much deeper For years English has been taught in the schools from the point of view of form Form and content , things to be sharply divorced in discussion only , have been and are to-day practically treated as separate entities Weekly , fortnightly , or less often , the pupil writes a theme for his English teacher . The subject is assigned by the teacher , or sought , as a rule with some toil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection , of a story told of that timeworn figure , the learned college professor , found wandering alone about the drawing room after his hostess 's well-intentioned effort to effect a connection with another guest . " I hoped you and Mrs S would find common interests , " was her greeting " Mrs S. , " he replied gravely , " seemed to have no statement that she wished to make to me , and I had none that I wished to make to her , so we parted " The English student is less fortunate ; witty nilly he must make a statement-he can not part from his English teacher This is , of course , an extreme putting of the case ; many English teachers throughout this broad land are able to give to many boys and girls the will to think and to express their thought But too often the English theme is a mere empty means of training in form . As a resuit , the high school graduate enters freshman English with a fair theoretical conviction that the " rules " of unity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themes ; that they are principles that should govern his ordinary thought and speech he never dreams He has no confirmed habit of disciplined thought and expression . Meantime the student finds himself in other branches of his work inevitably led , day by day , to find expression for the material that they afford Day by day he recites in class , writes this or that for the teacher of science or history Usually he feels free to express himself as his native , untrained inclination wills . The teacher passively regrets , it may be , or actively blames the teacher of English , if his substance is incoherently presented ; but the point is " knowledge-of the subject matter , not form , " and " there is no time to correct poor English " " It is not fair , " he adds , " to take from a pupil 's mark for chemistry if he has given the +facts correctly . " Again and again this point is made , without , apparently , the slightest realization of the fact that mastery of subject matter implies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolerance of incoherent presentation encourages a mere cramming of undigested matter and breaks every law of mental discipline Psychologically , the stand which teachers of English have taken during the past years is unsound ; no habit of clear expression can be formed in one-tenth of the time when nine-tenths encourage constant departure from it . Training in method of thought , in method of expression , in idiom , the English teacher can and must give ; that in the division of labor is his peculiar task But until he demands earnestly , steadily , the aid of those who alone can see to it that his teaching puts itself into practice ; until he recognizes definitely that English is a tool , to be moulded and mastered under his direction , but to be put to its proper use and kept sharp and efficient only through the watchful care of many others who supply varying material for its exercise , he can not do effective work . How can we hope to overcome the lack of respect that subtly , insidiously , follows the teaching of English through high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong , and practically , by its works , proved ineffective ? Obviously , however , there are two sides to the question of cooperation The English teacher must make the demand ; but it is impossible for him to secure it unless teachers of other subjects can be induced to give their aid in a spirit of disinterested helpfulness . Prof. J. H. Gardiner of Harvard stated the issue with marked definiteness and fairness at the Springfield meeting : " Every student " -I quote freely- " owes to the instructor in every other branch as good English  --  as he gives to the teacher - of English ; every teacher owes to every student an insistence upon the best that he is capable of giving . Any teacher who permits a pupil to hand in to him slipshod , incoherent English does the pupil a wrong , fosters in him those vicious mental habits of laziness and carelessness which it should be the prime aim of education to eradicate . " Too few teachers seem keenly alive to this truth ; here lies the fundamental difficulty an the way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as Professor James has said , education consists in substituting good for bad ideas , good for bad habits , all with a view to their practical application , teachers fail all along the line when they take the attitude of having too little time to teach more than so much subject matter , when they refuse to discipline a student for disordered , slovenly expression In the haste of the daily routine it would seem that we all lose sight of the larger issues involved in such a question as that of cooperation in English . Were our aims less petty , less specialized , more largely adequate , we should see the detail in its wider significance , and , perhaps , prove ourselves educators , teachers , with one will , of human beings , where now we are mere divided instructors in subjects ? English , chemistry , history . How this cooperation is to be worked out is another question Tentative efforts are being made at Harvard , Vassar , Mt . Holyoke , Wellesley , and in high schools here and there , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Institute of Technology . English papers involving subject matter belonging to other departments and counting in both ; special English classes to which those found deficient may be detailed by any department ; a strict holding to account for the English of prepared and examination papers and a return to the English department of those markedly deficient ; inter-department meetings with a view to mutual understanding and usefulness  --  all have been tried more or less consistently in various places So much only may be said : it seems fairly certain that the idea which makes every man a master of English as well as of his own subject is not yet realized , nor is it likely to be in our present system of specialization . Under those circumstances we do not , in. advocating such a policy , doom ourselves to extinction , the English department is still the clearing house for the school or college  --  or the indispensable handmaid , if you will , Cooperation on the part of other departments is likely to consist largely in a willingness to reduce the present incubus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in holding students strictly to account for oral as well as written expression , and in reporting those found markedly deficient to the English department for discipline and drill . If this seems to place a large burden upon the-shoulders of teachers of English , it may be added , with an appeal to experience , that nine-tenths of the slipshod , desultory English now handed to teachers of other subjects , is due to carelessness : boy and girl will inevitably follow the line of least resistance if no one bids them stop , while , brought to a halt , they live up to their best The small boy quoted by a Springfield speaker was not far from wrong when he explained , apropos of has woodchuck , which had climbed a tree ? " I know they ca n't , but this one did . You see he had to . " A willing spirit of cooperation throughout all departments would , I believe , far more simply and easily than one thinks , do away with practical difficulties , and lead to more efficient English in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , December 2. a recent annual report 1901-02 , p. 96 , by Dean Briggs . " Of any two subjects , efficiently taught for the same length of time , one is about as good as another , and deserves equal recognition in a scheme of examinations . " For , clearly , when half a dozen different studies have been each purged of its characteristic essence by way of preparation for examination , then , I grant you , all being equally insipid , " one is about as good as another . " But now that one thing is about as good as another , provided only it is as ' efficiently taught for the same length of time , why should schools be put to the trouble and expense of providing a varied diet ? If all foods masticated for equal periods are equally nutritious , is not a changing , wellordered menu a sheer extravagance ? Dean Briggs argues just the other way around ; if one food is about as good as another , why should a housekeeper not keep an abundant table9 , If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should a school not provide limitless variety ? But the argument is wholly fallacious A developing civilization wants physics , philosophy , poetry . It has no way of substituting one for the other , hence , it values them alike Pedagogically , however , their value depends on entirely different considerations . It is not simply a question of how long or how thoroughly a subject has been taught The mere fact that Roman history and American history have been taught with equal vigor for equal school periods does not make it immaterial which -a particular American boy knows English literature and Egyptian hieroglyphics can not be made of equal value to a high-school boy by teaching them equally long with equal ef-ficiency The passage in Dean Briggs 's report to which Mr Flexner refers is a discussion of the old and new methods of admission to Harvard College My interpretation of it differs somewhat from Mr Flexner 's . The chief difference of training in the two methods is for those candidates who do not offer Greek under the old method , such candidates made up for Greek by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it by any subjects covering- the same total number of points in the admission scheme The old method recognized two sorts of intellectual discipline ( corresponding to two great orders of intellect ) , the linguistic or literary and the mathematical to the first it gave more weight ; but it conceded that some deficiency in the first might be balanced by an additional amount of the second Its advocates believed that modern languages and natural science , as at present taught in schools , do not provide firm training for the mind , and that the fault is not wholly in the teaching , but lies partly in the unsettled character of the subjects themselves The new method proclaims that of any two studies efficiently taught for the same length of time one is about as good as another , and deserves equal recognition in a scheme of examinations It is too early to judge whether students admitted with neither Greek nor - trigonometry and solid geometry are on the whole weaker than those admitted with either or with both ; too early to judge whether the training of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet these are among the questions that rouse in conservative minds a grave apprehension . Whether Dean Briggs says what Mr. Flexner says he says , the reader may determine L. B. R. BRIGGS . Cambridge , Hass. , December 9. of about one hundred Americans who have taken their degrees at Leipzig has been prepared , including all of the names of American scientists mentioned in " American Men of Science " and such others as could be secured from a few former Leipzig students in the vicinity of New York and New Haven . A small committee has organized itself in an informal way for the purpose of collecting suggestions and information . If the movement seems to be of interest , a more formal organization can be perfected later and the congratulatory message can be issued by a representative committee . The undersigned , acting as secretary for the preliminary informal committee , begs leave to request ( 1 ) suggestions with regard to the mode of procedure which would be most effective in presenting to Leipzig University the expression of congratulation from former American students ; ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have received their degrees at Leipzig The present list is complete for all names included in " American Men of Science " ; it is otherwise very fragmentary and should be supplemented even at the risk of duplicating names from various sources . It is requested that replies be sent at the earliest possible moment in order that the organization may be completed before January For the Committee , CHARLES H. JI.TDD . Yale Station , New Haven , Conn , December 7 . KNOWLEDGE OF MILTON IN EARLY NEW ENGLAND . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : At the recent tercentenary of John Milton , held in Boston under the auspices of the Massachusetts Historical Society , it devolved upon the writer to make some introductory remarks . Milton was essentially the poet laureate of the Puritans , and Massachusetts , conceived in Puritanism , was , par excellence , the Puritan colony of the English Commonwealth . Naturally , therefore , some indications were looked for in the early records of Massachusetts as a community , of influence exercised by Milton , and for evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writings . The " Paradise Lost " was published in 1667 ; Milton died seven years later , in 1674 . Almost exactly a century from the last date , Massachusetts emerged from its chrysalis stage , and , no longer a province , became itself a commonwealth . Addison 's famous series of Spectator papers , which contributed so largely towards familiarizing the English-speaking races with the one acknowledged classic of the Puritan period and regime , appeared in 1712 . Yet a fairly exhaustive search failed to reveal any indications whatever of early New England familiarity with Milton , or of quotations from him in the New England literature , such as it was , prior to 1750 That literature is , of course , chiefly theological , consisting largely of sermons , occasional discourses , etc. , in which , here and there , references to Milton appear . Rarely , however , are they to his poems . There is no indication in the " Magnolia " that Cotton Mather had read " Paradise Lost " , nor has any quotation from Milton 's poems , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as has yet appeared , in the numerous publications of the Mather family . There is none in Sewell 's Diary . Apparently , so far as investigation has yet disclosed , Milton 's poems were almost unknown in New England until about the middle of the eighteenth century There is no well-authenticated case of a copy of " Paradise Lost " on a Massachusetts bookshelf before that period yet brought to light . From about the year 1750 to the beginning of the nineteenth century there is abundant evidence of growing familiarity . During the greater part of the nineteenth century , as is familiar to the experience of almost every one , the " Paradise Lost " was practically a text-book . Children were compelled , as an exercise , to commit long passages of it by heart ; but during the last third of the nineteenth century this practice passed more and more into disuse . A more careful investigation is now being made , and any data , bearing upon American familiarity with Milton and his poems during the first half of the eighteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " was published on this side of the Atlantic until after 1775 . The first Massachusetts edition appeared in 1794 . Can individual copies of English editions of an earlier date be produced , the use of which in America , prior to 1750 , is matter of proof , or even gi eat probability ? CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS . 84 State Street , Beaten , December 15 . " JOHN LEE IS DEAD , THE DEAR OLD MAN . " TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Not long ago I discovered in the little churchyard at Mathern , near Chepstow ? a village not far from Bristol , and familiar to many Americans , I dare say , through its castle ruins overlooking the Wye  --  the grave of John Lee , who died there in May , 1825 , at the age of one hundred and three . On the tombstone are inscribed the following lines : John Lee is dead , the dear old man , We ne'er shall see him more . He used to wear an old drab coat , . A.11 buttoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that these lines had antedated those of Albert Gorton Greene . the author of " Old Grimes , " and that they had even suggested the poem to him ; nor was I able to get definite data in such publications as " The Library of American Literature " to prove the exact date of Greene 's composition . In Griswold 's " Poets and Poetry of America " ( 1842 ) , however , " Old Grimes " is referred to and reprinted , and it is stated that it was written by Greene in the year in which he entered Brown University . Greene ( 18021868 ) was graduated from Brown in 1820 , and I assume that he must have written J. PERRY WORDEN . Bristol , England , December 3 NEGRO LABOR IN THE SOUTH To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION . SIR In your editorial mention , December 10 , of Mr. Taft 's speech to the North Carolina Society you say . Expatriation of the negro is , as he Taft pointed out , impossible , and so is the repeal of the Fifteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breath The negro must remain , if only because the South can not do without his labor . Expatriation is difficult , but the only humane and satisfactory solution of the race question , in my judgment The repeal of the Fifteenth Amendment is not to be expected , I admit , and I never seriously discuss what I know is impossible . However , it is to the last of your three statements that I now address myself very briefly . In your eagerness to defend the negro you fail to do justice to the white people of the South You say that " the South can not do without his the negro 's labor . " Now , Mr. Editor , are you sure that you are right ? A recent estimate of the cotton crop now being marketed puts the yield at practically thirteen million bales , of which vast total Texas is set down as having produced approximately four million bales , or a little less than one-third of the entire yield Of course , I can not be exact in the statement I am about to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far off the fact when I say that of the entire crop of cotton made in Texas more than 80 per cent is planted , cultivated , and harvested by white labor I am told by colleagues from the South that in the " hill country " of Mississippi , Alabama , Georgia , Arkansas , and the Carolinas the major portion of the cotton crop is made by white labor What is here stated with reference to the cotton crop applies in an equal degree to all other Southern crops , except sugar and rice , that are of minor importance . Under these circumstances how can you say that the South " can not do without the labor of the negro ? " Millions of white men who labor in the Southern fields are prosperous and healthy , notwithstanding the contrary view of people who study our conditions at long range JAMES L. SLAYDEN House of Representatives , Washington , D. 0 . , December 14 , 1908 THE ABBOT AT FARNBOROUGH . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : - SIR . In your issue of November 26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L'Angleterre ohretienne avant les Nor-mends , " by Dora Fernand Cabral , abbot of Farnborough , England , of an exiled French community of Benedictines . Some of your readers may be under the impression that this Benedictine community was transplanted from France as a result of the recent action of the republic . It was established there before the contest broke out between the republic and the church , tate which she purchased in that neighborhood , where she still lives JAMES DOUGLAS . New York , December 4 . 