@@474348

THE business of advising social workers and philanthropists has become a recognized occupation . There are to-day regular clearinghouses of social progress . As financial clearing-houses simplify business transactions for bankers , so do these social clearing-houses relieve specialists of endless routine by collecting and collating social facts . Such bureaus prevent overlapping and the multiplication of wasteful effort , and give expert advice when difficulties arise in new social undertakings . The American Institute of Social Service is such a clearing-house for the United States . Previous to the year 1894 social institutes were non-existent . To-day there are such institutes in England , France , Belgium , Russia , Italy . Denmark , Sweden , and Germany , as well as in the United States , while steps are being taken towards their formation in Japan . China , India , and Poland . Thus in response to a distinct need are the various elements in all countries drawing together for the benefit of humanity , each association forming part of a world movement which shall bind the nations of the earth together in a union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same object ? an understanding of cause and effect in national life , social , economic , religious , and moral . For the purpose of stimulating preventive rather than remedial work , which has for so long been so ineffectual , each organization has adopted its own method of work , the one best suited to its country 's needs . The Musk Social of Paris was the first association of this character . Having for its nucleus an exhibit of social economy at the Paris Exposition of 1889 , the first time such a thing had ever been attempted , and attracting much notice because of its novelty , the Alusee Social was formed in 1894 by a small circle of Frenchmen and endowed by one of their number . To-day it is a power in France , and the fountainhead for social information in that country . It happened , as it sometimes does , that men in far-distant countries , unknown to each other , were thinking and working along the same hues . In America there were at this time two men planning just such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the well-known author of Our Country , and William IL Tolman founded what is now known as the American Institute of Social Service , of which they have been since the beginning , respectively , president and director . Although no official connection exists between them , the more recently formed institutes have been guided in their organization by the one in New York . The American Institute of Social Service is composed of forty members , one hundred associates , and one hundred collaborators , men and women identified with social work in its broadest aspect . President Roosevelt is an associate who gives hearty and much valued endorsement to the Institute 's work and aims . The collaborators , men and women in foreign countries , and many corresponding members throughout the United States , form a strong social chain of many links . Through them the institute receives periodicals , books , and reports of social progress from the four quarters of the globe . Holding a charter from the Regents of the University of the State of New York , the work of the institute is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it tends to mould public opinion , it is a conserving influence in opposition to irrational isms and elegies , and at the same time the radical force which encourages the substitution of improved for out-of-date methods . Constructive , in adapting entirely or in part work done in one locality for a certain purpose to another far distant , and needing just such a form of activity for a widely different situation . As in all enterprises which are not money-making , the financial question is a serious one and makes it necessary for the institute to charge a small fee for work done for inquirers by the staff . At the same time its resources are absolutely free to any one who will go there and do his own reference work , whether he be an American or from a foreign country . Such students are constantly doing research work in the library and supplementing it with personal investigation in New York city ? an ideal laboratory for this purpose . A lens which gathers up the rays of soeial light from all directions , the Institute is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rich and poor , capitalist and laborer , practical business man and idealist , the orthodox and the freethinker , the emancipated woman and the housewife in fact , representatives from all walks of life find the way to it sooner or later . Boys and girls look up such questions for debate as " Municipal Ownership , " " Is a Lie Ever Justifiable ? " " Are the American People Degenerating ? " " Is Immigration a National Evil or a National Benefit ? " " Should Girls Work in Factories ? " A spirited debate upon the last-mentioned subject recently took place in a New York settlement . The little girls went post-haste to the Institute , eagerly seeking facts and figures which would enable them to " smash the boys . " The latter appeared next day , more cour teous as regards their opponents , but no less bent upon annihilation . Young people are encouraged to use the Institute , for in so doing they , the men and women of to-morrow , will heed the experience of those of to-day ? will gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue , without interruption , work carried on by the present generation . College students work up graduation theses , their professors find data for lectures . Industrialists are given advice in developing the social or artistic side of factory towns and sites ; pension systems and plans for sick-benefit associations are made up for them , or perhaps suggestions are given for a luncheon room or rest room for employees . A business man will want to know if industrial betterment pays in dollars and cents ; unsound theorists must have practical ideas substituted for their proposed wildcat schemes ; a wide-awake club member will have outlined for her a course of study for her club year ; the woman suffragist will look into the rights and wrongs of her sex ; the conscientious mother will ask about child-study ; the perplexed housekeeper will want to know where she may find a remedy for the domestic - service problem . Social workers seek suggestions for organizing boys ' clubs or forming a social settlement. , the best architectural plan for a social centre in a small town , how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and others of like character . In a word , this clearing-house for social betterment is a place where may be seer humanity 's needs and the way to meet them , or , as Dr. Strong tersely puts it where " the experience of all is available for each . " With a literary department engages in classifying and cataloguing publics , - ... mmommoo ? - ? tions , a lecture department preparing illustrated reading lectures to be rented , with lantern slides , for a nominal sum or given by one of its staff lecturers , and a publication department which issues a monthly bulletin of social news , the Institute is doing a broad work ? work which supplements that of the public schools , colleges , and universities by coordinating theoretical knowledge and social forces . Although primarily for reference , the library circulates publications all over the United States and even in foreign countries . nooks and periodicals winch may be easily obtained from publishers or found in the public libraries are not lent , but reports of organizations and other pamphlets containing valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after publication , are widely circulated . Whenever possible , duplicate copies of pamphlets are obtained for distribution among those whom they will most benefit . This acomplishes two things : it gives publicity to good work and offers practical suggestions to those in need of them . Much reference work is done by correspondence , and consists in sending out , upon request , bibliographies upon concrete social questions . These lists are rarely comprehensive , because each in- ( miry is treated individually , the institute sending precisely what is wanted rather than a bewildering list of references . A most interesting phase of the work is the diversity of requests upon the same topic from widely distant parts of the country ? sometimes of the world . A man in Massachusetts may want to know the history of municipal ownership of public utilities , another in Ohio will ask for the arguments against it , another in California for arguments in favor of it , a Georgian will want both sideS , a subject of King Edward will want the situation in the United States , and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have its finger upon the world 's pulse , foreseeing tendencies long before they crystallize into definite achievements . What is now known as the socialization of the school is an instance of this kind . When the Institute was first organized , Chicago and New York had vacation schools in connection with the public schools , and , in addition , New York had her fine system of free lectures , but elsewhere no interest was manifested in making the public school the centre of social life in the community . Then , one by one , requests for advice about socializing the schools came from various cities and towns . In the meantime , foreseeing the demand for it , and recognizing it as a new and desirable movement , the Institute 's library department had collected , here , there , and everywhere , every scrap of information obtainable as to what was being done by any association which could be adapted to the use of the public school , and in this way made all possible preparation for supplying such information . To-day , through its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ever before , and it is thought by many that it will , in time , supplant the social settlement . innumerable illustrations could be given , but a few will suffice , to show the scope of the Institute 's work . During the recent war a Japanese gentleman in Tokio wished to inaugurate a movement for the establishment of a national hospital . He asked for information about hospitals in this country and in Europe , their construction and management . Reports and photographs of representative hospitals in America and abroad were collected and sent to him , giving precisely the facts he desired . Without such a centre for social advice it probably would have required a personal visit to various countries , consuming valuable time and a great amount of money , to gather the data needed by this gentleman , and at the end of his quest a doubt would have remained whether or not the best places had been visited . The juvenile court is another example of quick accomplishment through social service . More than twenty-five years ago Massachusetts had a children 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea cross the State line . To-day a majority of our large cities have children 's courts . Within the last year the movement ha spread to Great Britain and Ireland Juvenile courts have been establishec and are now in operation in Dublin Liverpool , Manchester , Birmingham , an Bradford , and in London and Leeds in modified form . Still more recently ha the Institute sent literature to Germany while in Sweden and Italy it has receive evidences of deep interest in the subject Within the past few months the tid of immigration has been diverted toward the Southern States in response to a need for labor in that section . Realizing the benefit as well as the danger which immigration brings , the people of the South are casting off their old-time conservatism as an outgrown garment . The Institute perceives this awakening through requests for aid from many sources . Among others was one asking for a study outline upon immigration from all points of view , but particularly as it rebates to the South . The organization making the study will form centres of investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best way to assimilate the foreign element soon to become part of its population . The question is sometimes asked , what has the Institute done ? what definite , tangible thing has it accomplished ? For one thing , it has created a new profession , that of the social secretary , a person employed in factories and department stores to look after the health , comfort , and happiness of the workers . In the human hives which industries have become it is no longer possible for the employer to have a personal knowledge of factory conditions or his employees , hence abuses easily creep in ? through nobody 's fault , but simply because it is nobody 's business to correct them . The social secretary is to do this , to be the point of contact between the firm and its employees . Pioneers who first took thought for the well-being of working people were rewarded as cranks , visionaries who would ; oon discover the wastefulness of spendng money in beautifying factory sur ? oundings , establishing lunch-rooms , and . therwise making life livable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racks to them , or footstools , or books to ' ead , these things were considered silly ? oddling . Experience has shown the hunanitarian employer wiser than his ? itics , for improved factory conditions re to-day found profitable for both employer and employed . Only those in touch with such work an have the faintest idea of the very - ermine interest in their working people manifested by many capitalists who have he reputation of being mere moneywers ? of the amount of money they will pcnd or the lengths to which they will VOL CRTIT. ? No. 675. - 19go to add to the pleasure and comfort of their force . The time is rapidly approaching when the sanitary , cheerful factory will be the rule instead of the exception . International expositions have long been considered valuable agencies in making the nations of the world known to one another through exhibits of resources , commerce , and industry from each of them . Since the Paris Exposition of 1889 , the first to provide for an exhibit of social economy , each succeeding exposition has enlarged the scope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The American Institute of Social Service has had notable exhibits of social conditions in the United States , at Paris in 1900 , Glasgow in 1901 , St. Louis in 1904 , and Liege in 1905 , and is now preparing one more complete than any of the others , for Milan in 1906 . Educational exhibition cabinets containing mounted photographs lettered in English and in the language of the country holding the exposition have attracted much attention and received the highest awards . Daily making reports upon social questions , giving advice as to suitable activities for different needs and how to engage in them , as well as carrying on at the same time a systematic scheme of original investigation upon its own account , the institute is far removed from theories and dry economics . Social service as interpreted there is a work of deep , absorbing interest . It can not fail to be so when the tide of life is seen in its fulness . Pessimists prate about the evil in the world , and certainly there is enough of it , but social service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an immense amount of good , of pure altruism where least expected sometimes , that it is an inspiring , compensating study . The thing most distinctly seen at the Institute , the fact which stands out with all the clearness of lightning in a murky sky , is that there is a force which is guiding our destinies , call it God , nature , what you will , ever leading onward and upward , bringing nearer the day Which shall give abundant recognition to the brotherhood of roan and the unity of life .                     