@@473838

THE celebrated nebular hypothesis of Kant and Laplace has been expounded very often , and in this article it will suffice to remind the reader that in that theory the solar system is supposed to originate from a lens-shaped nebula of highly rarefied gas rotating slowly about an axis perpendicular to the present orbits of the planets . As the gas cooled , the central portion condensed and its temperature rose . The speed of rotation increased in consequence of the contraction , according to a well-known law of mechanics ; the edges of the lenticular mass of gas then ceased to be continuous with the more central portion , and a ring of matter was detached . Further cooling led to further contraction and to increased rotation , until a second ring was shed , and so on successively . The rings then ruptured and aggregated themselves into planets , whilst the central nucleus formed the sun . Since the time of Laplace celestial photography has furnished conclusive evidence of the general truth of the nebular hypothesis , but we have also learnt , principally by means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of systems of a wholly different kind , namely , double stars , which are found in general to consist of two bodies of not very unequal masses revolving about one another in close proximity . While the nebular hypothesis may be accepted as affording a fairly satisfactory explanation in many eases , yet in others it seems altogether inappropriate . We are thus led to conjecture that there may be more ways than one in which a celestial body may start on its own individual career , and this view is confirmed by certain details of the solar system itself . The planets Mars , Jupiter , Saturn , Uranus , and Neptune have their satellites , and it would not he unnatural to classify our own moon as simply one more in a series of objects with precisely similar histories . Of course the earth is similar in that it is a planet attended by a satellite , but text-books of astronomy scarcely give suffieient emphasis to the fact that the earth and moon really do differ widely from other planets and satellites . The earth is , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whereas Saturn is 4600 times as heavy as its satellite Titan , itself by far the largest satellite in the solar system . It seems , then , that there may be reason to suspect that the mode of genesis of a satellite relatively so large as the moon may have differed materially from that of all other satellites . Such a suspicion is confirmed by the investigation of the part which tidal friction has probably played in the evolution of our planet . The present article would be expanded to undue proportion if I were to attempt to touch further on this point , but the argument would have seemed weaker than it is if it had been entirely passed ever. * Accepting , then , the substantial correctness of the nebular hypothesis , I throw out the conjecture that there is a second type of birth in which the subordinate body is horn all in one piece . It is easy to imagine a continuous gradation between these two extremes , for we may imagine a lopsided ring , and if the absence of balance were extreme , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first as being a single satellite . When , then , I say that the birth of the moon was probably unlike that of all the other bodies of our system , I mean that we shall be near the truth in classifying the origin of the planets and of the other satellites as belonging to the Laplacian type , whilst that of the moon should be regarded as more nearly resembling the second type . Accordingly , in the present article I propose to show what light is thrown on the second of these supposed types of genesis by certain recent mathematical investigations . The results which will be stated are certain and absolute , but the degree of their applicability to celestial history is necessarily a matter of speculation on which it is impossible to pronounce an unhesitating opinion . It is. however , clear that while mere general impression and conjecture as to mechanical possibilities would have but little weight , yet speculation will assume a value of an entirely different order when it is founded on absolute certainty as to the mechanical properties of a celestial body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expend a great deal of thought and labor upon the discussion of the mechanics of such a system . I here , then , take 3eave of the heavens and betake myself to concrete and simple cases of matter in motion . Let us imagine that there is in space a mass of liquid such as water ; let it be very far removed from all other bodies , and let it be rotating , all in one piece , as though it were frozen . The problem to be considered is the determination of the shape it will assume under the influence of its own gravitation and of rotation . We have further to discover whether any shape which it may be capable of assuming is stable . It is said to be stable if it trembles like a jelly after disturbance but still maintains the original form . It is unstable if , after disturbance , it completely changes its shape and assumes some wholly different one . If a certain shape of rotating liquid were found to be possible , it could not be regarded as typifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also a shape which could continue to subsist when subjected to any small disturbance . The problem , then , is to determine the stable forms of rotating liquid ; but it will appear below that this can not be done without reference to other unstable forms . In fact , the problem needs systematic solution , and it will not sufficeto pick out for discussion one small portion of the whole . It may seem rather illogical to say that the simplest case of rotating liquid is when the liquid is at rest ; but such a statement would be correct , for we may imagine the liquid to rotate slower and slower and finally to stop , and there will be no violent contrast between the case of very slow rotation and none at all . We begin , then , with liquid at rest . The mutual gravitation of the water is the only force which acts on the system . The water will obviously crowd together into the smallest possible space , so that every particle may get as near the centre as its neighbors will let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that the central portion , although under pressure , does not become more dense . Since there is no upward or downward or right or left about the system , it must he symmetrical in every direction , and the only figure which possesses this property of universal symmetry is the sphere . Further , if the sphere were slightly deformed and then released from constraint it would oscillate to and fro , so that on the average the figure would remain spherical . After a time the friction of the liquid would of course annul the oscillations . A sphere is , then , said to be a stable figure of equilibrium of a mass of liquid at rest . Before going further it will be well to explain that the size and density of the liquid celestial bodies under consideration are immaterial , for the theory of the forms assumed is unaffected by these eonsiderations . Now if the sphere of liquid be made to rotate it will become slightly flattened like an orange , or like the earth itself . This flattening takes place because the rotation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is restrained by gravity . Such a planetary figure is stable , and , in fact , it typifies the figures of actual planets . If we quicken the rotation of the planetary figure , the degree of the flattening increases , and the stability continues to subsist for a time , but the tendency to spring back to the primitive figure after disturbance is weakened . At length we come to such a degree of flattening that all the spring is gone , and the slightest disturbance will become greater and greater , so that the figure will break up in some way which can not be determined . Fig. 1 shows the outline of the planetary figure when it has reached the critical stage and has just become unstable . From the sphere to this critical planetary figure our course is clear and we have found the stable forms , but we have now to consider the further stages of development . The reader will have noticed that the figures occur in a continuous series , and gradually undergo a change as the rotation increases . Now Poinear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a principle of very wide generality , of which the application to the particular instance in hand is as follows : if a series of figures be followed , and if it is found that at a certain stage of development there is a change from stability to instability , then we have notice that there is another sort of figure coalescent with the first sort at the particular moment of change . He also proved a still more important point , namely , that in general the stability which deserts the first series of figures passes on into the new series . The meaning of the term " coalescent " in this statement may perhaps be somewhat difficult of apprehension , and it seems advisable to explain it more exactly . The ellipses drawn along the horizontal line in Fig. 2 form a series . The middle one of these figures as we go from left to right is the one where the ellipses cease to be flattened vertically and begin to be flattened horizontally . It is , in fact , a circle , although it occurs in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn one above another . I have thought it sufficient to draw only three of them , as that number suffices to indicate that they belong to a series which shrinks in Size as we go downwards . The middle circle of this series is identical with the circle which belongs to the series of ellipses , and the two series of figures , which are essentially independent of one another , nevertheless coalesce at the middle circle . This illustration has nothing to do with our problem , except as affording an explanation of the meaning of coalescence . Let us now return to the consideration of the rotating liquid : When the stability deserts the planetary figure the new sort of figure is found by elongating one of the equatorial diameters of the planet and shortening that at right angles to it . Thus the section of the equator is no longer a circle , but is an ellipse . The new figure is an ellipsoid with three unequal axes , but in its initial condition when it is coalescent with the planetary figure the two equatorial axes differ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this new figure are coalescent at this stage . According to Poincare 's principle of " exchange of stabilities , " the stability which has deserted the planetary figure has passed over to the new set of figures , which have three unequal axes . It is remarkable that the speed of rotation in this new set of figures is less than it was , so that in order to follow the stable series of figures for varied rotation it is necessary to increase the rate of spinning up to the stage when the planetary figure becomes unstable , and then to diminish it . Now let us follow the stable ellipsoidal figures . As we gradually slacken the speed of rotation the former equator of the planetary figure becomes more and more flattened along one diameter and elongated along another at right angles to it , so that the shape becomes like that of an egg ( but with both ends alike ) , and it rotates about an axis through the shortest diameter of the egg . Speaking more exactly , the circumference of the egg must not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its girth which coincides with the axis of rotation is a little shorter than the other . We might also describe the figure as resembling a short and fat cigar , with rounded ends , in rotation about a pin which transfixes it through the middle . As we spin the body yet slower , the egg or cigar gets longer and thinner , and it continues to be stable . But Poincare showed that the stability will cease when the elongation has proceeded to an extent which he left undetermined . It appears from my own recent investigations that when the stability ceases the length of the cigar or egg is about three times its breadth . This is illustrated by the dotted lines in Fig. 3 ; the lower figure shows the section of the egg passing through the axis of rotation , and the upper one that at right angles to the axis . Poincares principle now again becomes applicable , and we know that there must here occur a new series of figures coalescent with the egglike forms . His conjectural sketch of the new figure resembled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown by the firm lines in Fig. 3 , the resemblance to a pear is not very great , it is convenient to call it the pear shape . In describing the figure as pear-shaped I mean that one end of the egglikc form from which it emanates has become a little more pointed , and the other end has become blunted ; also , the figure is slightly depressed on the stalk side of the middle , and slightly swollen on the other side . It might be supposed that we could at once assert that " exchange of stability " has taken place and that these pear-shaped figures are stable . But there are certain cases in which further consideration is needed to discover whether or not this occurs , and the present is an instance of these dubious cases . It was indeed prodigiously laborious to carry out the task , but at length I succeeded in proving the pear shape to he stable . It will probably seem to some persons an extraordinary waste of time that a man should be willing to spend two years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible form of an ideal mass of liquid rotating in space . The field of research is apparently narrow and the labor was great , yet it may be maintained that it is only in seine such way as this that we shall ever beable to understand the processes of celestial evolution . We now know that stability is shunted off into the pear series after leaving the cigar or egg series . As the rotation slackens still further , the stalk of the pear tends to become more prolonged , whilst the changes elsewhere are inconspicuous . No one has as yet succeeded in tracing the developments of these figures further , and the incidence of a new epoch of instability is therefore unknown . There is , however , strong reason to suppose that a piece of the stalk will finally detach itself and will form a satellite . This will become more intelligible when I speak of another investigation , but the chain of reasoning has been somewhat long , and it has involved conceptions which must be unfamiliar to most readers ; I therefore think it well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure does not in any sense represent the planetary , ellipsoidal , and pear-shaped figures themselves , and is not drawn to any definite scale , but is intended merely to show the sequence of ideas . We began with a sphere of liquid at rest and then caused it to rotate , gradually increasing the speed of spinning . This is illustrated by the horizontal line from left to right . The form of the liquid mass is planetary , with gradually increasing oblateness . At the point marked with the name of Jacobi stability just ceases , and the dotted continuation of the straight line indicates that the flatter planetary bodies are unstable . The mathematician Jacobi discovered this point of coalescence , although he certainly did not investigate the stability of the coalescent series . From this point the line of stability is drawn backwards so as to indicate that we are to retard the rotation instead of further accelerating it . We now pursue the stable egglike series of Jacobi to a new junction of vanishing stability . This I have marked with the name of Poincare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the far greater merit of indicating that such a junction must exist and of pointing out its nature , I was the first to reduce his ideas to numbers . From this point the more elongated Jacobian figures become unstable , as indicated by the dotted line , whilst the stability is shunted off into the series of pear-shaped figures . The next point of junction is as yet undetermined , but there is good reason to suppose that the pear-shaped body separates into two , and that the smaller will revolve round the larger as a satellite . I now turn to another investigation bearing on this subject . It occurred to Mr. Jeans , a young Cambridge mathematician , that the solution of a relatively simple problem would throw much light on the later transformations of the pear-shaped figures . His problem involves conditions which are much more ideal than those of the comparatively realistic problem which we have been considering , but when I have explained his problem I think it will be admitted that his expectations have been fully realized . An absolutely infinite cylinder of water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if its section were circular , and if it were very remote from all other bodies throughout its whole length . Such an infinite cylindrical column is stable as regards the circularity of its section , so that if throughout its whole length it were deformed in any and the same way it would perform oscillations about the circular shape . But it is not stable as to the straightness of its axis , and throughout the changes which we are going to follow I suppose that there is some supernatural being who restrains the tendency of the column to bend , and thus maintains the form as perfectly columnar . The infinite straight circular cylinder of water is analogous to the perfect sphere of water , and both are stable in shape , the first as to the circularity of its section , the second as to the sphericity of its form . Mr. Jeans now imagines the infinite cylinder to be set in rotation about its infinitely long axis , and he finds that so long as the rotation is less rapid than a certain speed the circularity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stable rotating cylinders are strictly analogous with the planetary rotating bodies we were considering previously . When the rotation has increased to a certain amount the stability ceases , and he finds a new series of cylinders which are elliptic in section . At first the ellipticity ur flattening is infinitely small , so that at the stage where the stability ceases the circular and elliptic cylinders are coalescent . These elliptic cylinders are stable , and are perfectly analogous with the egg - shaped figures of Jacobi . To pursue these figures , we must cause the speed of rotation to slacken , just as we did before , and we then find the ellipticity of section of the infinite cylinder increasing , exactly as the figures of Jacobi became more elongated as the speed of rotation diminished . When the ro- tation has been diminished to a certain extent , the stability is found to cease , and Mr. Jeans determines the new series of cylinders coalescent with the elliptical cylinder to be pear-shaped in section . He was also able to prove with comparative ease that the cylinders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he began to reap the advantage of the comparative simplicity of conditions , for he was able to follow the deformation of the pear - shaped section until it became strongly marked , and he showed that the stability is maintained throughout . The Figures 5 show the sections traced by Mr. Jeans of the cylinders ; the lower of the two corresponds to a more advanced stage of development , and is drawn with slightly less accuracy than the upper one . It w as not found possible to pursue the changes to a yet further stage , but the analysis clearly pointed to the separation of a satellite cylinder revolving round the parent or planetary cylinder . The mass of the satellite is as yet undetermined , but it is certainly somewhat small relatively to its parent . The perfect analogy which subsists between this very ideal problem and the more realistic one considered previously is such as to justify us in feeling practically certain that our conjecture as to the development of the pear-shaped figure of Poincare is correct . These results , then , clearly indicate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unequal sizes . This result is brought about by a gradual change in the rotation , the rate of spinning augmenting up to a certain stage and then diminishing . This conclusion is wholly independent of the scale on which the - figure is drawn and of the density of the fluid . With the view of applying these ideas to the origin of satellites we have to consider what physical cause there may be which could produce a gradual change in the rate of spinning in the way postulated . The answer is that the cooling of a heated mass of liquid would have this effect ? just as in Laplace 's theory the contraction through cooling would cause an acceleration of the rate of spinning when the body has the orange shape of a planet . When we reach the ellipsoidal figures , however , we have to postulate that contraction shall have exactly the opposite effect and make the body spin slower . This sounds at first like blowing hot and cold , and it will naturally raise a doubt as to the possibility of the effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct , for the amount of rotation in a body is made up of two factors , namely , the rate of its spinning and another factor depending on the distribution of the mass with reference to the axis of rotation . Now the amount of rotation will increase even with a diminished rate of spin , provided the mass is placed at a greater distance from the axis . The real effect of contraction in cooling is to increase the amount of rotation in this new sense . In the case of the planetary body the amount of rotation increases because both factors increase , but for the ellipsoidal and pear - shaped bodies it increases because the second factor increases very rapidly while the first diminishes slowly . It seemed necessary to refer to this rather recondite point , and those readers who do not follow the argument must be asked to believe that cooling and contraction are competent to produce the required acceleration of spinning at first and the subsequent retardation . In this discussion we have only considered a liquid of uniform density , but all celestial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the central portions . The parallel discussion of the changes of a body with central condensation and density diminishing towards the outside as yet transcends the powers of the mathematician . How far the conclusions would be changed must at present remain uncertain , but I can not help seeing in our results the counterpart of one form of the birth of a satellite . In looking at these figures one can hardly fail to be reminded of the protrusion of a filament of protoplasm by a living body , and we might regard this kind of process as a crisis in the life of a planet and the beginning of the life of its infant daughter .                     