@@430103

 | WE are told many times that the great achievement of the present moment in the application of science and of strial arts to the processes of actual g . Each month the popular as well the technical magazines call public tion to the radical inventions and elopments in sanitation , in engineering manufacturing due to the incorporaof the results of scientific research technical methods . If we ask a ufacturer why the American product is line stands so high in the commerworld , he will at once tell us that it due to the American ingenuity and ness to use the latest inventions and estions. t is , however , worthy of comment in all this widespread writing and otic boasting , reference is seldom e to the advance in the administraof the household nor to the readiness the American housekeeper to avail If of the wonderful inventions going - ard in applied science , and this , in e of the fact that an increasing numof American housekeepers are college en , and have had the advantages of ing in courses of science and ecoics . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be possible to throw light upon by comparing the position of these en to that held by men years ago n the inventions of the industrial olution first invaded manufacturing esses . SELFISH OPPOSITION TO MODERN METHODS IN THE HOME We realize vaguely that all great industrial changes have come about in spite of vigorous opposition , sometimes on the part of the workmen who were displaced by the newly invented machinery , sometimes by those whose capital was invested in the old regime , and always by thousands of people found in every class who clung to tradition and precedent , because they were firmly convinced that the moral life of the nation was so enwrapped in old customs as to be endangered by any radical change . In looking back over this opposition we see that the two former classes who considered their personal interest before the public good illustrate once more the dictum that selfishness is always the chief obstacle to progress , not indeed conscious selfishness , but that absorption in personal affairs which entails an inability to distinguish relative values or to see the difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these first objectors unconscious of wrong-doing , which is true of almost all selfish people , but many times they claim great credit for their conduct on the ground that only by this opposition can they support their families or protect the helpless . The defense of the hand weavers who smashed the steam power machinery first brought into the English textile mills , was based upon the indisputable fact that it took the bread from the mouths of their wives and children , and is curiously like  | the arguement of the street car company resisting a loss of franchise used upon a change of motive power , on the ground of protecting the investments of widows and orphans , or the argument of those who lose by the larger organizations of capital into combinations and trusts , and who cite the sad plight of the displaced man and make no mention of the advantage accruing to the general consumer . WORSHIPERS OF TRADITION But more dangerous and subtle still is the defense of the larger class of people who block progress with a right good will and who firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is full of examples , from the good churchman who broke the spirit of Galileo , to the farmers who believed the railroads for the carrying off of their crops to be an invention of the devil . When we get a combination of these two kinds of motives , the subconscious inertia and selfishness holding to the old , combined with a veritable conviction that the proposed changes are fraught with moral danger , we encounter something wellnigh impregnable . There is doubtless some evidence that it is only because these two trends of historic opposition have become curiously combined in the minds of contemporary housekeepers , that the household has so firmly withstood the beneficent changes and healing innovations which applied science and economics would long ago have brought about , could they have worked naturally and " unimpeded . Curiously enough the opposition to changes and readjustment is made in the name of the sanctity and traditions of the home , whereas a genuine understanding of the historic development of the home and its ancient origin would at once bring " vaster and more courageous counsels . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretches back to the most primitive cave ; that it has not only survived but developed through a thousand changes ; that it is so necessary a part of human and growth that it is able to sur vive a thousand changes more , and that but one thing can endanger the life of living and vigorous organism , and that it is lack of the power of adaptation to its environment , to the changing demands made upon it . The women who are too timid to adjust the honk to newer conditions and discoveries , who insist that it must survive by dint of isolation and of holding to past ideals , are really those of little faith . They are the skeptics concerning the sacredness of the home , although they parade as its defenders . That the past has inhibitive power only over those in whom moral growth has ceased , is as true of those who contend that the morality of family life must follow only the old lines , as of other timid moralists . On the other hand , that small body of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial conditions and the social ideals that prevail to-day in the larger world outside the home , who believe that the home can not escape a social test and must embody more than personal relationships to a given center , are really the women who are saving the home and are exhibiting faith in its future . THREE LINES OF ADJUSTMENT Without this opposition on the part of the larger number of housekeepers to industrial changes , there is little doubt that household adjustment would proceed along three lines ; in fact , that it is now so proceeding , but with great difficulty and vexation of spirit owing to the lack of conscious co-operation on the part of intelligent housekeepers . The three lines of adjustment easily discernible are : First , the preparation of constantly more food materials in factories and the organization of outside labor for work formerly performed by domestic employees . Second , contemporaneous with thy :  | though gradual change from prito public industry in the work of ring food , is the reaction toward tralization and the making of at smaller personal effects and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' rd , the attempt on the part of tic employees themselves to force issue , first by staying away , and ly by demanding shorter hours constantly more free time . en we consider the first line , it is once obvious that it embodies the 1 result of the centralization of try into factories and the subion of labor , but that these changes taking place without much contious or even conscious help from women who are at the heads of houses . The enterprises are being largely ed by business men with a purely Iercial motive , and consist in the ration of foods and food materials factories and in the organization of dries , window-cleaning companies , s for housecleaning by compressed and many other contrivances . As nces we need only to recall the lists breakfast foods , many of which may served without cooking , the preed soups and meats , the canned s and vegetables , the infinite variety biscuits and health foods which - day make it easier to provide at a nutritious meal without the aid a cook . To go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery of most complicated tion , a single garment may be put gh a score of washing and ironing esses before it is finally mended folded by a neat woman in cap and The carpet cleaner , the clean supply and other similar commerenterprises are all succeeding belase they are supplying genuine needs . Thev are , however . succeeding on the commercial basis and almost all of them idly need standardizing by that class of consumers who embody the best traditions of cleanliness and comfort . The heating of towns from a general heating plant is daily becoming more popular , and it seems only a question of time until it shall become as general as the central electric lighting plant . All these enterprises take more labor out of the household and free the time of the housekeeper , with little effort on her part . She herself seems to have often failed in this realm of business enterprise when she has entered into it , and with her meager business training that was perhaps to be expected , but it is to be regretted that as she grudgingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so little toward insisting upon a standard in savor and nutritive value , or even of cleanliness of preparation . In other words , she has not as yet been an intelligent consumer , although an active critic of those articles which she herself ' formerly prepared . COLLECTIVE HOUSEKEEPING The lack of intelligent consumption and the consequent variety of demand has had-Much to do with the failure of various attempts to adjust housekeeping on collective lines . A club of women in an Iowa town where it seemed impossible to procure domestic employees , at one time undertook the beginning of collective housekeeping , conducting the experiment upon the usual business basis that they might not be confused with the difficulties of learning to co-operate , at the same moment when they were modifying their household arrangements . It was discovered that out of the group of forty club women , twenty-six patronized the same butcher . After many meetings and much discussion - twenty of these patrons finally agreed to buy from their butcher stock for mutton broth every Monday , beef stock on every Tuesday , beef already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a Sunday dinner , quite as they already bought from him  | fish on Friday , boiled ham , dried beef . and other " prepared meats " at other times . This plan would take the preparation of meats out of the house itself , and the butcher with the , help of his capable German wife declared himself quite as willing to provide soup stock as to provide soup bones , " provided that enough ladies wanted to buy it , to make it worth while . " Two sisters were found in the town who earned a precarious living by selling homemade bread and rolls . It was proposed by these twenty club women that if the butcher plan succeeded they would next give their patronage en bloc to the bread women , reserving as in the case of the butcher the right to set the standard , in return for eliminating the element of risk from the business . On the same basis these club women hoped in time to standardize the town laundry , and further contemplated engaging the three or four rather inefficient charwomen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and giving them regular employment , so that each of the twenty houses might have at least one thorough cleaning each week . It was argued that with the preparation of meats and breads outside the house , that with efficient laundry work and heavy cleaning done , coupled with the fact that courses of domestic science had been introduced into the public schools which would presumably interest their little daughters in many of the minor duties of household service , she would indeed be a " shiftless " club woman who could not manage her household very comfortably without the aid of a domestic . And yet this perfectly reasonable plan fell through in the butcher stage of the experiment , although it implied the minimum of co-operation , for each woman would of course settle her own bills with the butcher , baker and charwoman without any more consultation with her neighbors than the present system implies , and agreed to purchase no definite amount but only to bestow her entire patronage so long as t products were entirely satisfactory the group . The women simply dropr off , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other perfectly irrational a incoherent reasons for discontinui the experiment . If any one of 1 twenty women had gotten up in the cl and had given reasons as incoherent that for " The decline of the Rom empire , " for " The moral value George Eliot 's novels , " or any otl club topic , she would have been cc sidered quite disgraced and ill prepare The experiment of course really fail because there was no common stands of food values among the women . ' I woman who gave up because she c " not care for mutton broth every Mc clay " probably gave her family no so at all on Monday , because " it is tedious to prepare , and the fire must . kept up , whether you want to go c or not . " To quote from a report issued fr ( the school of housekeeping in IF by a fellow from the Boston branch the Association of Collegiate Aldmn ; " When standards of food ' have be recognized by many persons , when 1 individual family is willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of food rests certain fundamental principles , it N be possible for co-operative experiment in the purchase and preparation of fc to succeed as they can not without cc non agreement and standards . " A THOROUGH STUDY Of ' FOOD NECESSARY To attain this , however , means a 1 ( road of educational training upon wl : even the club women are only enter They have as yet done little tow careful research or vigorous reconsti tion of this situation which so vc their individual souls . Another pi prepared from the school of ho ' keeping in Boston upon Standards Living as Reflected in Woman 's C comes to the conclusion that the  | 3ndards are largely social and intel:tual and seldom include any conious recognition of standards of living ; at the popular demand seems to be r food served in an attractive and datable manner without regard to its ttritive value . The paper expresses hope , however , that as many club nnen have interested themselves in the nitary measures of their towns , this ay in time lead to an interest in home onomics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life constantly presents lack of logic , this would seem a very direct method , although one remembers at college women have taken almost - ery other subject for their theses and aye studied science in many fields fore considering its application to ausehold affairs T that it is only during ie last decade that the universities are ' fering -well-considered courses along pis line , and that only the latest exhibit c the women 's collegiate association has do , with household matters . It will d:e much co-operative study and expernent before even educated women set aart a definite amount of the family ' come for food , considering its value in elation to the age , physical condition and ccupation of the members of the houseold . Yet all this is implied before the ousekeeper may be said to be living in ccord with the industrial production of se times . THE ARTS AND CRAFTS MOTIVE It is possible . that the second line of djustment , which was loosely designated s the arts and crafts motive , may afford elp before conscious study does , the ) rmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ld tradition of " beautifying the home . " 41t even this impulse , although it grows apidly , is almost sub-conscious in its ffect upon the household problem . The riter recalls a town in central Illinois i which four families living in attractive ouses on the most attractive residence treet , have for months taken their meals at a boarding house situated in the same block . These houses in common with many others were heated from a public steam plant and also furnished with electric light . The laundry work of the four families was " sent out , " the cleaning done by the weekly visits of a former domestic , so that the time of the women was absolutely free after an hour 's housework in the morning . The writer was able to know something of the personal tastes and occupations of the women in two of the families . One family consisted of a man and his wife in the prime of life , and a grown-up daughter ; the other , a man afflicted with rheumatism , a wife showing traces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of twelve . All of the young ladies had been carefully educated , and one of them after her graduation from a good boarding school in a neighboring city had had two years in an art institute , where she had learned to paint extremely well . Her sister showed some skill as a wood carver . These girls were interested in many things ? literature , philanthropy , music , golf , college athletics , an arts and crafts exhibit which was being planned in the town , and were able intelligently to discuss all of them with the passing visitor ; but any talk concerning food values , a remote suggestion that a carefully selected diet might be better for a rheumatic patient than the somewhat hitor-miss menu of the boarding house table , where the southern training of the cook struggled with the New England traditions of the landlady , were met with a silence so , absolute that the visitor felt that she had been guilty of an impertinence . Yet there was no reason why these girls of cultivated minds ? and many interests could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper foundation had been laid for any such interest . The three young ladies discussed an art exhibit in the visitor 's hearing , laying the artistic productions upon the disused dining room table . A suggestion that the same art and craft  | interest might be extended to the preparation of charming and successful breakfasts for the family , that it would be interesting to discuss the length of time and amount of skill embodied in a meal , that the little electric stoves were " great fun , " was finally received with ' favor because of an incidental reference to the training table at college . The athletic suggestion formed the basis for a long conversation upon the simple kindergarten principle " of proceeding from the known to the unknown . " Afterward one of the college women remarked : " Perhaps the little girls who are growing up now will care for that sort of thing . I do n't believe we ever can . " And vet in spite of this youthful dogmatism every town in America contains a growing number of women who find great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ textiles , in metals , in pottery , in furniture , which offer activity for muscle and brain and can be carried on without interfering with their family life , and which in time will modify the more strenuous line of household duties . These women who are reviving handicrafts on the broadest educational and artistic lines gladly avail themselves of labor-saving devices in the drudgery of housekeeping , and would be the first to assent to the fine formulation made by Miss Caroline Hunt that : " Work which meets universal needs or any work that is liable to lapse into drudgery is best done by machinery on a large scale , and with all possible labor-saving devices ; work which meets special needs and which man loves to do , is best clone by hand and on a small scale . " In the general impulse toward a more normal life which shall include a certain amount of genuine physical labor , may we not hope that that residuum of labor which must always remain to be done in the household , shall in time gather to itself the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always gives ? THE SERVANTS OF To-DAY In connection with the third line of adjustment , which might with propriety be called the line of mal-adjustment , a review of the history of domestic service in a fairly prosperous American family begins with the colonial period , when the daughters of the neighboring farmers came in to " help " ( luring the busy season . This was followed by the Irish immigrant , when almost every kitchen had its Nora or Bridget , while thy mistress of the household retained the sweeping and dusting and the Saturday baking . Then came the halcyon days of German " second girls " and cooks , followed by the Swedes , , the successive waves of immigration supplying ' the demand for domestic service , and gradually obliterating the fact that as the women became more familiar with American cus- ? toms they , as well as their men folk , entered into more skilled and lucrative positions . In these last years immigration is heaviest from south Italy , and later consists in ever increasing numbers of Russian , Polish and Roumanian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entered into domestic service . The Italian girls are married between the4ages of fifteen and eighteen , and to live in any house in town other than that of her father , seems to any Italian girl quite incomprehensible . The strength of the family tie , the need for " kosher " foods , the celebration of religious festivities , the readiness with which she takes up the sewing trades in which her father and brother are already largely engaged , makes domestic service a rare occupation for the daughters of the recent Jewish immigrants . Moreover , these two classes of immigrants have been quickly absorbed , as indeed all working people are , by the increasing demand for the labor of young girls and children in factory and workshops . The paucity of the material for domestic service is therefore revealed at last and manifests itself in two direc-  | tions - " unreasonable demands " on the part of those who remain , and the negative result of the lack of supply . The issue is chiefly made clear by the " non-resistant " method , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " non-appearance " method . Perhaps it is the prevalence of this method which accounts for the exasperation to be detected in the situation . The well-known Swedish formula , " I think I leave to-day , " is quite as inexplicable as it is final , and its very simplicity makes it hard to bear . HOUSEMAIDS STRUGGLE FOR EMANCIPATION At the last Lake Placid conference it was contended that future historical review may show that the girls who are to-dav in domestic service are the really progressive women of the age , who are blindly fighting against conditions which limit their freedom . They are demanding avenues of self-expression outside their work , and that this struggle from conditions detrimental to their highest life is the ever recurring story of the emancipation of first one class and then another . It was further contended that in this effort to become sufficiently educated and able to understand the needs of an educated employer from an independent standpoint , they are really doing- the community a great service , and did they but receive co-operation instead of opposition , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and attract a more intelligent Mass of women . And yet this effort , perfectly reasonable from the standpoint of historic development and democratic tradition , receives little help from the employing housekeeper , and there is no 7 , : , o11 for doubt that the mass of them would be content with the old regime if it only ran smoothly . They not only fail make conscious effort to readjust their household affairs , brit they complain bitterlv when they are overwhelmed by the increasing difficulties experienced in pro-tiring and retaining domestic employees . The underlying causes of the difficulty remain a mystery to most of them , although some light could be thrown upon it by a persual of the immigration bureau report . That the issue has not yet been forced is due to the fact that in her direst extremity the housekeeper has found it possible to shelter her timidity and ineffectiveness by two resorts which the very situation itself affords . HOUSEWORK 'S LACK OF PUBLICITY The first is lack of publicity , for we must not forget that in spite of its obnoxious features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher morality and standard of efficiency . It would he indeed a very disloyal child or meanspirited husband who would relate to the cold world that the had had " lumpy oatmeal " or " beastly coffee " for breakfast , or indeed mention it to the housekeeper herself , when it is plain to see that she is doing her best and is full of affectionate distress and solicitude . But her daughter who goes from the breakfast table to her high school is found out by forty of her companions whose opinions she highly values , if her problem in algebra comes out inaccurately , and she gets little credit that it is " almost right , " or that she meant well and loved her teacher . The husband who goes to business is pretty well " sized up " by the other business men of the street and has the constant tonic of public opinion . The housekeeper at home may have compunctions concerning the oatmeal and may resolve to have it better , but it depends largely upon her individual strength of will whether the resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ STANDARD FOR THE MAID The second refuge which the housekeeper seeks from the necessity of vigorous effort and change , is along the line of personal devotion ; she strives to make up to her family by kindness and indulgence her lack of efficiency and failure as a housekeeper , and many times panders to their personal tastes rather than ministers . to their reasonable needs ?  | a situation that Mrs Stetson has so vividly portrayed in her Women and Economics . Both of these positions react upon the domestic employee , who naturally lacks the stimulus which family affection gives to the employer , and has no definite standard of work and reasonable requirements to take its place . A good domestic is many times described solely from the family standpoint , in terms of loyalty and devotion . It is part of the regrettable tendency to judge the family by its successful isolation from the larger interests of the community , and quite as this tendency is responsible for the preparation of food along the line of family tradition rather than the line @# of adaptation to occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-indulgence for that of efficient living . The problems of food and shelter must in every age be considered in relation to ' ' all other mechanical and industrial life , quite as the family morality . and intel- , lectual life must finally depend for its vitality upon its relation to the spiritual and intellectual resources of the rest of the community . Fullness of life can be secured for the family as for the individual only when it embodies a demand for , like opportunity for all other individuals , ' even including those engaged in its service , and brings us back at last to the ever-recurring problems of democracy .                     