@@485466

President Roosevelt has screwed down the coffin of third-term hopes . By renewing with emphasis his statement of 1904 , he has made it impossible for any man hereafter to talk about nominating him without insulting him . There will still be mutterings , of course , from exposed prophets and disappointed sycophants , but the thing is settled The political field is cleared . For the first time in twelve years , a Republican National Convention will inset not simply to register a foregone conclusion This will at once lead to a great quickening of interest in the contest . The friends of various candidates will redouble their activity General talk about availability will have to give way to actual demonstration of strength  --  strength both in popular sentiment and in ability to command practical support . This is the main reason why , in our judgment , the movement in favor of Gov . Hughes should immediately be given a new aspect Thus far , it has been passive ; taking note of the deep impression which he has made upon all parts of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in making him second choice ; waiting for the heavy hand of the President to be removed . But now it is time that active work were done by those well-wishers of the Republican party and of the nation who desire to see Mr. Hughes made the candidate for the Presidency . On the barest grounds of political expediency his title might be urged . The Republicans are , in any case , going to have a hard row to hoe next year . They will have to encounter the argument of hard times This is always formidable against the party in power ; it will be doubly hard for the Republicans , after their record and their boasts , to overcome . Any one can see by the way in which Bryan 's spirits are rising that he expects to harp next year upon the Republican panic and the Republican depression . Now , the only way to meet such tactics is , not to put forward a rival in harum-scarum shouting , but a man who has shown himself strong and cool and steady , and in whom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and timorous about the future , can be induced to repose their confidence Gov . Hughes seems , in fact , as if cut out by nature to be an after-panic nominee . He is progressive , but sure-footed . It is his illustration of slow-going but constructive reform , as against the hurricane variety , which has made people all over the land look to him as the type of mind and the style of executive which times of upheaval and uncertainty demand . It is clear and firm administration , with few but well-considered measures of new legislation , that Gov . Hughes has stood for ; and only a pro gramme along those lines can have any hope of winning against Bryan next year Lord Cromer , in a recent speech , told a story to exemplify the two types of statesmanship : A conjurer exhibited in London some few years ago He invited one of the audience to lend him his hat . He then , to all appearances , cut it into small pieces , and eventually , of course , gave it back to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do the same . A Young officer of the army stepped on to the platform and said he would like to try . He borrowed a hat from a confiding old gentleman , and cut it into small pieces . Then he stepped down from the stage with the remark " I can only do the cutting up part . I leave the rest to the professional conjurer " The owner of the hat was not altogether satisfied We have had too many public men in recent years who could only do " the cutting up part . " The fragments , which prove their skill , lie all about . A man who can keep things whole is now pretty generally desiderated ; and no one in sight fills the bill better than Gov Hughes He himself , we make no manner of doubt , will refuse to be an active candidate . Sticking to his job , he will give himself wholly to the work of the office which he now holds . But as that originally gave him strength with the people , it will now only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his behalf , and the eyes of all Republicans will be turned to New York . The delegation of this State is likely to be for Hughes , and , with the strong prepossession in his favor in Pennsylvania , in Illinois , and in Indiana , there is good hope that the Empire State will again be able to give to the nation a great servant . THE IRREPRESSIBLE TARIFF . Already it is evident that those who think the tariff question can be put away in camphor until after the next Presidential election , are living in a fool 's paradise The thing will down at no man 's bidding . It is not only tariff-reformers who insist upon keeping up the discussion . Tariff-bigots do the same thing . Last week in the Senate , resolutions were introduced by Senator Gallinger which were , in effect , an attack upon the Administration for having temporarily composed our tariff differences with Germany . It was clone by mutual concessions . The German Government agreed not to apply its maximum duties to our exports , and in return we agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the valuations of German invoices . But did anybody suppose that the Protective Tariff League would let such a reasonable adjustment pass without shrill protests ? Foreign goods have been let into the sacred preserves ; and so we see the President and Secretary of State denounced as traitors to the protectionist cause , and Senator Gallinger is put . forward to make the fight for the whole-hog tariff The spirit of the high protectionists is like that of the champion &; of slavery , who , just before it was about to fall forever , asserted with noble rage that it must not be attacked in any particular . If the tariff beneficiaries and the protectionist fanatics will not let the question sleep , certainly reformers can not fail to press home the truth at every opportunity . Never was the chance finer to strike against tariff injustice . By accident , the protectionists have been able to enlist on their side the superstition that a high tariff means prosperity But now , by accident , that political argument , fallacious but effective , has been taken away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its highest . Manufactures are crippled , men are being thrown out of work or having their wages cut down , with protection powerless to prevent it . The popular delusion-on that subject should now be shattered irreparably ; and the country should be ready to hear the truth with a more ? unbiassed mind . Moreover , every door that a protectionist President would open by a crack , simply demands to be flung wide . Mr. Roosevelt came out for the removal of all duties on every forest-product . He would not only make white paper , but lumber , cheaper ; and this on the incidental ground of the threatened exhaustion of our home supply . In forest products , however , we are not approaching an absolute limit , since we have millions of acres adapted to the growth of such products , and the science of forestry is rapidly advancing . But with coal and iron the case is different . Nature is not making new beds of coal to bake the place of those which we are sa rapidly using up . The same may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no word from the President urging the removal of tariff duties from the supplies from other countries . If the pulp of the newspaper could be made of coal , possibly he would have remembered the tariff on coal . In his implied recommendation that the tariff on art be abolished , the President made another halting concession , where every consideration of logic and good sense should have carried him further . The tariff on books , scientific instruments , and other such aids to the progress of civilization is even more barbarous than the tariff on art . No one is better aware than the President of the absurdity and the positive injury of such duties , nor will his reasons for delay until after the Presidential election apply to them . A pungent article in the Portland Oregonian , which has been a stout defender of Mr. Roosevelt , though it is for tariff revision , shows how topic after topic in the Presidents message really led him up to the iniquities of the tariff , though he refrained from following the argument . The President dwells upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been the notorious corrupters of the suffrage through large gifts of money to politicians ? Wha but the tariff barons ? President Roosevelt himself took their checks , and has thus far yielded to their demand that he leave untouched the tariff which they bought and paid for . The President talks much about " equalizing opportunity , " yet what inequality is so gross as the privilege purchased by a few to enrich themselves , through tariff laws , at the expense of the many ? Mr. Roosevelt opposes Socialism , yet nothing could do . more to provoke an active socialistic movement than a. law to make a government tax a means of private enrichment and oppression . The Oregonian sums up : The revision of the tariff is the greatest moral and economic issue before the nation to-day . The people demand it Morality demands it . The obvious principles of justice demand it Yet Mr. Roosevelt dismisses this supreme question in a paragraph . One of the weaknesses of the President 's gingerly treatment of the revision of the ' tariff is his implied view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneficiary . Hence no change must be made until after " due notice . " Hence , also , the need of having the tariff revised only by its friends . But there is no reforming edge in all this . We do . not wait to serve due notice upon a man who is picking our pockets . Nor do we leave it to highwaymen to revise their own code . In the present temper of the American , people , the tariff as a vested wrong has a better chance of being considered on its demerits than for many years Prophesiers of smooth things will urge that we keep quiet about it , or wait indefinitely , relying upon promises as false as dicer 's oaths , but the issue is irrepressible . SOUTHERN PEONAGE AND MERIT-GRATION . Southern disappointment at the obvious failure of the plan to bring into the South large numbers of foreign immigrants has been intensified by the recent report of Assistant Attorney-General Russell upon the subject of peonage . His statement of the facts as he found them is described as a. deliberate conspiracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign immigrants away from the South . To those of us who are used to hearing politicians lay upon our immigrants the blame for about all our national shortcomings , this complaint sounds almost comical . But in view of the open opposition of the Italian government to the settlement of Italians in the South and the recent blacklisting of Missouri and Mississippi by Austria and Hungary , it is not surprising that the South is wincing and that it should be inclined to call somebody to account It is not yet a year ago that certain States , notably South Carolina and Georg:a , announced with a great flourish of trumpets that they were going to solve the labor and race problems by importing foreigners en masse . The arrival of a German steamship at Charleston with a cargo of immigrants was hailed as the beginning of a new era . Articles appeared all over the country condoling with the negro , or rejoicing over his certain economic extinction by the European invader . About the same time , however , the Italian government was sending representatives into the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens lived . As a result of these investigations , the government threw its entire weight against recruiting for the South , and particularly for " colonies . " Especially in Louisiana it found that the plight of the Italian laborers was unfortunate . It can not , of course , dictate where any individual shall settle , it can , however , throw its influence in any given direction by means of its inspectors and the government officer who accompanies every steamer bearing Italian emigrants . It was not only that there were some colonies or groups of Italians whose situation bordered on peonage , but that the general conditions of life were unfavorable . In some places the " dagoes " were regarded as about on a par with " niggers , " and the treatment of them corresponded Again , in Mississippi and Arkansas particularly , the absence of good food , of good roads , and efficient schools , together with the lack of all the amenities of life which go to make the existence of the very poor in Italy full of color , music , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian government was bound to discourage its citizens from going to these States Then came Secretary Bonaparte 's chilling decision that a State could import immigrants , but could not guarantee them work And when Mr. Russell came along and reported that the laws of the Southern States are used in various ways " to uphold peonage and other kinds of involuntary servitude , " he was naturally denounced for this , and for urging that these statutes be amended " so as to be harmless for the purpose of enslaving workmen . " This was the last straw . Naturally , Southern newspapers have resorted to the to quoque . The Charleston News and Courser wants to know why the North does not stamp out the " infamous ' white slave ' trade , a traffic restricted to Northern cities . " The New Orleans Times-Democrat avers that there are Italians working on the Northern Pac-fac Railroad under pacirones , and " dimly remembers " to have read some serious strictures on the padrone system . The New Orleans Picayune rages for nearly two columns against the use of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consolation by suddenly discovering that the South does not want to get low foreign hordes at all , that " God is good to the South , " and that in the long run the foreigners will soon displace the native-born Northerners , who will then seek refuge in the South ! Instead of formulating such fantastic theories , the statesmanlike way is for the South to rid itself of peonage ; to put the North , with its " white slave " trade , to shame by making impossible within its borders any human slavery . Finally , the South might ascertain precisely the reasons which compelled the Italian government to its decision , and then clean house so thoroughly that hereafter those objections would be removed . The truth is that the South is now paying for its failure to treat its own labor supply well Too small this supply is , and often too inefficient . But there is only one method of making labor efficient , and that is by making it content and intelligent . Nothing is so wasteful as unwilling labor , whether of slave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the efficiency of its workmen of to-day , inspired as they are by self-interest If this labor is to become more effective , it can only be made so by being given better opportunities , greater freedom , the protection of the laws , and  --  above all  --  a share in the government . The trained Italian observers can not have failed to note that in a professed republic thousands of its citizens are deprived of the ballot because of their color , are at the mercy of lynch law , and , being poor and powerless , are in many communities being pushed downwards instead of being helped upwards Is it surprising that Italy thinks the South has not yet learned how to treat workingmen properly ? It avails not to reproach the North for its manifest sins ; that will bring no more labor South . As the Pittsburgh Dzspatch puts it , " the South will never come into its own industrially and economically until every vestige of slavery is removed from it . " MACEDONIA . The assassination of Boris SarafofE , the most noted Bulgarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is typical of the cruel complex of factors that has made the pacification of Macedonia so desperate a problem . Macedonia is not Armenia . The comparatively simple situation of a - Christian populace subjected to Ottoman misgovernment and persecution is not duplicated in the Balkan peninsula For the last five years , Macedonia has been made a land of massacre and pillage , not by contending Turkish and Christian forces , but by bands representing the various Christian nationalities in the peninsula . It has been Bulgarian , Greek , and Servian , pitted against each other far more often than against the Turk , to whom the monstrously anomalous conditions have greatly appealed , and for obvious reasons To divide and rule has been the historical method of the despot . But few despots in history have been so fortunate as Abdul Harald II . in being spared the necessity even of sowing dissen ? sion among their enemies Tnat work has been done for the Turks by the jealousies of the European Powers and the fierce hatreds that hold apart the Balkan nations If sanguinary strife is to prevail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders in the same camp , as the murder of Sarafoff attests , it is apparent that the Porte has no cause for immediate worry The present difficulties date from the Macedonian revolution of 1903 The intervention of the Powers brought about a cessation of hostilities in November of that year , after 15,000 Bulgarians had perished in the course of some seven months ' fighting Russia and Austria , as the mandatories of the European Concert , imposed on the Turkish government the so-called 1Vlurzsteg programme , providing , among other things , for the appointment of two civil agents in attendance upon the Turkish inspector-general , Hilmi Pasha , in order to study conditions in the three Macedonian vilayets , and to report thereon to their respective governments , the reorganization of the gendarmerie under a foreign general in the service of the Turkish government , to whom other European officers should be attached ; and , when peace had been reestablished , the redistribution of the administrative divisions in the three vilayets , " with a view to a more regular grouping of the various nationalities . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but allowed to remain practically ineffective , while the third has become a force for actual and serious harm . . The civil agents have sent voluminous reports to their governments , the foreign police officers have been paid their stipends and kept sedulously away from everything in the nature of police work , and the promised " redistribution " of racial frontiers has set the Bulgarians , the Greeks , and the Servians at each others ' throats Just why such internecine warfare should have resulted , is clearly enough indicated in the joint note on Macedonia addressed to the Powers by Russia and Austria on September 28 last After quoting the terms of the Minzsteg programme with regard to the future re arrangement of the Macedonian administrative divisions , it declares : The revolutionary committees have abandoned their struggle against the Ottoman government , and entered upon a course of racial warfare , with the apparent design of extending , each nationality for itself , its own sphere of influence , in order that such extension , factitious though it may be , and most often carried through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhabitants , might serve as the basis for a future delimitation which would take into account the formal announcement by any element of the population of its sympathies as Bulgarian , SerTian , or Greek To prove the nullity of such efforts at conquest , the Austro-Russian mandatories assert that no territorial delimitation will take place in Macedonia until the complete cessation of guerrilla activity and the thorough pacification of the country ; that such delimitation would be in no sense a repartition of Macedonia into national spheres , but merely a readjustment of administrative geographical units of altogether secondary importance , and that in any case such delimitation would absolutely leave out of account the changes in the racial sympathies of the inhabitants effected by the activity of the guerrilla bands . To this statement the Balkan governments have presented the inevitable diplomatic reply . Servia regretted the deplorable state of affairs in Macedonia , but begged to point out that Bulgarian bands had been in the field before the announcement of the Minzsteg programme in 1903 , and that the Servian population had been driven to take up arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " lofty sense of equity " that animated the mandatory powers , but wished to state that the Bulgarian bands had begun to war against the Greek element in Macedonia as early as 1897 Bulgaria could not forget the fact that the great bulk of the people of Macedonia is Bulgarian . And there the matter rests . The truth is that responsibility for the present chaos rests on Greeks , Bulgarians , and Servians alike . Five years of sanguinary conflict have served to obscure the question of initial right and wrong . Each party can now point to its martyrs . The only undisputed fact is that the people of Macedonia almost alone pay the awful cost Competent observers declare that the years of the " Reform " have been far worse than the Years of the " Insurrection " That hurricane of repression slew its thousands ; the " Reform " is slaying its tens of thousands . According to Sir Edward Grey , two hundred murders a month  --  promiscuous murder , of men , women , and children  --  is the average , and that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Monastir the murders in 1906 numbered eleven hundred . In the vilayet of Kossovo it was somewhat less . C. F. G Masterman , an English 11 .. P , writes to the London Nation from personal observation : Parts of Russia may reveal some similar statistics ; but there the innocent are mostly left alone , or only killed by accident . Revolutionaries kill officials , and are lulled by them But in Macedonia it is rarely the guilty who suffer The harmless peasant working in the fields , his wife and sleeping children , form the staple material of the massacred If a band kills a Turk there will be reprisals If an Exarchist village is converted  --  by murder  --  to the Patriarchal supremacy , it is very sure that retaliation will follow . But the reprisals will descend promiscuously upon any peasants who happen to provide material for slaughter , and the " conversion " will prob ably operate on a community who know nothing of the causes of their disturbance . No other remedy suggests itself but the institution of a force of gendarmerie that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own initiative , as the present police officers are not . Pressure must be exerted on the two mandatory Powers The guardians should be guarded in turn To expect the warring Balkan nationalities to lay down their arms voluntarily is- vain . In the first place , too much blood has already been shed to permit a speedy reconciliation of differences . In the second place , the Balkan governments are apparently convinced that , in spite of protestations to the contrary , any repartition of Turkish territory will be accomplished only on the basis of the status quo , and that with the prevailing cheapness of life in the Balkans , it is a good policy to face the future with the fact accouvrili as much as possible in one s favor . Such hopes lead Greek merchants to send lavish patriotic contributions from every part of the world , and impel the Bulgarian government to " wink " at the activity of its numerous bands Guerrilla chaos as a policy in Macedonia has the supposed double advantage of hastening the end of the Turk and advancing the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CONGO . The Belgian Parliamentary Commis. sion which has in hand the drafting of a colonial bill has not quite finished its labors , but already we know the main provisions of the measure that is to terminate Leopold 's misrule in the Congo . Briefly stated , the problem of the Congo for the last year or more has been whether the personal influence of Leopold II . was to continue paramount even after the annexation of the state by Belgium , or whether the new regime should be one of Parliamentary control in fact as well as in name In England , where the Congo reform agitation practically has its home , there was , up to a very short time ago , a tendency to distrust the motives of the Belgian King and of the majority in the Parliamentary Commission . Driven by outraged Public opinion to make concessions in one direction , King Leopold was represented as seeking to perpetuate his malign influence in other directions . He was , for example , accused of ceding to private companies , in which he was interested , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would render that vast section of the Congo practically independent of Belgian control That story has been shown to be more or less false , and , on the whole , the Belgian King , during these last few months , has not been given his entire due . On this subject we may note a remarkable change in English public opinion within the last few weeks As late as November 7 the London Times , which has been an uncompromising critic of conditions in the Congo , published a solemn appeal to the nation , signed , among others , by the Archbishop of Canterbury , Sir Harry Johnston , Sir Charles W. Dilke , and the Lord-Mayors of Glasgow , Liverpool , Manchester , York , Newcastle , and Sheffield . The appeal enumerated the oft-repeated charges against the system of King Leopold , and then went on to criticise the inadequacy of the measures contemplated by the Belgian Parliament : The proposals of the Belgian government are now seen ( by the Colonial Law ) to leave the present system unchanged in all its vital features , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as native administration is concerned , and a majority on the Parliamentary Commission charged with the examination of these proposals has been found willing to concede to autocracy what autocracy required above allEnancial control . . . These and other measures would appear to indicate the grave peril that Belgium may be formally committed to such a course as may be disastrous to the supreme human issues at stake , and make it impossible in the opinion of the signatories for our government to acquiesce in what is taking place . Only twelve days after the publication of the appeal , the Brussels correspondent of the Tones , whose dispatches had been as uniformly severe in tone as the words we have quoted , telegraphed that , while it was still " possible that certain modifications may be introduced on the second reading , taken as a whole , the bill as it now stands represents a remarkable triumph of the party which has been fighting the battle of Parliamentary control versus absolutism . When it passes into law , Parliament will have the right to intervene in any matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like every other document , is , of course , subject to varying interpretation . And , according as one is or is not willing to credit the Belgian Parliamentary majority with good faith in the task it is now engaged upon , the estimate of the ultimate benefit of the bill will differ . Just how wide a difference the initial point of view may bring about appears when we turn to the remarks on the colonial bill by E D. Morel , published together with the text of the bill in the " Official Organ of the Congo Reform Association . " The vital portion of the bill is contained in Article II , which declares that the legislative power in the colonial possessions of Belgium is exercised by the King in the forms specified within the bill ; Article III. , which declares that power is exercised by decrees , issued with certain exceptions when the Cabinet has charge , by the Colonial Minister ; and Article V. , which declares that no act of the King can have effect unless countersigned by the Minister , who by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morel comments : " From the above it will be seen that the legislative and executive power is just as wholly in the King 's hands as it was before . " Whereas the Times correspondent is of the opinion that " by this clause Article V. the Belgian Chamber obtains similar powers to those exercised by the House of Commons . " Indubitably , the bill contains features which might have been replaced by more radical provisions . Such , for instance , is Article VIII. , which leaves the annual budget still to be drawn up by the King . Nevertheless , he does not retain absolute financial control . The same clause provides that the salary of the Colonial Minister and the expenses of the central colonial administration in Belgium form a special budget which will be submitted every year to the vote of the Chambers . Parliament is thereby given the power to interpellate the Minister on the entire sphere of colonial administration , and , in case of sharp conflict , to refuse to vote supplies for carrying on colonial administration in Brussels . A Colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies had been refused by Parliament ; but even Leopold II would hesitate before entering on a constitutional conflict with his Chambers . Finally , the King 's control over finances is further limited by the important proviso that " decrees authorizing loans chargeable to or guaranteed by the colony , and works to be paid for out of extraordinary resources , shall be issued only on the proposal of the Ministers in council . " On the whole , then , the near beginning of a brighter era in the Congo may be expected One great question , however , still awaits solution at the hands of the Belgian Parliament before the Congo can be regarded as a modern colony . The problem was well stated in a note by Sir Harry Johnston appended to the appeal from which we have quoted : The thesis at the back of the present system , viz , that the ownership of all the commercial resources and produce of the Cohgo above Stanley Pool is and remains vested in individuals residing in Europe , must find no place in any future scheme of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is for the Belgian people , now that it is about to obtain control of the Congo , to show that the old evils will not be perpetuated . Royal extortion or Parliamentary extortion  --  to the natives of the Congo the process under any name would remain just as unpleasant . THE PLEASANT PRACTICE OF READING ALOUD . " The pleasant practice of reading aloud , " says a recent writer , " is one that is now falling into disuse " It is easy to adduce reasons why . For one thing , we are in too much of a hurry . He is a true child of the present day , that Columbia professor who maintains that to read a book through is to exhibit a touching and commonly misplaced confidence in the author . From most books , our learned friend declares , you can get all that is worth while by turning the leaves pretty rapidly and , so to speak , eating out the heart . This skeptic would doubtless maintain that to spend time reading the book through aloud is reckless extravagance ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our a priori argument as to why the pleasant practice should decline is fortified by the testimony of a Harvard expert , who some fifteen years ago used to talk to freshmen about " The Obsolescent Art of Reading Aloud . " Presumably , his conclusions were the result of exhaustive research , after the most approved manner of modern scholarship ; and if his protests have not arrested the evil tendency we may believe that by 1907 the art is entirely obsolete in and around Cambridge . But in less enlightened and progressive parts of the country  --  the intellectual backwaters  --  the custom may still linger , a survival of an age of leisure and of child-like faith in authors . Stevenson tells of a Welsh blacksmith who at the age of twenty-five could neither read nor write . But when he heard a chapter of " Robinson Crusoe " read aloud in a farm kitchen , he " painfully learned to read Welsh and returned to borrow the book " It had been lost , and he could find only a copy in English ; yet so strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that down he sat once more and learned English We may match this with a passage from Lang 's " Letters to Dead Authors " : I know that 171 a remote and even Pictish part of this kingdom , a rural household , humble and under the shadow of a sorrow inevitably approaching , has found in " David Copperfield " oblivion of winter , of sorrow , and of sickness The Welsh blacksmith and the Scottish family we may take as types . There are persons of far more abundantesthetic resources who nevertheless share their simple tastes and prefer to prolong the enjoyment of a good book , to sip it rather than swallow it at a gulp And in spite of our deference to the authority of the Columbia pundit , we hold that there are plenty of books to be sipped . History , we confess , is likely to prove rather a stiff dose . We all remember how in " Alice in Wonderland " the Mouse offered to the wet animals the driest thing he knew . William the Conqueror , whose cause was favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English , who wanted leaders , and who had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest . Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria But this is not to say that Macaulay in the mouth of the right reader would not hold the attention of an intelligent listener through the whole five volumes . For the most part , however , the books for the living voice are essays , letters , diaries , biography , fiction , and poetry . In prose the choice would commonly fall on the writing that is relieved by touches of humor . For essays our own selection  --  though we have space for but few names  --  would be first those of Lamb and Hazlitt . Irving , too , is always happy , even if somewhat tenuous . Of their modern disciples we prefer ThaCkeray of the " Roundabout Papers , " Alexander Smith , and Stevenson , and  --  longo intervallo ? Lang and Augustine Birrell . In the graver vein there is Newman in the ' Apologia , " " The Idea of a University , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Historical Sketches " His sentences fall on the ear with singular charm and persuasiveness Matthew Arnold , particularly in " Culture and Anarchy , " " Friendship 's Garland , " and the two series of " Essays in Criticism , " is steadily entertaining ; and so are Walter Bagehot and Leslie Stephen ; and so , too , is Huxley , whose merits as a stylist are hardly yet appreciated . From Arnold and Huxley it is a short step to the book which occupied so much of their thought , the Bible . The best of this , as we have said before , is the best there is . The Bible and the " Imitation " respond to our more serious moods with unmatched aptness and eloquence . In letters , diaries , biography , and fiction it is safe to pick out almost any of the old favorites : the letters of Swift to Stella , of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu , Cowper , Byron , Shelley , Lamb , and so on down to Stevenson ; the diary of Fanny Burney ; Boswell 's Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Macaulay ; and all the good novels First on the list are the novels of clever characterization and vivacious dialogue ; and in this class nothing is better for reading aloud than Jane Austen , so animated and witty that even her bores are amusing . Quite at the other pole stands - Wilkie Collins , his characters mere empty masks , his dialogue a machine for unravelling the mystery , his stories , in short , devoid of graces of style and offering us the interest of plot at almost its lowest terms Yet we have seen a set of Wilkie Collins with faint pencilled memoranda , like the following , at the beginning and the end of nearly every one of the thirty volumes : Dear Helen commenced reading this wonderful tale Saturday , 7 P M. , April 27 , 1895 My dear Helen finished this story Monday evening , May 6 , 1895 . The hand is feeble and uncertain , like that of age or infirmity ; and not long after the date of the last entry the books were offered at auction Who " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and why the reading stopped , we shall never know ; but we may guess that Collins , as well as Dickens , has brought forgetfulness of pain , and perhaps even happiness under the shadow of the inevitably approaching end . As for poetry , reading aloud is the only way The difference between poetry lead thus and read to one 's self is the difference between hearing music played and quietly studying the score The rhythm and the rhyme , the pomp and movement of the verse , lose half the effect without the interpretation of the voice . Indeed , the only poetry that we make our own , the poetry whose cadences cling in the memory , is that which we have read aloud or heard read ; its imagery is ever visible to the inner eye , its melody dwells in the inner ear . And this perhaps is one reason why the books read aloud to us in childhood make so deep an impression and so profoundly affect our taste . It is not merely that our senses are unworn and tender ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hymns we sang in Sunday-school , the poetry of the school reader , the declamations of Friday afternoon  --  far many of us these have set once for all the standard of literary excellence . And age and experience and wide ranging through many famous volumes can never bring us back to that high-water mark of pleasure in books . 