@@430259

 | AS these words are written , three days only have passed since San Francisco was shaken by the most destructive earthquake in her history . and the subsequent unparalleled ruin wrought by fire is not vet ended . In such a stunning ( isaster , when communication with the outside world is interrupted , when to the heart-shaking terrors of heaving ground and toppling buildings is auded a form of devastation even more appalling , and when the human aspect of the tragedy so overwhelms all other considerations , it is impossible to obtain at once and at a distance from the scene the data necessary for a satisfactory explanation of the initial catastrophe . The few facts that can be gathered for this purpose from the moving story of destruction , heroism , and fortitude are meager indeed , and the sciolist alone would pretend to find in them adequate material for deducing the real cause of the earthquake . Nevertheless a brief account of the geological history and structure of the region adjacent to San Francisco Bay may be of interest to those who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to study for themselves this part of the coast of California . Such an account will show that the present disaster was not altogether unexpected , and that the rocky structure of the peninsula upon which the city stood ? in fact , of the whole Coast Ranges ? suggests the probability of serious seismic disturbances in the future . It will serve , moreover , as regards this particular catastrophe , to eliminate improbable guesses as to cause and to supply a basis of fact that will aid in the intelligent interpretation of information which will gradually become more detailed and accurate as excitement subsides and communications are restored . That the following hastily prepared sketch , involving consideration of so complex a subject as the geology of the Coast Ranges , must in many respects be unsatisfactory and imperfect is of course freely admitted and , under the circumstances , seems hardly to require apology CAUSES OF ' EARTHQUAKES Most authorities on earthquakes distinguish two main classes ? ( 1 ) volcanic quakes and ( 2 ) tectonic , or dislocation. quakes . The former originate in districts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major C. E. Dutton , the greater number of such shocks are initiated at depths less than 2 miles . They are characterized by a fairly definite centrum , a relatively short radius of influence , and the absence of subordinate after-quakes . They are phenomena that could probably be closely imitated by the explosion of a large quantity of dynamite at the bottom of a deep mine . Tectonic quakes , on the other hand , may originate at greater depth ; they usually have indefinite or elongated centra ; they are characterized by a greater radius of activity , and the main shock is usually followed by after-quakes . Most of the great destructive earthquakes recorded in history belong to this class . Such , for example , was the Mino-Owari earthquake in japan , which in 1891 killed over 7,000 people , wounded over 17,000 more , and destroyed more than 200,000 houses . This quake was plainly caused by movement along a fissure which appeared at the surface as a fault about 70 miles long ,  | with a maximum throe of 20 feet . Prof. John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Japan , concluded that shocks are most frequent in districts that exhibit evidence of elevation or subsidence still in progress . Four kinds of waves are generated in most earthquake shocks : ( 1 ) normal waves , ( 2 ) transverse waves , ( 3 ) surface waves , and ( 4 ) epifocal waves . The first three depend upon the elasticity of the rocks traversed , are not visible , and ,  | although propagated with different velocities , are not always distinguishable . The last are the visual waves , resembling , as Major Dutton says , flat waves ' on water . They are characteristic of the epicentral tract of many great earthquakes and are highly destructive . They bear no clear relation to elasticity and result from the passage of the deeper waves from an elastic medium ( solid rock ) into a feebly elastic medium , such as soil or unconsolidated sediments . They thus account for the ruin often wrought in valleys and in low ground when structures on near-by hills escape . EARTHQUAKES VERY FREQUENT IN CALIFORNIA The frequency of earthquakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rattle the windows of dwellings in San Francisco have in the past been so common as to excite little alarm and arouse but passing interest . The number of quakes recorded in San Francisco from 1850 to 1886 is 254 , and 514 additional shocks were noted in the same period in other parts of California . They are undoubtedly more prevalent in the region surrounding the Bay of San Francisco than in the northern or southern extremities of the state . While most of the recorded quakes have effected no damage , others , such as the great shock in 1868 , which injured San Francisco . the Owens Valley earthquake in 1872 , the Vacaville earthquake in 1892. and the Mare Island earthquake in 1898 were notably destructive . In general , it may be said that the earthquakes in California exhibit the features characteristic of tectonic quakes , and the Owens Valley shock is generally ascribed to movement along the great fault limiting the Sierra Nevada on the east . A section across central California , we will say from Monterey Bay to Mono Lake ? shows three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western slope of the Sierra Nevada , about 70 miles broad , which rises gradually from the eastern edge of the main interior valley to the crest of the great scarp overlooking the deserts of Nevada . The range is essentially a huge fault block composed of Jurassic and older rocks and partly covered by Tertiary lavas . The Great Valley is in the main an alluvial plain 5o to 6o miles wide , its northern part drained by the Sacramento River and its southern part by the San Juaquin . Both streams flow into the head of Suisun Bay and their waters find their way across a depression in the third topographic division , the Coast Range , through San Francisco Bay and the Golden Gate into the Pacific . The Coast Range separates the Great Valley of California from the Pacific Ocean . It comprises numerous nearly parallel ridges separated by narrow alluvial valleys and constitutes a generally mountainous belt some 6o miles in width . Both in lithology and structure it presents a marked contrast to the Sierra Nevada , although the relations of the two rang-es in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as yet fully understood . THE COAST RANGE IS YOUNG AND IS STILL GROWING The oldest rocks known in the Coast Range are limestones and quartzites , with some crystalline schists , and are exposed at various localities from Point Reyes , north of San Francisco , to San Luis Obispo . These rocks , which are probably Paleozoic . are cut by granite supposed to be of the same general age as the main granitic intrusions of the Sierra Nevada , which are known-to be post-Jurassic . All of these rocks , after being above sea-level long enough to be extensively eroded , were submerged and were covered by a series of sediments several thousand feet thick . known , from its characteristic development at San Francisco and on the north side of the Golden Gate , as the Franciscan , or Golden Gate , series . Although the Franciscan consists mainly of sandstone such as forms the well known Telegraph Hill in San Francisco and the  | larger islands in the bay , it contains also some of the most interesting and characteristic rocks of the western coast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their wonderful mineralogical variety , and peculiar jaspery rocks made up in part of the siliceous skeletons of radiolaria . The age of the Franciscan series , which forms a large part of the Coast Range , is still open to question . It is thought by some geologists to be Jurassic , by others to be early Cretaceous . The deposition of the Franciscan sediments was ended by an upward movement of the sea bottom . They were folded and faulted , lifted above sea-level and eroded by streams and waves . Again , however , the land went down , the Franciscan rocks sank beneath the sea and were covered by thousands of feet of fossiliferous Cretaceous , Eocene , and Miocene deposits . The sediments of the last period alone attained a thickness of ver 8,000 feet . At the close of the Miocene and after minor oscillations of level the rocks were again raised above sea-level and were crumpled and faulted by the energy of the uplift until they formed a well-defined range separating the ocean from the interior valley . In Pliocene time the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly submerged , and marine deposits of this period were laid down in sounds or inlets . Here belongs the San Pablo formation , a thick accumulation of sandstones with intercalated volcanic tuffs . Apparently during the later stages of San Pablo deposition new movements of the land took place whereby fresh-water basins were formed in which accumulated over 3,000 feet of sediments and lava flows ? the Berkleyan and Campan series of Professor Lawson . Nor is this all . Still later in the Pliocene was deposited the Merced series , which is exposed along the ocean beach west of San Francisco . This remarkable deposit , described and named by Professor Lawson , is a mile in thickness and has at its base the well-preserved remnants of a coniferous forest . Thus a portion of the Tertiary land upon which pines . indistinguishable from the species were growing now common at Monterey , sank beneath waves to a depth of at least 5,000 feet . and so rapidly that the trees were buried under sediments before they could decay . Finally the Merced series . carrying in its upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time ? have been elevated above sea , tilted up at angles as high as 75 degrees , and dislocated by a fault of at least 7,000 feet throw . THE COAST RANGE COMPARED TO THE ATLANTIC SEABOARD In order that the full significance of this epitome of the marvelous history of the Coast Range may be appreciated , let us turn for a moment to the Atlantic seaboard . Here the entire series of postJurassic rocks constitutes a comparatively thin veneer upon a coastal plain that nowhere rises more than a few hundred feet above the sea . The sediments are in large part unconsolidated , are practically horizontal . and are exposed only in the low banks of streams that flow sluggishly across the plain from the crystalline piedmont belt to the sea . On the Pacific coast . on the other hand , rocks of the same age have a thickness that may easily exceed 40.000 feet , have been deposited under conditions involving repeated vertical oscillations of the land measurable in thousands of feet , and have been folded and faulted into mountain ridges now standing thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the fact . already brought out but presently to be further emphasized , that this extraordinary geological activity has continued up to the very dawn of the human era and is probably still in operation . " FAULTING " If any one will look at a good map of California he can scarcely fail to notice the striking parallelism of structure shown by that part of the state lying north of  | Tulare Lake and south of Red Bluff , near the head of the Sacramento Valley . This parallelism is not confined to the two main ranges , the Great Valley and the coast line , but is conspicuously shown by the ridges and valleys of the Coast Range . In the absence of local geological knowledge , this feature of the topography might be ascribed to regular folding , such as that of the Appalachians . The actual complexity of the folding . however , and the fact that the structural details of the ridges show little accord with the general topographic regularity referred to . dispose effectually of this suggestion . There can be little doubt that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are due to faulting modified by erosion . Much detailed work remains to be done before the positions and throws of all these faults can be determined , but such careful structural studies as have been made of definite areas have invariably revealed the great importance of dislocations having a generally north-northwest trend . This is particularly true of the San Francisco peninsula , which , as Prof. Lawson has shown , is traversed by at least three great faults belonging to this dominant system . These have been plotted on the accompanying outline map of the region about San Francisco Bay and relief map of the peninsula . The San Bruno fault has a throw of at least 7,000 feet near San Francisco , the southwest side having dropped relative to the northeast side . In all probability this same fault determines the positions of Bolinas and Tomales bays , north of the Golden Gate , and the straightness of the coast line as far as Point Arena , too miles northwest of San Francisco . Toward the south the same fault , or one belonging to the same zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of California , and in parts of southern California is locally known as " the earthquake crack . " The San Andreas fault , which , as may be seen from the San Mateo topographic atlas sheet of the L. S. Geological Survey as well as from the small relief map on page 287 , is fol- lowed by a rectilinear ravine occupied by a chain of ponds and lakelets whose existence is proof of recent disturbance . The third , or Pilarcitos , fault has not impressed its presence upon the topography of the peninsula in as conspicuous a manner as the other two . It is highly probable that future careful work will discover other great faults generally parallel with those mentioned . There is a strong suggestion , for example , of a fault passing near San Jose , along the eastern margin of the bay , through Santa Rosa , and northwestward along the valley of the Russian River past Ukiah . THE COAST IS STILL RISING There is still another series of movements undergone by this remarkable coast in late geological time , and these . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lawson has clearly demonstrated that the coast of California has been elevated since the Pliocene to heights ranging from 1,500 feet near San Diego to over 2,000 feet in northern California . This uplift is shown with great clearness along the coast in the vicinity of Los Angeles by conspicuous wave-cut terraces , rising tier after tier above the present strand and showing all the characteristics of marine shores , even to pits made by the same species of rock-boring mullusc that inhabits the present beaches . These movements have not been uniform along the entire coast . For instance , the mainland at San Pedro south of Los Angeles has risen 1,240 feet , and San Clemente Island , 5o miles farther south , has risen 1,500 feet . Half way between these two localities is Santa Catalina Island , which not only shows no evidence of recent elevation but is clearly undergoing submergence . One of the latest phases of this vertical oscillation of the shoreline has been the submergence of the coast in the vicinity of San Francisco , whereby the depression now occupied by San Francisco Bay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbors in the world , and the Golden Gate , once a river gorge , was prepared for the part  | it was destined to play in the commercial development of the Pacific and the Orient . PROBABLY IN NO PART OF THE WORLD HAS THE LAND BEEN SO ACTIVE IN RECENT TIMES The general connection between the geological history that has just been briefly summarized and the earthquakes so prevalent in California is clear and unmistakable We have seen that the record of the rocks shows that through long geological periods the land has oscillated up and down in a startling manner . Probably in no part of the world have the processes of upheaval and subsidence . folding and faulting , and erosion and sedimentation been , as a whole , so intensely active in the same period of later geological time . Moreover , the general activity and rapidity of geomorphic development have continued up to the present day . The region thus amply fulfills the conditions under which tectonic earthquakes arise . It is in unstable equilibrium , and it is cut by long northnorthwest faults into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dislocations . Under the operation of the unknown forces of elevation and subsidence , stresses are set up which finally overcome the adhesion of the opposing walls of one or more of the fault fissures , an abrupt slip of a few inches or a few feet takes place , and an earthquake results . The region extending for some hundreds of miles north and south of the Bay of San Francisco may be considered as particularly susceptible to shocks on account of the number and magnitude of the faults , the evidence that these furnish of very recent slipping , and the marked recent subsidence in the vicinity of the Golden Gate . We may now turn from the geological record to the recent disaster . SUMMARY OF DAMAGE The apparent facts with reference to the San Francisco earthquake of April 18 , 1906 , as gleaned from the daily papers , are as follows :  | At 5 : 13 a. m. , Pacific time , the city was violently shaken for 28 seconds . The force of the shock , as in 1868 , was greatest in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and probably heaved by epifocal waves ) and was sufficient to completely wreck many large buildings and to seriously damage most of the structures in the business section . Water mains and sewers were broken , car tracks were twisted , and at Eighteenth and Valencia streets , not far from the old Spanish mission , a crevice 6 feet wide is reported to have opened in the ground . At several points in the lower portions of the city the ground is said to have set-  | tied several feet . A second strong but shorter shock was felt about three hours later , but as a vast conflagration was already sweeping the city the damage done by this after-quake was apparently not recorded . The city hall , situated a mile and a half from the east water front , was ruined , although it seems to have been the last building in this direction to receive serious injury . Outside of San Francisco the principal damage is reported from a strip of country extending from the town of Ukiah , on the Russian River , 125 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , near Monterey Bay , 8o miles south of the ruined metropolis . North and south of these limits , however , the country is for some distance sparsely settled and may have been vigorously shaken without the fact being reported . The belt of maximum disturbance is approximately parallel with the great faults of the region and includes the Bay of San Francisco and the rich Russian River , Sonoma , Santa Clara , Salinas , and San Benito valleys . Santa Rosa , the principal town of Sonoma County , was practically destroyed , and the smaller towns of Healdsburg , Cloverdale , and Ukiah to the north were badly damaged . Oakland , on the east side of the bay opposite San Francisco , apparently suffered some destruction in its business section , but , being mainly a city of frame dwellings , it escaped general demolition . The shock on this shore of the bay , however , was apparently heavy . The ground is said to have opened in some places , although the long moles of the Southern Pacific Company , built out into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uninjured . Many important buildings in Berkeley were destroyed , but the buildings of the University of California , standing on high ground , escaped . On the north shore of Suisun Bay part of the track of the Southern Pacific , laid on marsh , subsided several feet . A similar subsidence is reported from Alviso , a town at the south end of San FranciscoBay . The Santa Clara Valley suffered  | severely , the principal buildings at Stanford University being destroyed or badly injured and San Jose being partly ruined . It is noteworthy , as indicating the narrowness of the general zone of destruction , that the Lick Observatory , situated on Mount Hamilton , about i miles east of San Jose , was uninjured . The district drained by the Pajaro River , between the town of Hollister and Monterey Bay , was much disturbed . The railroad for distances up to a mile was depressed from 4 to 6 feet . Between Castroville and Monterev the ground is said to have opened and shut and mud to have spurted from the fissures . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the lighthouse at Point Arena . which , as already noted , is on the line of the San Bruno fault , was destroyed . THE EARTHQUAKE ZONE The general zone of destruction corresponds very closely to that of most of the earthquakes of central California . With the exception of the Vacaville earthquake in 1892 , which was most severely felt in a belt stretching from San Francisco northeasterly through the opening in the Coast Range near Martinez and across the Great Valley to the lower slopes of the Sierra Nevada , most of the severe shocks have manifested themselves along the zone stretching from Ukiah to Hollister and Salinas . In other words , their major effects are confined to a zone at least 200 miles in length and approximately 30 miles in width . The distribution of intensities along this zone , as illustrated by the destructive effects at San Jose . and at Santa Rosa , points decidedly to the initiation of the disturbance from a line or plane rather than from a point or definite centrum . Furthermore , the general parallelism of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can , in the light of geological history , scarcely be considered a mere coincidence . In short , the conclusion that the recent San Francisco earthquake , like those which have previously shaken the city , was of tectonic origin and that it was due to movement along one or more of the great faults may be regarded as reasonably certain . ' Whether this movement was along the San Bruno fault or along some other dislocation yet to be traced by patient geological work . can not be determined from the crude and meager data now available . The reported destruction of the Point Arena lighthouse suggests that the San Bruno fault may have participated in the disturbance . If so , careful observation and comparisons of levels in the vicinity of San Francisco Bay may discover the extent of the movement . EXPLANATION OF ABSENCE OE TIDAL WAVES It is very probable that faults parallel with those known on land traverse the sea bottom along the coast . If any considerable throw has taken place along such a submerged fault , we may expect to receive indication of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although in 1856 , after a severe shock , lasting 8 seconds , the waters of San Francicso Bay are said to have risen , to have maintained their level for 5 minutes , and then to have fallen 2 feet below their ordinary stage , noticeable " tidal waves " do not appear to be characteristic of the earthquakes in California , and this fact indicates either that the shocks originate in the land area or else that they are caused by displacements of slight throw . That San Francisco will rise beautiful and triumphant from rum no one who knows California can doubt . Earthquakes are a risk that will be accepted by the people in the future with as little hesitation as in the past . They had grown a little careless and were taken unawares by the fatal combination of circumstances that made fire a more ruthless enemy than earthquake . Shocks will visit the new city , but they will shake buildings better able to resist them and less combustible . Professor Holden , writing iii 1896 , remarked that " the earthquakes of a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tornadoes or the floods of a single year in less favored regions . " While this statement may no longer be strictly true , it represents a feeling so general among Californians that no single disaster can eradicate it . Although there is every geological reason for expecting earthquake shocks in the future , there is no reason why , with prop erly constructed buildings and with adequate arrangements for extinguishing fires with supplies of salt water not dependent upon the ordinary mains , property and life should not be as safe in Sar Francisco as in any other city in the country .                     