@@473158

IN consideration of the phenomenal in-terest manifested in his paper on the Reformatory Possibilities of Hypnotism , the writer feels warranted in presenting to the reading public his recent experiences with the same instrumentality in the educational field . Tactful suggestion has power to exalt the intellectual as well as the ethico-spiritual nature . The development of mind is no less a hypnotic possibility than the betterment of morals . In fact , the moral exaltation characteristic of hypnosis is accompanied with a rise in intellectual dignity and power . Potential is converted into actual energy , and the hypnotized subject delights in the consciousness of awakened susceptibility and command . Differences induced by objective education are obliterated , and the fundamental endowments of that finer spiritual organ in which under God we have our highest being ? endowments conferred by Deity on all human souls without favor and without stint ? dominate the intellectual QUACKENBOS life . The divine image is supreme in the man , and creative communication on the broadest lines and the most exalted planes becomes possible . Hypnotic suggestion is but inspiration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he borrows as well the mental tone of the operator . His memory becomes preternaturally impressible . The principles of science , of language , of music , of art , are quickly appropriated and permanently retained for post-hypnotic expression through appropriate channels . Confidence in talent is acquired ; embarrassment , confusion , all admission of inferiority , are banished once and for all from the objective life ? by placing the superior self in control . Not only may dull minds be polished , unbalanced minds adjusted , gifted minds empowered to develop their talents , but the educating mind of the school-child may tread that royal road to learning which ancient philosophers sought for in vain ; the matured mind of the scholar may be clothed EDUCATIONAL USE OE HYPNOTISM. with perceptive faculty , with keenest insight , tireless capacity for application , unerring taste ; and the imaginative mind of painter , poet , musician , discoverer , may be crowned with creative efficiency in the line of ideals that are high and true . The lesson of hypnotism here is a lesson of man 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of faculties inherent in his nature ; and the state of hypnosis would seem to prove that we have within us an immaterial principle entirely independent of sense organs and sense acquisitions . Its pinion is not reconciled to earth . It represents a flight above the temporal , and hints of heaven . To accomplish his part in the work of intellectual uplift , the hypnotizes must be a person of liberal education , broad views , and pronounced literary and scientific convictions . He must be a sincere believer in his own suggestions . Mental reservation is fatal . Nebular knowledge is of little avail . Tact , patience , and erudition are the three foe-tors indispensable to success . The experiments of the writer in creative conununication embrace cases of backward and erratic children , disequilibration , voice culture , the ? development of musical talent , and the inspiration of writers and actresses . There are children who are unnaturally stupid , of sluggish intellect , born without the ordinary ability to concentrate thought or rivet attention , with defective memories , easily confused , embarrassingly self-conscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure of a necessity for reflection , or if thoughts are there , the vocal mechanism refuses to express them . For these conditions , as well as for habitual indolence , disinclination to exertion , and cowardice , hypnotism is the philosophical treatment . Where medication , moral influences , institutional discipline , change of scene and companionships , are of no avail , carefully directed suggestion in the hypnotic state , if confidently persevered in , is , humanly speaking , sure to awaken intellectual perception , impart mental alertness , improve the memory conditions , and substitute self-reliance for diffidence and timidity . Voc . C. ? No. cos. - 27 A troubled mother writes to inquire whether a child of six years can be satisfactorily influenced by hypnotic suggestion ? " a sensitive , nervous , high-strung . exceedingly affectionate boy , but cursed with a painful lack of courage in his contact with other boys . This leads to a perpetual persecution by his companions , besides being in itself deplorable inasmuch as it is a trait indicating lack of manliness . By nature he is exceptionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may lead to deception . through fear of consequences . Do you think this defect can be successfully overcome by hypnotic suggestion ? " My reply to such an inquiry is that the child as pictured is a perfect subject for hypnotic treatment , which will convert the cry-baby into a resolute , manly boy , the unhappy cringing coward into a model of bravery and truth . On June 9 , Howard P , aged ten , was sent to my office by his mother , who declared that , in consequence of his destructive impulses , eternal restlessness , flagrant disobedience , defiance of her authority , and developing untruthfulness , life was not worth the living . The child was utterly incorrigible . Neither parents nor teachers could prevail in the least against the massive tendency to wrong-doing . Correction by precept and merciless castigation had utterly failed to check the vicious propensities . The boy was hypnotized , and a suggestion carefully formulated to the effect that he was no longer disrespectful , untruthful , disobedient , neglectful of his lessons ; but that he would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ win her love , with the regard of the family and his teacher , by a cheerful service and a career of wholesome activity ' A sudden change of attitude was noticeable . The exhibition of kindliness in the home where before there had been nothing but ugliness and defiance , and of habits of thought-concentration in school instead of habits of rambling , was most gratifying to all interested . As hypnotism in such eases as this is of the nature of an education , it must be persisted in. for months , until the desired trend is given permanently to the mental and moral energies . In other instances no difficulty has been encountered in awakening slumbering affections , creating a desire for knowledge , inspiring a respect for parents and elders , and even in compelling a courteous anticipation of their wants and wishes , on the part of apparently thoughtless and inattentive or ungrateful and reprobate children . In the case of young persons who possess ability but not application , the results of hypnotic training seem ahnost miraculous . Many persons are horn with unbalanced minds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the expense of another group , a single talent or aptitude monopolizing almost the entire output of mental energy . Remarkable precocity of certain intellectual powers accompanied with arrested development of others ? one-sided gifts or knacks ? mark this condition . As Pope wrote , " Good or bad to one extreme betrays the unbalanced mind . " The restoration to equilibrium of such asymmetric minds may be accomplished by appropriate hypnotic suggestion . ? A recent experiment of the writer 's establishes the fact that disequilibration may be adjusted ; a congenital cerebral deficiency overcome ; a personality crippled by thought-inhibition , mental apathy , and defective attention transformed into a personality without a blot upon the brain , and so impending insanity shunted ? by the use of hypnotic suggestion as an educational agency . In October , 1899 , he accepted for experimental work the case of the Russian Hebrew boy George Rubin , known to his school-fellows as " Crazy George , " and to the newspapers as the music-mad boy genius of Brooklyn . An examination showed at once that young oRubin occupied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He exhibited many of the prodromata of madness ? viz. , exaggerated irritability , cull elm eas , preternatural so spicion , accompanied with a slowness of all thought-processes , great difficulty of recollection , general incoherence , ill-timed hilarity , lack of interest in both amusement and occupation , aversion to the society of other children , absurd fears , hallucinations and night terrors , and a conspicuous one-sided attention , pathologically diminished for ordinary things , but morbidly increased for music . His one passion was violin-playing ; on this subject he was a monomaniac . Experts had pronounced him a remarkable performer , considering his age and his opportunities . His mother denied any sexual aberration . This patient was brought to me for a solution of the question , Can approaching insanity or congenital mental unbalance be successfully treated by hypnotism ? I confess it was with considerable misgiving that I took in hand this vicious , intractable , headstrong , contrary , and in every way untoward child genius anintellectual quadroon , with one molecule in four of normal lecithin ; and he proved to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the first interview an hour was occupied in inducing him to lie quietly upon my lounge . Then his restless black eyes roved from the carnelian held before them to the volumes in the bookcases , to the vases of Bohemian glass . on the mantel , and the pictures on the wall . As the experiment progressed his gaze sought the red stone oftener and lingered upon it . A silly laugh repeatedly broke the spell ; but at the end of the second hour his eyelids closed , he breathed deeply , and entered the stage of suggestibility . During these two hours I talked to the boy in a low and soothing tone , assuring him that I was his friend , and that I would remove all harassing fears from his mind , and put it in a condition to receive the greatest benefit from the musical instruction that would be provided . At the second s ? ance young Rubin was hypnotized in one hour with the help of a suspended diamond , and this method has since been pursued in his case . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier suggestions were to the effect that he was no longer nervous , that he had no fear of the dark or of phantom rats , that he would sleep without terrorizing dreams . The posthypnotic fulfilment of these suggestions indicated the appropriateness of more direct educational work . The temper was first dealt with ; the outbursts of passion were forbidden ; obedience and docility were inculcated . Then at a subsequent meeting followed the cultivation of the attention and the memory . EDUCATIONAL CS A most gratifying response to these lessons suggested the development of the reasoning powers , and the automatic mind was directed to the study of arithmetic , and prepared for its successful and enthusiastic pursuit . A marked character change has certainly been effected . The boy is now docile , obedient , and happy . The tangled faculties have been unravelled , and he has become rational and quick of comprehension , has acquired powers of observation , concentration , and recollection that he was entirely without before the first . treatment . He can describe and narrate with ease , and answer questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely new to it , and his interest in his surroundings is absorbing . Cases like the above are treated very differently from those of intelligent women who understand the philosophy of suggestion and apply for assistance in their musical work . Here the suggestions are framed to meet the special needs of each individual . The subject is hypnotized , and told that the subliminal self is now in the ascendency ; that it has demanded and secured an outlet of expression through the physical organism and the mortal mind ; that it will utter itself fearlessly , without diffidence , without thought of extraneous criticism , unerringly , feelingly , triumphantly ; that in order to do this it has indite ( ' the objective self with power to read music , to interpret the contents , and to render the thought or feeling through the medium of piano tones evoked by dexterous fingers . An improvement is at once noticed , marked by facility in interpreting new and difficult music , by a sureness and delicacy of touch , and , above all , by the acquisition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of those who understand the technic is assured in a comparatively short time by suggestive instruction of this nature . That such results can be reached by a person who is himself without musical ability proves hypnotic suggestion to be more than a mere imparting of knowledge or skill possessed by the operator . It is a true inspiration , an appeal to the soul regnant , a kindling of deepest and sweetest emotions , a materializing of its highest aspirations , a summoning into action of its resistless dominion . If this inspiration be effected on psychological principles by a personality congenitally qualified and properly trained , the translation of latent into actual ' talent will be unattended with any danger of converting the subject into a soulless automaton . A number of singers have had recourse to hypnotic treatment for vocal awkwardness and sensitiveness to changes of weather . A representative case is that of Miss D ? , a vocalist , who applied in December for relief from hoarseness that supervened on the slightest provocation and interfered with her singing , a thickened condition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss D ? was hypnotized and assured that atmospheric conditions would have no effect on her vocal cords ; that her voice would be smooth , clear , and velvety through the whole register ; that she would trill and shake with precision ; and that vocal grace had supplanted voice-awkwardness . These suggestions were repeated on two subsequent occasions with the effect desired . It is to be noted that this singer had a finely developed chest , and that the tone-producing blast determined a sufficient amplitude of vibration in the vocal cords . On January 27 the patient stated that she wished to sing the " Slabal Mater " iu church on the following Sunday , and desired the power to render the piece effectively . She was accordingly hypnotized , and told that her voice would be responsive to the demands made upon it by her genius ; that she possessed a perfect laryngeal instrument of voice-expression , and that on the occasion in question she would handle with dexterity the vocal cords , laryngeal cartilages , and muscles involved . As a re suit , she rendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On January 30 Miss D- reported with some bronchial trouble . The suggestions were to the effect that the secretions of the bronchi , trachea , and larynx were subject to the decree of her subliminal self , and were normal ? that the nerve filaments were insensible to wind and weather , and hence the secretions would not dry and the voice become husky . So with a perfect laryngeal instrument naturally lubricated by healthy secretions , vocal grace and ability were assured . She was then told to sleep for ten minutes , happy in the apprehension of her great endowment and in her recognition of control over all the physical procedures that have to do with voice-production . She awoke at the designated time , cheerful , buoyant , and eager to put into execution her newly apprehended powers . It is needless to say that they have stood the test . The writer has had under treatment during the spring a number of persons who sought increased powers of attention and concentration , as well as several ladies who are making a profession of fiction-writing . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of the canons of narration ? viz. , the law of selection , which limits the story-teller to appropriate characteristic or individual circumstances ; the law of succession , which governs the disposal of the selected incidents in the order of a climax ; and the law of unity ; secondly , of the laws of construction in the case of the novel , its functions and technic , and its legitimate material . This philosophy is readily grasped , assimilated , and utilized in post-hypnotic creation ; and the mode of instruction puts out of countenance the conventional wrestling with the precepts of a text-book . In the light of instantaneous apprehension , barrenness gives place to richness of association , the earnest thought and honest toil of the old method to a surprising facility , disinclination to select details to zest in appropriating whatever is available . Opportunity and mood are thus made to coincide , and the subject spontaneously conforms to the eternal principles of style . Under the influence of such inspiration rapid progress has been made in the chosen field of authorship . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers of attention , concentration , reproductive memory , and imagination , the following typical suggestions were given : You are now in a position where you can perceive your mental faculties in all their strength and beauty , where you can appreciate their harmonious adjustment in a mighty unity . You apprehend your power to use them to the highest advantage . Hence you will re tain and assimilate the best of the good you hear and read , so that you can exploit it in conversation and discussion . And , above all , there will be no embarrassment , no admission of inferiority in the presence of others , for you realize your mental equality . Harriet Beecher Stowe is said to have written Linde Tom 's Cabin in a subconscious state . It is related that upon inquiry from her publishers as to when they might expect a new instalment of copy , she was accustomed to say , devoutly , " The Lord only knows ; wait till I am inspired . " To a dreamy , non-observant patient having similar literary visions while half asleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been given , with marked results , that whatever comes to her spontaneously in a state of reverie is hers permanently , and will find outlet in some piece of literature of her own creation . Actresses resort to hypnotic treatment for accessions of self-confidence and for inspiration . The inspiration of an actress while in a hypnotic condition ? the quickening of her faith in her powers of impersonation , the elimination of all admission of inferiority even to the stars of her profession , the emphasizing of her native dignity and grace , the pushing of her individuality into bold relief ? is an easy feat to a suggestionist of strong personality who understands the delicate machinery of the human mind and the laws of dramatic art The response of the woman 's soul to such suggestions with post-hypnotic import is followed by her speedy ascent to the heights of histrionic art , and by subsequent triumphs on the stage through an apprehension of her own deathless powers as revealed by the creative communication of her hypnotist . An actress once so inspired is inspired forever . In these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concluding suggestions with the assurance that the good work accomplished can never be undone . The latest triumphs of suggestion must refute many theories of pedagogy that are taught in the colleges , and give accent to the philosophy of Milton , which based the conditions of success in teaching on the personality rather than on the method of the instructor .                     