@@473758

DO N'T know of any aspect in which Earth appears to better advantage than as a playground for small children . They like it , literally , " down to the ground , " and they are willing to take it just as it is . If improvements are thrown in , so much the better , but they are not great sticklers for improvements . They like fences because they are good to climb ; they like to have the grass cut sometimes , because haycocks are good to tumble over they like flowers , but very simple flowers will answer very well ; they like the seashore ? sand , seaweed , starfish , shells , surf , still-water , ? but all they ask is that it shall be accessible . They do n't insist 011 having style and society thrown in . They beat most of us grown - ups in adaptability : in taking what they can get and making the most of it . Their experience is so limited that they are not critical , and their imaginations are so active that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they need for fairy-land . They have the advantage of their elders in that the real business of life with them is play . The time they devote to it does not have to be saved up from working-hours . They have all the time there is for play except what is needed for eating , which is a pleasant exercise ; for sleeping , which also has its attractive points ; and for getting washed and dressed from time to time , which is endurable if kept within reasonable limits . And when they play heartily and cheerfully , they are doing well their share of the business of life . Most children like flowers , but some children love them . It was one of the merits of a child I know , when she was still a very little girl , that she loved flowers as unaffectedly as any grown-up person with a garden . She never had much of a garden , worse luck , but she could he happy for hours together in a plain clover-field , with red-top and whitetop clover , buttercups , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say to her , and she never lost a chance to hear them . She does not remember , as I do , how her grandmother , summer morning after summer morning , used to sally out in sunbonnet and the simplest of garb and spend the earliest hours of each new day in her flower-garden . For threescore years and ten Blamlina 's grandmother loved flowers with all the fidelity of a strong and gentle spirit , and they seemed to return her affection , for they lived and grew and blossomed for her , as they only do for their true lovers . I think I know how Blandina came by her friendship for flowers , and I have no doubt that , when she gets around to it , she too will have a garden in which flowers will grow for love . Well , that is one of the luxuries of life . It is too rare a luxury in this country . Our rich people have splendid gardens , of course . but our poorer people are less disposed as yet to raise simple flowers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find the dooryard of a workingman 's cottage abloom with flowers there is apt to be some old-country training ? English , Scotch , or German ? behind it . To be sure , that is by no means an invariable rule ; but flowers are the outcome of a settled life and of a more or less contemplative spirit , and we Americans are rather a restless- lot as yet , and bent on " getting on , " and much disposed to devote our efforts to the cultivation of the main chance , and to put off our gardening until we can hire some one to do it for us . They say , indeed , that we are so devoted to the main chance , that we neglect not merely to raise flowers , but to raise enough children . Surely in so far as that is true we are showing ourselves to be a self-denying race . Are second-best things of so much moment to us that we deny ourselves best things in order to 