@@430209

 |p1163  THERE are two obvious reasons why Hartford ought to be in the same class as Cambridge and Brookline among the well-governed cities of the United States . There is the influence of its three hundred Yale graduates ; and there is its beauty and the beauty of its natural surroundings , which should evoke civic pride and bring home to Hartford citizens an abiding and stirring realization of the fact that the city is the larger home . If Hartford can not inspire this feeling of the larger home there is no city in the New or Old World that can ; for surely in the Anglo-Saxon world there is no city ? not exclusively residential ? which has in a greater degree than Hartford everything that goes to the making of a beautiful city . All the beauty . that makes the Connecticut Valley a joy is exemplified in the surroundings of Hartford ; and in fine streets , stately avenues and magnificent parks , art has added to the natural charms of the Connecticut capital city . Hartford 's associations and scenery should arouse and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as I have already suggested , there is another reason why Hartford in all that concerns a good and progressive municipal life should easily rank with Brookline and Cambridge . There are in Hartford not less than three hundred graduates of Yale . Other universities and colleges are also repsented , and by a moderate estimate there must be at least four hundred college graduates of the voting population , to say nothing of the graduates of women 's colleges , who are as numerous in Hartford as in any city of its size , but who are excluded ( to my mind , unfortunately ) from all part in its municipal life . If the college spirit ? the spirit which nowadays is supposed to make for good citizenship and clean politics ? counts for anything anywhere , it ought surely to tell enormously in Hartford ; for while there are more college graduates in cities such as New York , Philadelphia and Boston , those cities have not the selfcontainedness or homogeneity of Hartford ; and under metropolitan conditions neighborhood feeling can not be expected to have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under one hundred thousand population . The college spirit and the leadership in public life that college training is now regarded as giving to college men ought  |p1164  for these reasons to be exemplified and obvious in the State of which Hartford is the capital , and they ought to be especially visible in municipal life in Hartford . Yet the most enthusiastic admirers of Hartford ( and I want to be understood as grouping myself with them ) can not claim that as regards municipal life Hartford even approximates to Cambridge or Brookline ; and as concerns municipal conditions , it would , I think , be difficult to point to any advantages or permanent results , except perhaps in part as regards some of the schools , the libraries and the parks , which have directly accrued from the civic spirit of the three hundred and fifty or four hundred college graduates who do business in Hartford and make their homes within its borders or in its beautiful suburbs . If a stranger were to come to Hartford he would at once be confronted with the gloomiest and ugliest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were led blindfold through the city ? that the college spirit counts for little on the moral and esthetic side of the city 's life . He would be confronted with a huge advertisement ? an advertisement as large as the front of a three-storied house ? which suggests one glass more , " That 's all , " of somebody 's whisky , for a leering , blear-eyed , disreputable and boozy rounder in decent clothes , who from the way the sign-board artist has treated him is already mellow , and abundantly ripe for the patrol wagon and detention in some Keeley cure establishment for the rest of his natural life . This disgraceful pictorial advertisement is on the roof of the most central business block in the city ? on a block which is locally known by a good New England name . It dominates the heart of the city ; and altho it vulgarizes the building on which it stands , vulgarizes the name associated with the building , vulgarizes the stores below , is irritating to the self-respect and good feeling of all who must pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a magnificent street , which would do credit to such  |p1165  classic cities as Edinburgh or Oxford , this advertisement has been kept there not for a couple of months , but for a couple of years , and nobody knows how much longer Hartford must tolerate it . Notwithstanding Hartford 's four hundred university graduates , and the graduates of the women 's colleges in addition , nothing practical has been done concerning " The Sign of the Boozee . " It has never been suggested to the Board of Fire Commissioners that it was a danger to the fire brigade . It has never occurred to the Police Commissioners that it is a danger to the public peace , as it might be provocative of riot by outraged citizens . It has never occurred to the City Council , nor to the Mayor , who is a Princeton graduate and a lawyer , that it could be treated as a nuisance ; and the 1905 session of the Legislature is being allowed to run its course without the suggestion of an act to safeguard Hartford and all other Connecticut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pride . At alumni banquets the Yale spirit is a great force . But it is not worth shucks if it does not get beyond banquet halls and count for something in civic life . Until I spent a few days at Brookline looking into municipal conditions there , I had a feeling that it was hopeless to expect much in the way of civic development and achievement in a city governed as Hartford is ; for Hartford city government is so complex that I do not pretend to understand it . I have mastered the ins and outs of municipal government in England , Scotland and Ireland ? both the systems that prevailed before the great municipal reforms of the thirties and those which have come into existence since then . But I never was confronted with a harder problem in municipal government than that of Hartford . There is a board of selectmen , a municipal body with two chambers , and a board of commissioners for this and another board of commissioners for that , also a city attorney ; while as regards the schools , they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceeds in a go-as-you-please style , without regard to equality of educational opportunity for all the children of the city . I did not expect much municipal achievement in Hartford . I did not see how it was possible under such a complex and antiquated municipal system . But at Brookline I discovered that the old New England system of town government survives in its integrity . Offhand it might be said that this system is not adapted to modern municipal demands . Theoretically this may be true ; but conditions in Brookline convince me that it matters little what is the actual plan of municipal government , and that everything depends on the spirit which is behind the government . Brookline citizens exercise great care in the choice of their selectmen ; then they loyally support them and take an active interest in their work ; and the result is that Brookline to-day ranks with any of the most progressive and best administered municipalities in England . Evidently there is a Brookline spirit , and it is a spirit of untold value in civic administration . Whether it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a matter of common knowledge that it is the Harvard spirit that has given Cambridge the proud place it has so long held among New England Municipalities . Civic achievement of a high order is hardly to be expected from a common council which , like that of Hartford , is divided into two chambers ? a council and a board of aldermen ; for this confusing and useless two-chamber plan was copied from English municipal systems when they were at their worst . Except in the city of London , where municipal government is still in organization much what it was in the eighteenth century , the two-chamber plan has nowhere survived in Great Britain after the sweeping municipal reforms of seventy years ago . It disappeared without any popular regret ; and , altho there are councillors and aldermen , both groups sit together , and procedure in municipal government is simple in the extreme as compared with procedure in Hartford . In England a boy who has passed the sixth standard can follow from the newspaper reports the proceedings of a municipal council .  |p1166  In Hartford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow what is being done ? to understand where among Mayor , selectmen , councilmen , aldermen and commissioners responsibility and initiative really rest . I sometimes think that Hartford 's municipal authorities themselves do not always know where the initiative in any movement actually lies . If they did there would not be such hesitancy and failure to move in important matters as have marked the last few months . " The Sign of the Boozee " is one such instance , and I will quote two more where failure to move in the civic interests of Hartford has been equally marked : A little while ago a seizing , holding , and squeezing company from New Jersey or elsewhere , moved on to Hartford 's gas house ; and the usual tactics of seizing , holding and squeezing companies came into play . These gas house exploiters had occasion during this session to appear before the Legislature in connection with two bills . One was a hostile measure , to regulate their extortionate meter charges ; the other was to authorize the exploiters to issue bonds . In neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hartford , either to regulate the company 's gas charges or to secure clauses in the bond issue bill to safeguard the city in the event of municipal ownership , which sooner or later must come . The Consolidated Railway Company is also before the Legislature asking for comprehensive and innovating additions to its powers . It has had the audacity to ask that it shall have power to double-track street car lines in the city of Hartford and other Connecticut cities without the permission of the city councils . Connecticut people are accustomed to the demands of the Consolidated . It is of the Hartford Catechism as formulated by the local press , that its citizens " shall revere the Consolidated , and think no evil of the Gas Company ; " and revering the Consolidated is so ingrained in Connecticut life and thought that if the Consolidated asked permission to move its headquarters from New Haven to the State House , the Legislature might grant even this privilege with alacrity , provided the Consolidated in governing the State would pledge itself not to reform the Legislature nor to deprive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However this may be , the Consolidated 's demand to over-ride the city councils in the matter of double-tracking car lines has provoked no popular outburst in Hartford , and as yet the city council is not on record as offering any opposition to this audacious proposal . It is , it seems to me , difficult to realize and follow intelligently what the city council and the half dozen boards of commissioners , plus the selectmen , the Mayor and the dozen or more of school committees , are doing . It must be conceded also that it is possible to elect only a few Yale men to the city council . But if the study of law , economics and citizenship at Yale amounts to anything , and if the Yale spirit is really an active force for good , Yale men and other university men in Hartford ought to have been heard from in connection with the affairs of both the seizing , holding , and squeezing gas company , and the astounding proposition of the Consolidated with regard to the city streets . Hartford lacks a decent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor that it would not be tolerated in any English cross-roads settlement with a church , ten cottages and a fully licensed public house . People who live a mile away from the center of the city are practically blackmailed by the telegraphic companies . These companies accept business at the usual tariff at their outlying branch offices ; but they charge twenty cents as porterage for all messages delivered within the territories served for outward business by these branch offices . Hartford has no public baths . Its city hall is an architectural treasure , but long inadequate to present day needs . Its school system ? separately elected committees for each of its public schools ? has little to commend it , except that it is just the system Hartford had A. D. 167o or thereabouts . Hartford 's outlying regions ? regions still within the city boundaries ? lack any consistent plan for the laying out of new streets . Every landowner seems to do as he likes ; to divide his land so as to give most frontages , without any regard as to what kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street will fit in with the streets and avenues with which it will connect . Any architectural monstrosity that a speculative builder conceives will find a purchaser is allowed to go up ; and generally in these and other matters , such , for instance , as street cleaning when the ice and snow are going , there is a lack of a broad , civic spirit ? of any continuous care for the city as the larger home , such as might be expected if the college spirit of which so much is heard at alumni banquets was of any potency in civic life . With the State Capitol in Hartford it might be conceived that the college spirit would make itself felt in the life of Connecticut ; for the State is again only the larger home . But all the world knows what has happened in 1905 to Connecticut . It has been put in line with Delaware ; and most newspaper readers know that the prime mover in this degradation of Connecticut to the Senatorial level of that other unfortunate State , which has had to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man in whose interest it has been done , who has gained his end by this disgrace to Connecticut , has received an honorary degree from Yale and is usually prominent at banquets in Hartford when the Yale spirit is extolled . Turn up the Hartford newspapers of the days immediately following the late Senatorial election . Look at the scores of letters and telegrams which poured in on the self-created Senator . Then look up a Yale calendar , and see how many names of Yale graduates are appended to these fulsome and nauseating congratulations . It should be remembered also that the only Hartford newspaper of any pretense to civic value supported Bulkeley , and that it is controlled and edited by a Yale graduate of State-wide distinction . Again , watch the reports of proceedings before committees of the Legislature when the Consolidated Company or some other well-intrenched monopoly or vested interest trading in public utilities is out for favors for itself or would block some competing company which in the public interest ought to have a right of way . Note the names of the counsel for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale calendar . Five times out of six it is a Yale graduate who has been hired for this corporation service . Yale , too , is prominent among the lawyers who do the lobbying for these concerns . The chances also are that when there is a bill before the Legislature to shorten hours of labor in factories ? to bring them down from sixty a week to the level of Massachusetts and other of the progressive American States ? lawyers who proudly point to Yale as their Alma Mater , and who never miss an alumni banquet , are there as hired advocates to kill off in committee a measure which is based on popular demand and humane considerations . Again , when there is a bill to get rid of the doctrine of common employment so that the Consolidated Railroad Company and the other great industrial concerns of Connecticut shall make some compensation in respect of the men in their service who are killed or maimed ? a bill to provide that the casualties of industry shall be a recognized charge on industry , as they are in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and persistent opposition of the Consolidated , which employs 35,000 men , and is the controlling and dominating industrial interest in Connecticut . As far as my reading of the Hartford newspapers goes , and it extends back to 1892 , it is Yale lawyers who speak and lobby against every bill before the State Legislature which would abolish this doctrine of common employment in workmen 's compensation cases ? a doctrine which under present industrial conditions and present day social tendencies is as inhuman , as brutal , and as much out of date as the old slave codes of the Carolinas or Virginia . Lawyers in any country and at any time seldom range themselves with progressive forces . Perhaps it is expecting too much , even of the Yale spirit , that lawyers who are of Yale should lead in any forward movement in Connecticut . All college graduates in Hartford are , however , not of the Bar ; and if the Yale spirit really actuated these men toward right and justice , progress , fairer conditions between man and man and wholesome conditions generally in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers and can not be hoping to be retained by the great vested interests could surely count for something in bettering industrial conditions and raising the level of civic life and State politics . Only yesterday I received a postal card from some unknown source asking me to vote " No " on the consolidation of school districts at the city elections , in order to " keep our schools out of politics . " There is scarcely a day when I do not hear , or read the remark in the Hartford newspapers , that this or that interest or question must be kept out of politics . The oft-reiteration of this saying is in itself proof to me that the college spirit and influence as yet counts for nothing practical in clean politics and good government in Hartford and Connecticut . It is an allegation or an admission of untrustworthiness and rottenness among those who are responsible for Hartford and Connecticut politics ? for the administration of the affairs of the larger home . It should be remembered , however , whenever this disagreeable saying is used in Hartford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over , and in every period of the world 's history , comes not from below ? not from the rank and file of democracy , not from the poor and the ignorant ? but from above , from the well-to-do , and usually from the educated . It was always so in England . If there had been no lawyers eager to be of the House of Commons , no courtiers also eager to go there , and no landed aristocrats anxious to control Parliamentary representation ? if these had all been lacking in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , and had continued lacking , there would have been no need for the Parliamentary Reform Act of 1832 , for the act which immediately followed for the reform of the municipal corporations , nor for the comprehensive , far-reaching and drastic corrupt practices act of 1883 . It is much the same story in this country ; and it is certainly the same in Hartford and Connecticut . If there had been no " best people , " eager to bribe , Bulkeleyism could never have become rampant ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school districts and equalizing educational opportunities the public schools should get into politics . If my conception of the larger home is right , in politics is where the public schools really belong ; for politics to my mind are the affairs of the larger home . There are , if I am correctly informed , Yale graduates in Hartford who can lay their hands on the " best people " who are responsible for this corruption from above , who can tell whence come the funds with which newly naturalized voters on the East Side are bribed at city elections and also the sources of the $150,000 which debauched so many of the smaller rural towns of Connecticut at the State elections last fall . But Yale men in Hartford do not point out these offenders . They tumble over each other in their haste to get congratulatory telegrams on the wire when the nefarious schemes of these " best people " succeed , and take a delight in seeing their letters of congratulation in the public prints . So long as Yale men thus acquiesce in existing conditions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so long will the university and college spirit count for little that is practicable or obvious in the way of a higher civic life and a more wholesome atmosphere in Connecticut State politics .                     