@@474924

I 've a theory that every author while living has a projection of himself , a sort of cidolon , that goes about in near and distant places and makes friends and enemies for him out of folk who never knew him in the flesh . When the author dies this phantom fades away , not caring to continue business at the old stand . Then the dead writer lives only in the impression made by his literature ; this impression may grow sharper or fainter , according to the fashions and new conditions of the time. ? Letter of Thomas Bailey Aldrich to William Dean Howells , December 23 , 1901 . DESPITE the average American 's complacent and chuckling satisfaction in his country 's possession of that superman of humor , Mark Twain , there is room for serious doubt whether a realization of the unique and incomparable position of Mark Twain in the republic of letters has fully dawned upon the American consciousness . On reflection , the number of living writers to whom can justly be attributed what a Frenchman would call mondial eclat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago that Rudyard Kipling , with vigorous , imperialistic note , won for himself the unquestioned title as militant spokesman for the Anglo-Saxon race . To-day , Bernard Shaw has a fame more world-wide than that of any other literary figure in the British Isles , and his dramas are played from Madrid to Helsingfors , from Budapest to Stockholm , from Vienna to St. Petersburg , from Paris to Berlin . Since Ibsen 's death , Tolstoi exerts unchallenged the profoundest influence upon the thought and consciousness of the world ? not so much by his intellect as by the passionate integrity of his moral aspiration . But , in a sense not easily misunderstood , Mark Twain has a place in the minds and hearts of the great mass of humanity throughout the civilized world which , if measured in terms ofaffection , sympathy , and spontaneous enjoyment , is without a parallel . The robust nationalism of Kipling challenges the defiant opposition of foreigners ; while his reportorial realism offends many an inviolable canon of European taste . With all his incandescent wit and radiant comic irony , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strata of society ; while his legendary character is perpetually standing in the light of the serious reformer . Tolstoi 's works are Russia 's greatest literary contribution to posterity ; yet his extravagant ideals , his unrealizable hopes , in their almost maniacal mysticism , continue to detract from his fame . If Mark Twain makes a more generally popular appeal , it is because the instrument of his appeal is the universal solvent of humor . That eidolon of which Aldrich speaks ? a compact of good humor , robust sanity , and large-minded humanity ? has diligently " gone about in near and distant places , " everywhere making warm and lifelong friends of folk of all nationalities who have never known Mark Twain in the flesh . The stevedore on the dock , the motorman on the street-car , the newsboy on the street , the riverman on the Mississippi ? all speak with exuberant affection of this quaint figure in his white suit , ever wreathed in clouds of tobacco smoke . In one day an emperor and a roncierae vie with each other in tributes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is Mark Twain 's imperishable glory , not simply that his name is more widely known than that of any other living man , but that it is remembered with infinite and irrepressible zest . Not without wide significance in its bearing upon the general outlines of contemporary literature is the circumstance that Mark Twain served his apprenticeship to letters in the high school of journalism . Rudyard Kipling awoke the world with a start by the crude , almost barbaric cry of his journalese ; and Bernard Shaw acquired that trenchant and forthright style , which imparts such an air of heightened verisimilitude to his plays . in the ranks of the new journalism . " The writer who aims at pro-clueing the platitudes which are ' not for an age , but for all time , ' " says Bernard Shaw , " has his reward in being unreadable in all ages ; while Plato and Aristophanes trying to knock some sense into the Athens of their day , Shakespeare peopling that same Athens with Elizabethan mechanics and Warwickshire hunts , Ibsen photographing the local doctors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of St. Ursula exactly as if she were a lady living in the next street to him , are still alive and at home everywhere among the dust and ashes of many thousands of academic , punctilious , most archaeologically correct men of letters and art who spent their lives haughtily avoiding the journalist 's vulgar obsession with the ephemeral . " Mark Twain began by studying the people and period he knew , in relation to his own life ; and in writing of his time a propos of himself , succeeded in telling the truth about humanity in general and for any time . If it be true that the intellectual life of America for the most part takes it cue from the day , while Europe derives hers from history , then Mark Twain is a typical product of American literature as defined by Johannes V. Jensen : " journalism . under exceptionally favorable conditions . " Whatever modicum of truth may lurk in this definition , certain it is that Mark Twain is the greatest genius evolved by natural selection out of the ranks of American journalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his early writing was , it bore upon it the fresh stamp of contemporary actuality . While Mark Twain has solemnly averred that humor is a " subject which has never had much interest " for him , it is nothing more than a commonplace to say that it is as a humorist and as a humorist only that the world persists in regarding him . The philosophy of his early life was what George Meredithhas aptly termed the " philosophy of the Broad Grin " ; and Mark Twain has had a great struggle to " live down his past . " Mr. Gilbert Chesterton once said that " American humor , neither unf athomably absurd like the Irish , nor transfiguringly lucid and appropriate like the French , nor sharp and sensible and full of the realities of life like the Scotch , is simply the humor of imagination . It consists in piling towers on towers and mountains on mountains ; of heaping a joke up to the stars and extending it to the end of the world . " This partial and somewhat conventional foreign conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sky-breaking humor of the early Mark Twain . Then no exaggeration was too absurd for him , no phantasm too unreal , no climax too extreme . After a while he learned on the platform that the unpardonable sin is to " sell " an audience , and in the study that " comic copy " will never win real fame . In spite of these wholesome lessons learned through actual experience , Mark Twain has had to pay in full the penalty of comic greatness . The world is loath to accept a popular character at any rating other than its own . Whosoever sets to himself the task of amusing the world must realize the almost insuperable difficulty of inducing the world to regard him as a serious thinker . C'est une Orange entreprise que celle de faire Tire les honnates Bens , " says MoWere ; and the strangeness of the undertaking is no less pronounced than the rigor of its obligations . Mark Twain began his career as a professional humorist and fun-maker ; and the man in the street is not easily persuaded that the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common sense . The French have a fine-flavored distinction in ce gui remue from ce gui ifmeut ; and if rentuage was the defining characteristic of A Tramp Abroad , Roughing It , and Innocents Abroad , there was much of deep and genuine emotion in Life on the Afississippi . Torn Sawyer , Huckleberry Finn .. and Pudd'nhead Wilson . Think of that admirable passage in which he portrays the marvellous spell laid upon him by that mistress of his youth , the great river : The face of the water in time became a wonderful book-4 book which was a dead language to the uneducated passenger , but which told its mind to me without reserve , delivering its most cherished secrets as if it uttered them with a voice . And it was not a book to be read over and thrown aside , for it had a new story to tell every day . . . There was never so wonderful a book written by man . . . . When I had mastered , the language of this water , and had come to know every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I knew the letters of the alphabet , I had made a valuable acquisition . But I had lost something , too . I had lost something which could never be restored to me while I lived . All the grace , the beauty , the poetry , had gone out of the majestic river . . . . A day came when I began to cease from noting the glories and the charms which the moon and the sun and the twilight wrought upon the river 's face : another day came when I ceased altogether to note them . Even to-day , though long since dissociated in fact from the category of Artemus Ward , John Phcenix , Josh Billings , and Petroleum V. Nasby , Mark Twain can never be sure that his most solemn utterance may not be drowned in roars of thoughtless laughter . " It has been a very serious and a very difficult matter , " Mr. Clemens lately remarked to me , " to doff the mask of humor with which the public , has always seen me adorned . It is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any country , to see only humor in a humorist , however serious his vein . Not long ago I wrote a poem , which I never dreamed of giving to the public , on account of its seriousness ; but on being invited to address the women students of ' a certain great university , I was persuaded by a near friend to read this poem . At the close of my lecture T said : ' Now , ladies , I am going to read you a poem Photograph by Alvin L. Coburn of mine ' ? which was greeted with bursts of uproarious laughter . ' But this is a truly serious poem , ' I asseverated ? only to he greeted with renewed and , this time , more uproarious laughter . Nettled by this misunderstanding , I put the poem in my pocket , saying , ' Well , young ladies , since you do not believe me serious , I shall not read the poem , ' at which the audience almost went into convulsions of merriment . " Humor , it must be remembered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as related by an American , a Scotehman , an Irishman , a Frenchman , carries with it a distinctive racial flavor and individuality of approach . Indeed , it is open to question whether most humor is not essentially local in its nature , requiring some specialized knowledge of some particular locality . After reading George Ade 's Fables in Slang , Mr. Andrew Lang was driven to the desperate conclusion that humor varies with the parallels of latitude , a joke in Chicago being a riddle in London ! If one would lay his finger upon the secret of Mark Twain 's world - wide popularity as a humorist , he must find that secret primarily in the universality and humanity of his humor . Mark Twain is a master in the art of broad contrast ; incongruity lurks on the surface of his humor ; and there is about it a staggering and cyclopean surprise . But these are mere surface qualities , more or less common , though at lower power , to all forms of humor . Nor is Mark Twain 's international reputation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to any breadth of knowledge , or even to any depth of intellectuality . His hold upon the world is due to qualities not of the head , but of the heart . I once heard Mr. Clemens say that humor is the key to the hearts of men , for it springs from the heart ; and worthy of record is his dictum that there is far more of feeling than of thought in genuine humor . Mark Twain has a remarkable feeling for words and their uses ; and the merit of his style is its admirable adaptation to the theme . And though Mr. Henry James may have said that one must be a very rudimentary person to enjoy Mark Twain , there is unimpeachable virtue in a rudimentary style in treatment of rudimentary ? or , as I should prefer to phrase it , fundamental ? things . Mark Twain has always written with utter individuality , untrammelled by the limitations of any particular sect of art . Style bears translation ill ; in fact , translation is not infrequently impossible . But , as Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with sfyle . Mark Twain 's humor has international range , since , constructed out of a deep eomprehension of human nature and a profound sympathy for human relationships and human failings , it successfully surmounts the difficulties of translation into alien tongues . Mark Twain is a great figure , not because he is an American , paradoxical and even unpatriotic as this may sound , but because he is America 's greatest cosmopolitan . He is a true cosmopolitan in the Higginsonian sense in that , unlike Mr. Henry James , he is " at home even in his own country . " Above all , he has sympathized with and admired the citizens of every nation , seeking beneath the surface veneer the universal traits of that nation 's humanity . It is a matter , not of argument , but of fact , that he has made far more damaging admissions concerning America than concerning any other nation . He disclaims any " attitude " toward the world , for the very simple reason that his relation toward all peoples has been one of effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hearn best succeeded in interpreting poetry to his Japanese students by freeing it from all artificial and local restraints , and using as examples the simplest lyrics which go straight to the heart and soul of man . And his remarkable lecture on Naked Poetry is the most signal illustration of his profoundly suggestive mode of interpretation . In the same way Mark Twain as humorist has sought the highest common factor of all nations . " My secret , if there is any secret , " Mr. Clemens said to . me , " is to create humor independent of local conditions . Though studying humanity as exhibited in the people and localities I best knew and understood , I have sought to winnow out the encumbrance of the local . Humor . like morality , has its eternal verities . Most American humorists have not been widely famous because they have failed to create humor independent of local conditions not found or realized elsewhere . " It must be conceded that the history of literature furnishes forth no great international figures whose fame rests solely upon the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that humor may be . Behind that humor must lurk some deeper and more serious implication which gives breadth awl solidity to the art-product . Genuine humor , as Landor has pointed out , requires a " sound and capacious mind , which is always a grave one . " There is always a breadth of philosophy , a depth of sadness , or a profundity of pathos in the very greatest humorists . Both Rabelais and La Fontaine were reflecti v e dreamers ; Cer-vantes fought for the progressive and t h e real in pricking the bubble of Spanish chivalry ; and Moliere declared that , for a man in his position , he could do no better than attack the vices of his time with ridiculous likenesses . Though exhibiting little of the melancholy of Lincoln , Mark Twain has much of the Yankee shrewdness and bed-rock common sense of Franklin ; and commingled with all his boyish and exuberant fun is a note of pathos subdued b u t unmistakable . That " disposition for hard hitting with a moral purpose to sanction it , " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Mark Twain 's racial hereditament ; and it is , perhaps , because he relates us to our origins , as Mr. Brander Matthews has suggested , that Mark Twain is the foremost of American humorists . It is impossible to think of him in his maturer development as other than a moralist . His impassioned and chivalric defence of Harriet Shelley , his eloquent tribute to the Maid of Orleans , his philippic against King Leopold and the atrocities in the Congo , are all , in essence , vindications of the moral principle . Was It Heaven or Hell ? in its simple pathos , and The Man that Corrupted Hadlcyhurg , in its shrieking irony , present that same transvaluation of current moral values which marks the age of Nietzsche , of Ibsen , of Tolstoi , of Zola , and of Shaw . In her unfinished biography of him , Mark Twain 's little daughter Susy credited him with being " as much of a pholosopher sic as anything " ; and insists that " he is more interested in earnest hooks and earnest subjects to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' first essay on a philosophical subject ? doubting the existence of free will and declaring that every man was under the immitigable compulsion of his temperament , his training , and his environment ? was too heretical for the Hartford Club of orthodox religionists to which he belonged ; and so was never read . But in the last thirty years he has amplified his original conception into a philosophical and ethical system ; and to-day his injunction for right living is best concretized in these words : Diligently train your ideals upward and still upward toward a summit where you will find your chicfest pleasure in conduct which , while contenting you , will be sure to confer benefits upon your neighbors and the community . " As Lassalle once said , " History forgives mistakes and failures , but not want of conviction . " In Mark Twain posterity will never be called upon to forgive any want of conviction . Mark Twain is a great humorist ? more genial than grim , more good-humored than ironic , more given to imaginative exaggeration than to intellectual sophistication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great story-teller ; and he has enriched the literature of the world with a gallery of portraits so human in theirveracious likeness as to rank them with the great figures of classic comedy . He is a remarkable observer and faithful reporter , never allowing himself , in Ibsen 's phrase , to be " frightened by the venerableness of the institution " ; and his sublimated journalism reveals a mastery of the na ? vely comic thoroughly human and democratic . He is the most eminent product of our American democracy ; and , in profoundly shocking Great Britain by preferring Connecticut to Camelot , he exhibited that robustness of outlook , that buoyancy of spirit , and that faith in the contemporary which stamps America in perennial and inexhaustible youth . Throughout his long life he has been a factor of high ethical influence in our civilization ; and the philosopher and the humanitarian look out from the twinkling eyes of the humorist . But , after all , Mark Twain 's supremest title to distinction as a great writer inheres in his mastery in that highest sphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even humor , which we call sociology . Mr. Bernard Shaw once remarked to me that MARK TWAIN AT STORMFIELD. he regarded Poe and Mark Twain as America 's greatest achievements in literature ; and that he thought of Mark Twain primarily , not as humorist , but as sociologist . " Of course , " he added , " Mark Twain is in much the same position as myself : he has to put matters in such a way as to make people who would otherwise hang him believe he is joking ! " And Mark Twain once said that whenever he had diverged from custom and principle to utter a truth , the rule has been that the hearer had n't strength of mind enough to believe it . There is a " sort of contemporaneous posterity " which has registered its verdict that Mark Twain is the world 's greatest living humorist ; but there is yet to come that greater posterity of the future which will , I dare say , class Mark Twain as America 's greatest sociologist in letters . He is the historian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this continent that has passed forever . And it is inconceivable that any future investigator into the sociological phases of that civilization can fail to find priceless and unparalleled documents in the wild yet genial , rudimentary yet sane , boisterous yet universally human writings of Mark Twain . It is a far cry from the steamboat on the Mississippi to the Italianate villa , from the overalls of the riverpilot to the gray and scarlet of the Oxford gown . And in recalling the various vicissitudes of his varied life the mind irresistibly reverts to that day when Mark Twain , at the age of sixty , accompanied by his wife , set forth to retrieve his fallen fortunes . When the publishing-house in which he was interested , against his advice and through no fault of his own , continued a policy which led to ruin , Mr. and Mrs. Clemens discovered that even if they sacrificed all their effects they could pay the creditors only about forty cents on the dollar . But Mrs. Clemens ' passion for morals manifested itself , and they agreed together that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for dollar . With her courageous company , Mr. Clemens began his career a second time , setting off on a tramp abroad which has ended in " Stormfield " and autumn peace . With obligations satisfied , business integrity magnificently maintained , and fortune made , Mr. Clemens has earned that dignified and honorable leisure for congenial work and humanitarian service it was the tragic fate of Sir Walter Scott never to realize . Nothing can disturb the even tenor of his care-free existence ? not even that direst of all terrors to the man of letters , the expiration of copyright . For he has incorporated the very name of Mark Twain !                     