@@486712

President Roosevelt 's declaration that Government shops must be " open " is such a staggering blow in the face of the " unionists " that they naturally try to break the force of the shock . Mr Gompers kindly explains that the President prefers the union shop in private entet -- prises . With Mr. Roosevelt 's personal preferences nobody can quarrel . He has laid down in the clearest terms the only sound principle on which public work can be conducted  --  absolute disregard of the claims of labor unions , religious societies , or any other such organizations . This principle the American Federation of Labor , of which Mr. Gompers is the head , has bitterly opposed . Encouraged by President Roosevelt 's example , governors and mayors may now pluck up heart and assert themselves against unionist encroachments upon the rights of free men ; for the test for public employment whether in the construction of a State canal or the building of a city school , should be nothing but personal capacity . Moreover , whatever Mr. Gompers may say , Mr Roosevelt is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so far as falls within his duty , our laws to protect the open shop If in 1909 he starts a factory at Oyster Bay and chooses to hire only union labor , nobody should lay a straw across his path , but if his next-door neighbor wants the open shop , that neighbor must enjoy equal liberty . To this proposition Mr. Roosevelt can not but give hearty assent . As a lover of fair play , he can not approve the argument by which Mr. Gompers , in the October issue of the American F e der at , z , o s t , defends boycotting and intimidation . The President 's fiat repudiation of Ad-dicks , in the appointment of a successor to his tool , District Attorney Byrne , is most welcome . He has now selected the man who was so strongly urged upon him a year ago by the bar and judiciary of Delaware , but whom he then , in a rash moment , put aside in favor of an abject truckler to the great Delaware corruptionist . Mr. Roosevelt has learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have foreseen , that the country considers Ad-dicks the very type and crown of political debauchery , and could only look with astonished indignation upon the association of Theodore Roosevelt with that tainted purchaser of votes . That the President has now seen the error of his ways and has resolutely turned his back upon the man at whom the decent citizens of this country draw the line , is matter for general rejoicing . It will hearten the antagonists of political scoundrelism everywhere , and will , in particular , nerve the honest remnant in Delaware to keep up the fight upon the smirched man who would smirch the State . Addicks 's overthrow at the White House followed an impudent visit to the President , in the course of which he was , according to the press dispatches , told some exceedingly plain and wholesome truths . Mr. Roosevelt , indeed , informed the gasman that his call was in " extremely bad taste . " After what has happened , we doubt if it is repeated . Now that the President has been stung into exercising his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope he will not let the function lapse In other States than Delaware the conditions cry aloud for its application . Mr. Bryan 's belated letter to the Eventng Post of Friday on negro disfranchisement adds neither wisdom nor courage to the discussion of a momentous issue . All that it proves is , that another Democratic leader is willing to keep the Declaration of Independence purely for export to the Philippines . Mr. Bryan speaks gingerly of " Constitutional guarantees , " but has not a word to say of the duty of Congress to resist and correct their open violation . He may possibly learn more boldness from the Massachusetts Democrats , who on Thursday declaied in their platform against all attempts to repeal the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments They perceive clearly the monstrous inconsistency of standing up for the rights of the Filipinos while viewing with mild expressions of disapproval the political wrongs of the negro at home , or deferring the whole matter to the arbitrament of time . They are evidently willing to have a difference of opinion about this question within the party ranks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's announcement of his determination to begin the battle for the repeal of the Fifteenth Amendment . Their action is an admonition to the Democratic party Of the South It serves notice that in Massachusetts the old ideal of equality in citizenship still holds . It could not be otherwise ; the Democrats who wear Grand Army buttons there are too numerous to permit the party to sit by silently and see the greatest achievements of the civil war nullified . The Massachusetts Republicans have wheeled into line and are marching with the noble army of stand-patters . The tariff , they assert , may need revision some time , but not now . When the dim and far-away day shall at last dawn , the changes must be made by " the friend and defender of protection " This plank is evidently modelled on the familiar advice regarding marriage  --  a young man not yet , an old man not at all For the last twenty years the Republicans have been saying " Not yet ! " and soon the plea must be that the hour of grace has passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too early or too late to mend the tariff . The country is not facing a new problem ; it is as old as the history of government . The Tammany platform partakes visibly of the weakness which marks the beginning of its Mayoralty campaign . I ! the Hall has never been accused of a literary atmosphere , it has none the less generally seen to it that its resolutions were forcible , of an aggressive tone , and as plausible as its record permitted . Not for years , we believe , have the delegates been called upon to cheer for so lame a document It was well read by Senator O'Sullivan , but even his art failed to ; obtain any applause for it when he took his seat . It is a melange of hopeless contradictions , a promise thrown ' in here , a denunciation there It assures the reader that the Low Administration obtained office through " false pretences and dishonest representations . " But if these representations , which evidently refer to , the police collusion with vice , were untrue and dishonest why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the suppression of criminal protection by the police force , to the absolute uprooting of the evils which exist in the Police Department " ? Such a pandering to decency is not to be found in Tammany 's platform of 1901 . Then it was willing to enter the campaign with a ' studied silence upon what was the leading topic of the hour , while its orators denied the existence of any abuses . Two years of ' starvation have had their effect ; Tammany sick is willing to take a leaf out of the reform book which it so viciously denounces . Most of the platform 's mendacities are so easily answered as to increase the wonder that.Mr . Murphy turned his back upon all the clever men in Tammany . Magistrate Hogan 's experience does not bear out the statement that complaints against the police receive " but superficial investigation . " He would have been glad , indeed , to escape the ordeal of backing up his allegations before a - Deputy Commissioner , and So would other citizens who have made - sweeping-  charges , - and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The falsehood that 80,000 children are in vain clamoring for admittance to our schools was refuted before it was uttered , and reads amusingly beside the excuses for the unfinished schools and scanty sittings in the Tammany platform of 1901 . But ' for the strike , the Hall would have been deprived of the slight truth there is in its present declaration , and of this Tammany is quite aware . Similarly the platform forgot to mention , in attacking Dr. Woodbury for his alleged extravagance in cleaning the streets , that the money he received has come to him largely through the votes of Democratic Aldermen , with whom the Commissioner has been a prime favorite . As for the rest , there is abuse and faultfinding without end , but the specifications of the wrongdoings asserted are left to the reader 's imagination . Mr. Crain had prepared two columns of them for the Convention 's delectation , but even he thought it best to leave this part of his speech unspoken . All in all , there was little in Thursday 's Convention to suggest the powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Croker . We can barely hint at the moral den- ? city which Comptroller Grout displays . Having tricked the Fusion Conference into nominating him , he now asserts an indefeasible right to a nomination which he obtained under false pretences . His first threat that , if " pressed too hard , " he would not run for office at all but return to the practice of his profession , he now seems to have modified . In its present form it reads that he will run for office by means of practising his profession . Did ever a candidate start out to elect himself with such an array of writs and court orders ? Mr. Grout proposes to enjoin and mandamus everybody in sight . If the thing goes on , every voter will be haled to court and required to show cause why he should not mark his ballot for Mr. Grout . The prospect is indefinitely extensive . After he is beaten at the polls , the Comptroller can apply for a writ of quo warrant ? to serve upon his successor . He may even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there not also a remedy in replevin ? We may be sure that Mr. Grout will leave untried no legal resource to compel the unhappy citizens of New York to vote for a man they despise . Well , this may be magnificent practice of the profession , but it is incredibly stupid politics . If nothing else makes Mr. Grout pause in his career of folly , Murphy will soon order him to leave off his nonsense . The Tammany leader will not wish to see developed such a mania for beating Grout that thousands of Tammany ballots will be invalidated by ruthless scratching of the candidate for the Comptrollership just as votes were lost to the Wigwam in 1901 by the widespread eagerness to scratch Van Wyck . No one longer pretends to believe that a currency reform measure will be enacted at the forthcoming special session of Congress . Indeed , the Washington oracles now say that no serious move in this direction will be made even at the regular session . It looks , indeed , as if the whole matter would be allowed to drop , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and partly through the usual fear of alludes to currency reform at all in his annual message it will be in a most perfunctory manner . A great change has taken place since two months ago , when the country was given to understand not only that a currency measure had been practically agreed upon , but that its passage at the extra session would be easily effected ? in other words , we might consider the thing as good as done . Two questions arise . First , was there ever any genuine expectation on the part of those who were so confidently predicting the passage of a currency reform measure , or was all their talk merely part of a propaganda , or for effect upon Wall Street ; and , second , is it at all to be wished that such a measure should be rushed through the extra session , or be discussed in the manner that is always apt to characterize Congress when a Presidential election is impending ? A good deal of encouragement as regards the general financial situation may be extracted from the annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal year ended June 30 , 1903 . The developments in Will Street since September , 1902 , and particularly since the early summer of 1903 , have unmistakably depressed the spirits of those actively participating in the material affairs of the nation . The overcapitalization of industry , the as er-extension of credit , the senseless inflation of stock-. market quotations , and the extraordinary rise in commodity prices which characterized the last few years , failed for a long time to excite widespread concern ; but recently these phenomena have begun to take hold upon the fears of the community . Is the country in danger of entering another period similar to that witnessed between 1893 and 1897 ? The affirmative view is not generally expressed in print , yet it must be said that the events of the last few days have concentrated the public mind very directly upon that possibility . But the Treasurer 's report is calculated to allay such a fear . A 's a mere matter of detail , he states that the increase of the money in circulation during the year was $121,740,532 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and $54,520 , - 193 in national bank notes . The share of money for each person increased 89 cents , and the proportion of gold to the whole rose to 42 per cent. , the highest ratio ever recorded . Now , this showing differentiates the present financial situation very sharply from that which existed about 1893 . When a leading financier said a year or two ago that there could never be another great financial panic in the United States , he was talking wildly ; but it is perhaps safe to assert that a feature which in the past has contributed powerfully to the intensity and prolongation of financial revulsions , has been permanently removed The peculiar gravity of the 1893 crash , for instance , resided in the fact that the over-extension of individual credit was complicated with an even more fundamental vice  --  namely , the impairment of public credit . It was because the currency system of the nation was thoroughly unsound that such a period as 1893 to 1897 was possible . The Sherman law of 1890 had the effect that was foreseen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidity , gold was hoarded , the Government 's receipts of the metal fell practically to the vanishing-point . In his present report , the Treasurer states that " of the receipts from customs at the port of New York , constituting 67 per cent . of the whole , 88 per cent . was in gold " ? a complete reversal of the situation which existed prior to the 1893 disturbance The great difficulty experienced by the Government in keeping intact its $100,000,000 gold reserve against the greenbacks is a matter of history . To-day the public credit is at its maximum . - High livers and modest lovers of Delicatessen will regard the new activities of the Department of Agricultuiewith something between gratification and dismay . Recent confiscations of adulterated food and drink from abroad have included Frankfurter sausages , on account of suspicious preservatives ; Sauterne , for an excess of sulphur ; Rhine wines , for salicylic acid , olive oil , for admixture of cheaper oils ; jellies and jams , for coal-tar coloring and flavoring extracts . All this is calculated to abridge the pleasures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good things , from Chateau bottlings to the translucent conserves of Bar-le-Duc . There is a complication , too , in the fact that the new food inspection may be condemning right American products  --  the golden cottonseed oil of the South and the generous white wines of the Pacific Coast . Weak-kneed hankerers after the European fleshpots will possibly aver that it was a case , where ignorance is bliss . Salicylic acid , if unperceived , does not mar the bouquet of a " Schloss " vintage , nor cotton-oil impair a mayonnaise  --  except for epicures . But the Department of Agriculture will properly turn a deaf ear to the pleading of these " bad Americans , " and will continue its useful work of keeping unwholesome food products out and making the rest conform to their labels . The convention of fish and game commissioners which has been in session at Boston to consider means for the protection of the lobster has agreed on three recommendations , and these will doubtless soon come up for discussion in the legislatures of all the Northern Coast States . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the State , the general adoption of the Maine law , which prohibits the sale of lobster meat except in the shell , and the enactment of uniform laws as to the length of lobsters which may be kept . The resolution on this last point would have carried more weight if the commissioners had been able to agree as to what is the proper length There was much discussion on the plan for compulsory construction of a special lobster pot which would catch only those between eight and eleven inches long . It is putting a severe strain on poor human nature to expect the fishermandeliberately to throw away good edible lobsters which he already has in hand . If the new pot will do the sorting for him in the depths of the sea , morality as well as ichthyology will be the gainer . It is a still more direct way out of the difficulty to adopt the Canadian plan of a close season  --  another suggestion considered by the convention : All this discussion will doubtless do good , but it hardly touches one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with enforcing the laws . The rural game warden who may be lenient with his friends is nevertheless inflexible in his attitude toward the stranger . But this sort of enforcement will not do at all in the lobster fisheries . The " dude sportsman " does not catch lobsters . All the lobstermen are apt to be friends and neighbors of the wardens . Mr. Balfour 's reorganized Cabinet is condemned as soon as composed . He retains the unpopular Lord Lansdowne in the Foreign Office , transfers the incompetent Mr. Brodrick from the War to the India Office , replacing him by young Mr. Arnold-Forster ; gives to the experimental Mr. Austen Chamberlain the Chancellorship of the Exchequer , and finally tries young Air . Alfred Lyttelton , an M.P . of seven years ' standing , in the Colonial Office  --  a portfolio which Lord Cromer and Lord Milner had declined to take . It is certainly the youngest Ministry that has ever ruled England , and possibly the weakest The imperturbable Tenses recalls that Disraelionce said that England must be saved by her young men . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asks how Mr. Balfour can possibly face Parliament with so impossible a Government . Mr. Balfour , indeed , has only one reason for not resigning himself  --  to give a little time for the Chamberlain protectionist leaven to work before the general elections . We have possibly a case of decease deferred , pending litigation , in favor of the residuary legatee . It needed only the Duke of Devonshire 's resignation to give the farce of the reorganized Ministry a tragic tinge . This veteran Liberal-Unionist has supported Mr. Balfour beyond the point of political consistency , and almost of self-respect , in the hope that the Premier would finally renounce Mr. Chamberlain and his works . Now , nettled at certain flippant expressions in the Sheffield speech , the Duke resigns , and Mr. Balfour , in accepting the resignation , is betrayed into unhappy and uncharacteristic expressions of personal resentment . As to the insinuation that the Duke has been at pains to pick a quarrel , the Unionist leader in the Lords has brought that upon himself by not going out with Mr. Ritchie . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Devonshire has repudiated Mr. Balfour , but that he did not do so long ago . As it is , the Prime Minister loses the most imposing figure in his Cabinet , and the most influential of his indispensable allies , the Liberal-Unionists . From now on , it is only a question of deciding when to publith the death notice of the Government ; for dead it is , to all political intents and purposes . Mr. Balfour has virtually passed from the stage , and the actors in the new drama are Mr. Chamberlain preaching protection , and the Liberals and Free-Trade Unionists opposing him . For solemn nonsense the renewed Austro-Russian demands upon the Porte have rarely been equalled . Last February these two Powers jointly required Turkey to appoint an independent Inspector-General over the vilayets of Kossovo , Monastir , and Salonika ; to reorganize the gendarmerie under European officers , and with suitable representation of native Christians ; finally , to reform the worst abuses of the Ottoman system of tax-gathering . Within a day these demands were " accepted " by Turkey  --  in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ express it , " the representatives of the Sublime Porte interested with their application the reforms have been generally wanting in the necessary zeal , and have not been imbued with the idea which inspired these measures . " In less diplomatic language , the new Inspector-General has not been the agent of the Powers , but the promoter of massacre ; the " foreign specialists " who were to discipline the gendarmerie  --  a handful of Swedish officers virtually prisoners and in danger of their lives  --  were recently discovered by the English correspondents at Monastir ; instead of tax reform there has been wholesale burning and pillage . And now Austria and Russia , expressing mild disapproval of the past , merely suggest that the Sultan should do better in the future . What the Macedonians think of this plea in their behalf may easily be imagined . Very inconsiderately , the Japanese are to send troops to Korea just before the Russian evacuation of Mantchuria , which is set for to-day . Obviously , this significant step is taken as a check to the Russian demands for privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sharp reminder that Japan means to assert and maintain her preponderancy in the peninsula . We can but note also that this almost aggressive action falls at a time when Japan and Russia are in negotiation about all frontier matters . Clearly , the Japanese are unwilling to commit themselves unreservedly to any " truce of the Bear . " No immediate result is likely to follow the landing of the Japanese regiments , but the event is pretty certain to constitute an " obstacle " to the approaching evacuation of Mantchuria . Providentially , other obstacles are ready at need ; the Chinese court has refused to accede to the supplementary conditions of withdrawal . Thus it seems unlikely that October 8 will make any excessive demand upon the transportation facilities of the Trans-Siberian and Port Arthur railways . Within a few days of his resumption of the Hungarian Prime Ministry , Count Hedervary has been again outvoted in Parliament , and resigns . Details are lacking , but it seems likely that his overthrow is due to the extreme irritation produced among the Magyar Nationalists by the Emperor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unalterably opposed to admitting the Hungarian language or extending Magyar influence in ' the army of the Dual Empire , the Nationalists had no choice but to continue the campaign of obstruction against the Emperor 's man , Count Hedervary , who had already been much discredited by the detection of bribery among his followers . Count Hedervary was transferred from the Governorship of Croatia to Budapest in the character of a " strong man . " His strength has been ignominiously deficient before the impossible situation which confronted him . Speculation as to the future of Hungary would be preposterous ; but , since the Emperor has given up his role of conciliator between Magyars and Germans , it has become vastly more difficult to settle the racial deadlock in any parliamentary or constitutional way .                     