@@486734

502 The Nation . Vol. 89 , No. 2317 which , whatever its flag , is disappear-. ing frein the Atlantic much as has the sailing-ship . Another Senator , Mr. Burton of Ohio , has denounced Mr. Root 's proposed first step of rehabilitation as certain to be of no benefit to our marine interests and utterly un-American in principle . But most amazing of all is the fact that Senator Root should have urged upon shrewd business men the blunder of creating an economically wasteful business , the best argument for which is purely sentimental . American ships everybody wants , but only if they can justify themselves on their own merits . Would Mr. Root ask New York city shippers to patronize the New York Central Railroad purely out of State pride , if it charged as high rates as the other lines and in addition cach shipper were forced to contribute to the cost of maintaining the railway ? Yet that is precisely the ship-subsidy translated into land terms . Nor do ships in themselves create trade . If anybody doubts this , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idle in British docks because trade is so bad . Finally , in the presence of distinguished foreigners , Mr. Root joined the ultra-protectionists in denying American capacity ; to the Chamber which built up New York in earlier days through the enterprise of its Peabodys , its Grinnells , its John Jacob Astors , its Peter Coopeis , he announced the passing of all need for sea-capacity , for daring , for skill , for wetting the sails and running before gales after the fashion of those dauntless Americans who did show our flag in every port and asked no grants from the Treasury . THE STANDARD OIL DECISION . Careful perusal of the opinion in Saturday 's decision against the Standard Oil Company will , we think , convince most readers that it is not only sound law as the statutes stand , but is con- servative interpretation of the law . The Idecision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is , like the Supreme Court 's Northern Securities decision of 1904 , levelled primarily against the holding-company device , when employed for monopolistic purposes . This is shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order whereby the court undertakes to remedy the situation . It is , the court points out , the effort of every person engaged in interstate coramerce " to draw to himself to the exclusion of others , and thereby to monopolize , a part of that trade " ; and thiS is not of itself illegal . But the oil combination goes further . The gist of its violation of law is " the combination and conspiracy of the numerous defendants , many of them formerly competitors , to restrain trade and to monopolize that commerce , " and the achievement of such purpose through the contrivance of the holding company , without which such restraint " would not have existed and can not continue . " In its concluding order , the court does not enjoin the constituent companies from continuing business , but decrees that the holding company , the Standard Oil of New Jersey , shall receive no further dividends from such companies , and exercise no further control or voting right in their affairs . If the Supreme Court were to uphold the decision , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Securities , would be the return of the stock in such constituent companies to the parties entitled to it under the trust . In these conclusions , it is difficult to doubt that the Standard Oil decision is a logical sequel to that of the Northern Securities . ? The language of the court has , indeed , a peculiarly interesting bearing on the decision of 1904 . The Northern Securities decision , it will be recalled , was the verdict of a divided court . Four , justices on the Supreme Bench ruled against the company and four in its favor . The deciding vote was that of Justice Brewer . He dissented from the court 's opinion against the company in its larger scope , on - the ground that " Congress did not intend by that Anti-Trust Act to reach and destroy those minor contracts in partial restraint of trade which the long course of decisions at common law had affirmed were reasonable . " But he also held that " if the parties interested in these two railway companies can , through the instrumentality of a holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in like manner , as was conceded on the argument by one of the counsel for the appellants , could the control of all the railways in the country be placed in a single corporation . " On this ground , chiefly , he concurred in the decision against the Northern Securities . That important admission by Mr. Johnson , counsel for the Northern Securities , indicated most plainly the evil against which the courts are acting , and the nature of the remedy which they are applying . It was a common criticism , after the Northern Securities dissolution , that since the same parties as had controlled the holding company still controlled the stocks of Northern Pacific and Great Northern , therefore the situation was not changed at all . Put a moment 's reflection should convince the simplest mind that the- situation had been changed , and radically . The holding company , with the enormous facilities for future acquisition provided by its machinery of exchanging stock for stock , had been struck down , and the natural order of things in the investment market and among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality an invention of our day , and the courts have been compelled to deal with it as a new thing . Introduced ostensibly , in the excited " promotion era " of 1899 and 1901 , for the purpose of restraining destructive competition , it is still too recent an industrial contrivance to admit any confident prediction as to what conditions would ultimately be created by it . Thoughtful consideration of the problem , however , and the actual history of some of the larger combinations , have established certain facts which are far from reassuring . One is , that the price of staple articles might , through the medium of such a holding company , be advanced to extortionate heights in defiance of actual market conditions This has been proved by the history of the Amalgamated Copper , a holding company . Another is , that enormous power over industrial and financial conditions might be exerted and permanently held by a very few men , controlling such a company though owning merely a small minority of its stock . This was in substance admitted by Mr. J. P @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous corporations that their capitalization might be made so great as to render impossible the unseating of existing managements . The formidable possibilities created by the general introduction of such industrial machinery scarcely need to be pointed out . It was possible , even for economic writers , to argue that the producing costs should be greatly lowered through the friendly cooperation of many allied producers , and that stability of prices might be guaranteed through domination Of one great corporation in a given trade . But it was also possible to picture a state of affairs , later on , in which not one industry , but all industries , might be so dominated by a group of men behind the holding companies that domestic competition would be no longer an efficient safeguard , and the consumer would be absolutely at the mercy of the controlling interests . We do not believe that such a position has yet been reached in any industry . But the logic of the holding-company device pointed unmistakably to the possibility of such an outcome . The courts , we believe , have had that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . They have , however , also kept in view the principle that combination in itself is not illegal , and that the decision of the court as to its legality must depend on the nature , scope , and purpose of the power acquired through a given combination . The Anti-Trust Act of 1890 , under which the Northern Securities and Standard Oil decisions have been handed down , is an imperfect measure , in so tar as it makes in its language no express discrimination regarding the character of combinations which it proscribes . Part of the present Administration 's programme is to press for alteration or amendment of the statute on such lines . Meanwhile , however , it is clear from the language of Saturday 's decision that the courts are observing such discrimination for themselves . THE REFORMS IN INDIA- Lord Morley has redeemed his promise to the people of India The changes in Indian legislation and administration which went into effect last week are regarded- by British opinion and by the great mass of moderate opinion in Hindustan as a decided step towards ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system in India will make clear the nature and importance of Lord Morley 's reforms . Leaving out of account the India Office in London , the country as a whole is ruled by a Viceroy , or Governor-General . and a council of twenty members . The press dispatches are in evident error when they speak of an increase in the Viceroy 's Council froin 126 memhers to 370 . The Viceroy 's Council and all the provincial councils together number only about 140 members , and that is probably the total to which the 126 applies . The Viceroy 's Council is subdivided into two . Seven members , all of whom up to last March were Englishmen , constitute a privy or executive council 113 whose hands the real powers o : government are vested . For the purpose of making laws and regulations , thirteen additional members , Englishmen and natives , are called in . In the full council the natives form one-half of the membership . But , as Indian opinion used to complain , the " making of laws and regulations " did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Government policy was shaped and Government secrets were discussed by the odd half-dozen of Ordinary Members among whom a native took his seat for the first time only six months ago . For the purposes of administration India is divided - into nine great provinces under governors , lieutenant-governors , or chief commissioners Seven of the provinces have legislative councils made up , like the Viceroy 's Council , of Englishmen and natives , in about equal numbers . But the sharp division between Hindus and Mohammedans among the natives , and the natural prestige of the ruling race , have given the English element control of the councils . Two of the seven provinces , Madras and Bombay , have small executive councils , made up exclusively of Englishmen As in the Viceroy 's Council , the additional members , English and native , are called in to make " laws and regulations . " In other words , the system over all India where legislative councils exist and natives are admitted to membership , virtually amounts to giving the natives the privilege of debating and ratifying policies and measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system against which India protested and which Lord Morley 's reforms have profoundly modified . Under the new regime , the provincial councils are enlarged , and to the nonofficial element , which means practically the native element , is given an absolute majority in membership The initiative in legislation and administrative policy will still come from the Government , of course , but members have the right to bring forward " supplementary " questions , or virtually to interpellate the Government . An absolute majority in the Council , even- if it were restricted to the making of " laws and regulations ' could for , ce concessions by a policy of obstruction . But under the new regime the budget will come up for debate in the Councils In any case , the British administrator will be driven to discard something of the air of omnipotence and omniscience which Mr. Kipling so rejoices to honor , and will have to explain and account , in increasing measure ac time goes on , to the representatives of the people over whom he rules . In Bombay and Madras , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive council , natives are to be eligible for membership in that body . The reconstitution of the Viceroy 's Council , which is to number sixty members , and not 370 as reported in the-daily press , is not to be put into effect for a few months . But that is because , in the case of the Viceroy 's Council , the most important step was already taken in March last , when a Bengali lawyer entered the innermost citadel of English power as an Ordinary Member . Undoubtedly , this entrance ' of natives into the executive councils constitutes the most important concession to India . It is not unfair to look upon the British rule in India as the rule of a handful of conquerors imposed on a submissive but by no means reconciled population . That is the view which British opinion and Hindu opinion of all shades openly or implicitly recognize . It is a Momentous step , therefore , that the representatives of the subject population shall be admitted into the innermost councils of the dominant race Let us make the rather wild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take measures next year against the danger of a general native uprising . Such measures will have to be discussed in the presence of the Bengali member of the'Governor 's Council . It may very well be that Mr. Sinha will turn out the most loyal man in the Council . But the significant thing is that the Viceroy 's Council will no longer have the aspect of the general staff of an army of occupation . It will be truly a Council for India , because India 's native sons will make their voices heard in debate . . There is little reason to doubt that the new system will work well . The admirable thing about the British- ? char- , otter is that it loyally recognises- the fait accompli . The London Times , which had fought concessions in India tooth and nail , is beginning to hope . " The capacity of the enlarged councils , " it says , " will be judged mainly by their methods of treatment of the budgets . If a businesslike attitude be adopted by the Indian members instead of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the official finance of the governments may benefit by the change of procedure . " The principal danger in the way at present seems to be the possibility that the Hindu majorities may Swamp the Mohammedan minority and lead to racial oppression . But the Pax Britannica has grown weak indeed , if it can not hold a reckless Hindu majority under control . JAPAN IN MANCHURIA Our State Department 's approval of the Chino-Japanese conventions concerning Manchuria signed on September 4 , comes somewhat belated , but welcome nevertheless . We have it now authoritatively laid down that the open door is still open , that Japan 's railway and mining concessions do not create a monopoly in her favor , and that Chinese rights in the territory occupied by Japan have been duly respected . Great Britain , Germany , and France , whi preisumably are as interested in maintaining their foothold in China as we are , at once expressed thefr satisfaction with the agreement between China and Japan . Questions which had been hang-ling in the air for years were disposed of , and that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of our sporadic awakenings to the immense importance of our interests in China , began to scent a devilish game by Japan We were going to protest , we were not go-'mg to protest ; we were going to send a man to the spot who knew how to push American commerce  --  we called him back before he got on board ship . Only after two and a half months of confused polemic , the State Department begs to state that there is no reason for growing excited . The regular outcry against Japan 's attempt to close the open door in Mane , churia coincides with- the regular out- : cry about the decline of A.merican , trade in China . Naturally , the two must be related as cause and effect . If our imports into Manchuria go down while Japan 's go up , it must be because Japan . that there can be any legitimate reasons why Japanese commerce should grow in Manchuria . Yet a moment 's candid reflection would show that there are at least three powerful reasons . First , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds in Manchuria does not inevitably carry with it a trade advantage . A good many , Americans , if we remember well , once had a good deal to say , about trade following the flag . Much more reason is there now for Japanese trade following the Japanese flag across scarcely a hundred miles of sea . Without infringing even the spirit of the international agreements concerning equal opportunity in China , the Japanese Government would be more than human if it did not give its subjects broader opportunities for trade in Manchuria than the outsider can . compass . Nor is any of the other nations in a position to throw stones . A second factor in the growth of Japanese commerce in the Manchurian provinces is the increase of the Japanese population there . Korea has absorbed since the war possibly a half-million Japanese . Manchuria must have received a very large immigration . When we are told that the importation of Japanese cottons into Niuchwang has been making headway at the expense of the American product , it is well enough to remember that , other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patronize the Japanese article . Here is a case where the Mikado 's Government might indulge in absolutely Aristidean impartiality and yet be compelled to witness a steady growth of her imports into Manchuria . But neither the first nor the second reason can compare with the third great reason for the growth of Japanese trade ? Japan 's fitness to hold her own and more wit'i the other Powers in fair economic competi. tion . Again , it would be absurd to overlook Japan 's enormous advantage iv her proximity to the market , an advantage that did not count when Japan was in her industrial infancy , but ' one that must count tremendously when Japanese ingenuity and resourcefulness have mastered the processes and methods of industrial success . The energies of a nation called forth by a successful Titanic war for self-preservation are inevitably seeking an cutlet in the industrial sphere.ditions in this country for the growth of American commerce in Manchuria ? We held a predominant place in that region ten years ago , largely because of lack of competition and in spite of our notoriously bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To overcome Japan 's advantage of an enormously cheaper labor market and much lower freights , what efforts have we made at home , what new resources have we brought to play on the ? Chinese market ? At home the mockery of tariff-revision sends the cost of living steadily upward , and makes even the semblance of competition with Japan in I the matter of labor-cost unthinkable . In China the American merchant clings to his fine antediluvian habit of carrying the stock he himself likes best , packing and labelling his wares to suit himself , and as for making himself familiar with the language and habits of his public  --  ridiculous ! Is it not now a , s plain as a pikestaff that if Japanese trade in Manchuria is growing and American trade is declining , it must be the wicked Japanese who are behind it all ? Hence , we have piteous appeals to the State Department to keep the open door from being shut on American thumbs . Then come heroic measures for stimulating American interests with the strychnine and digitalis of railway loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how sincere are our great manufacturers in all this pother about the disappearing Chinese market ? If our tariff-fed industries displayed one-tenth the ingenuity in China that they expend in separating the American consumer from his money , they would not be howling every little while at the doors of the State Department . One fine Southern imagination has declared that if the Chinese people would add one inch to the length of their shirts , the product of our cotton mills would be doubled . But only let our tariff barons add one cent to what the American citizen pays for his yard of cotton cloth , and the Chinaman 's shirt can go on lengthening till it sweeps the ground in sacerdotal folds , for all our manufacturers care . RICHARD WATSON GILDER . Not often is the nation called upon to mourn a truer patriot than Richard - Watson Gilder ; not often has it beenbetter served by one whosd career was that of letters . For the inspiration of his pen was the desire to better not only the administration of the state , but the lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement of importance in New York city has turned instinctively to Mr. Gilder for encouragement , certain of his approval . The frail , delicate physique was lashed from one public service to another by the same dauntless spirit which , at seventeen , had made him a cannoneer at Gettysburg amid the hardships of a campaign that overcame many a stouter body  --  and always with a modesty so great that to far too many people the splendid character of the service rendered was quite unknown . Not , however , to those who had followed or participated in the battle for a better and worthier New York . They know that Mr. Gilder took up the cause of the poor unasked , because his heart cried out against the conditions in which the poor lived and live ; they know that in the work of the Gilder , Tenement House Commission he set himself a monument of which any man might be proud . To his initiative and leadership more than to that of any other one man the three millions who live in New York 's tenement houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well said , " tore down a hundred dens of death ' and gave the poor tenants ' children playgrounds where before they had only the street and the gutter " ; it was Richard Watson Gilder " who opened small parks and recreation piers , who corbelled the building of new schools ; who shaped the laws that made the tenant safe against the horrid peril of midnight fires " ; thanks to him there were saved each year more than 12,000 infant lives . Yet great as was this civic achievement , the sum total of his many hundred others is even great ; er . In campaign after campaign for city-righteousness he would take assignments to East Side meetings , , often speaking in the open fairly at the risk of his life and always with complete self-abnegation . The same kindliness and the same devotion to the highest ideals , the same simple modesty , characterized Mr. Gilder , the editor . The inspiration for those poems , lyrical and epigrammatic , for which as a writer he will chiefly be remembered , came largely from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full a life he ever neard comforting melodies and wedded his activities to rhyme If he never reached the poetical heights , he had the rare faculty of expressing popular emotion in graceful form . At dedications and other large public ceremonies his charm and tact rarely , if ever , failed him . In the volume of his collected verse , published only the other day , his poems of patriotism and civic duty are brought together and printed in capitals to correspond in type to the clear-cut style of the lines  --  as if they were meant to be cut in stone . Here , at times , he attained to true gravity and force . Who now , we may ask , shall inscribe Mr. Girder 's own character in fit and measured verse ? In his sonnet to him Mr. William Watson has dust  --  alas ' in vain  --  urged Mr. Gilder still to sing with note sincere And English pure as English air hath heard , And so , though all the fops of style misuse Our great brave language  --  tricking out with beads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save , while Time around him strews Old shards of empire , and much dust of creeds , The honor and the glory of the Muse But the greatest usefulness of lives like this is , after all , the assurance they give that , despite its shortcomings , in its finest citizenship America remains a land of ideals . There could he no more fitting time than this moment of the exposure of corruption in high finance , to recall to the country where the true human values really lie . Mr. Gilder owned no palace on Fifth Avenue ; he had acquired no great means , and , in this " get-rich-quick " age , he had never taken care to cheat- and bribe his way to the proud position of a multi-millionaire patron of the arts and sciences . It never occurred to his simple mind that greatness lay that way , that to serve one 's country one should debauch its employees , and filch from its revenues . He never even deemed it desirable to purchase the highest legal talent to tell him bow to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of luxury and commercial power , but a life that made him justly respected and cherished of all whose opinions were worth having . The friendship of every one bravely devoted to higher things was his , and rarely has any single New Yorker been beloved in so many places and circles . As it was said of Lecky , his was an extraordinary combination of gentleness and- strength  --  the gentleness of right , eousness , the strength of the unselfish patriot .                     