@@473417

PRACTICALLY all the scientific discoveries of Thomas Young , Ilumphry Davy , Michael Faraday , and John Tyndall , not to mention living investigators , are to be credited to the Royal Institution , whose professorial chairs these great men have successively occupied . These great men were all pioneers in the study of those manifestations of molecular activity which we now , following Young himself , term energy . Rumford , Davy , and Young stood almost alone among the prominent scientists of the world at the beginning of the century in upholding the idea that heat is not a material substance ? a chemical element but merely a manifestation of the activities of particles of matter . Rumford 's papers on this thesis communicated to the Royal Society were almost the first widely heralded claims for this revolutionary idea . Some of Faraday 's most important labors served to place on a firm footing the thesis for which Rumford battled ; and Tyndall was the first , in his " beautiful book " called Heat , a Mode of Motion , to give wide popular announcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposition which Rumford had vainly demonstrated three-quarters of a century before . The most important work which has been done at the Royal Institution in the present generation , and which is still being prosecuted there ? the work , namely , of Professor James Dewar on the properties of matter at excessively low temperatures ? is in the clearest sense a direct continuation of researches which Davy and Faraday inaugurated in 1823. and which Faraday continued in 1844 . In the former year , Faraday , acting on a suggestion of Davy 's , performed an experiment which resulted in the production of a " clear yellow oil , " which was presently proved to he liquid chlorine . Now chlorine , in its pure state , had previously been known ( except in a forgotten experiment of Northrnore 's ) only as a gas . Its transmutation into liquid form was therefore regarded as a very startling phenomenon . But , the clew having been gained , other gases were subjected to similar conditions by Davy , and particularly by Faraday , with the result that several of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were liquefied . The method employed , stated in familiar terms , was the application of cold and of pressure . A long list of gases , including the familiar oxygen , hydrogen , and nitrogen , resisted all their efforts utterly ? notwithstanding the facility with which hydrogen and oxygen are liquefied when combined in the form of water-vapor , and the relative ease with which nitrogen and hydrogen , combined to form ammonia , could also be liquefied . In 1844 Faraday , armed with new weapons in the way of better air-pumps and colder freezing mixtures , which the labors of other workers , chiefly Thilorier , Mitchell , and Natterer , had made available , and without the application of any principle other than the use of cold and pressure as before , succeeded in reducing to the liquid form all the gases then known , with the exception of six , while a large number of these substances were still further reduced , by the application of the extreme degrees of cold now attained , to the condition of solids . The six gases which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken of as " permanent gases , " were nitrous oxide , marsh gas , carbonic oxide , oxygen , nitrogen , and hydrogen . These six refractory gases now became a target for the experiments of a host of workers in all parts of the world . The resources of mechanical ingenuity of the time were exhausted in the effort to produce low temperatures on the one hand , and high pressures on the other . Thus Andrews , in England , using the bath of solid carbonic acid and ether which Thilorier had discovered , and which produces a degree of cold of ? 80 ? Centigrade , applied to a portion of gas a pressure of 500 atmospheres , or nearlyfour tons to the square inch , without producing any change of state . Natterer increased this pressure to 2700 atmospheres , or twenty-one tons to the square inch , with the same negative results . The result of Andrews 's experiments , in particular , was the final proof of what Cagniard de la Tour had early suspected and Faraday had firmly believed , that pressure alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gas to the liquid state . In other words , the fact of a so-called " critical temperature , " varying for different substances , above which a given substance is always a gas , regardless of pressure , was definitively discovered . It became clear , then , that before the resistant gases would be liquefied means of reaching extremely low temperatures must be discovered . And for this what was needed ? or so it seemed -- was not so much new principles as elaborate and costly machinery for the application of principles long familiar . - Ingenious mechanical improvements were presently developed , independently by Pictet in Geneva and Cailletet in Paris , and a little later by the Cracow professors Wroblewski and Olzewski , also working independently . Pictet , working on a commercial scale , employed a series of liquefied gases to gain lower and lower temperatures by successive stages . Sulphurous acid , in evaporating , liquefied carbonic acid , and this , evaporating in turn , brought oxygen under pressure to near its liquefaction point ; and , the presSure being suddenly released ( a method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion of the compressed oxygen liquefied a portion of its substance . This result was obtained in 1877 by Pictet and Cailletet almost simultaneously . Cailletet had also liquefied the newly discovered acetylene gas . Five years later Wroblewski liquefied marsh gas , and the following year nitrogen ; while carbonic oxide and nitrous oxide yielded to Olzewski in 1884 . Thus forty years of effort had been required to con ; quer five of Faraday 's refractory gases , and the sixth , hydrogen , still remained resistant . More than another decade was required to make this final step in the completion of Faraday 's work . And oddly enough , yet very fittingly , it was reserved for Faraday 's successor in the chair at the Royal Institution to effect the culmination . Since 1884 Professor Dewar 's work has made the Royal Institution again the centre of low-temperature research . By means of improved machinery involving a new principle , and of ingenious devices for shielding the substance operated on from the accession of heat , to which reference will be made more in detail presently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently isolated by Moussan , in 1897 . In May , 1898 , he was able to announce that hydrogen also had yielded , and for the first time in the history of science that elusive substance , hitherto " permanently " gaseous , was held as a tangible liquid in a cuplike receptacle . In the same experiment the newly discovered helium , the last of the intractables , was also liquefied . It must be noted , however , that this final stage in the liquefaction struggle was not effected through the use of the principle of evaporating liquids which has just been referred to , but by the application of a quite different principle , and its elaboration into a perfectly novel method . This principle is the one established long ago by Joule and Thomson ( Lord Kelvin ) , that compressed gases when allowed to expand freely are lowered in temperature . In this well-known principle the means was at hand greatly to simplify and improve the method of liquefaction of gases ? only for a long time no one recognized the fact . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simultaneously and quite independently . One of these was Professor Linde , the well-known German experimenter with refrigeration processes ; the other , Dr. William Hampson , a young English physician . Each of these men conceived the idea ? and ultimately elaborated it in practice ? of accumulating the cooling effect of an expanding gas by allowing the expansion to take place through a small orifice into a chamber in which the coil containing the compressed gas was held . In Dr. Hampson 's words : The method consists in directing all the gas immediately after its expansion over the coils which contain the compressed gas that is on its way to the expansion-point . The cold developed by expansionin the first expanded gas is thus communicated to the on-coming compressed gas , which consequently expands from , and therefore to , a lower temperature than the preceding portion . It communicates in the same way its own intensified cold to the succeeding portion of compressed gas , which , in its turn , is made colder , both before and after expansion , than any that had gone before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far lower than it was at starting ; and if the apparatus be well arranged , the effect is so powerful that even the smaller amount of cooling due to the free expansion of gas through a throttle-valve , though pronounced by Siemens and Coleman incapable of being utilized , may be made to liquefy air without using other refrigerants . " So well is this principle carried out in Dr. Hampson 's apparatus for liquefying air that compressed air passing into the coil at ordinary temperature , without other means of refrigeration , begins to liquefy in about six minutes ? a result that seems almost miraculous when it is understood that the essential mechanism by which this is brought about is contained in a cylinder only seventeen inches long and eight inches in diameter . As has been said , it was by adopting this principle of self-intensive refrigeration that Professor Dewar was able to liquefy hydrogen . More recently the same result has been attained , through use of the same principle , by Professor Ramsay and Dr. Travers at University College , London , who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the various stages of the process . It appears that the use of the self-intensification principle alone is not sufficient with hydrogen , as it is with the less volatile gases , including air , for the reason that at all ordinary temperatures hydrogen does not cool in expanding , but actually becomes warmer . It is only after the compressed hydrogen has been cooled by immersion in refrigerating media of very low temperature that this gas becomes amenable to the law of cooling on expansion . In the apparatus used at University College the coil of compressed hydrogen is passed successively through ( 1 ) a jar containing alcohol and solid carbonic acid at a temperature of ? SO ? C. ; ( 2 ) a chamber containing liquid air at atmospheric pressure ; and ( 3 ) liquid air boiling in a vacuum , bringing the temperature to perhaps ? 205 ? C. before the gas enters the Hampson coil in which expansion and the self-intensive refrigeration lead to actual liquefaction . With this apparatus Dr. Travers succeeded in producing an abundant quantity of liquid hydrogen for use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered in the same laboratory through the experiments on liquid air . There seems to be an incessant battle between the force of cohesion , which tends to draw the molecules together , and the heat vibrations , which tend to throw the molecules further asunder . If cohesion prevails , the molecules are held for the time into a relatively fixed system , which we term the solid state . If the two forces about balance one another , the molecules move among themselves more freely , but maintain an average distance , and we term the condition the liquid state . But if the heat impulse preponderates , the molecules ( unless restrained from without ) fly further and further asunder , moving so actively that when they collide the recoil is too great to be checked by cohesion ; and this condition we term the gaseous state . It is clear that what the would - be liquefier of gases seeks to accomplish is the isolation of the portion of matter with which he works against the access of heat impulses from its environment . It is clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imptilse to pass through it in one direction only , nothing more would be necessary than to place a portion of gas in a receptacle of this substance , so faced as to permit egress but not entrance of the heat , and the gas thus enclosed , were it hydrogen itself , would very soon become liquid and solid , through spontaneous giving off of its energy , without any manipulation whatever . Contrariwise , were the faces of the receptacle reversed , a piece of iron placed within it would be made red-hot and incited , though the receptacle were kept packed in salt and ice , and no heat applied except such as came from this freezing mixture . In an oven of such material one could roast beef with a cake of ice for fuel . But , unfortunately , no such substance as this is known ; nor , indeed , any substance that will fully prevent the passage of heat impulses in either direction . Hence one of the greatest tasks of the experimenters has been to find a receptacle that would isolate a cooled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from without . It is obvious that unless such an isolating receptacle could be provided , none of the more resistant gases , such as oxygen , could be long kept liquid , even when once brought to that condition , since an environment of requisite frigidity could not practicably be provided . The most successful attack upon this important problem has been made by Professor Dewar . He invented a receptacle for holding liquefied gases which , while not fulfilling the ideal conditions referred to above , yet accomplishes a very remarkable degree of heat isolation . It consists of a glass vessel with double walls , the space between which is rendered a vacuum of the highest practicable degree . This vacuum , containing practically no particles of matter , can not , of course , convey heat impulses to or from the matter in the receptacle by direct push with any degree of rapidity . Thus one of the two possible means of heat transfer is shut off , and a certain measure of isolation is afforded the liquefied substance . But of course the other channel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a large extent , however , by leaving a trace of mercury vapor in the vacuum space , which will be deposited as a fine mirror on the inner surface of the chamber . This mirror serves as an admirable reflector of the heat rays that traverse the vacuum , sending more than half of them back again . So by the combined action of vacuum and mirror the amount of heat that can penetrate to the interior of the receptacle is reduced to about one-thirtieth of what would enter an ordinary vessel . In other words , a quantity of liquefied gas which would evaporate in one minute from an ordinary vessel will last half an hour in one of Professor Dewar 's best vacuum vessels . If the vacuum vessel containing a liquefied gas be kept in a cold medium , and particularly if two vacuum tubes be placed together so that no exposed surface remains , a portion of liquefied air , for example , may be kept almost indefinitely . Thus it becomes possible to utilize the liquefied gas for experimental investigation of the properties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The questions investigated have to do with the physical properties , such as electrical conductivity , magnetism , light absorption , cohesion , and chemical affinities of matter at excessively low temperatures . It is found that in all these regards most substances are profoundly modified when excessively cooled . Thus if a piece of any pure metal be placed in an electric circuit and plunged into liquid air , its resistance to the passage of the electricity steadily decreases as the metal cools , until , at the temperature of the liquid , it is very trifling indeed . The conclusion seems to be justified that if the metal could be still further cooled until it reached the theoretical " absolute zero , " or absolutely heatless condition , the electrical resistance would also be nil . So it appears that the heat vibrations of the molecules of a pure metal interfere with the electrical current . The thought suggests itself that this may be because the ether waves set up by the vibrating molecules conflict with the supposed ether strain which is regarded as constituting the electrical " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments , which show , paradoxically enough , that the electrical resistance of carbon exactly reverses what has just been said of pure metals , becoming greater and greater as the carbon is cooled . If a hypothesis were invented to cover this case , there would still remain a puzzle in the fact that alloys of metals do not act at all like the pure metals themselves , the electrical resistance of such alloys being , for the most part , unaffected by changed temperature . On the whole , then , the facts of electrical conduction at low temperatures are quite beyond the reach of present explanation . They must await a fuller knowledge of molecular conditions in general than is at present available ? a knowledge to which the low-temperature work itself seems one of the surest channels . Still further beyond the reach of present explanation are the magnetic phenomena at low temperatures . Even as to the facts themselves , different experimenters have differed somewhat ; but the final conclusion of Professor Dewar is , that after a period of fluctuation the power of a magnet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Various substances not markedly magnetic at ordinary temperatures become so when cooled . Among these , as Professor Dewar discovered , is liquid oxygen itself . Thus , if a portion of liquid air be further cooled until it assumes a semi-solid condition , the oxygen may he drawn from the mass by a magnet , leaving a pure nitrogen jelly . These facts are curious enough , and full of suggestion ; but , like all phenomena of magnetism , they hold for the present generation the double fascination of insoluble mystery . When it comes to the phenomena of light , we can see our way a little more clearly . When we learn that many substances change their color utterly at low temperatures ? red things becoming yellow and yellow things white , for example ? we can step easily and surely to at least a seeming partial explanation . We know that the color of any object depends simply upon the particular ether waves of the spectrum which that particular substance absorbs ; and it does not seem anomalous that molecules packed close together at ? 180 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when relatively wide apart at an ordinary temperature . And yet that may not be the clew to the explanation at all . The packing of the molecules may have nothing to do with it . The real explanation may lie in the change of the ether waves sent out by the vibrating molecule ; indeed , the fact that the waves of radiant heat and those of light differ only in amplitude lends color to this latter supposition . So the explanation of the changed color of the cooled substance is at best a dubious one . Another interesting light phenomenon is found in the observed fact that very many substances become markedly phosphorescent at low temperatures . Thus , according to Professor Dewar , " gelatine , celluloid , paraffine , ivory , horn , and India rubber become distinctly luminous , with a bluish or greenish phosphorescence , after cooling to ? 180 ? and being stimulated by the electric light . " The same thing is true , in varying degrees , of alcohol , nitric acid , glycerine , and of paper , leather , linen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but slightly luminous , whereas impure water glows brightly . On the other hand , alcohol loses its phosphorescence when a trace of iodine is added to it . In general , colored things are but little phosphorescent . Thus the white of eggis very brilliant , but the yolk much less so . Milk is much brighter than water , and such objects as a white flower , a feather , and egg-shell glow brilliantly . The most remarkable substances of all , says Professor Dewar , whom I all along quote , are " the platino-cyanides among inorganic compounds , and the ketonic compounds among organic . Ammonium platinocyanide , cooled while stimulated by are-light , glows fully at ? 180 ? . But on warming , it glows like a lamp . " " seems clear , " Professor Dewar adds , " that the substance at this low temperature must have acquired increased power of absorption , and it may be that at the same time the factor of molecular friction or damping may have diminished . " The cautious terms in which this partial explanation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding of the interesting phenomena of phosphorescence . That a molecule should be able to vibrate in such a. way as to produce the short waves of light , dissevered from the usual linking with the vibrations represented by high temperature , is one of the standing puzzles of physics . And the demonstrated increase of this capacity at very low temperature only adds to the mystery . There are at least two of the low-temperature phenomena , however , that seem a little less puzzling ? the facts , namely , that cohesion and rigidity of structure are increased when a substance is cooled , and that chemical activity is very greatly reduced , almost abolished . Professor - Dewar found that the breaking stress of an iron wire is more than doubled when the wire is cooled to the temperature of liquid air , and all other metals are largely strengthened , though none other to quite the same tie grce . He found that a spiral spring of fusible metal , which at ordinary temperature was quickly drawn out into a straight wire by a weight of one ounce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support a weight of two pounds , and would vibrate like a steel spring so long as it was cool , A bell of fusible metal has a distinct metallic ring at this low temperature ; and balls of iron , tin , lead , or ivory , . cooled to ? 182 ? and dropped from a height , " in all eases have the rebound greatly increased . The flattened surface of the lead is only one-third what . it would be at ordinary temperature . " " These conditions are due solely to the cooling , and persist ' only while the low temperature lasts . " If this increased strength and hardness of a contracted metal is what one would expect on molecular principles , the decreased chemical activity at low temperatures is no less natural-seeming , when one reflects how generally chemical phenomena are facilitated by the application of heat . In point of fact , it has been found that at the temperature of liquid hydrogen practically all chemical activity is abolished , the unruly fluorine and the matter of the photographic film making the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every atom of any kind has power to unite with only a limited number of other atoms . When the " affinities " of an atom are satisfied , no more atoms can enter into the union , unless some atoms already there be displaced . Such displacement takes place constantly under ordinary conditions of temperature , because the vibrating atoms tend to throw themselves apart , and other atoms may spring in to take the places just vacated ; such interchange , in fact , constituting the essence of chemical activity . But when the temperature is reduced , the heat vibration becomes insufficient to throw the atoms apart , hence any unions they chance to have made are permanent so long as the low temperature is maintained . Thus it is that substances which attack one another eagerly at ordinary temperatures will lie side by side , utterly inert , at the temperature of liquid air . Under certain conditions , however , most interesting chemical experiments have been made in which the liquefied gases , particularly oxygen , are utilized . Thus Olzewski found that a hit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would in gaseous oxygen ; and a red-hot iron wire thrust into the liquid burns and spreads sparks of iron . But more novel still was Dewar 's experiment of inserting a small jet of ignited hydrogen into the vessel of liquid oxygen ; for the jet continued to burn , forming water , of course , which was car- , ried away as snow . The idea of a gas-jet burning within a liquid , and having snow for smoke , is not the least anomalous of the many strange conceptions made familiar by the low-temperature researches . The low-temperature field is still full of inviting possibilities . The last known gas has indeed been liquefied , but that by no means implies the last stage of discovery . With the successive conquest of this gas and of that , lower and lower levels of temperature have been reached , but the final goal still lies well beyond . This is the north pole ? or should one say the south pole ? ? of the physicist 's world , the absolute zero of temperature ? the point at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stilled . Theoretically this point lies 272 ? below the Centigrade zero . Liquid hydrogen , at atmospheric pressure , has a temperature of ? 237 ? . Solid hydrogen ? which Professor Dewar produced in August , 1899 , by allowing liquid hydrogen to boil in a vacuum ? is believed to reach a temperature of ? 258 ? C. , or only 14 ? from the absolute zero . A gap of 14 ? C. surely does not seem so very great .. But , like the gap that separated Nansen from the geographical pole , it is a very hard road to travel .. And when the goal is reached , what will be revealed ? That is a question as full of fascination for the physicist as the north-pole mystery has ever been for the generality of mankind . In the one Case as in the other , any attempt to answer it to-day must partake largely of the nature of a guess , yet certain forecasts may be made with reasonable probability . Thus it seems likely that at the absolute zero all matter will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a degree of solidity ? of tenacity and compactness ? greater than ever otherwise at tained . All chemical activity will presumably have ceased , and any existing compound will retain its chemical composition unaltered so long as absolute zero pertains ; though in many , if not in all , cases the tangible properties of the substance ? its color , for example , and perhaps its crystalline texture ? will be so altered that it is no longer recognizable by ordinary standards , any more than one would ordinarily recognize a mass of snowlike crystals as air . It has , indeed , been suggested that at absolute zero all matter may take the form of an impalpable powder , the forces of cohesion being destroyed with the vibrations of heat . But experiment gives no warrant to this forecast , since cohesion seems to increase exactly in proportion to the decrease of the heat vibrations . Still less warrant is there for a visionary forecast , at one time entertained , that at about zero matter will utterly disappear . But one can not answer with so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on properties hitherto quite unknown , and making it , perhaps , differ as much from the conventional solid as the solid differs from the liquid , or this from the gas . The form of vibration which produces the phenomena of temperature has , clearly , a determining share in he disposal of molecular relations which records itself to our senses as a condition of gaseousness , liquidity , or solidity ; hence it would be rash to predict just what inter-molecular relations may not become possible when the heat vibration is altogether in abeyance . That certain other forms of activity may be able to assert themselves in unwonted measure seems clearly forecast in the phenomena of increased magnetism and of phosphorescence at low temperatures above outlined . Whether still more novel phenomena may put in an appearance at the absolute zero , and , if so , what may be their nature , are questions that must await the verdict of experiment . But the possibility that this may occur , together with the utter novelty of the entire subject , gives the low-temperature work precedence over almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except , perhaps , the labors of the bacteriologists.                     