@@486426

The work before us , although crowned by the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences , is in some respects disappointing It is altogether too diffuse , and filled with well-meant but tiresome platitudes . The author seems to have formed no plan be -- fore beginning his work , and to have been overwhelmed by the abundance of his materials . Hence it is no slight task to select what is valuable from the confused mass ; but whoever has patience will be rewarded . The author has analyzed with care a great number of statistical returns bearing upon the size of properties , the number of proprietors , the causes and effects of subdivision , the influences which favor the acquisition of land , and those which are adverse . We can not even enumerate his conclusions , and must content ourselves with referring to some of the most important of them . Two things are especially impressive : the intense desire of the French to possess land and to maintain the family , and the frightful obstacles which their oppressive Government interposes . The common people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which local government gives , and they are altogether incapable of resisting their centralized administration . There are local councils , it is true , but they have few powers , and their action is regulated from Paris It is only natural that the ambition to be connected with this all-powerful central Government should displace that generous passion which we call public spirit It is indeed surprising that where the Government assumes control of so great a part of human activity , there should be so much of private benevolence as is displayed It is not surprising that where the exactions of Government are so severe , most Frenchmen concentrate their energies on providing what they can for their families . The processes by which the more than fourteen million rural properties in France are constantly uniting and dividing resemble the processes of nutrition and waste in a living organism The system of entail provided by the Code compels incessant partition ; there are 10,500,000 properties of less than two hectares , and 2,175,000 over two and under six . The number of proprietors is far smaller ; In 1898 there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The number of small properties does not increase , because the Government confiscates much of their value by taxation , and the owners are forced to sell them . The expense of partition under the Code is estimated by this author at from one-fifth to two-fifths of the value of the properties . When there are minor heirs , judicial partition or sale is compulsory . From 8 to 10 per cent . of the heritages are estimated at less than 500 francs , and the expenses of administration exceed this sum . The cost of ordinary sales is almost prohibitive . There are other deplorable features in the situation , but we need not specify them The declining birth-rate and the drift of population to the cities are the inevitable results of the fiscal policy here described . As to those who suffer from it , we heartily agree with the author when he exclaims : " N'est-elle pas admirable , cette race de travailleurs qui , en depit des obstacles , des deceptions , persiste , giandit , se perp  --  tue , semblable d ces ruches do nt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ se lassent pas de produire pour autrui . " Elementary Studies tie Insect Life . By Samuel J Hunter , A. M , Associate Professor of Comparative Zoology and Entomology , University of Kansas . Topeka , Kansas : Crane &; Co. 1902. - In this book the author has abandoned traditional lines , and , instead of telling first about the characters that distinguish the Insecta , he plunges at once into the life cycle , devoting to it one of the longest chapters in the hook , so far as number of pages is concerned ; but ten of these pages consist of a series of figures illustrating the complete life cycle of one insect The special senses are lightly touched , protective devices receive a somewhat fuller consideration , while solitary and social life ( chiefly among the bees , wasps , and other Hymenoptera ) are given two chapters Instinct and reason are very briefly treated , but the author credits ' bees and wasps , at least , with reasoning powers . The mutual relations of plants and insects are somewhat fully considered , and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of the affected crops . Methods and apparatus for collecting and studying , and structure and classification of insects , are condensed into less than eighty pages , of which seventeen give in tabular form the distinctive characters of the larger groups of insects . An appendix of thirty-one pages treats very briefly of injurious insects and modes of dealing with them Altogether , the book is interesting and informing , covering just the ground expressed by the author in the title . It will be useful for those who want a general knosiledge of the peculiarities of insect life and development , and the author has an easy style that makes reading pleasant . The pictures are mostly half-tones , and a large number of them are distinctly poor Some that are made from drawings ( 103 , 115 , 119 ) are inaccurate in outline or detail , and others are obscure and much inferior to published pictures of the same species . Why the unsymmetrical , vaguely outlined representation of the buffalo moth beetle on p. 149 was preferred to the beautifully accurate figure that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , passes understanding . The type is clear and the print fair , but not good enough for the numerous half-tones that are scattered through the text . .                     