@@430026

 |p630  FOR a Protestant missionary to discuss impartially the causes of Chinese animosity to foreigners , and to Roman Catholics in particular , may be considered difficult , owing to his liability to be influenced by what Herbert Spencer calls " the bias of class . " There is another embarrassment , however , far more serious , which it is impossible to escape . In any controversy it is important to hear both sides before coming to a decision . But the Chinese side of their differences with the Catholics is the only side of which , as a rule , foreigners in China outside of that Church ever hear anything . It is the more necessary , therefore , to exercise caution in the examination of a subject some of the elements in which are unknown , and the conclusion at which we may arrive will be one of probability rather than of demonstrated certainty . There is a considerable literature dealing more or less directly with the subject , and those who wish for a fuller discussion than the mere outline here alone possible may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books of travel , and in the current periodical literature of the Far East . In addition to the excellent essays of the Rev. Gilbert Reid referred to in the last paper , mention may be made of two pamphlets by Mr. Alexander Michie , recently republished in book form in the United States with the title " China and Christianity , " which , while suggestive and free from partisanship , prove nothing , lead nowhere , and are as full of unproved assumptions as a shad is of small bones . To a friend who remarked to him that many of his arguments are very easily answered , the author genially replied that he was quite aware of . it , and had some thoughts of replying to them himself 1 One of the important documents in the comprehension of this theme is a Memorandum or Circular of the Chinese Government through the Tsung-Li-Yamen communicated to the French Charge d'Affaires in the year 1871 . It is printed in full in Mr. Michie 's book , and a brief summary of its conclusions may be found in Mr. Frederick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to have been prepared by Wen-Hsiang , " the most liberal , fair , and open-minded Minister that has ever been in the Foreign Board . " Mr. Michie thinks it " almost the only example of true initiative with which it can be credited . " It by no means follows , because a formal set of charges is made in a Chinese state paper , that the allegations are true ; yet when they are incorporated in a minute prepared by a man of the type Wen-Hsiang , and communicated to the French Government in a friendly manner at a time when there is no specific case pending , and with the avowed object of preventing the recurrence of a disaster such as the Tientsin massacre ( which had just happened ) , the presumption is that the Chinese Government believed the statements to be facts . I am not aware that the specific instances quoted have been disproved , as after the lapse of nearly thirty years they still continue to be cited in every fresh discussion of the subject . The Memorandum suggests eight rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done away with , and each is supported by alleged instances of Roman Catholic aggression The whole paper is directed at that Church , the Protestant Churches at that time not having assumed sufficient prominence to be an object of governmental notice . The foreign Ministers , for the most part , delayed their replies for such a length of time that there were , unfortunately , no practical results from the presentation of the Circular , but it remains a landmark in the history of missionary relations with China . Without examining in detail the specific recommendations of the Yamen ( which would occupy too much space ) , it will be sufficient to cite passages  |p631  here and there , while summarizing what we suppose to be the grounds upon which the Roman Catholic Church is specially dislike by the Chinese . In the first place , it is believed to have a political aim , and to be itself a political agent . This ineradicable conviction dates back to the days of the early emperors of the present dynasty , even if it were not held by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Pope against the authority of the greatest monarch who ever occupied the throne of China , that the rites involved in ancestral worship are idolatrous , and therefore interdicted ; whereas K'ang-Hsi himself expressly declared that these rites were civil and in no way religious . The fact that several Pontiffs had successively boxed the cornpass on this point did not in the least mend the matter ; the essential consideration was that an Italian gentleman assumed , and successfully assumed , to tell the subjects of the Emperor of China that the Emperor was wrong on a technical matter of Chinese interpretation . K'ang-Hsi was scarcely buried before his son and successor proceeded to set in motion the persecuting powers of the State against the Catholics , and these persecutions have been going on with intermittent sequence ever since . This fact of itself absolutely negatives the facile supposition that Roman Catholic aggressions are the main feature in the present troubles . To prove too much is to prove nothing . The Chinese are shrewd observers , and they have seen that the presence of a Roman Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has split that country in twain , and brought a part of it under the domination of France . They know that France expelled the Jesuits from her own borders , and that France is the protector of Jesuit and other Catholic missions in China , and they have good ground to suppose that for this significant fact there are substantial reasons . There is no country where the line beteen the officials and the people is more sharply drawn than in China . The Roman Catholic Church is a mighty and an ancient hierarchy , and from the point of view of its representatives it is probably not only natural but inevitable that those who wield powers so absolute should openly and universally assume them . Thus the bishops , the spiritual rulers of the whole of a broad province , adopt the rank of a Chinese Governor , and wear a button on their caps indicative of that fact , traveling in a chair with the number of bearers appropriate to that rank , with outriders and attendants on foot , an umbrella of honor borne in front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Into these details the TsungLi-Yamen Circular does not go , but it especially objects to the use of official seals as a mark of rank , citing cases of their employment . All this , and much else , is a part of the settled policy of the Church , and not an accident of this place or of that , and it is a policy which is in many ways repellent to Chinese pride and repugnant to their sense of propriety and fitness . Officials of whatever rank , in whose jurisdiction these ostentatious claims are perpetually made , naturally feel and are at no pains to conceal a jealousy which is all the more difficult to combat because founded in reason . By the steady pressure of the French Legation , the claims which the Church has always made for itself were on the 15th of March , 1889 , officially granted by the Chinese Government . The edict then issued gave a political status to the ecclesiastics of the Church of a far-reaching character . As soon as these great concessions became known , there ensued a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they were to do in the premises , since it was reported to be the wish of the Chinese Government that a privilege which , for reasons best known to themselves , they had been induced to grant to one set of missionaries , should not be held as a monopoly by them alone . There is to Protestantism no head-center , and no one is authorized to speak for all branches , or even for any one branch , of the Church ; but the consensus was remarkable that this is a most dangerous privilege , and one which is certain to be abused and which is inconsistent with the simplicity and the purity of the Protestant Churches . To realize the nature of the stupendous power thus placed in the hands of Catholic missionaries , it is necessary to take account of a second and cognate reason for Chinese dislike of their organization .  |p632  In an edict issued nearly ten years before the Memorandum of the Yamen occur the words : " The foreign missionary is not an official , and can not interfere in public affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do thus interfere : " From the information which the Prince and the Yamen have gathered respecting the duties imposed upon them by their priesthood , these persons seem to found , as it were , among us an undetermined number of States within the State . " This means that the Church takes the direction of the acts of the convert , sometimes against the orders of his immediate magistrate , making him feel that his primary allegiance is to the Church , which saves his soul , rather than to the State . This is not given as the Roman Catholic version of the duties of Chinese to China and its rulers , but it is given as the conception which many Roman Catholic Christians naturally come to entertain , and as the view which is almost universally taken by Chinese officials when they are free to express it . Broadly speaking , it may be said that there is in Chinese courts no such thing as justice . Those who are the spiritual leaders of Chinese Christians find themselves , whenever appealed to for advice in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To allow one 's flock to be torn in pieces by the tigers and wolves " of the Yamens is repugnant to the sense of justice which Christianity engenders , and to the innate instincts of the Christian heart . To undertake to defend them in their relations to the network of injustice by which Chinese subjects are enmeshed is to begin a work the consequences of which no man can foresee . We have no means of knowing upon what theory the Catholic Church proceeds except by her practice , which is sufficiently well known . Every Catholic headquarters is served by able Chinese , some of whom are expert in yamen affairs , and act as lawyers for whoever has a case on hand . This is probably a wise provision , but it is one liable to great abuse . It is common for those who are acting as advance agents of the Catholic Church , in fresh woods and pastures new , to let it be known that , whatever happens to those who identify themselves with that organization , they will be protected in their lawsuits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the orders of any priest , nor is it certain that any priest knows anything of such offers . But that the proposition is constantly made and constantly accepted is certain . No one with any considerable acquaintance with Chinese character would be at a loss to predict the results which must and which do follow . The Chinese bully is a feature of Chinese society . No Chinese bully is so arrogant and so insufferable as he who thinks he has an irresistible foreign backing . In this way lawsuits begin as mold forms in the damp heats of August without assignable cause all at once and everywhere . Before matters have progressed far the foreign priest appears upon the scene , and the case has become a serious one . It is a perpetual and , so far as appears to an unenlightened observer , an insoluble puzzle by what means the Catholic priest , without visible prestige and often ( nay , generally ) far from being a persona grata to the local magistrate , is able to secure the results which he actually does secure . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case is taken up in a manner very different from that which is seen in the instance , say , of a British subject or an American citizen . It is impossible in a paper like the present to enter into details , but it must suffice to say that , in a somewhat intimate knowledge of mission affairs in several score of counties both in the provinces of Chili and Shantung , the writer has everywhere heard the charge that the Roman Catholic proceedings at law are unfair and tyrannous . These allegations are often supported by specifications so full and so precise , often so authenticated by corroborative testimony , that it is impossible not to believe them . In a certain county near to the home of the writer the Catholics once had a strong foothold and lost it . The reason universally given , after the lapse of a generation , was the advocacy of a particularly outrageous claim against a non-Christian on the part of a Catholic aided by a priest . The magistrate , who disliked to antagonize the Church for fear of consequences the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yet refused to give his decision for a palpable outrage , and , in the presence of the foreign priest , told the parties to the suit  |p633  that we was incompetent to decide it , and that they must go to the temple of the city-god , each make his oath there , and leave the settlement to high Heaven . The moral effect of this occurrence was to put an end to the Roman Catholic in that county until the present time . It is a matter of capital importance in connection with this subject that , both by the people and by the officials , the Roman Catholic Church is believed to be the refuge of bad men who can thus evade the laws of China , and , under the shelter of a foreign protection , behave substantially as they please . It is by no means necessary to suppose that the administrators of the affairs of the Church intend that it should be so ; we are concerned only to show that it is believed to be true , and that to a certain extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under this head to which it is not necessary to refer in detail . Without entering more fully into the subject , it must suffice to say that there is an amount of weighty testimony upon this head which can be collected from all parts of China much more than sufficient to substantiate the charge . As an example of the impression which these constant phenomena make upon wellinformed and presumptively impartial observers may be cited the following extract from the most recent work of Mr. A. R. Colquhoun , who has a wide knowledge of the Chinese Empire , and who has written one of the best and most informing of recent books on " China in Transformation : " " The blood of the martyrs is in China the seed of French aggrandizement . France uses the missionaries and the native Christians as agents-provocateur ; and outrages and martyrdoms are her political harvest . What the preponderance of her commerce does for England the Catholic protectorate does for France , so that the influence of their respective positions vis-a-vis of the Chinese is nearly balance ; but France makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain has ever done out of her commercial . Under the fostering care of the French Government the Catholics have become a veritable imperium in imperio , disregarding local laws and customs , domineering over their pagan neighbors , and overriding the law of the land . Whenever a Christian has a dispute with a heathen , no matter what the subject in question may be , the quarrel is promptly taken up by the priest , who , if he can not himself intimidate the local officials and compel them to give right to the Christian , represents the case as one of persecution , when the French consul is appealed to . Then is redress rigorously extorted , without the least reference to the justice of the demand . The assurance that this kind of interference on the part of a foreign power is certain to follow leads , of course , to the grossest abuses being perpetrated by the Christians , and while the French missionary may go far , the native Christian goes infinitely further , in browbeating the authorities and tyrannizing over the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the remark : " It is not surprising that arbitrary proceedings like this should cause the Christians to be feared and hated , and we need not wonder at the occasional murder of a priest when such feelings are spread generally throughout the country . " In nearly all the cases relating to the Chinese and the Roman Catholics , we are at the disadvantage of knowing only a portion of the case , although the facts are not for that reason invalidated . But there is an important and unfortunately a growing list of causes in which Catholics have deliberately set themselves to injure and sometimes to outrage Protestants , the details of which are wholly within the field of our inquiry , and where we tread upon sure ground . Two such instances may be cited as examples . In an article published in the Chinese " Recorder " in November , 1899 , the Rev. Immanuel Genahr , of the Rhenish Mission , who had been in China sixteen years , gives the details of a shameful attack by a Catholic priest named Julien upon the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter were set upon , knocked down , bound with chains , and treated as criminals unworthy of being allowed to live , all on a fictitious charge of leading a band of robbers , whereas the priest Julien was himself the leader of such a band , which despoiled a village , sacking the houses of Protestant inquirers and converts , doing damage to the extent of thousands of dollars .  |p634  These facts were subsequently established in a judicial inquiry held by the French and German Consuls , who agreed that M. Julien should apologize in the presence of the Consuls and Mr. Zahn , which he did , after admitting that he himself led the party which attacked and looted the village in question . He was also required to pay an indemnity , to restore the stolen watch and other articles of property in question , and it was agreed that he should be transferred to another sphere of labor . In commenting upon this typical case , Mr. Genahr says : " This policy of ' screening infamous men under the protecting banner ' of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is really solicitous for the welfare of the Church ; and the fact itself can not be gainsaid . The eighteen provinces of China echo with the complaints to which it gives rise . Protestant missionaries have learned to reckon with it ; and the great Conference in Shanghai in 1901 will have to define its position with regard to this policy . " During the year 1896 four articles appeared in the Chinese " Recorder " from the pen of the Rev. William Ashmore , D.D. , giving a detailed account of Outrages upon the American Baptist Mission near Swatow , " committed by Roman Catholic members , abetted by their priests , involving robbery and virtual rebellion against the local authorities . The matter was taken before the United States Consul at Canton , Mr. Seymour , and from there referred to Peking , where it was investigated by Mr. Denby , the Minister . The facts were proved beyond the possibility of refutation , but the French Minister refused to consider the evidence , and rather than take the matter into the Tsung-Li-Yamen , where the influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties to the case were obliged to consent to a weak compromise , by which , the innocent Chinese being released , the guilty criminals were also let out of jail and escaped scot-free . In the comments made upon this famous case at the time it was pointed out that such acts are two-edged swords , working ruin in both directions ? a prophecy which has since been abundantly fulfilled . Within the past few years the foreign journals in China have contained detailed accounts of numerous instances similar to the foregoing , sometimes in Manchuria , and again ( one of the most'noted ) in Chekiang , in which the author of specific charges against the Roman Catholics was the Right Rev. Bishop Moule , of the Church Mission , and his opponent the Catholic Bishop of the province . A potent source of Chinese animosity to the Roman Catholics is to be found in the fact that by the treaty of 1860 extensive property formerly belonging to the Church was to be restored upon presentation of evidence of the fact of previous possession . Fifteen years before this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had allowed the justice of such claims , but specially excepted property which had been converted into temples and dwelling-houses for the people . In the later treaty this exception was omitted , with the result that there has been more or less friction ever since . The Memorandum of the Tsung-Li-Yamen admits that there is in China a great deal of this property , mentioning that it has often changed owners many times , and had frequently been greatly improved or even rebuilt . " The missionaries take no account of all this ; they exact a restitution , and do not even offer the least indemnity . Sometimes they even ask for repairs to be made , or , if not , for a sum of money . Such conduct excites the indignation of the people , who look with no favorable eye upon the missionaries . Such being the case , no friendship can exist . " There are many prominent structures in China which are a constant irritation to the Chinese and an incitement to attack simply from the memories of the past . One of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Grand Canal at Tientsin , referred to elsewhere which was erected in 1865 upon ground reclaimed from the Chinese , was destroyed by a mob in 1870 , and when rebuilt in 1897 again seriously threatened , and is now once more in ruins in 1900 . Perhaps there is no cathedral in the whole Empire against which the feeling of the Chinese is so intensely bitter as the massive , fortlike structure in Canton , which stands upon the site of the former yamen of the Governor-General , Yeh , who was captured by the British when Canton was taken , and was carried to Calcutta , where  |p635  he died . No one can see this building without perceiving the evident intention to enable it to resist attack , however violent . Mr. Noyes , one of the senior missionaries in Canton , mentions , in an article on Five Storms of Wrath " in that city ( Chinese Recorder , Feb. , 1895 ) , that a very intelligent man was heard to say : " We Chinese say that that Cathedral must come down , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The method of securing property by purchase frequently leaves much bitterness in the minds of the Chinese , which comes to a focus whenever there is an opportunity for the expression of discontent . As a rule , the Chinese dislike to have foreigners buy land and put up permanent buildings anywhere , and it is easy for them to give reasons which from their point of view are conclusive against the use of any particular site which may be chosen . Experience has shown that the highly rudimentary " science " of Fengshui , or geomancy , is never so potent as when used to prevent foreigners from Betting a foothold . It is everywhere objected to the Roman Catholics that they have persistently offended the Chinese in this particular , both by insisting upon occupying sites to which there has been on the part of the Chinese violent objection , and by the erection of lofty and substantial structures in commanding positions , where they appear to the Chinese as a perpetual evidence of national humiliation and a constant reminder of foreign aggression . It was the judicious advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years since for the information of missionary societies , " that Chinese prejudice and superstitions should be more carefully considered in the forms and heights of the buildings erected . " The Roman Catholic Church is one of the largest property-owners in some settlements of the open ports of China , as in the French concesession of Tientsin , and in Chinkiang , often being the principal landlord . The income from these enormous possessions is used for the support of the Church , in default of those annual contributions upon which Protestants rely . In the interior of the Empire a similar phenomenon is observed in the aggregation of considerable areas of land under the control of the priests , thus gathering small Christian communities . In time of famine we have known small loans made to any who would conform to the conditions , which included definite attendance at religious services , study of the catechism , etc. , and the mortgaging to the Church of the land of the person benefited at a fixed rate according to the amount of the loan , with annual grain taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such a mixture of benevolence and business may have its advantages , but it is also certain to cause the shrewd and suspicious Chinese to be more sure than ever that the Church is not only a political but also a landed and a financial power , and in the end the result is morally certain to make it more than ever an object of hostility , as the writer has had occasion himself to know . The very first of the eight Regulations proposed by the Tsung-LiYamen relates to the subject of Catholic orphanages in China , which have probably excited more ill feeling and led to more attacks upon Catholic life and property than any other single cause . The riot at Tientsin in 1870 , and those in the Valley of the Yangtzu in 1891 , were in several instances directly due to inflammatory tales circulated about these institutions , to the management of which both the TsungLi-Yamen Memorandum and popular clamor make strenuous objection . It is impossible for the Chinese to understand the motive for wholesale benevolence of this sort ; and the presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens , the mortality is large , is immediately connected with the invincible superstition that foreigners wish to mutilate the bodies for the purposes of alchemy , thus turning lead into silver . The Yamen wish many changes in the management of these orphanages , but their abolition is most desired . " Once the child has entered the house other persons are not allowed to adopt it , nor are the parents permitted to take it back again , nor even to visit it . All this nourishes suspicions and excites the hatred of the people , and by degrees a case like that of Tientsin the massacre is arrived at . Although we have denied in a report all those rumors of the tearing out of eyes and hearts , the people , however , still preserve doubts on the subject , and even if we succeed in closing their lips we can not  |p636  drive away these doubts from their minds . It is this kind of uneasiness which gives rise to terrible events . It would be a good thing to abolish the foreign orphanages and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charity at their ease ; it would then belong to the Chinese to come to the aid of these children . Besides , in every province we have numerous orphanages , and yet the foreigners wish to lend us at any price an assistance of which we have not the slightest need . It is certainly with good intentions they thus act , but it is not the less true that their conduct produces suspicion and excites anger . It would be far preferable if each one exercised his charity in his own country , and then no lamentable event could arise . " The care of the helpless waifs and strays of Chinese infancy , for whom the Chinese have always done next to nothing , is one of the most gracious of charities , but it has been misunderstood , in part willfully so , by the Chinese from the first , and so it remains to this present time . It is difficult to believe that by the use of wise and conciliatory methods this state of feeling on the part of the Chinese might not be essentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact that the Catholic fathers do not open their chapels for preaching to outsiders , that they conduct no medical work for the people at large , and that they spend their time in comparative seclusion , greatly stimulates the suspicious nature of the Chinese mind to account for what seems to them so strange and so unnatural a life . Mr. Reid quotes a Bible agent who had penetrated to Hengchoufu , in Hunan , who remarked that , although foreign priests had been resident there for over two centuries , he never visited a city where the foreigner was a greater curiosity , and adds : " They live in a state of mysterious seclusion which the native vainly attempts to penetrate , and about which he invents the most wonderful stories . " Whatever the grounds for so great secrecy about the Catholic establishments and the doings of those who there spend their lives , the general effect upon the outsiders is unhappy in the extreme , and can only serve to give added color to the irrepressible suspicions which inevitably arise in China concerning anything which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfavorable comment . It only remains to add to the long cataLogue of grounds of misunderstanding those which have their origin in the rites of the Church . The baptism of infants when at the point of death not unnaturally leads to the grossest misconstruction especially in connection with the hopeless superstitions about the use to which parts of the human body can be put as a direct means for the transmutation of metals The practice of extreme unction is even more open to misapprehension , and has probably been the ground of intense hostility for the same reason . No one who wishes well to the people of China will desire to utter a syllable which shall detract from the good work which the Roman Catholic Church has done , and is at this moment still doing , for the Chinese in all parts of the land . There are in it many noble , self-denying , devout men and women who are freely giving themselves for the benefit of a people who have , as a rule , little perception of what such sacrifices mean . For hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sleep , the Mother Church was resolutely at work upon the hardest task which she has ever undertaken , a task in which she still perseveres serene and strong , unmoved by hostility or by criticism . Yet , for all that ? nay , because of all that ? it is the more imperative to call attention , in the most emphatic manner possible , to the fact that the present semi-political administration of the Roman Catholic Church in China is bad , and that , in the particulars some of which have been named and others only suggested , it is sowing a harvest of evil . More than twenty-five years of attentive , close-athand observation of its methods and its results confirms everything which has been said in the preceding pages . The seeds which have been sown must produce fruit after their kind . It is now nearly thirty years since such a result was expressly predicted by the Memorandum of the Tsung-Li-Yamen . " How , under these conditions , can we hope that a durable understanding should be established , and to prevent the governors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. . The Prince and the members of the  |p637  Yamen are impressed with a desire to ward off eventualities so menacing . In fact , they fear , in all sincerity , . . . that so much accumulated bad feeling , causing a sudden explosion , should bring about a catastrophe . It would then be no longer possible for the local authorities , nor for the high provincial functionaries , nor even for the Tsung-Li-Yamen to assert its authority . In the event of a general rising in China , the Emperor will be able to appoint high dignitaries to order them to assemble everywhere imposing forces ; but the greatest rigor does not reach the massees , and where their anger manifests itself there are persons who refuse to yield their heads to the executioner . . . . In short , in the direction of affairs , the important point in China , as in Europe , is to satisfy opinion . If , failing in this duty , oppression and violence are employed , a general rising will at last take place . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at last taken place . It was not , however , directed against the Roman Catholic Church as such , but against foreigners as foreigners , its banners and handbills ostentatiously putting forth as its watchword , " Mich . Yang , " " Exterminate Foreigners . " Confucius gave as a definition of " reciprocity , " " Not to do to others what you would not have others do to you . " Those who have followed us thus far will be able to judge for themselves what effect the administration of such an organization as the Roman Catholic Church has proved to be in China during the past sixty years would have if transferred to the soil of any one of the countries which have treaties with China . There is good reason to believe that there is not one of them in which such causes would not have produced worse results than have been seen in China until the late rising began . The peculiar character of that rising can not be too often nor too clearly pointed out as due to the fact that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Chinese Government itself . Its primary sources were race hatred and the political aggressions of Western nations . Yet the universal and deep-seated animosity to the claims and to the practices of the Roman Catholic Church throughout the Empire have added greatly to the fury and to the bitterness of the attacks , and will contribute materially to the difficulty of a permanent settlement . A frank recognition of this indisputable fact will be of the greatest service to the interests of the Chinese people , and to the peaceful spread of the religion which for the welfare of that people has endured so much persecution and suffered so many martyrdoms.                     