@@473597

IT has now for many years been a mat- ter of common remark that we are living in a wonderful age , an age which has witnessed extraordinary material and intellectual progress . This is a mere commonplace ; but it is not until we have given some close attention to the facts that we realize the dimensions of the truth which it expresses . The chief characteristics of the nineteenth century may be said to have been , On the material side , the creation of mechanical force , and on the intellectual side the unification of nature . Neither of these expressions is quite free from objections , but they will sufficiently serve the purpose . When we consider the creation of mechanical force , it is clear that what has been done in this direction since the days of James Watt marks an era immeasurably greater than that of the rise or fall of any historic empire . It marks an era as sharp and bold as that era which witnessed the domestication of oxen and horses far back in the dim prehistoric past . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as was supplied by his own muscles , eked out here and there by the rudest forms of lever and wedge , roller and pulley , such as they are found in the absence of tools , or perhaps by the physical strength of his fellow-men if he were so fortunate as to control it . But a time came when man learned how to turn to his own uses the gigantic strength of oxen and horses , and when that day came it was such an era as the world had never before witnessed . So great and so manifold were the results of this advancement that doubtless they furnished the principal explanation of the fact that the human race developed se much more rapidly in the Eastern Hemisphere than in the Western . Another stage was marked by the smelting of iron , and another by the invention Vni . CV. ? No. 630 ? 103 of writing , the latter being on the intellectual side of progress an equivalent for the acquisition of ox and horse power on the material side . Now this invention of writing seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may be 8000 or 9000 years old , yet which are perfectly legible for modern scholars . The interval is not a long one when measured by the existence of the human race , yet it naturally seems long to our untaught minds , because it includes and contains the whole of recorded human history . Here we come upon one of the things which the doctrine of evolution is doing for us . It is altering our perspective , teaching us that the whole of recorded history is but a narrow fringe upon the stupendous canvas along which the existence of humanity stretches back , and thus profoundly modifying our view of man in his relations to the universe . The next epoch - making change experienced by mankind after the dawn of civilization was the invention of the steam-engine by James Watt . The impulse to this stupendous invention was given by Joseph Black 's discovery of latent beat , one of the first long strides that were made into the region of molecular physics . From Black and Watt down to the latest discoveries in electricity there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental characteristic has been the creation of mechanical force or motor energy . This has become possible through our increased knowledge of the interior constitution of matter . The most striking fact about this voluntary creation of motor energy is the sudden and enormous extension which it has given to human power over the world in innumerable ways . It has been well said that our world at the present day is much smaller and more snug than the world in the time of Herodotus , inasmuch as a man can now travel the whole qwq which it makes in the spectrum . You can not say of iron that it is always black , for you have often seen it red , and occasionally , perhaps , white ; nor can you say that it is always cold or hard ; and if it has weight invariably , that is no more than can be said of other things besides iron . But whether black or white , hot or cold , smooth or rough , hard or soft , iron is that substance which when heated till it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of lines and bands , which are different from those that are thrown by any other substance . The revelations of the spectroscope , therefore , show that in all parts of the universe the interior constitution of matter is the same , and that its manifestations in the forms of light and heat are of the same character and conformable to the same physical laws . There is not one science of mechanics for the earth , or one kind of optics for Sirius , or one law of radiation for Jupiter , but from end to end of the visible universe the same laws hold sway , and the fundamental principles of action are the same . Not only is it true that the same physical laws hold good throughout all space , but also throughout all time , as far as the farthest stretches of space and time that science can reveal to us . These are points of singular interest , inasmuch as our solar system is by no means stationary in the universe . It has long been known that our sun is flying through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constellation Hercules , carrying with him his attendant planets with their moons . The revolving year , therefore , never brings us back to the place where it found us , but to a point many millions of miles distant . It is interesting to be assured that no matter how long this continues , we may depend upon the beneficent uniformity of nature 's process . The unification of nature in point of time has been the work of the nineteenth century , and especially of its geologists . When it was first proved that the age of the earth is not 6000 years , but many millions , there was a tendency to suppose that in earlier ages the agencies at work in modifying the earth 's surface must have been far more violent than at present . It was quite natural that people should think so . The changes which geology revealed were apt to be mighty changes . Layers of strata many miles in area wrenched out of place , and perhaps turned up on edge ; erratic blocks of stone carried thousands of miles from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long stretches of sea-coast torn away by the restless waves ; mountains bearing on their summits the telltale evidences that they hael , once been submerged in the ocean ? all these things seemed to speak of gigantic displays of force like the wanton play of Titans and Asuras in the ancient mythologies . Still more was this view impressed upon the mind as the wonders of paleontology became gradually revealed to us . Here we were shown a succession of past ages during which the aspect of things was totally different from what it is now . There was , for example , the age when the great coal-measures were deposited , characterized by a dense and suffocating atmosphere , with vegetation generally as exuberant as that of modern Brazil , with colossal tree-ferns abounding , but not a singe deciduous tree or flowering herb in existence . That Carboniferous Age had its day and vanished , leaving its vegetable wealth locked up in the bowels of the earth to heat the houses and propel the engines of men in this age of ours . By-and-by there was a Jurassic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bulkiest animals ever seen upon earth , yet with brains too small to do more than guide their clumsy movements . Those were the days when the Atlantosaurus , with a body 100 feet long and a tail as stout as a ship 's mast , dragged his unwieldy length over the plains of - Montana , while in every latitude and clime you would come upon similar cold - blooded dinosaurs , seinetimes bigger than elephants , sometimes as small as mice , stalking through the landscape or burrowing underground , sitting upright , kangaroo fashion , with heads near the tree-tops , flying about in the gloaming with batlike wings like a schooner 's mainsail , or sailing in the seas , with long , cranelike necks reared aloft above the water . Those were long days , but they too passed , and the years are millions since the last . dinosaur perished . And then , to mention just one more , we are introduced to an Eocene world , about which the most striking things are the appearance of deciduous trees alongside of the evergreens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simultaneously in the insect world and in the world of lowers , and , lastly , the presence of sundry queer-looking warm-blooded mammals calculated to produce in an observer the state of mind of old Polonius , ? f or one would seem like a pig were it not also something like a small donkey ; another would seem about midway between cat , rabbit , and monkey , all of them being generalized types which have since been variously specialized . I need not add that these creatures , too , are all gone . Now , in view of such repeated and wholesale destruction of life , it was not strange that the geologists of a hundred years ago should have imagined a succession of dire catastrophes involving a large part or the whole of the earth 's surface . It was supposed that the beginning and end of every great geologic period , such as the Carboniferous or the Jurassic or the Eocene , here selected for mention , were characterized by such catastrophes , which swept from the face of the earth all existing forms of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geologic period was marked by a fresh introduction of living beings through some inexplicable act of wholesale creation . There were facts which did not harmonize with this view , such , for example , as the continuous existence of a certain kind of shell-fish , known as trilobites , through many successive geologic periods . The theory of catastrophes appeared to demand the assumption that these trilobites were wiped out and created over again half a dozen times , which was rather a shock to men 's acquired notions of probability . The complete overthrow of this doctrine of catastrophes was effected by Sir Charles Lye11 , whose great book was published in 1830 . The difficulty with the catastrophizers was that , while talking glibly about millions of years , they had not stopped to consider what is meant by a million years when it takes the shape of work accomplished . Suppose you were to go to the Grand Cation of the Colorado River and stand upon the fearful brink of the gorge where it is more than a mile in depth , looking down at the stream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were told that this stream is wearing oil from its rocky bed about one-tenth of an inch every year , how your mind would feel staggered in the attempt to estimate the length of time that it must have taken to excavate the whole of that mighty gorge ! Your first impulse would certainly be to speak of quadrillions of years , or something of the sort ; yet a simple calculation shows that one million of years would much more than suffice for the whole process . Now all over the globe the myriad raindrops rushing in rivers to the sea are with tireless industry working to obliterate existing continents , and the mean rate at which they are accomplishing this work of denudation seems to be about one foot in three thousand years . At this rate , and from the action of rivers alone , it would take just about two million years to wear the whole existing continent of Europe . with all its huge mountain masses , down to the sealevel . It was the application of such considerations by Sir Charles Lye11 to the grdt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . revolutionized the whole study of the earth 's surface . It soon became clear that the great catastrophes were entirely unnecessary to account for the effects which we see ; and for the first time in the history of human thought we had brought before us on the most colossal scale the truth that there is nothing in the universe which accomplishes so much as the incessant cumulative action of tiny causes . This theory of LyeWs was at first known as Uniformitarianism , as contrasted with Catastrophism . It has everywhere won the field , but with sundry qualifications and explanations . It is not believed that the earth 's surface was always so quiet as at present. , because it is an accepted opinion among men of science that the earth was once a vaporous body immensely hotter than at present and to some extent self-luminous , as Jupiter and Saturn are to-day . Such a state of things was a state of more or less curious commotion , such as may now be witnessed upon the surfaces of those planets , which are so big that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth 's surface with the formation of a crust must have entailed increasing quiet , and it was of course not until long after the formation of a solid crust with liquid oceans that organic life could have begun to exist . Even after the introduction of plants and animals , the energies of the heated interior , imperfectly repressed , broke forth from time to time in local catastrophes upon the surface , though doubtless never in one that could be called universal . Tn early geologic ages there were doubtless earthquakes and floods more violent than any recorded in history , but the chief agencies of change were the quiet ones ; and in general , if at any time you had visited the earth , you would have found a peaceful scene , where gentle showers and quickening sunshine coaxed forth the sprouting herbage , with worms crawling in the ground and quadrupeds of some surf , browsing on the vegetation ; and never would there just come a time when you could say that the old age had gone and a new one succeeded it . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not swept away in a body to make room for the children , but . one by one the old drop of and the young come on , till a day is reached when none of those remain that once were here . How does some form of human speech become extinct ? About a hundred years ago an old lady named Dolly Dentreath died in Cornwall . She could speak the Cornish language ; after her death there was nobody that could . Thus quietly did the living Cornish language become a dead language ; and in a like unobtrusive manner have been wrought most of the new becomings which have changed and are changing the earth . The net result of all this study was that the same kind of forces were at work a hundred million years ago that are at work to-day , and that the lessons gained from our familiar experiences may safely be applied to the explanation of phenomena the most remote in time as well as in space . In a still more striking degree was this exemplified in the researches of Darwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal catastrophes , it was also clear that the persistence of trilobites and other creatures unchanged through successive periods simply showed that they had existed all the time because the conditions happened to be favorable . It was further noticed that where , in some given territory , one geologic period follows another , the creatures of the later period resemble those of the earlier much more closely than the creatures of some distant region . Thus through many successive periods South America has abounded in animals of the general types of armadillo , sloth , and ant-eater . For example , although the change from the megatherium of the Pliocene Age to the modern sloth is greater than the change from the Bengal tiger to kitty that purrs on the hearth , yet , after all , the megatherium is of the sloth type . But if the megatherium was once annihilated by some grand convulsion , after which a fresh creation of mammals occurred in South America , why should a sloth occur among the new creations rather than a kangaroo or an elephant ? For a while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that every animal is best suited to the conditions in which he lives , that he was created in order to fit those conditions ; therefore God has repeatedly created anew the sloth type of animal in South America because it has all along been best fitted to the conditions to which animal life is subjected there . But this ingenious argument was soon overthrown . IL is true that every animal is more or less adapted to his environment , fer otherwise . he would at once become extinct ; but in order to determine whether he is best adapted to that environment , it remains to be seen whether he can maintain himself in it against all comers . Now in a great many instances he is far from able to do this . New Zealand grass is fast disappearing before grass introduced from Europe , and the marsupials of Australia are being surely and steadily extirpated by the introduction of species with widely different structure but similar habits . Thus the marsupial rodent is vanishing before the European rat even faster than the native black fellow is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed the rule of putting wild species only in the habitats best suited to them , He would have put the European rat in Australia , and not the marsupial rodent . This illustration shows how far the old explanation failed to suit the facts . It is now understood that one of the principal factors in establishing a high degree of vitality has been competition for the means of supporting life . In the great continental mass of Europe , Asia , and Africa the forms of life have been most numerous and the competition has been keenest ; hence life , both animal and vegetable , has been more strongly developed than elsewhere ; creatures have been produced that are tougher and more resourceful than in other places ; they have the peculiar combinations of qualities that enable their possessors to live more highly developed . Second in this respect comes North America ; then very far below it , because more isolated , comes South America ; lowest of all , because most isolated , comes Australasia . Australian man is the lowest of the human species , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New Zealand , a high type of barbarian , is not indigenous , but a comparatively late arrival ; in its natural history generally Australasia has only reached a point attained in the Northern Hemisphere two or three geological periods ago . In the chalk period marsupials abounded in Europe , but they were long ago extinguished by placental mammals of greater vitality , and the same thing is now happening in Australasia . The true reason for the resemblance between any fauna and its predecessors in the same area is that the later forms are slightly modified descendants of the earlier forms . Thus there arose the suspicion that the millions of separate acts of creation once thought necessary to account for the specific forms of plants and animals were as unnecessary and improbable as the series of convulsions formerly imagined as the causes of geologic change . Now what Darwin did was the same sort of thing that Newton and T.yell had done . He asked himself if there was not some simple and familiar cause now operating to modify plants and animals which could be shown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furthermore , if such a cause could not be proved adequate to bring about truly specific changes . We are familiar with the production of new breeds of horses and cattle , pigeons and fowl , and countless fruits and flowers , through human agency . How is this done ? Simply through selection . I need not follow the steps by which Darwin reached his conclusions . Selection by man could not account for the origin of species , but the leap of inference which Darwin took from human selection to natural selection , the masterly way in which he proved that the survival of favored individuals in the struggle for existence must operate as a process of selection , incessant , ubiquitous , and unavoidable , so that all living things are from birth to death under its sway ? this was of course one of the most memorable achievements of the human mind . It was in the highest sense poetic work , introducing mankind to a new world of thought . But its scientific character lay in its appealing to familiar agencies to assist in interpreting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much ground , it was substantiated and verified in such a host of cases , as to win general assent to the doctrine of evolution , which had before 1860 been accepted only by a comparatively few leading minds . In this connection let me for the thousandth time point out the fallacy of the common notion that we owe to Charles Darwin the doctrine of evolution . Nothing of the sort . On the other hand , there were large portions of the general theory of evolution which Darwin did not even understand . His theory of descent by modifications through the agency of natural selection was an immensely important contribution to the doctrine of evolution , but it should no more be confounded with that doctrine than Lyell 's geology or the Newtonian astronomy should be confounded with it . If Herbert . Spencer had not lived in the nineteenth century , although the age would have been full of illustrations of evolution , contributed by Darwin and others , yet in all probability such a thing as the doctrine of evolution would not have been heard of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine of evolution ? It is simply this : That the changes that are going on throughout the universe , so far as our scientific methods enable us to discern and follow them , are not chaotic or unrelated , but follow an intelligible course from one state of things toward another ; and more particularly that the course which they follow is like That which goes on during the development of an ovum into a mature animal . This doctrine of evolution started in the study of embryology , a department in which Darwin had but little first-hand knowledge . Spencer 's forerunner was the great Esthonian naturalist Karl Ernst von Beer , who published in 1829 a wonderful book generalizing the results of observation up to that time on the embryology of a great many kinds of animal . Curiously enough , von Baer called this book a " History of Evolution , " although neither then nor down to his death was he an evolutionist in our sense of the word . So far from it was he that in his later years he persistently refused to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studying the development of en individual ovi:m as exemplified in a thousand different species of animals , von Baer arrived at a group of technical formulas so general that they cover and describe with accuracy the series of changes that occur in all these cases . Tn other words , he made a general statement of the law of development for all physiological species . Now Spencer 's great achievement was to prove that von Baer 's law of development , with sundry modifications , applies to the succession of phenomena in the whole universe so far as known to us . Spencer took the development of the solar system according to the theories of Kant and Laplace ; he took the geologic development of the earth according to the school of Lye11 ; he took the development of plant and animal life upon the earth 's surface according to Linmcus and Cuvier , supplemented and rectified by Hooker and Huxley ; and he showed that all these multifarious and apparently unrelated phenomena have through countless ages been proceeding according to the very law which expresses the development of an individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially elaborate illustration of his theory in a treatise upon psychology , in which he traced the evolution of mind from the first appearance of rudimentary nerve systems in creatures as low as starfishes up to the most abstruse and complex operations of human intelligence , and he showed that throughout this vast region the phenomena conformed to his law . This was by far the profoundest special research that has ever been made on the subject . of evolution , and it was published four years before Spencer had ever heard of Darwin 's theory of natural selection . In those days Spencer 's attitude toward such questions was much more Lamarckian than Darwinian ? that is to say , he attributed far greater importance to such agencies as the cumulative effects of use and disuse than Darwin ever did ; but when Darwin 's great work appeared , Spencer cordially welcomed him as a most powerful auxiliary . Spencer 's next achievement was to point out some of the most essential features in the development of mankind as socially organized , and to make it practically certain that with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be embraced under the one great law of evolution . And there was still one thing more which Spencer may fairly be said to have accomplished . The generalization of the metamorphosis of forces , which was begun a century ago by Count Rumford when he recognized heat as a mode of molecular motion , was consummated about the middle of the century , when Dr. Joule showed mathematically just how much heat is equivalent to just how much visible motion , and when the researches of Helmholtz , Mayer , and Faraday completed the grand demonstration that light and heat and magnetism and electricity and visible motion are all interchangeable one into the other , and are continually thus interchanging from moment to moment .. Now Spencer showed that the universal process of evolution as described in his formula not only conforms to the development of an - individual life as generalized by von Baer , but is itself an inevitable consequence of the perpetual metamorphosis of energy that was detected by the great thinkers above named . from Rumford to Helmholtz . Had he only accomplished the former part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been that of a greater Kepler ; as it is. his place is undoubtedly that of a greater Newton . The achievement is so stupendous that that of Darwin is fairly dwarfed in comparison . In Spencer 's law of evolution the unification of nature is carried to something like completeness . Now with regard to some of the scientific truths , methods , and habits which I have alluded to as characteristic of the theory of evolution and its pioneers , it is obvious that they have begun to permeate the thought of our time in many directions . Take , for example , the writing of history . There was a time when historians dealt mainly in personal details , in the intrigues of courts , and in battles and sieges ; when the study of some conspicuous personality like Luther or Napoleon was supposed to suffice for the understanding of the historic movements of his time ; when it could be said of sundry decisive battles that a contrary event would have essentially altered the direction of human development through all subsequent ages ; when some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biographies of all great men lumped together would he equivalent to a history of mankind . Throughout this whole school of writing you may detect that fondness for the unusual and catastrophic that used to characterize the scientific mind when untrained in modern methods and results . Now the past generation has seen the method of treating history quite revolutionized . In the study of political institutions and economic conditions we are endeavoring to understand the cumulative action of minute but incessant causes , such as we see in operation around us . We endeavor to carry to the interpretation of past ages the experience derived from our own ; and knowing that nothing is more treacherous than hasty generalizations from analogy , we devote to the institutions and conditions of past ages and our own a study of most exacting and microscopic minuteness in order that we may guard against error in our conclusions . The result of this new method is a very considerable revolution in our opinions of the past and our feelings toward it , while an enormous mass of facts that our grandfathers would have called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Or , to cite something more immediately practical , if you consider the projects which men have in various ages entertained for reforming society , you will End that along with experience goes a naive faith that some sovereign decree , or some act of parliament , or some cunningly devised constitution , or some happily planned referendum will at once accomplish the desired result . But cold , hard experience soon shows that sovereign edicts may be neglected , that it is far easier to make statutes than to enforce them , and that in such a delicate and complex structure as that of society the operation of laws and constitutions is liable to differ very widely from what was anticipated . The great difficulty of securing wise legislation is illustrated by the fact that in almost all statute-hooks nine-tenths of the legislation comes under the class which might be introduced as an act to repeal an act . Continually we find men asserting in one breath that human nature is always the same , and in the next moment assuming that it may be extensively remodelled by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from a study of evolution lead us to very different views upon such matters . We can produce abundant evidence to show that human nature is not always the name , while we also recognize that it eannot be suddenly or violently modified by any governmental might or cunning . We recognize that one must not expect to take a mass of poor units and organize them into an excellent sum total . We do not imagine that a community of Hottentots would he particularly benefited by our Federal Constitution any more than they would feel comfortable in our clothes . As the disclosures of the past century become assimilated in our mental structure , we see that man is now justified in feeling himself as never before a part of nature ; that the universe is no inhospitable wandering - place , but his own home ; that the mighty sweep of its events from age to age is but the working out of a cosmic drama in which his pert is the leading one ; and that all is an endless manifestation of one all-pervading creative Power , Protean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eon ? scions soul within us.                     