@@486737

Anything quite so humorous as Speak , er Cannon 's charge that Herman Rid-der offered him the Presidency , on a silver platter , with the compliments of the metropolitan newspapers , if he would repeal the duty on print paper , we have not read this many a day . Mr. Ridder is an estimable and useful gentleman , whose services to the newspapers in endeavoring to obtain decent treatment from Congress were deserving of high praise . We have yet to learn , however , that he has become a candidate for Bedlam , and such he must be if he made any such offer to Mr. Cannon . Of course , he did not ; his word on that point would suffice even if every probability were not on his side . Mr. Ridder has seen every newspaper in New York try to defeat a ' given candidate for the Mayoralty  --  in vain . He knows , moreover , that no one can " deliver " the newspapers of this city ; it is only by accident that they ever pull together on any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ridder was suffering from a complete mental aberration , he must have known that if all the city newspapers of the country were to band together they could not elect Mr. Cannin to the Presidency . Mr. Hearst is to be congratulated on his escape , more or less narrow , from being elected Mayor of New York , an office to which he confesses he looked forward with much apprehension as a harassing and profitless burden . Mr. Hearst is not the only man who has reason to congratulate himself . Success has a habit of lying in wait around a dark corner , sandbagging its victim , and dragging his unconscious and prostrate form unto the highest pinnacle of fortune . Happy the man who can elude her . Mr. Bryan rejoices that his triple evasion of the Presidential chair has enabled him to see more strange countries and to lecture to more American citizens than if he had been compelled to settle down in the Whits House . ' Seilor Castro points out that the climate of Caracas is not fit to be mentioned with that of Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes to bed he ca n't help feeling sorry for President Gomez . At Salonika , Abdul Hamid. says he is positively getting fat under the peaceful regime that followed the dispersal of his harem . President Zelaya is understood to be . preparing a statement in which he shows that the annual expenditures of a Chief Executive of Nicaragua regularly exceed his income . The Sugar Trust can only rejoice that it has at length been convicted of theft ; the stings of conscience it experienced these twenty years were something awful . The amusing war over the California lemon continues . Our readers will remember that the lemon-growers of that State induced Congress to put a higher tariff on foreign lemons . The neat profit they expected to get under this arrangement from the ultimate consumer was , of course , to go into their own pockets only . Their anger was unlimited , therefore , when the railways calmly thought that they ought to have the benefit of this " rake-off " and raised their freight rates so as just to equal the profit from the tariff . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumer was very well as long as they alone mulcted him , but their . sympathy for him when he was robbed by those scandalous railways- was fairly overflowing . Unable to move the cruel transportation corporations by tears and threats , the lemon-growers have obtained a temporary injunction against three railways  --  the Santa Fe , the San Pedro and Los Angeles , and the Southern Pacific  --  forbidding them to raise their rates . Doubtless , the lemon-growers are deeply thrilled as to the success of this unusual move . But the ultimate consumer can hardly be expected to be interested . He is going to be robbed by act of Congress whether the railways or the growers do the fleecing . The pension system established by the New York Central on its main constituent lines is another step in a direction toward which , it should appear , all our great railway corporations- are tending . Its principal provisions call for the re tirement of all employees at the age of seventy , with the right to a pension if the employee has been in the service of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' continuous service entitles an employee to a pension before he has reached the age of seventy . The amount of compensation is 1 per cent . for each year of continuous service based upon the average rate of pay during the ten years preceding retirement . In the matter of age limit and rate of compensation the Central pension is the same as that already in force on the Pennsylvania Railroad . What does such a plan mean to the company and what to the pensioner ? The Pennsylvania Company 's annual reports show that from 1903 to 1908 it has distributed $2,370,000 . From 1903 to 1906 its annual appropriation for pension purposes was $390,000 . In 1907 and 1908 it was $600,000 . The number of pensioners on the rolls of the company at the - end of 1903 was 1,599 ; in 1908 it was 2,176 . The average number ? of men retired annually has been 308 , and the average number of deaths among pensioners has been 190 . The retirements and the deaths , , of course , are bound to increase for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Illinois are intensified by the magnificent heroism of the twelve rescuers who deliberately went to their deaths in the fiery mine in an effort to save their imprisoned fellows . This is the kind of courage which is infinitely superior to any other , since it is voluntary and deliberate placing of one 's life iu the balance to save others . That such heroism exists in every walk of life is the final reply to those strenuous souls who pretend to believe that courage , manhood , and all the primal virtues would disappear if there were not occasional blood-letting by nations on sea and land . Only two weeks ago , there was a similar example of heroism at an explosion in the Barren Colliery near Bargoed , South Wales . There , too , a rescue party , headed by no less a person than the general manager of the mine , went in , the manager and two others going to their deaths . Of a subsequent body of rescuers , equally brave , three more lost their lives . If there is anything redeeming about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the mob did not draw the color line . The breakdown of government was complete ; the mob was left undisturbed in its career . It made a mockery of religion by letting one of its victims pray publicly and then promptly violating more than one of the Commandments . Gradually , Illinois is acquiring the name of a great lynching State , and for this the failure of justice is alone to blame . Nobody was punished for the riots and murders at Springfield , the sole excuse of which was the false charge of an abandoned woman ; and of this fact the mob in Cairo was doubtless aware . That women , too , should have assisted in the lynchings shows how far the demoralization has gone . It is impossible to believe that such horrible wrongs to individuals and to society as are perpetrated by these mobs can go unpunished . The death of a University of Virginia student , murdered in a mass play in Saturday 's football game between his institution and Georgetown University , is the chief feature of the week-end list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in virtually the same way as Cadet Byrne  --  he was unfortunate enough to fall at the bottom o ' the heap . If college presidents will not act , save to hide behind athletic committees and less responsible rules committees , it is time for public opinion to exert itself again . A few years ago it stopped the flying wedge . This year it can stop this abominable mass play . The Rules Committee can do it at its meeting in December , if it sees fit . But with all deference to the gentlemen composing that committee , they should be made to feel that if prompt action is not taken , their whole beloved game is likely to be endangered . The St. Louis Board of Education has called upon the Superintendent of Education to show cause why football should not be abolished in that city 's schools . Other boards are likely to follow Columbia 's admirable example and abolish the game altogether until it can be made reasonably safe . Professor Hyslop brushes aside the mere suspension of physical laws as something that can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , he is right in taking no stock in Eusapia Palladino . That lady 's gifts seem to be entirely connected with the production of visible and audible miracles  --  shadowy mouths which open to tell the secrets of the other world , shadowy hands which grasp cigar-holders and twang mandolins suspended in the air , and shadowy fingers which model portrait heads in wet clay . Tables and chairs which rise in the air are a commonplace of Eusapia 's exhibitions . Camille Flammarion , who has experimented extensively with Eusapia considers the phenomenon of levitation as absolutely established , and this because he has seen the marvel performed in the full light of a gas chandelier . It is the aversion of most other mediumistic phenomena for the light that makes Flana ? marion hesitate . Why must the gas always be turned loW before the psychic forces will condescend to bring an auditor a message from Shakespeare , or pinch his cheek or hit him smartly in the ribs ? The authenticity of the Leonardo da Vinci wax-bust at Berlin is now established and Dr. Bode stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East Africa , of the most competent authority to speak on the subject , the Kaiser has gone to the trouble of inspecting the aspersed masterpiece , and has pronounced it genuine . England can not now persist in its criticisms against the Berlin Museum without supplying a cases belli . After all , it is a fine thing to have ' infallible authority to fall back upon in the hour of need . Literary criticism during the silver age of Latin poetry profited greatly by the simple but effective methods of the Emperor Nero . Differences of opinion regarding the beauty of a particular hexameter melted away before the imperial suggestion that obstinate critics ought to get into a warm bath and open an artery or two . In our own democratic age the very mention of such a thing as a standard is sacrilege . Criticism is at its finest nowadays when it asserts that I am right , and you are right , and everything is quite correct . But that in the end spells chaos . Hence we must rejoice that what TaMe and Brunetiere could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most versatile of the Hohenzollern . The devotee of the classics has Many an adverse influence to contend with , but there is hardly warrant for the discouraging view of a recent editorial in , the Classical Weekly . Teachers of Latin , are not- alone in finding many of their-pupils convinced in later years that their work in that subject was practically fruitless . The same charge is continually brought against both school and college training in English , sometimes-with justice and sometimes not . It is true that the study of history " has developed amazingly in the method of presentation , " but a good deal of the athaze-ment is centred upon " original research " by raw undergraduates . And even int the natural sciences , the " correspondingly new methods " are already encountering severe criticism just because they-are sacrificing thorough drill in the . elements to undue haste for results . It may savor of supererogation to defend the classicists against their own admissions , but there is at least room for question whether their work is essentially weaker than that of their associates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resources at their command . The rumor that England will now experiment with a semi-submarine battle -- ship does not surprise us . We have-long believed , in our ignorant layman's. way , that there ought to be a return t ( : ) , the Ericsson type of monitor , improve &; by modern ideas on ventilation , etc. , but we have always been pitied by naval officers for showing our ignorance-in this manner . They have assured us-that life can not be made bearable on semi-submarines , that guns can not be-fired in a seaway save where there is-high freeboard , and that even if a modern battleship is a wonderfully fine target at sea , with its heavy superstructure and its towering military masts , this type must survive . Well , the British ' Admiralty declines to be bound by tradition , and the semi-submarine is to ? be tried . More than that , some of our-own officers  --  doubtless mere cranks incline to the view that the semi-sub -- marine will come to stay . Thus Rear -- Admiral G. F. F. Wilde , retired , is en -- thusiastic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these words : The boat swims Like a shark . The waves-do not- break on her , but merely slur over . The other prime objection brought up . against the proposed new type is the low freeboard , which , they say , will prevent the never saw the time yet when I could not open up the ports and train my guns The new type of battleship could be built at much less cost , four semi-submarines equalling in cost one Dreadnought . Yet these same arguments Rear-Admiral Wilde answers have always been brought up against the construction of modern monitors , just as they were used in 1862 against Ericsson 's cheesebox on a raft . The outcome of the Steinheil case is what every close student of popular opinion expected after the second day of the trial . It would have been a sad miscarriage of justice if the jury had brought in a verdict of guilty against a woman out of whom a hundred newspaper correspondents have made such admirable copy ; whom a hundred word-painters have depicted in a hundred picturesque moods , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five hundred francs apiece to stare at . The end of such causes celebres is so invariably the same , whether in America , under our fine , loose , go-as-youplease common law , or in France , under the iniquitous Roman law beneath which four-fifths of civilized humanity have suffered these few thousand years , that it seems almost a pity to set the complicated machinery of justice grinding away for nothing . In this country the process takes months ; in France-it takes weeks . But for all the hot ? rossquestioning and challenging of tales-men , the fiery allocutions and exceptions , the vast array of expert testimony , the serpentine advance of the hypothetical question , the American public knows from the beginning that a Harry K. Thaw will never go to the electric chair . And in France , for all the rhetorical invective from the ' bench , a Steinheil , with more reason than a Th.aw , we admit , is pretty sure of escaping the severest penalties of the law . On the ground of mere economy it would pay New York County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendant-in a murder case by offering him ten or fifteen thousand dollars , and calling it quits . Austro-Italian relations are temporarily under strain because of an indiscreet speech by a high officer of the Italian army . The Latin temperament on half-pay , because he forgot that inter arms soldiers had better keep a silent tongue in their heads . This particular Italian delinquent is accused of having said that beyond the Alps lay Austria , and that under her rule groaned many a Latin city which soon should be delivered . Here again was a crack in the Triple Alliance which has been showing such alarming structural defects of late . Will Italy fall away from that alliance ? For the distant future it is rash to predict , but no such immediate contingency presents itself . Whom must Italy have behind her in a war with her present allies ? France , at the least . Whom must France have behind her before she does go to war ? Russia . But that Russia is a slender reed to lean upon French statesmen are well aware . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a highly speculative question . Not until Russia is a civilized government with civilized institutions can she be instrumental in breaking up the Triple Alliance . Our retiring Ambassador at St. Petersburg gives a roseate picture of conditions in Russia . The country is prosperous , constitutional government is working itself out nicely , and the people are contented . Mr. Riddle has the proper optimism of the diplomat in a strange land . How neatly constitutional government is functioning in Russia may be understood from a St. Petersburg dispatch which tells of the condemnation of one of the leading lawyers in that city to a year 's imprisonment in a fortress because of a speech he made at the trial of those implicated in the Jewish massacre at Bialystok , about three years ago . This is the measure of liberty of speech in Russia . It is true that the country this year is more prosperous than it has been for decades . Undoubtedly , the Duma still enjoys the happy privilege of repeating " yes " and " no " after the Czar 's ministers . True , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we have only to remember that the Government still looks upon the Constitutional Democratic party , led by M. Milyukoff , as " illegal , " to see with what difficulty that spark burns on . What treatment will the Russian Government accord to Nicholas Tchaikovsky in the face of the world 's exasperation at the Spanish Government 's treatment of Ferrer ? There ' are reports that Tchaikovsky 's approaching trial for treason will be conducted behind closed doors , in violation of the Russian Premier 's promise that he and his fellow-prisoner , Mme. Breshkovsky , should receive a fair trial . Public opinion should lose no time in protesting against such an iniquitous procedure . In the case of Ferrer , public opinion had scarcely time to pull itself together , men had scarcely time to make up their minds that the danger was real , when the blow fell . There should be no chances taken in the case of the Russian patriot , whom this country and England have come to know as one of the most high-soulee and devoted men who have ever fought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong hand , but he should be made to see the folly of practically instituting court-martial at a time of revolutionary inactivity . This is not the way to keep the peace . The attempt upon the life of the Viceroy of India in Bombay last Sunday will be deplored by no one more than by the sincere friends of the new India . Very important concessions have just been granted to India 's demand for a greater share in her own government . An Indian representative now sits in the Viceroy 's executive council , the body that rules the peninsula and largely shapes Britain 's policy towards her Indian subjects . At the present moment preparations are under way for the elections to the reorganized Provincial Councils in which the native element is to have a majority . This is progress , and greater concessions are bound to come unless an outbreak of anarchy should play straight into the hands of the British reactionary element . The liberties granted are not Home Rule , but one need not be a thick-and-thin defender of the British supremacy to maintain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . Unfortunately , the gospel of dynamite has been pretty well spread in Hindustan these last few years ; fanaticism is native to the soil , and life is so abundantly cheap that the advocates of violence can always count on plenty of fools or tools to-stir up mischief .                     