@@486793

Senator Culberson of Texas , at the Reform Club 's Parker meeting in Carnegie Hall on Thursday evening , produced the promised Panama surprise when he read the following letter written by President Roosevelt to Dr. Albert Shaw , editor of the Review or Reviews , twenty-five days before Panama seceded from Colombia : " Personal . HOUSE , ' WASHINGTON , October 10 , 1903 . " My DEAR DR SHAW . " I enclose you , purely for your own information , a copy of a letter of September 5th , from our Minister to Colombia I think it might interest you to see that there was absolutely not the slightest chance of securing by treaty any more than we endeavored to secure . The alternatives were to go to Nicaragua against the advice of the great majority of competent engineers ? some of the most competent saying that we had better have no canal at this time than go there  --  or else to take the territory by force without any attempt at getting a treaty I cast aside the proposition made at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do , the United States can not go into the securing by such underhand means the cession . Privately , I freely say to you that I should be delighted if Panama were an independent state ; or if it made itself so at this moment , but for me to say so publicly would amount to an instigation of a revolt , and therefore I can not say it " With great regard , sincerely yours , " THEODORE ROOSEVELT . " Dr. Albert Shaw , Editor Review of 1 ? emotos , No. 13 Astor Place , New York " That there was gross injustice , and an unexampled disregard of law and treaty , in the President 's course towards Colombia , competent and fair-minded men have been compelled to conclude from the evidence . But they , and the professors of international law who have Pointed out the illegality of the President 's seizure of Panama , never charged that he was guilty of double-dealing . His own blunt assertion of an intention to do whatever he pleased was bad enough ; but if deceit lurked behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is true that a part of Mr. Roosevelt 's letter to Dr. Albert Shaw had been printed . We may say that the whole of it has been in our possession since last November . It was sent to this office , in confidence , by a friend of the President 's . That was the amazing thing . This stark admission of a purpose to " take the territory by force , " if necessary , was considered by the President a complete answer to ' the charge that he had taken it by guile What could be more alarming , as revealing the state of mind of the Chief Magistrate of this nation ? The defence was but an aggravation of the original accusation . It was alleged that he had conspired against Colombia , and the answer was that he was prepared to take her property by force ! Never was there a more startling revelation of the incendiary ideas in the President 's head A second question , however , amounting to an issue - of veracity , is raised byanother phrase in the letter ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this tame to foment the secession of Panama . " Made by - whom ? Was Editor Shaw proposing to lead a filibustering expedition , Mae another Walker ? Was the Frenchman Bunau-Varilla , whose bad repute stands written in the official documents of his own country , urging the President to promise that use of American warships which was afterwards made , and which Bunau-Varilla pledged himself to the conspirators - on the Isthinue would be made ? Was Sefior Duque , who now says that he " knew " the Administration Would support him and the tither Panama revolutroniSts , making a " proposition " to the President ? Were any agents of the Panama Company doing it ? Some one made the proposition . Who was it ? And ' hobo , after this admission to Dr. Shaw that he was privy to the plan in advance , could the President inform Congress , as he did ' three months later , that " no one connected with the Government had any previous knowledge of the revolution except such as was accessible to any person of ordinary intelligence who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foment the secession of Panama " made to the President by the nmvspapers ? To all these questions a speedy and conclusive answer is imperatively required . A very deadly parallel was eonstructed by Senator Culberson between a statement in the President 's message to Congress and a letter of Secretary Hay 's to the Colombian Minister . Tins letter , it should be added , was not sent to the Senate with the other pertinent documents Mr. Culberson affirms that it was kept secret for a full year . In it the Secretary made , by direction of the President , a statement flatly contradicted by Mr. Roosevelt himself in his message to Congress . Here is the exhibit : HAY TO HERMAN ROOSEVELT TO CON-GRESS " As events turned out , the question of reasonable time did not enter into the matter at all . . . And yet there had not been a lapse of a reasonable time  --  using the word reasonable in any proper sense  --  slice as would justify the Administration going to the Nicaragua route . " January 4 , 1904 The truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ m'is'carriage his badly managed diplomacy ; that the President was wild to get a canal by hook or by crook ; and that they turned eagerly to the project of dismembering Colombia . What sort of impression will this letter of Mr. Roosevelt 's Make upon people in Hayti and San Domingo and Venezuela ? With all those countries we have troubled relations . In all of them Americans have great money interests , and are urging the Presidentto intervene in their behalf . Has he written privately to some other friend , " I freely say to you that I should be delighted " if there were a revolt in Venezuela or San Domingo OT Hayti ? The similar sentiment which Mr. Roosevelt expressed in regard to Panama was so flagrantly improper that it is no wonder Ins apologists thought it better to leave that part out of their version of the - document . Delighted to see a friendly nation broken up ! When South Americans read that , they ' will ask , " Which Of us is safe against this plotting Amerman President ? " BELATED PANAMA SORUPLEti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republic on the Isthmus are themselves denied by the President 's letter of instructions to Secretary Taft . Admiral Walker . Gen. Davis , and Minister Barrett have each in turn pictured Panama as a little paradise of contentment . This pretence , however , is now brushed aside by Mr. Roosevelt . He informs us that the residents of the Isthmus are " alarmed " at the attitude of this Government , which they fear intends to injure them in both pocket and pride ; and accordingly he resorts to the extraordinary step of sending the Secretary of War on a special mission to compose their ruffled feelings . That there should be in Panama such a thing as " distrust of the American Government " fills the President with grief and pain . It is all a little late , astute Panamanians might say , pointing out that they naturally dread lest the man who swallowed the Colombia camel will not too carefully strain out the Panama gnat . It is clear that the principles laid down in the President 's letter are exactly the opposite of those he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If lie had been then one-half as scrupulous and conciliatory as he professes to be now , he would never have ein , barked upon the policy towards Colombia which Senator Hoar and ex-Senator Edmunds described as practically that of a highwayman . Only listen to the considerate man : he even renounces rights which " a just construction of the treaty " might enable us to assert . Last November , he was fairly torturing a treaty to read into it his preposterous claim of power to break up Colombia  --  all in the way of the purest friendship . To-day , he will waive a clear grant of power , out of fear that its exercise might injure our good name , or that foreigners might be given the impression that the United States had a President ready , in ? his own language , to " take things into his own hands . " We can not wonder that the President is ashamed to take advantage of the letter of the treaty with Panama The people of Panama had nothing to do with its drafting The work was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adventurer and conspirator , P. Bunan-Varilla . The juxtaposition of those two names at the bottom of the treaty is not one of which the American Secretary of State can be proud . It is known exactly how Bunau-Varilla came to sign for Panama . A commission of real Panamanians was on the way to negotiate a treaty  --  had , in fact , actually reached New York  --  when the soz-disant Minister of Panama at Washington signed the treaty before it was dry . Every one remembers how its modification was afterwards prevented , in both Washington and Panama , on the plea that it must be ratified as it stood , lest it fail altogether . We say , therefore , that for the President to insist upon the strict enforcement of a treaty which was practically forced on Panama , would be about as decent as for a money-lender to seize the furniture of a widow because she had not paid him 124 per cent . interest on the chattel mortgage , as his contract called for . It is obvious that the President 's letter is given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an electioneering document is plain . The people are expected to see in it a refutation of the charge that President Roosevelt is aggressive in international relations . In so far as this betrays a sensitiveness to criticism , and a willingness to give a tacit pledge of amendment , it is gratifying . Mr. Roosevelt has unquestionably disturbed many sober-minded Americans by his headlong and highhanded course towards Colombia . He has caused widespread apprehension  --  that sort of uneasiness which Tacitus , by a happy though unconscious prophecy in his very phrasing , called the strenu , oszssinvi musque perieulum . Now , apparently , the President is trying to remove that fear  --  or , at least , to reduce as much as possible its adverse effect upon his political fortunes . This is of a piece with several other recent attempts to convince the public that Mr. Roosevelt is " safe " in his conduct of foreign relations . President Wheeler , for example , gave it out as " good news , " on his return from Washington , that Mr. Hay was to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that he would exercise a conservative influence upon a rash President . This reminds one of the promise which Lord John Russell made when he took Palmerston into his Government in 1846 , that he would " control " the meddling Foreign Minister and prevent his policy from becoming dangerous . It did not turn out that way . Palmerston 's policy was quite along the lines of Roosevelt 's idea of " policing " weaker countries , and his " general interference " in . Portugal , in Italy , and in Greece , not only brought England to the verge of war , but made her disliked and antagonNed throughout Europe . Lord Russell found at last that the only way to " control " the pernicious activity of Palmerston was to turn him out of the Cabinet , which he accordingly did . Mr. Roosevelt , in fact , might do worse than make a careful study of Palmerston 's career . Popularity , no doubt , is to be won by any public man who will make a vehement assertion of his country 's claims as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the idol of all English Chauvinists . He swung the Big Stick , and the cheers for " Old Pam " were as frantic as for " Teddy . " But what was the net result of his foreign policy ? To make England at once weak and hated : The contemporary shouting of the multitude can not offset the historical verdict on Palmerston , which is against him . His conception of diplomacy was , as Sir Robert Peel declared , to use it " to fester every wound , to provoke instead of soothing resentments , to place a minister in every court of Europe for the purpose , not of prevent= ing quarrels or of adjusting quarrels , but for the purpose of continuing an angry correspondence and promoting what is supposed to be an English interest by keeping up conflicts with the representatives of other Powers . " And Gladstone , in the great debate in 1850 , boldly met Palmerston 's swagger about 01,112S Romanus sum , by asking : " What then , sir , was a ? Roman ? citizen ? He wad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conquering race , to a nation that held all others bound down by the strong arm of power . For him there was- to be an exceptional system of law , for him principles were to be asserted , and by him rights were to be enjoyed , that were denied to the rest of the world . " If President Roosevelt 's letter of instructions in regard to the treatment of Panama shows that he has seen the error of his ways , and means hereafter to display magnanimity and patience towards the weak , instead of a disposition to browbeat and crush and despoil them , it may be taken as a happy augury . HELP FROM THE PHILIPPINES . We can not imagine fair-minded Republicans approving the course of the Administration in calling upon the Governor of the Philippines to help it in the election . That government which was to " know no politics " we see now that the Republican party regards as a valuable political asset , Secretary Taft 's demand upon Gov . Wright , and the latter 's dutiful reply , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decent . In one way , the exchange of telegrams amounts to about this : " Are youmaking a mess of your work ? TarT . " " I do n't think I am . WRIGHT . " But , in another sense , there is something positively improper and offensive in using several hundred dollars of the public money to pay for a Republican campaign document In other words , what was predicted - when we entered upon our annexation of distant islands has already come to pass . They are flung as a make-weight into the scales of a Presidential election . In the most unblushing partisan spirit , official reports are ordered so as to help the party in power . Narrowly inspected , what does this vindication of the Philippine Commission by itself amount to ? Secretary Taft , recalling how he himself was compelled to make unfulfilled predictions to aid McKinley in 1900 , telegraphed over an opinion about conditions in the islands quoted by Judge Parker from a recent investigator on the spot . This opinion Gov . Wright ostensibly controverts , but practically confirms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American officials in the Philippines have been " dishonest , corrupt , and despotic . " All that Gov . Wright denies is that " any considerable number " have been . He admits a " number of defaults , " but proudly reports that the Government has suffered no less , since it was " protected by insurance " Gov . Wright states that the " defaulters , with a few exceptions , appeared prior to the inauguration of the law " ? that is , the civil-service law . But the report of the Philippine Civil Service Board for 1903 shows that thirty-nine Persons had been removed from the classified service " for cause . " The notorious cause-is embezzlement . Gov . Wright also , to the ear , denies that the Philippines are in a bad way agriculturally . In reality , he admits it . It should be noted , in passing , that the statements on this point , made by the observer whom Judge Parker quoted , were no stronger than those of that old Philippine expert , John Foreman , Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cultivation " with " considerable distress , " and that the exports ( almost wholly agricultural ) " fell off " during the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1904 . Thus does our Philippine Balaam , summoned to curse Judge Parker , come very near to blessing him . On the question of suppressing newspaper criticism and censoring the native theatres , Gov . Wright 's denials are again tantamount to admissions . The Philippine Commission would never think of censoring plays  --  unless , of course , they contain such " insurrectionary " sentiments as the one suppressed a year ago . So , too , editors are perfectly free to criticise , though they go to jail , along with those two American newspaper men who were condemned as seditious , without a jury , and appealed in vain to the Supreme Court in Washington . Similarly , about the ravages of the ladrones . " Not true , " cables Gov Wright , which he immediately explains to mean that " there are only four or five ladrone leaders , " and that there are " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Call you - this denying the charges ? Gov . Wright 's single round and unqualified denial is of the assertion that taxation is oppressive . But on . that question we have some impartial and competent evidence in the November Atlantic , at the hands of Mr. Alleyne Ireland . As a student of colonization and an avowed Imperialist , he has been making an expert study of our administration of the Philippines , and comes to the conclusion that it is one of the most - wrong- headed , blundering , and burdensome governments ever imposed upon helpless natives . After showing that the Filipinos have to pay 46 per cent . of the value of their exports to support a rule forced upon them , Mr. Ireland adds : - " That a country should have to pay 46 per cent . of the value of its total industrial product for the privilege of being governed is obviously absurd ; and although a dependent tropical government is always expensive , from the fact that the administration is very much better than could arise naturally as a product of native activity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be . " Comparing the cost of government , on the basis adopted above , with that of five British dependencies in various parts of the tropics ? Ceylon , Barbados , British Guiana , Trinidad , and the Federated Malay States ? the average is 27 per cent. , as against 46 per cent . in the Philippines . " - Mr. Ireland 's article is , in reality , a very destructive criticism of our methods in the Philippines . From the beginning , he argues , they have been a medley of good intentions and ignorance , the chief effect being " blindness to local conditions and contempt for universal experience " He thinks that if the officials in the islands  --  and President Roosevelt along with them , we may add ? only knew something of what successful colonization really is , they would not boast so much of having given a model to the world . As it is , they have no basis for intelligent comparison : - " To give a single example : I was shown in the Philippines some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial travel , and was asked with pride whether the English had ever done anything like that for the benefit of their colonial subjects ; and when I replied that you could travel a thousand miles in an automobile in the Federated Malay States on roads as good as the Massachusetts State roads , my statement was met , if not with absolute incredulity , at least with the last degree of surprise . It was the same thing in a hundred matters . " Secretary Taft 's dragging of Gov . Wright into the campaign would not have been creditable even if it had been successful . Its flat failure will , we hope , prevent further improprieties of the sort . Facts are the last thing the Republicans should try to bring out . Their true line of argument is to say that the American people have become " tired " of the Philippine question , and do not want to be reminded again that , as Mr. Dooley remarks with biting sarcasm , " our own late gloryous war " was " like gettin ' drunk an ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years in th ' , Philippeens . " AN OVERRATED SPEECH . The reputation which some men build up on the slenderest of foundations is astonishing . Take the case of Mr. Vanderlip , formerly Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , and his address before the Illinois Bankers ' Association on October 18 . It has been everywhere commented upon as a noteworthy deliverance , and Mr. Vanderlip is referred to as one of the acutest of financial critics ; Yet will it be believed that , in attempting to analyze the sources and conditions of American prosperity , he left out the main cause ? He never once mentioned the tariff I This , of course , of itself fixes Mr. Vanderlip 's true rank as a thinker . He is nothing but a shallow sophister . The common or wayside Republican stump-speaker would be ashamed to display such ignorance . To speak of the financial resources and industrial growth of the United States without tracing all to that one first cause , least understood , the tariff , is to be as mad as an undevout astronomer . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's standing groping about for obscure and inoperative causes when the explanation of the whole is as clear as daylight to any man who will open his eyes : Our ablest publicists have given us the unquestioned truth ; and they will experience a shock when they read of his crude opinion that our recent prosperity was intimately dependent upon the establishment of a sound currency . " Poor man , " they will say ; " still in the beggarly elements ! Doesn'te-he know that the Dingley tariff was enacted before any financial legislation after what he calls ' the definite verdict of the people ' in 1896 ? And of what earthly use is it to have a gold standard if you have no tariff to make us all rich ? " In some of the statistics which Mr. Vanderlip presented , there was here and there what looks unpleasantly like a suppression of a vital truth . For instance , Mr. Vanderlip said , in enumerating our actual i esources . " We have a corn crop worth $1,000,000,000 . " Yes , but why was he not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the fostering influence of a protective tariff ? One glance at that sacred oracle which enshrines all our hope  --  the Dingley tariff  --  should have put him on the right track . Section 227 reads , " Corn or maize fifteen cents per bushel of fifty= pounds " We do not say it was positively ' dishonest in Mr. Vanderlip to conceal this dut .. , * on corn , but we ask fair-minded men what is to be thought of one professing to be an authority on finance , who has the effrontery to go to Illinois , where every farmer knows that a duty of fifteen cents a bushel grows more corn than all the fertilizers used in agriculture , and to discuss the-value of the crop without once laying the credit of the whole at the feet of Dingley and the Republican party ? Well , we may be sure that the sturdy Republicans of the West saw through Mr. Vanderlip 's fallacies . It is not so stated in the dispatches , but we have little doubt that when he spoke so superficially of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience  --  a man , say , who bad received the pure milk of the word from Senator Fairbanks  --  whipped out his tariff Bible and cried out , " Credit to whom credit is due ! Flow much wheaz could we have raised had it not been for section 234 , ' Wheat , twenty-five cents per bushel ' ? " We really have not the heart to pursue Mr. Vanderlip 's misleading statistics further . Such a very little twisting would have made them sing the praise and glory of protection that his refraining will inevitably arouse suspicion . This will be heightened by his unguarded admission that " the result of the Presidential election , " whatever it be , contains no element of business danger . This is pretty cool , coming as it does after the clear proof , which some even of the youngest of Republican orators have been able to make , that Judge Parker 's success would mean instant and widespread misery . Mr. Vanderlip pretends to be well informed , yet he appears to be ignorant of the very a b c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as laid down by President Roosevelt . The latter carefully explained in his letter of acceptance that , if he is not elected to keep the tariff " pat , " the wage-worker will be " either turned adrift entirely , or his wages will be cut down to the starvation-point . " Yet Mr. Vanderlip ignores that high and disinterested authority ! Perhaps the very worst of his blunders remains to be mentioned . He affirmed that the experience of the past ten years has taught Americans the wholesome lesson that " there is not a new political economy . " This is distressing . We go to this wide-awake man of the marketplace , and we only find him talking like one of President Roosevelt 's despised counsellors of the closet . We had supposed that the facts were understood . Political economy , it is well known , was a cunning invention of Englishmen , designed to enable them to prevent foreigners from becoming as prosperous as they . But , even putting this aside , we should like to know how a science devised and adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither - prairies nor Niagara Falls , can be fitted to a majestic country of more than 3,000,000 square miles , without a ruin . Mr. Vanderlip is ludicrously wrong . We have made political economy a , l1 over . We have shown the world how to sell without buying , how to get rich by taxing ourselves , how to save money by squandering it , how to make huge profits out of customers whose trade we have destroyed . The United States has made the old political economy as obsolete as one of Cleopatra 's bonnets , and has developed a system independent of the musty writers of long ago  --  yes , independent even of arithmetic and common sense . But Mr. Aranderlip , pretending to be an American with his face to the future , denies us this glorious power to break the old moulds , and tries to discourage us by saying that we , children of destiny , time 's noblest offspring , have got to do business just as if we were a lot of stupid Englishmen or plodding Germans ! He evidently needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SUCKLINGS . Two pieces of news that will interest all parents and educators have recently come from Chicago . The children in a grammar school objected to one of the teachers and organized a strike . The affair was managed in the most approv. ed manner . A cordon of pickets , none more than fifteen years old , was stationed about the building ; outside this line five or six hundred boys and girls , wearing " union " badges , hooted at the " scabs " ? the name applied to the teachers who gazed from the school windows . An infantile walking delegate was on patrol , cautioning his pickets not to yield to either mother or father . It was in Chicago also that some older pupils were equally determined to assert then rights , though they appealed , not to brute force , but to the courts . The Board of Education , in order to break up the nuisance of secret-societies in a high school , passed a rule that no member should participate in literary and athletic contests . Certain students and their obedient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule , on the ground that it was " unjust " and " vicious . " In this particular institution there were ten Greek-letter societies , which , it is averred in the complaint , " stimulated loyalty . " All this reads like a fairy tale to men who have reached the age of thirty-five These ancient kiudatores temporis acti wag their heads sadly over the degeneracy of the times , and lament that youth is no longer held with a strict hand , as when they were boys . The official spokesman of these melancholy graybeards is Principal Henry L. Bolt-wood of the Evanston Township High School , Illinois . Mr. Boltwood lives near enough to Chicago to watch the doings there of the heirs of all the ages in the foremost files of time ; and he appar-ently believes that the temper exhibited in Chicago , though it May not have found such emphatic expression elsewhere , exists throughout the country . In a recent , address he said : " College nthletics and college secret societies are the special features of college life which are injuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boltwood argues that the children in our secondary schools , aged from twelve to eighteen , are eagerly imitating the most objectionable features of college life ; and he enumerates hazing , betting on athletics , cheating in order to keep on athletic teams , and " cheap imitations of college fraternities , especially in the things in which the college societies are most at fault . " To this indictment another count has been added by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick , physical director of the New York city public schools , - who protests against the growing evil of professionalism in school athletics . All this expert testimony can hardly be disputed , for it confirms the belief of people who , though they may have watched the secondary schools less carefully , have nevertheless been much disquieted by unhappy tendencies . One cause of complaint can never be removed  --  the youthfulness of the young . The exuberant silliness of adolescence has always been the theme of philosophers as well as of satirists , and it will continue to provoke admiration till the human race becomes extinct . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respects different from those of 1880 ? to go back to a prehistoric epoch . To-day the newspapers are giving wider publicity than ever before to the performances of college students ; and the facts in which the public seems most interested relate to boyish pranks and athletics . Our football gladiators are sharing with Roosevelt and Parker the distinction of being the foremost men of America . Their pictures adorn our dailies and weeklies ; the condition of - their muscles is detailed by the column ; and their games are minutely reported . Were the captain of the Haryard or the Yale team to sprain an ankle , the accident would be displayed with the startling headlines which are reserved for elopements in high life and other events of transcendent and national importance . All this ink and paper has its effect on the imagination of a boy who lacks that exquisite sense of proportion which invariably distinguishes his elders . The ingenuous lad really thinks a college athlete is a person of consequence , worthy of-the fuss made over him ; he acts on the sincere conviction that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a college or school ; and he never dreams that election to a " swell " Greek-letter society may not be worth- several years of assiduous boot-licking . The result of this distorted view , according to Mr. Boltwood 's observations , is a lowering of the morale of the secondary school , in athletics , in amenities of social intercourse , and in studies . The school is broken up into small rival cliques , which strive to secure for their members prominent places on the teams , which give expensive receptions and dances , which snub the " outside barbarians , " and which consistently subordinate study to play . Mr. Boltwood 's depressing conclusion is , that , while the secondary school is now suffering because its pupils are imitating the follies of college " men , " the college will in turn suffer " from a lowering of the character of its recruits . " In fine , the college and the school are chasing each other down a seemingly bottomless hill . There is , however , one factor that has not been taken into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college athletics , the mania must sooner or later run its course ; we can not go on at the present pace forever . If our American colleges are to retain the support of serious people , they must do something to check the excesses of athletics , the reckless squandering of time , strength , and money . Our contests must cease to be huge financial enterprises ; and parents must tire of butchering their sons to make a Boston or a New York holiday . When the reaction sets in , it will be an undisguised blessing to students of all ages , from the post-grad uate school to the kindergarten . SHAKSPERE AND THE SYNDICATE . One swallow does not make a summer , and one Shaksperean revival does not necessarily portend the dawn of a new era of the higher drama upon the stage . Nevertheless , the production upon an elaborate scale of three great - Shaksperean plays for a season 's run in a circuit of syndicate theatres has in it a good deal of cheerful significance . For the last decade , at least , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the better class of play-. goers , who are its most substantial support . In that time there have been a few good new plays and some good individual performances , but the number of both has been steadily diminishing . Of popular successes , of course , there have been many , but a large proportion of these must be ascribed not to inherent merit , but to various kinds of sensationalism , personal notoriety , artful advertising , lack of competition , and a gradual debasement of public taste . But , on the whole , the financial results were satisfactory to the managers . Their system was slowly but surely killing the goose which laid their golden eggs ; but so long as there were eggs they were content and confident . Last season , however , there were no golden eggs at all . The goose had been fed too song upon promises and expectation only , and stopped laying . Tq quit metaphor , the situation in which the managers found themselves - was this : They had conceived the notion of making the dramatic output @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded in London , Paris , or Berlin , must , they argued , succeed in America also . Therefore , a monopoly of these plays and of the best local theatres must lead to fortune . What was the use of bothering about native talent , of encouraging native dramatists or raising a body of American actors ? Actors of real or wholly fictitious reputation could be imported if needed , as easily as plays , and all the United States beguiled with drama at second hand , a little - worn , perhaps , but stamped with European approval . It was a pretty and attractive scheme , and it was put into operation with remarkable executive ability . But it had the fatally- weak point , that it paid no heed to the inevitable failure , sooner or later , of the supply , not only of plays and dramatists , but of actors . You can not raise crops , season after season , upon soil that has been overworked and never fertilized . The cooperative managers were too thorough in their operations . They reaped , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growing exhaustion of the land , until they found themselves suddenly confronted with conditions ' of almost abSolute barrenness . Of the score or so of dramatists who had ? been permitted to share the profits of the fat years , some had retired to enjoy a moneyed leisure , others had worked out their rather thin vein of inspiration , some were dead . Of promising new , men to take their plates there was scarcely a sign . The deadly policy of monopoly , by choking competition , had throttled effort , so far as competent writers were concerned . It had done more than this . By its short-sighted system of forced long runs , it had practically put an end to the production of real actors ; that is to say , of men and women capa.ble of any histrionic achievement greater than the perpetual reproduction of their own personalities in minute variation 's of the modern social drama . Twenty-five years ago the American theatre was thought to be an a parlous state , but in New York , Boston , and Philadelphia there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyed . They are almost unknown to-day . EverYbody knows the shifts to which contemporary managers have been driven to disguise the poverty of their literary and dramatic resources  --  the manufacture of stars by advertisement , the exploitation of social scandals and immorality , the crude dramatizations by hack-twriters of trashy but popular novels , the lavish displays of millinery to attract the women , and all kinds of sensation and scenic extravagance to please the gallery . True lovers of the - theatre and believers in its artistic and civilizing mission have noted , not without a growing hope and expectancy , the increasing inability of these pernicious expedieats to satisfy the public demand for solid and rational entertainment . The financial disaster in which so many theatrical enterprises were overwhelmed last winter was significant of public discontent . The syndicate managers are shrewd men , who can not be altogether oblivious to the meaning of these signs . One lesson they must have learned from painful experience , and that is that a good play which was successful when well interpreted in one city , is by no means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fate of " Ulysses " was a case in point ; and many others might be cited . That Shaksperean plays gorgeously mounted and carefully acted will almost always pay , Mr. Beerbohm Tree has abundantly proved in London . The magic of the poet 's genius exercises its spell even when the power of the medium to interpret it does not rise much above the level of mediocrity . It is almost an axiom that a great play , with its universal appeal to human intelligence , will , if moderately well given , prove more profitable to the box-office than any shallow , flashy piece of no general interest . There is just a chance that this truth , a platitude to all students of theatrical history , has been recognized by the syndicate managers If they can be brought to realize that the play  --  is the thing , it will not be long before they realize also that they need actors , not mere tailor 's blocks , if their elaborate fabric , which has no solid foundation , is not to collapse in indistinguishable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shaksperean enterprise which has begun well . If it prospers they will extend it , and a group of Shaksperean actors will gradually arise . But there will be no such consummation unless the companies are permanent , and this would involve a return to something like the old stock system and a partial revolution in the syndicate methods of management . A stock company without a permanent home would be an anomaly , and the syndicate may be compelled to adopt this view by mere force of circum -- stances . Training schools for actors of some sort they must have , or go out of business . Should they be reduced to this extremity , a result which is not entirely beyond the bounds of possibility , stock companies would be formed everywhere by the exigencies of the situation , and some of them unquestionably would be Shaksperean.                     