@@430406

 | IN reviewing international events one may well keep in mind that there exist multifarious interests for which political games are often played by countries , as much by those who have no direct concern as by those who have immediate interests . It may also be borne in mind that nowhere is there lacking the mischief-making spirit , whose Mephistophelian playfulness , if left unchecked , has on various occasions inflicted disastrous results upon its victims . Having these facts in view , it is no wonder that so unwarranted an excitement was caused a short while ago over the relations between Japan and America . All the admonitions and warnings constantly given proved of no avail , and the  | merits of the contention seemed to the misguided and excited part of the public to justify the beginning of hostilities between the two countries , which have the unprecedented history of a sincere and enduring friendship for more than half a century . Under the circumstances , no more efficient means can be conceived to allay controversy between countries than the conclusion of a general arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead the countries to war can be peacefully considered . A hearty welcome should therefore be given to the new arbitration treaty between the United States and Japan , under which the whole fabric of imaginary alarm has completely crumbled away . It may be noted in the conclusion of the present arbitration treaty that a high order of statesmanship was shown to the world by the statesman who holds the elevated position of Secretary of State . I t is said that true statesmanship is to utilize opportunities , not merely for the sake of settling particular questions of moment , but to lead mankind to a higher sense of human civilization . When the reader is told that the treaty Japan has just entered into with America is the first arbitration treaty to which Japan has ever become a party , he will readily understand what the writer means . It has been the sincere desire and mu-emitted effort of the Japanese Government ? as the archives of the Peace Conferences held at The Hague , as well as the records kept of the two cases of arbitration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amply prove ? to avoid hostilities , which should only be resorted to after every conceivable means of peaceful solution of vexatious problems is exhausted . In the present arbitration treaty Japan has given expression , in an explicit manner . to the principle previously enunciated by her , and has solemnly pledged herself to observe the same . One who appreciates the position Japan occupies in the Far East must see that the treaty is of great importance in another direction . Is it not Japan who has heartily welcomed the advance of Western civilization into her domain ? If the soil where Western civilization promises to bear its fruit is to be found HER CRITICS 253 outside of the garden where it has flourished in the past , then the Flowery Empire may justly assert its fertility by past evidences . It should be remembered that , beyond japan , there is another land bordering the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean . It is a country of immense territory , of great population , and possessed of immeasurable potentiality , yet to be exploited . That country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unfortunately , kept its onward progress , but , with the expansion of Western civilization , is bound to be modernized . Japan has revealed to the East , no less than to the West , how the civilization of the West can be adapted to the benefit of her people , and at the same time she is the country which has extracted the essence of the civilization derived from China . In this unique position , Japan naturally is more suited to fill the role of a reconciler of the customs , notions and ideas of the West and the East , and , therefore , she should be permitted and encouraged to assume the part of an exemplar in the propagation of modern culture and progress in that large human community . Importance may , therefore , be attached as much to the conclusion of this first general arbitration treaty in which an Asiatic nation is a party as to the introduction of any other products of Vestern achievement . In such a position Japan can not be insensible of the responsibilities which such a treaty as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward to assume the added obligations which a treaty like this lays upon her as a civilized nation . It would be needless to reiterate that the already cautious and sensible mind of the Japanese will cheerfully look forward with hopefulness to the ideal fulfilment of these stipulations . It may well be said , " Japan always abides by her pledges . " The fear is often expressed that the prestige Japan has newly acquired in the East as a military Power may surely induce her to take a more arbitrary course in the handling of affairs which may arise . Some apprehend that Japan , being conscious of her power in the Orient , may ignore the faith she ought to keep , and display a Machiavellian duplicity . conducting herself without that restraint which modern nations ought to observe . Such apprehensions are absolutely with-  | out foundation to any one who is conversant with the history of modern Japan , for he must be aware of the guiding spirit embodied in the Chapter Oath taken by the Emperor at the outset of his reign . 1 he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course shall be controlled by the highest ideals of the age , and the nation must reap the fruits of the best civilization . It is this spirit . as every scholar of Japanese history of past generations agrees , which permeates the policy and the administration of national affairs , and which has brought to her that fame of which she is now so justly proud . It can he readily seen that the Government has constantly , in framing its policy . emphasized this fundamental and guiding principle . The eagerness of the Japanese people in adapting to themselves the best theories and principles of the present age , and in raising their position among other peoples as a civilized nation , has been intense ; and the sincere efforts made by the Government to comply with the people 's wish have always gained their hearty support . Consequently , it is next to impossible that Japan will capriciously alter her course heretofore pursued and insidiously attack the principles which the civilized countries of the world are now striving to maintain for the common welfare . Japan is charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforcing her avowed liberal policy in matters pertaining to Manchuria , but japan has kept silent in the midst of expostulations and tauntings based upon the unfounded statements which appeared in the papers of this country . Her reticence , however , must not be considered as an acknowledgment of her defenseless position . Such is not the fact . The reason why she has not attempted to vindicate her acts was that the dream of the pessimist , who sees the phantom of the invincible supremacy of Japanese influence and the final exclusion of Western interests in Manchuria , is ridiculous and is nothing hut the nightmare of a sick and peevish intellect . So vast a territory as Manchuria . possessing so many inherent elements of strength and wealth , should not be dominated and ruled by any one foreign country . The exploitation of her natural resources and the modernization of her great population should be carried on that the cooperation of the countries interested in her development . Japan sees the necessity and benefit of such co-operation . To ignore the open door ' pohcy in Manchuria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 1 u quote from a rittng vyhid is apparently from the hand of the late dlr . Stevens and endorsed by the representative body of English merchants at Shanghai : People who distrust Japan 's adhesion to the open door policy do not give the Japanese credit for common sense and for clearness of head . " The chief complaint seems to be that Japan is exercising undue discrimination . and , consequently , while the merchants of her own nationality are enjoying preferential advantages , the merchants belonging to Western countries are placed in a helpless situation by being deprived of many privileges the Japanese authorities grant only to their own countrymen . Such a policy would finally result in a revival of the sphere of influence which only a few years ago grievously menaced all the commercial interests existing in Manchuria . One must . however , remember why Japan undertook to preserve the " open door " policy in Manchuria . On more than one occasion during the late war Japan proclaimed to the rest of the world her objects and desires in regard to Manchuria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace , she again solemnly declared that no variation from her avowed policy would occur in her occupation of the disputed territory . Japan well knows what the true well-wishers for herself thought of her bold vet righteous course ; she does not err in attributing her achievement in great part to the sympathy and encouragement tendered to her from the other countries where her sincerity in giving the pledges was not questioned . A few instances may be given to illustrate the lack of foundation for such evil complaints . One which is often heard is that the harbor improvements , especially the piers. at Dalnv are limited to the sole Ilse of Japanese companies , thereby forcing ships under foreign flags to anchor in an unsafe part of the harbor , and in support of the complaint , the damages suffered by a steamer belonging to a  | British company are cited . To determine whether such partiality really exists it is necessary to state what has happened to Japanese ships entering the same harbor . Two of them , one a steamer and the other a mail boat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which occurred to the English steamer , and one of these Japanese vessels was completely wrecked . It will be thus seen that there is no discrimination exercised by the authorities in assigning anchorage places along the piers in the harbor of Dalny . All incoming ships , whether foreign or Japanese , are subject to the same treatment at present , and have been from the beginning . The use of the piers is accorded to ships according to the precedence of their arrival , allowing no preference even to the Japanese mail boat , and this was the cause of the unfortunate accident which befell the latter . Cyclones frequently happen in this district , and the South Manchurian Railroad Company is not sparing any labor for the betterment of the harbor . Another specious complaint is made in regard to the preference given Japanese over foreigners in the use of the Japanese telegraph and railways , and in the investment of capital . There is no foundation for this charge . The same treatment is accorded to all , and Japan does not arrogate to herself or her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , railroads or the investment of capital . In fact , the railroad and other telegraph lines , which were built by China in Manchuria , and their future development , of which Japan has no intention ? indeed , no right ? to interpose any opposition , make it quite evident japan is not interfering with the enterprises of others . The inadequate equipment of the railroads and telegraph lines is indeed much to be regretted , and the Japanese merchants submit to as much inconvenience as foreign merchants , to whom neither higher rates have been charged nor unaccountable delays caused , malicious reports to the contrary notwithstanding . Every effort is being made to improve the facilities of the telegraph and railroads , and it is believed that in a short time adequate accommodations will be established . The allegation which may be of particular interest to American readers is that which discloses the arrangement made by the Japanese Government with certain Japanese merchants by which the latter receive a subsidy to export Japanese cotton goods into Manchuria , which will result in destroying the market for American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fund of the alleged subsidy is from the foreign loans Japan has floated in America and elsewhere . It is true that , thru a system of exchange instituted by the Japanese Government , certain privileges are extended to Japanese merchants , but these privileges are also extended to foreign merchants who handle Japanese cotton goods and also to foreign merchants who export cotton goods of foreign manufacture , provided they comply with the conditions which are imposed upon Japanese merchants .. The reason why the Japanese Government has formulated this modern scheme of exchange may be summarized in a brief statement : The Government desired to relieve itself from the inconvenience of sending the necessary cash to defray the current expenses incurred in maintaining the military force in Manchuria , and entered into an agreement with a Japanese bank which has branches in that district , whereby the hank from time to time borrows from the Government money at a low rate of interest , which it advances to merchants dealing in cotton goods ; and , in consideration of this low rate , issues its own notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this it is obvious that there is no subsidy whatever . The whole arrangement is polling but a business transaction , the utility of which must he apparent to the most captious critic . By this simple system of exchange a currency will be established upon a sound basis which will materially foster commercial enterprises in Manchuria . to the benefit of Japanese and foreign merchants . In conclusion . it may he said , japan has never wavered from the great mission entrusted to her nor from the additional obligations assumed by her under the treaty of Portsmouth . She is keenly alive to her responsibilities and will carry them out to the full extent . No deeper gratitude has ever been felt by japan to any country than to this great republic for the noble attitude which America has always shown to  | Japan . Both nations have immense vistas of singular advantage and unique opportunity opening before them in the future of the Pacific . Picturing to the mind the ideal relations between America and Japan for the past half century , one can but cherish the hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swept away the cause of uneasiness so unnecessarily felt . The mutual trust and reliance between America and Japan was again manifested in the conclusion , two weeks later , of the treaties between those countries regarding the protection of inventions , designs , trademarks and copyrights in China and Korea , whereby the industrial and commercial welfare of Americans and Japanese will be safeguarded . All these evidences of friendship tend to strengthen the unswerving belief that the close ties now holding Japan and America together will never he severed . This is the belief happily and sacredly entertained by most of tin Japanese .                     