@@486516

Mr. Cleveland has chosen the better part . In taking himself definitively out of the list of Presidential possibilities , he renounces no honor which he has not already had in full measure , but confirms himself in the admiration of his countrymen , while insuring an old age enriched by dignified leisure and troops of loving friends , instead of being embittered by strife and trouble . Cobden wrote , apropos of Lord Palmerston , that " an men of the age of seventy-two with unsatisfied ambitions are desperadoes . " The saying is true of some men at other ages  --  say , forty-five . But Mr. Cleveland has shown that his ambitions are satisfied . Not even the extraordinary turning to him at this time of the hearts and hopes of thousands among the best in the land can move him again to risk health and happiness in political turmoil . The third-term tradition he does not mention but undoubtedly respects , though in strict form it would not be operative against him . Old enmities would be , however , though he could doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , as we say , his decision is a wise one . The vilifications of a few years ago have given place to praise ; his party is returning to his feet ; his counsels are sought with all of the old confidence . What better ornament of his declining years could he hope to have ? Gov . Odell has the advantage of Platt in years and in bodily vigor . He has also far more personal force . He does not , like Platt , temporize ' with opposition , speak his enemies soft , and bide his time for undoing them by petty treachery , but he beats them down with a mailed fist . His hand has been heavy on the Legislature ; he has put through some of his schemes for tax r.eform and departmental reorganization. ? often excellent  --  with a relentlessness that has won him many foes . His method was shown when , at the beginning of Mr. Odell 's term , Platt sent his son to the Governor with a few of ' the usual orders , and the Governor practically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was shown again last week , when he went to Washington with his " fighting clothes " on , and delivered to Platt an ultimatum demanding unconditional surrender . In bath cases Platt yielded because he could no nothing else . Certain it is , - then , that if the Governor has made up his mind to displace those State leaders who are drones , incompetents , or secret friends of the Democrats , he will do the work with thoroughness , and make the organization far more efficient than it could be under Platt . Granting all that may be said for Odell 's leadership , however , the result of the conference in Washington must be disquieting to Roosevelt . The President , by appointing State Senator McClelland to the Board of General Appraisers , helped forward Platt 's scheme for renewing his grip on the Legislature again ; but along comes Odell and with a single puff blows down that elaborate card house . Moreover , ' the President  --  according to ' common report  --  is not particularly fond of the Governor and does not profoundly trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether anybody can save New York from the Democrats . The feud between Platt and Odell has already gone so far as to weaken the party ; and Platt , though beaten , can be trusted to resort to underhand means to harass the victor . If Mr. Odell is to be professed leader and responsible for the outcome next November , Platt will not be sorry to see a Democratic victory , even if bath Roosevelt and Senator De-pew fall outside the breastworks . " I have always contended that the laws of commerce are as positive in their action as the laws of nature " ? thus Senator Hanna in explanation of the present financial depression . We are certain that this revolutionary statement will be received with dismay by the " stand-patters , " and the numerous persons who up to this time have believed with Mr. Hanna that crops , prosperity , stable finances , and the full dinner-pail all depended upon the Republican party . We have no recollection that , during the hard times under President Cleveland , Senator Hanna or any other Republican leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law of commerce . " The bad crops , the monetary depression  --  all the misfortunes of the Democratic regime  --  were merely due to the fact that the man in the White House was a Democrat with leanings toward free trade . The one thing necessary to give the wage-worker the highest possible pay and to bring peace and contentnient into every home , was to elect a good Republican to the Presidency and fill the House and Senate to overflowing With men of the same political faith . Now that Senator Hanna is willing to admit that the financial condition of a country- depends upon something more than legislation at Washington and the complexion of the majority party , that there are deep , underlying laws controlling trade and commerce , we may-expect to hear something else than " standing pat " ? even from Ohio . At any rate , it is pleasant to learn now from Mr. Hanna that " business is good " and that " we are simply settling back to a normally prosperous situation . " Even this reassuring statement of Senator Hanna 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republican leaders at the steadily growing gap between the national income and expenditure . For the foils months and twenty-five days of the fiscal year the deficit is $4,500,000 , as against a surplus of $11 ; 865,967 for the same period of last year . The Totes learns that the President will use these figures to urge economy upon Congress . Senator Elkins remembers now having advised some of his Republican colleagues of the last Congress not to repeal the war taxes , and he plaintively remarks : " An excess of revenue is a very fickle thing . It often vanishes very suddenly . " That this is a profound and statesmanlike thought no one can deny . But how can the President or Senator Elkins , or even Hanna himself , wean a lavish Congress from billion-dollar expenditures ? That is much more easily said than done , even in the face of a shrinking income . Moreover , Congress has voted battleships and cruisers with no thought that the payments for them would soon fall due . Now it is told by the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain the service , and to meet shipbuilders ' bills payable . Whereas the army and navy appropriations in 1895 were 49 millions , they were raised by the last Congress to 180 millions  --  unpleasantly large figures just at this time . - - ? The rector of the wealthiest parish of the Episcopal Church in the United States diversified the perfunctory cheerfulness of Thanksgiving Day services by " adding intercession to thanksgiving . " In Dr. Dix 's enumeration of alarming signs of the times , the depression of values found a place - beside class hatred , gambling , irreligion , and infidelity to the marriage bond . Indeed , if rhetorical emphasis be any criterion , selling stocks cheap is an even more heinous offence than any previously catalogued by theologians . DT . Dix ' deplored " the cold-blooded assaults on private property by those who attack corporations and drag them down to bankruptcy for their own advantage , in order to enrich themselves by the losses which their acts . bring about , " and then condemn murder and assassination , Apparently , the preacher desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now , nobody his attacked ' or depressed the ac7 tual business of the United States Steel Company , for example . It is ' worth just what it was a year ago . Furthermore , nobody could have attacked the securities of that company with success if they had been worth intrinsically what was paid for them . Again , those securities are to-day worth just as much to actual holders as they ever were . No sympathy need go out to speculators in inflated values ; and if Trinity Church is to assert both a geographical and spiritual jurisdiction over Wall Street , it will do well to reserve its anathema for those who better deserve It  --  the great bankers and promoters who sold the widow and the orphan paper promises made to be broken . A spiritually minded pastor might well thank God that hard times have revealed our betrayers . We must reserve judgment on the remarkable allegations made on Tuesday week in the Shipbuilding suit until Mr. Schwab shall have been heard in his own defence . As yet , only one side has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of the company 's officials , or of the Bethlehem Steel clique 's interference in the- affairs of the Shipbuilding Trust . Of the two , the second allegation , if confirmed , would in our opinion be the more serious . Mr/ . Nixon stated that Schwab 's associate and counsel in the Bethlehem deal , Max Pam , had " marked off " $250,000 from the Shipbuilding Trust 's assets , after including that sum in the statement to the Stock Exchange ; that the Bethlehem Steel forced the other companies in the Trust to buy material from it at prices above the market , and that bids for two battleships prepared by Nixon , which would have got the contracts and earned a profit for the Shipbuilding Company , were altered by the ingenious Mr. Pam to figures which proved prohibitory . Mr. Nixon 's evidence , in short , ran close to the inference of a conspiracy to ruin the Shipbuilding Trust and force it , at bankrupt prices , into the hands of the clique behind the Bethlehem Steel . This is a very serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keen sense of honor , if thus accused even by inference , would ordinarily insist upon an immediate opportunity to make public answer . Hence we must express our regret at the repeated postponements of the case , and the persistent rumors that neither Mr. Schwab nor Mr. Pam will be allowed to take the stand . The announcement that the Pension Commissioner , Mr. Eugene F. Ware , has decided to resign his office , after a service of but little over a year and a half , is fresh proof that this is one of the most difficult offices to fill properly and keep filled . There is scarcely a position in the President 's gift which requires such tact and courage , as well as the ability to stand a never-ending pounding . from , aportion of the public . " Corporal " Tanner 's love for the veteran proved to be too intense , in the opinion of President Harrison , to enable him to hold the office for any length of time . With Commissioner Evans 's gallant fight our readers are still familiar . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Grand Army and the spoilsmen , which finally led to the acceptance of his resignation by President Roosevelt and his transfer to London . Commissioner Ware was the President 's own choice for the place , but , whether because of his , sensitive poet 's nature , which may have made it so difficult for him to endure newspaper criticism , or for some other reason , he has never seemed happy in office . Indeed , the announcement of his resignation states that , while not to take effect for a year , it is due " to long-felt dissatisfaction with the nature of the duties of his office . " With the Grand Army clamoring for a service pension , irrespective of merit or necessity , it is well that the President has plenty of time to search for the rare man needed as Commissioner . In the opinions of Republican Representatives , published by the Evening ' Post on Tuesday , on the question of disfranchising qualified negro voters in the Southern States , a gratifying unanimity is displayed . All who express themselves at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursued in the South , and on the need of applying the most effective remedy attainable . This was to have been expected . Public defence of such undemocratic and inequitable measures is not possible . Men may privately apologize for them or glory in them ; they may say that the objectors are " mere sentimentalists , " or maintain that it is not feasible or good political tactics to raise the issue ; but no man who professes to be of the party of Lincoln can openly advocate shutting the door of hope in the face of 10 , - 000,000 American citizens . So far as the responses go , they indicate a rather surprising readiness to follow where any courageous party leader may point the way . Several causes have been quietly at work to effect this rousing of the dormant Republican conscience . Last summer 's revelations of a new slaverypeonage  --  stirred the North visibly . Gorman 's challenge on the race issue brought the blood to many a face . " I was against meddling with the question , " one Congressman wrote us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for any law to check so insolent an outrage . " It is for the Republican leaders to choose . They must see - in current - events upon how slippery a place the " stand-patters , " like sinners , will find themselves standing next year . Is it not worth their while to try to revivify a great party by making it the champion of equal jus-tice ? - The Supreme Court of Alabama has done a notable act of justice to Peter Crenshaw , a negro , and to the men of his race , in confirming his right to the suffrage . Crenshaw , our readers will remember , is a veteran of the civil war , in possession of an honorable discharge from the Federal army . Yet for no other reason than that he was a negro politician the Board of Registrars of Limestone County refused to permit him to register , in flat violation of the Alabama Constitution , which gives the suffrage to any one who served honorably in the army and navy of the Union or the Confederacy . Crenshaw promptly availed himself of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his rights by a jury of his white fellow-citizens . But this did not satisfy the spite of the Democratic politicians who desired to eliminate him from the politics of his county . They induced the State to appeal the case to the Supreme Court . The opinion of this tribunal is of very considerable importance , since it lays down the principle that there is no appeal from the decision of a jury in such a case , and that a voter given a certificate by twelve of his peers is forever free from interference by the higher courts This decision will encourage negroes throughout the South to fight for their rights , and should make it correspondingly harder for prejudiced registrars to deprive qualified negroes of their rights under the existing constitutions . More peonage revelations in various portions of the South must lie opening the eyes of those editors who criticised us last spring for believing that the Alabama cases were other than sporadic and unparalleled happenings . judge Emory Speer last week sentenced three well-known Georgians to pay fines of $1,000 in two cases of peonage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louisiana , also , peonage has been discovered in more than one place , and , most important of all , the United States Marshal who has been securing witnesses there has received a " warning " that the " white people do not propose to be annoyed by your kind of cattle . " The part played by him in uncovering the species of slavery which has been flourishing in certain parishes makes it , he is informed , " necessary " for him to find a residence in some other State . In Montgomery , Ala. , the case of a white peon has just come to light , although the State was supposed to have been purged of peonage months ago . In Mississippi , also , there are persistent rumors of the new slavery , and there have been cases reported from Tennessee and Texas . Undoubtedly , the shameful system of leasing convicts is responsible for the spread of the peonage idea . But the fact that the negroes were politically defenceless has made them an easy prey to their unscrupulous white neighbors . Thb one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being punished by white judges and juries . The collapse of the Chicago street railway strike is a warning to " labor . " The employees went into the struggle with high hopes ; they came out of it defeated in every substantial contention . In many ways they were favored at the outset they were fighting a corporation which is as unpopular as most street railways ; they were backed by the sympathy of unionists in other trades ; they were in a city where " labor " is strong politically , and where the mayor is sympathetic . Yet the storming of the cars by the strikers was such an outrageous piece of violence that Mayor Harrison could but order the police to do their duty . The outcome of the contest , however , was not owing so much to the action of the municipal authorities as to the condition of the labor market . The slackening in business is throwing men out of work , and the recent contemptuous refusal of anything but the highest pay and the easiest hours is changing into readiness to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter will teach in all our large cities will be bitter but wholesome . Capitalists are suffering from a falling market ; and as surely as watered stock runs down hill , so surely must labor bear its share of loss . No combination of walking delegates , no federation of unions , no dynamite or bludgeon can force employers to carry on industry at a permanent loss ; and the hour has come to remember that a feather in the hand is better than a bird in the air . Whether the fighting in Jolo was nec essary or not , the outbreak itself is significant . It was in Jolo , it will be remembered , that our soldier-diplomatists wen their greatest renown . Gen. J. C. Bates 's treaty was hailed as a sample of the kind of achievement in the interests of peace which our soldiers could compass , if only unfettered by foolish civilian administrators . After wearing these laurels with becoming modesty for a couple of years , Gen. Bates himself found that there were defects in his treaty  --  which , among other things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flag . Now Gen. Wood , after slaughtering hundreds of Mores at the cost of one soldier killed and a half-dozen wounded , announces that this entirely abrogates the Bates treaty . So it may . The pity of it is that here is fresh proof that we have got to keep on fighting in the Philippines . That fair dream of a Ear-distant people happily subject to our Congress and contentedly licking the Presidential hand that sends them a Taft or a Wright to preside over their destinies , - has long since faded away . Every report of the Adjutant-General records the dead , and wounded in the Philippines . Some of the regiments now arriving at San Francisco have on their rolls the names of many dead or discharged for wounds . Yet , when they went out , peace was supposed to be at hand . Worst of all , the great mass of Filipinos dislike Americans as bitterly as in 1899 . A certain capacity for folly in the professionally virtuous is illustrated in the recent activities of the Boston Watch and Ward Society . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of obscene literature . Recently it obtained a judgment against a publisher who had advertised a complete and unexpurgated ' Decameron , ' emphasizing the occasional obscenity of that great work . Unhappily , the pornograph offered the moral defence that the Decameron ' was on sale at the most reputable establishments ; and the Watch and Ward people were foolish enough to order copies and enter charges against the best publishers and booksellers in Boston for circulating obscene literature An unfortunate by-result was an artificial notoriety of Boccaccio 's masterpiece and an enormous demand for it at the public libraries . If a great book is misused in Boston to-day , the Watch and Ward Sociey is certainly in part to blame The incident shows lack of common sense quite as much as of culture All that any such society can do is to prevent doubtful books  --  which happen also to be standard literature -- from being advertised and spread broadcast by reason of their immorality . It should require no great discernment to perceive that the ' Decameron ' actively circulated in boys ' schools is obscene literature and actionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good literature and fit company for Dante and Shakspere . Since M. Jaures 's revelations of last April and Gen Andre 's avowal of the forgeries of the General Staff in the Dreyfus case , it has been almok inevitable that the matter should be reopened . Naturally the revision which is now authorized by the Minister of Justice will take into account only the evidence that lay before the Rennes court-martial . The fact that an appeal is granted is proof that the prosecutors introduced other false testimony than the patent perjury of Gen. Mercier on that occasion . It may be assumed , too , that the revising authority will not reiterate so absurd a verdict as " guilty of treason , with mitigating circumstances . " The confirmation of the earlier judgment would leave Dreyfus morally condemned without mitigating circumstances of any kind ; the reversal of the military court would make him not a pardoned offender , but a vindicated martyr of - French army car ruption . The attempt will be made to keep the reopened affacre out of politics . Some success may meet this laudable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the various prosecutions , and the Anti-Dreyfus Nationalists have lost with votes most of their capacity for mischief-making Still , it hardly seems possible that a matter about which so many evil passions have raged can be revived in judicial serenity of spirit . The opening of the University of Munich to women is an event of considerable importance because a very conservative university goes over to the liberal practice of Heidelberg and Freiburg . Formerly they have been admitted to lectures on tolerance merely and at the caprice of individual professors . Lately , for example , a determined effort has been made to reduce the number of women students at Berlin . Similarly , in the rare instances in which women have received the Doctorate in Philosophy , there has been something exceptional in. the award . Now German women are to be received at Munich on precisely the same terms as men , and unquestionably American women will get due credit for their work done and degrees received at home . This liberal step , which involves equally Erlangen and Wurzburg , should have the effect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Serious anti-Austrian demonstrations have been made by the students at Rome ; and throughout Italy the Irredentist feeling appears to be making head . It is felt that Italy has never been wholly freed from the Austrian yoke . To the east of the Adriatic , Dalmatia and Istria ( Italian-speaking provinces ) afford an outlet to the sea to the Dual Kingdom . Trieste intercepts the trade that used to go to Venice . Again , the province of Trent carries the Austrian dominion far down the southern slope of the Alps , separating the Venetian from the Lombard province . Thus the Irredentist agitation , though excessive in its more violent manifestations , is colorably justified in the main . Of course , the disorders at Rome are of themselves insignificant . They do show , however , the drift of Italian opinion , and indicate that Austria must make distinct effort to secure the friendship of Italy if the Triple Alliance is to remain more than a name . Concessions on the Adriatie , Austria can not afford to make , but she could afford to cede the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have made trouble enough to win virtual autonomy for their constituents . The possession of the Trentino , while a menace to Italy , is , hardly a source of strength to Austria , and certainly not of wealth .                     