@@430090

Democratic institutions have had attention , to the neglect of the political forces from which they have derived their life . Men have so busied themselves in spreading the machinery of democratic government over the world that they have not stopped to inquire whether democracy and its machinery are one . Indeed , to many the test of democracy itself is the efficiency of the machinery of democratic government . It was quite time to consider whether permanent political parties , having power as their end , with general contracts to solve all political problems as they arise , are essential to democratic government . Mr. M. Ostrogorski , a Russian who has long resided in Paris , in two large volumes entitled " Democracy and the Organization of Political Parties , " sets forth with great clearness the results of a most exhaustive investigation of this question . Mr. James Bryce , in a preface to the book , notes that no one has produced a treatise " containing a systematic examination and description of the structure of parties as organizations governed by settled rules and working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where party organization early attained a completeness and effective power unapproached in any other country , I could not find , when in 1883 I began to study and was seeking to portray the institutions of that country , any account of the very remarkable and well-compacted scheme of organization which had been at work there for forty or fifty years ; and noted that among even the best-educated men there were few who had mastered its details . " Mr. Ostrogorski , in his preface , states it to be his purpose to " investigate the working of democratic government , " and adds , " But it is not on political forms , it is on political forces that I dwell . " He holds that " The best way to study political forces is to study political methods ; . . . to really understand the character of social action , its modes of procedure must be studied in the light of the character of those who apply them , and of the social and politick 1 conditions in which their wills are formed and manifested . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods will have , in addition to a philosophical value , a genuine practical value . It is a study of the methods of democratic government conceived in this spirit , a study of social and political psychology , based on observation , that I have tried to undertake , and it is that which is the aim of this book . " The author has indeed succeeded in his purpose of " putting together a whole , which , under the form of a scientific investigation , alike historical and critical , of the regime of organized parties , is in reality an investigation of the working of government in democracy , and of the vital problems which it puts before existing society and which involve the whole future of our political civilization . " In pursuit of this great purpose , Mr. Ostrogorski has made a most painstaking and thorough study , extending over many years , of party organization and party action in both En gland and the United States . These countries were chosen , because in them liberty has attained its highest development ; and because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though in England the organization of parties founded on a popular basis was more recent than in the United States , the author found there an excellent starting-point for his investigations . The book opens with a striking and compre hensive view of " The Old Unity " ; of a political society , organized on the basis of aristocracy ; of the absolute domination of an aristocratic class . This is followed by an equally strong and clear description of the break-up of the old society ; of the advent of democracy , shattering in its course " a social fabric which was too narrow to contain the national life ' ' ; of the exaltation of the individual ; of the assertion by the mane of the right of self-government . Then comes an account of the attempts at re action against the rising tide of individualism ; of the effort of the Church to restore the old unity ; of the Oxford movement , which , starting under the banner of authority and tradition , succeeded in proving that liberty is , after all , the safest principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Young England " movement " to combat the destruction of the old political creed which knit classes and individuals together " ; of the war waged by Thomas Carlyle against " the new social system bred of Benthamism and industrialism , " due to his contempt for and hatred of democracy of the Christian Socialist movement to oppose the principle of free competition by means ? of industrial associations . The author next describes " The Triumph of the New Order ' ' the realization of individualism in the sphere of politics . With the passing of the domination of an aristocratic class and the substitution of numbers as the supreme power : in the state , a new danger appeared . The newly emancipated individual ran the 193 risk of being crushed by numbers . It was not enough for him to share sovereignty with his fellows . If he would participate in the government , he had to find some extra-legal means of cooperation with others seeking similar ends . If he would realize his objects in society and the state , he must come to an understanding with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservation of liberty itself called for the union of individual efforts . Hence arose political parties . Here lies the field which Mr. Ostrogorski has explored with a thoroughness all his own . No such examination of the extra-legal cooperation which has supplied motive power to democratic government has before been attempted . The book is a veritable storehouse of facts . Many of its chapters are purely descriptive . Take , for example , the chapter entitled " The National Convention . " This masterly description of the vast and tumultuous assemblages , in which quadrennially , the party champions are chosen , is complete even to the smallest accessories . One who has never even heard of these modern olympics can see , as he reads , the colossal travesties of popular institutions from whence issue the names of those to whom our choice of a chief magistrate is limited . Without fear or favor , the author clearly states the results of the most searching personal investigations , extending over some fifteen years , into . the organization and action of political parties in England and America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set forth the facts , he has given the descriptive parts of his work the force of a judicial finding . Mr. Bryce is not wholly pleased with Mr. Ostrogorski 's picture of party organization in England . While frankly conceding the author 's description to be on the whole both accurate and fair , that taken one by one the facts stated are almost always correctly stated , he thinks that the author exaggerates the power and poison of the Caucus and does not sufficiently allow for the healthy influences that tend to correct the dangers its growth may involve . However , Mr. Bryce proceeds to break the force of his " word of caution . " He says : " I am myself an optimist , almost a professional optimist , as indeed politics would be intolerable were not a man grimly resolved to see between the clouds all the blue sky he can . " He adds : " Party organization is a totally different thing in England from what it is in the United States . t is in the hands of a different class of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bryce I touching Mr. Ostrogorski 's picture of English partyism will be repeated here with reference to the vast canvas whereon he has painted American partyism with all its deformities . AIready an American critic has said : " He does not mean to exaggerate , and nearly every statement , taken by itself , is substantially correct . Yet , admitting the several parts of the argument , one finds himself objecting to the whole . " It is not enough that one who admits that every line is correctly drawn shall object to the picture as a whole . He must point out some omission or want of proportion , if his objection is to have weight . Has Mr. Ostrogorski omitted anything essential from his picture of partyism in the United States ? Do its lines betray any material lack of proportion ? Is it overcharged with gloom ? Gloomy it unquestionably is , as Mr. Bryce remarks . Yet one will search in vain for any important omission from the author 's description of our party machinery and of our party methods . He has faithfully examined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every mode of action : and he has summarized with substantial accuracy the results . His most obvious error lies in his underestimate of the benefits that have resulted from the introduction of the Australian ballot . Had he been in America in 1888 , as well as in 1896 , Mr. Ostrogorski would have realized more fully than he does the value of this reform . Its value becomes even more clear with every passing year . There is a factor , indefinite but real , for which Mr. Ostrogorski has not sufficiently allowed . This is public opinion . Over all our political activities broods a public opinion which nearly always restrains and sometimes directs . The wholesome fear of it usually entertained among politicians accounts for the fact , noted by Mr. Ostrogorski , that from the nominees of our national conventions the people have chosen a line of Presidents who , " if they have not all been great men , ? far from it ,  - -  were all honorable men . " The influence of public opinion can not be measured . Mr. Ostrogorski notes some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Australian ballot , and recent monetary laws . It is not strange that a foreign student should fail fully to realize its value as a restraining force and as a ground of hope . The marvel is that he has so completely mastered and so justly appraised what may be really known of our political methods . The scientific investigator may be excused from  | appraising what may not be examined . Each reader , according to his vision , will , with Mr. Bryce , see what blue sky he can between the slouds of party politics . Mr. Ostrogorski passes from party organization and the evils of permanent political parties , to a survey of our struggles for emancipation since the Civil War , and to a discussion of remedies . As the years pass , voluntary associations , alliances , committees , federations , and leagues appear ; " scratchers , " " mugwumps , " and independents " multiply . The sporadic committee organized to crush this boss , or to smash that machine , at length gives place to the compact league of independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a party bondage which held them while special interests despoiled a continent of vast public resources , gradually unite in a wide cooperation to rescue their government from party spoilsmen . Thus far the movement against the evils of party domination has been largely confined to the sphere of municipal government . Here the need was more obvious , but not more real , than in the state and nation . " Yet the independent movements which have taken place in the sphere of the national parties have not remained unfruitful . If nonpartisanship has made such strides in the municipal field , this is owing to their dBsolvent action ; mugwumpism , too weak to produce ravages in the national parties , penetrated into the municipal sphere following the lines of least resistance . . . . However , the national political life itself did not wholly escape the new notions about the independence of the elector 's conscience . . . ; these notions pervaded the political atmosphere , exercising a subtle and deleterious influence on the traditional sentiments of party loyalty . " More important than its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its main expression in the sphere of municipal reform has introduced new methods of public action , methods which may stamp or even determine the future of democracy . But the best political methods require the motive power supplied by an aggressive public spirit . Too few are yet imbued with this spirit . " There is a sincere desire to see the machines and bosses disappear , but people would like this result to be obtained , if possible , in an automatic way , so to speak , which would make up for personal exertion . There is , therefore , a tendency to look to the legislator to arrange the legal machinery in such a fashion as to defeat the enemies of good government . " The constituted authorities have become , under party domination , more and more unequal to their official duties . The leaders of opinion rarely seek or occupy public station . The initiative has passed even from Congress . It acts on impulses coming from without . It legislates , as to many matters , by direction of special interests ; it registers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation of voluntary organizations of private citizens . How great has been the change from other days , is indicated by a single illustration . The demoralization of the finances due to the Civil War , having been allowed by Congress to continue for a generation , a national conference of private citizens finally initiated a remedial measure . Think of an Indianapolis Conference to prepare financial legislation when Alexander Hamilton or Salmon P. Chase was secretary of the treasury ! Modern society , when it came into possession of liberty , placed its chief reliance on parliaments . It sought to escape tyranny by hedging its executives about with legal restraints . Disappointed by a bitter experience , due at least in large part to the usurpations of party , it has turned for relief to a powerful executive supported by the negative authority of the courts . Dictators , from the Speaker of the House down to mayors of cities , find themselves possessed of the chief powers of government . Private initiative having detected and punished official malfeasance , cleansed the streets , secured public works , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ check the spoliation of the people by powerful groups of citizens acting impersonally as quasipublic corporations . " To obtain more durable and more regular effects than could be achieved by these spasmodic efforts , attempts were made to straighten the relaxed governmental spring by main force ; inadequacy of action being mistaken for inadequacy of powers , the latter were concentrated in the hands of a few persons . " This leads Mr. Ostrogorski , in his conclusion , to propose a remedy for existing evils . He regards permanent political parties , having power as their end , a mortal danger to democracy . " The great parties , viewed as a whole , have been throughout their career nothing but agglomerates artificially brought together and kept together . . . . Always endeavoring to throw a veil over divergences of views and to eliminate principles , it substituted for the process of analysis and synthesis of opinions , which ought to take place in the electorate to create a legislative assembly animated by one mind and one will , a purely artificial analysis and synthesis , obtained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the manifold interests jumbled together under this label got admitted into the House , they naturally reverted to their own particular aspirations . " The sole concern of the party being to manage the elections and win the spoils of victory , it  | did nothing to repress these centrifugal tendencies . The result was , in large measure , the paralysis of representative government . That individual rights have survived is due to the simplicity and limited scope of government in the United States and the constitutional guarantees of liberty which everywhere prevail , ? in a word , to the remarkable success of written constitutions imposing limitations on government . The author would substitute for permanent political parties , with power as their end , temporary combinations of citizens formed specially for particular political issues . " Party , as a general contractor for the numerous and varied problems present and to come , awaiting solution , would give place to special organizations , limited to particular objects . It would cease to be a medley of groups and individuals united by a fictitious agreement , and would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensured by its single aim . Party holding its members , once they have joined it , in a vicelike grasp , would give place to combinations forming and re-forming spontaneously , according to the changing problems of life and the play of opinion brought about thereby . Citizens who part company on one question would join forces on another . " Mr. Ostrogorski believes that the substitution of temporary for permanent political parties will emancipate the individual ; that he will never wholly surrender himself to party , will always realize his liberty as a free man ; and that , freed from the nightmare of party " regularity , " he will exercise his personal judgment . Unlike parties of agglomerate creeds , each single-issue association will devote itself wholly to the task of making converts . " Political society will be transformed into a vast school , and democratic government will become really a government of discussion . " These suggestions are neither so novel nor so impracticable as may at first appear . The old order , with its social unity , is no longer possible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements of society can be restored only by an agreement of wills . The new social synthesis required by an emancipated society lies in the free union of wills in varied and successive combinations . It can not be effected once for all and about everything . Mr. Ostrogorski points out that the existing system is rapidly breaking up . Some of the old parties live on the credit of their past , which is well nigh exhausted . " Compact and stable majorities are only a historical reminiscence . " Already the new method appears in the form of " committees " and " leagues " for definite purposes . The struggle between the two modes of political action is on . The cry of political evolution is , " Down with ' party. ; with ' league . ' " Mr. Ostrogorski holds no brief for absolutIt is not of democracy , but of party , that he Glares : Its life is " only one long school of vile submission . All the lessons the citi receives in it are lessons in cowardice . " loves democracy so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Men must be taught to use their judgment , and act independently . It is on the accomplishment of work of liberation that the whole future of democ depends . Hitherto the victorious struggle which den racy has carried on in the world has been mainly , necessarily , a struggle for material liberty ; moral ii erty , which consists in thinking and acting as free re dictates , has yet to be achieved by it . It has carried : Oa habeas corpus by force , but the decisive battle of demos racy will be fought on the habeas aninzunz . . . . It is tie political and social forms anterior to democracy that a ? dead . . . . Democracy has brought with it liberty , it has renewed the life of societies . " The author is under no illusions as to wh it means to overcome the formalism that o presses democratic government . To him , v. tory does not mean the complete realization means of a single Effort of the end proposed . " The victories which bring about the political or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards the one or the other of the opposing principles . However far they may go , these changes never entail the absolute triumph of principles , . . . but they turn or move society in the direction leading to that ideal point to which it can draw nearer by means of fresh efforts , without ever reaching it . To gain a few points on the indefinite series of degrees , ? that is the task which confronts each generation , and which should satisfy its ambition and its ardor , and also its pride when the task is performed . " The contribution of Mr. Ostrogorski to the literature of democracy is a great and valuable one . Into this book he has compressed the results of many years of exhaustive study . Its pages exhibit ripe scholarship , unusual capacity for thinking clearly , and a just sense of proportion . Taken as a whole , it will please neither the cheerful optimist who ignores the facts , nor the friend of privilege who hates liberty . It will be welcomed everywhere by the real friends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , illustrated by observations on American institutions . Professor Von Holst produced an exhaustive history of American constitutions . Mr. Bryce contributed a careful survey of the American Commonwealth , particularly of its government and politics as a whole . Mr. Ostrogorski now adds to this great series a scientific and philosophical study of the political forces by means of which American  | government lives . Each of these foreign observers of the greatest of democratic societies has made a lasting contribution to the study of democracy . Without seeking to compare works of dissimilar scope and purpose , it is but just to say that the contribution of this Russian scholar is one of the most valuable of the series . Students of government , the world over , will turn to this book for exact information and critical discussion of its most vital problem .  |                     