@@430105

 | THE death at Paris , France , on December 6 , 1902 , of Mrs. Alice Freeman Palmer brought sudden and stunning sorrow to a large circle of friends , and to an even larger circle of admirers . Not only had she been intimately associated with the undergraduates and the alumnae of Wellesley College while serving that institution for twenty-three years , first as professor , then as president , and subsequently as member of its board of trustees , but she had more to do than any other person with the federation of alumnae throughout the country , with the selection of deans and professors in women 's colleges , and with the establishment of higher education for women on a firm and enduring basis in this country . Innumerable speeches before women students and friends of their education , arguments ' before legislative committees and conferences of educators , letters of advice to educational officials and to ' struggling students , and ceaseless manifestation of what she said was the supreme test of life ? ' consecrated serviceableness ' ' had made her in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the higher walks of life . For she not only had to do with educators and education , ? she also was deeply interested in religion and philanthropy , and her words . her acts . her means . and her pray168 THE AMERICAN MONTH  | ers were enlisted in support of all noble causes . Hence it is that now she is dead it is possible for her associates in the profession of education to say of her such superlative words as these , by President Tucker , of Dartmouth College : " It seems to me that there has been no one of our generation , with the possible exception of Phillips Brooks , who has stood to such a degree for those qualities in which we must all believe with an unquenchable faith , ? if we are to do anything in this world , ? as Mrs. Palmer . " Mrs. Palmer 's girlhood days were spent in Colesville , N. Y. , a country town where her father was first a farmer of lands inherited from Scotch ancestors who early settled in interior New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard , has suggested that in all probability the daughter 's habit of self-sacrifice and of ministration to and for others was one that she learned from her father , for he belonged to a class of public servants ? the country physicians ? which President Eliot thinks is the most altruistic of all known to him . When Miss Alice E. Freeman left home , in 1872 , to enter the University of Michigan , which she had selected rather than Vassar because of its higher standards and stricter discipline , she was in her seventeenth year . Plain living and high thinking had been the ideal of the home in which she was brought up . She was vigorous , vivacious , ambitious , resolute , and gave the impression of having a distinct personality even at that age . Hence , she at once attracted the attention of the president of the university , who happened that year to be responsible for examination of applicants for admission . Had this not been so , she might have been rejected , for her preparation had been inadequate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But President A ngell asked that she be tried for six weeks as a favor to him , so confident was he of his clearness of vision in detecting latent power within her . The girl for whom he had become responsible made good his prophecy and justified his faith . In a short time the conditions were worked off ; and from that time on her record as a student was a triumph of character and scholarship . She graduated with honor in 1876 , taught for a while in schools in Wisconsin and Michigan , and in 1879 , with President Angell 's unqualified recommendation , she left the interior for the East . to accept the chair of history at Wellesley College , carrying with her much of the buoyancy of spirit , optimism , and spirit of enterprise of the section of the country from which she went , and which the section she was entering needed . A few weeks ago , President Angell , speaking in the chapel of Wellesley College , after the death of Mrs. Palmer , said : I received her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from her country school . I saw her through her college course , a radiant center of life and joy to her circle of friends . I saw her afterward in her schools , an inspiring and uplifting teacher . On my most urgent recommendation , Mr. Durant appointed her to a chair in this college . Soon promoted to the presidency , she wielded for years her extraordinary magnetic power in uplifting the hundreds of students under her care to the loftiest intellectual and spiritual ideals . Her influence still abides here . By her writings and her addresses , which for simple and pathetic eloquence I have rarely heard equaled , in what wide circles far beyond the confines of this college is her influence still felt ! Among the women of our time , to what finer example could I point you of the power and leadership won and exercised in the spirit of the Master , ? seeking , in accordance with your college motto , " to minister rather than to be ministered unto . " Once at Wellesley , Miss Freeman found herself a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening of the doors of Wellesley , in 1875 , there had been many academies and seminaries in New England and other sections of the country where women had had excellent moral and spiritual environment and the sort of education which fitted them to make intelligent and exceilent wives , and of administrators of such enterprises high honor must always be given to Mrs. Emma Willard , Miss Catherine Beecher , and Mary Lyon , founder of Mount Holyoke . But it had been left to Mr. and Mrs. Henry Durant to plan for and establish a college for women where women should be the teachers and administrators as well as the pupils , and in which the standards of scholarship and the breadth of the curriculum should be equal to those of the best colleges for men . Like Leland Stanford , Junior , University , Wellesley College is the visible and abiding testimony of parents ' love for an idolized son untimely removed from this to another stage of existence . From 1875 to 1880 , owing to deficiencies in the secondary schools , the college found it necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freeman arrived , in 1879 , to teach history , enough had been done to show the public that there was hunger for the higher education felt by hundreds of women drawn from all parts of the country , and that it was possible to meet their longings for the higher education by instruction given by women . With the death of Mr. Durant and the resignation of Miss A. L. Howard , ? the first president of the college , ? in 1881 , a call came to the young professor of history to take up the task of presiding over the institution ; and although  | - twenty-six years old , and v:ng about her on the faculty men older than herself , and ough alien to New England birth if not in spirit , Miss man responded to what she ieved to be a call of duty entered formally upon the msibilities , privileges , and ors of the place in Septem. 1882 . From that time til she resigned in 1887 to ome the wife of Prof. George rbert Palmer , of Harvard niversity , she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her withdrawal as presint she has been its guardian gel , serving it in a thousand vs other than formally as mber of its board of trustees , ways giving lavishly of time , ought , and of her means so r as she was able to . She broadened the college 's rizon , elevated its standards scholarship , enlarged its reous'and intellectual sky , and v her own spiritual power and r ' phenomenal capacity for ntering sympathetically into e past history and future desv of the ? pupils under her , he made the institution a source f inspiration as well as of inormation. and its ideal of edution became that of Amiel : making actual the potential . " And this she did in an atmoshere not overcharged with sympathy for the eaI she was trying to give a rich , full body . Lethargy suspicion , and open hostility toward the experiment in education which was being worked out at Wellesley were rife in some circles of New England . But , not daunted by this , Miss Freeman . with a courage and tenacity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her life , pressed on and triumphed . Of her , President Eliot , of Harvard , has recently said :  --  Mrs. Palmer was one of the bravest persons I ever saw in man or woman . " As an administrator , Miss Freeman saw to it that both teachers and pupils were held to higher standards of scholarship . She set about establishing direct and indirect relations with secondary schools , seeing to it that thus the college should have a perennial supply of girls fitted to enter it . She simplified and better coordinated the courses of study . She arranged that the faculty should have due recognition as the teaching body , and thus she ministered to the professors ' self-respect . Being from her childhood deeply religious and evangelistic in spirit , she insisted that religion should have its due place in the life of the students . As the daughter of a physician , she knew the importance to women of health , and set about organizing the department of physical culture and providing for that side of Wellesley 's life which made it peerless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned , and having that happy blending of ideality and practicality which is a characteristic American trait , ? discerning European students of our civilization being witnesses , ? she soon won the confidence of men of wealth and influence , and money for buildings , apparatus , and endowment began to flow in . Photo by J. A. Lorenz , Boston . 1 ' ; 0 THE AMERICAN MONTHL  | Last , but not least , being a winning and informing speaker , and having a persuasive power and an engaging personality , the new president , by her numerous addresses before assemblies of teachers , philanthropists , and men of affairs , attracted to Wellesley the friends and students it needed , and thus made its place secure . Life at the college took on a richer social quality , the institutional horizon widened , and all the time hundreds of young women were going forth to be mothers , teachers , missionaries , physicians , and authors , bearing with them the never-to-be forgotten influence of Miss Freeman 's " effluent gladness , " infectious idealism and optimism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helpfulness which , as Miss Hazard , now president of Wellesley , has pointed out , . was instinctive with Miss Freeman , became the acquired spirit of the Wellesley alumni . When the life so fruitful in Wellesley College was transplanted and took root in venerable Cambridge and began to bear fruit there , it was the same sort of life in the main , only widened in its scope and area . A model wife , an ideal hostess , an adviser and mother-confessor , much as Henry Drummond in Scotland was father-confessor. ? to scores and hundreds of individuals , men and women , who sought her aid and found shelter in her home and in her heart , Mrs. Palmer also was a splendid , patriotic citizen . Appointed by Governor Ames , in 1.889 , a member of the Massachusetts Board of Education , for thirteen years she utilized that opportunity to elevate the ideals and better the methods of education in her adopted State , pleading for more appreciation of the high schools , insisting on higher standards for the normal schools , standing firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperance while ardently believing in the principle involved ; and in all things where the public was to be instructed or persuaded showing such remarkable gifts as a pleader , ? especially before legislative committees , ? that her colleagues on the board , as President Capen , of Tufts , has recently admitted , spontaneously turned to her for service as a " voice " more persuasive and potent , perhaps , than any other . In 1892 , Mrs. Palmer was appointed a member of Massachusetts ' Board of Managers at the World 's Fair , and in this place she showed her influence and taste . At the time of her death she was on the board of trustees of Wellesley , of Bradford Academy , ? the oldest endowed New England academy for girls , in whose restoration to power she had recently become deeply interested , ? and of the International Institute for Girls in Madrid , which , under the wise management of Mr. and Mrs. Gulick , is doing so much to leaven higher circles in Spain . The Palmers ' home in Cambridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the residence of Mrs. Alice Gordon Gulick and a group of Cuban matrons and teachers in the summer of 1899 , when Harvard was nobly playing the part of friend and teacher to aspiring Cuba . This is only a partial list of the institutions and societies which Mrs. Palmer served during the last , rich epoch of her life . Wherever she served , she showed practical wisdom , tact , prompt and intuitive sympathy . if President Bumsted , of Atlanta University , came North to seek counsel and sympathy , he found it in Mrs. Palmer . Presidents of colleges in foreign lands founded by American Christians turned instinctively to her for advice when they returned to this country in quest of teachers ' or funds . Donors to educational institutions for women in this country sought her opinion as to the form their gifts should take . Presidents of colleges for men often relied on her practical advice when facing administrative crises , and trusted her judgment in choosing candidates for executive and professorial positions . Chicago University won Mrs. Palmer 's assent to serve a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the women 's department of the university , and thus she laid the foundations and established the ideals of a department ' of an institution which is destined to have a profound influence on the future of the population of the vast valley of the Mississippi . One of Mrs. Palmer 's last acts of public service was in collaboration with President Eliot , of Harvard , and other educational experts of Massachusetts , in drafting for the use of women enlisted either in women 's clubs or in collegiate alummae associations a thoroughly well-reasoned and sharply defined plan of action for women , to the end that they may better public-school conditions in Massachusetts ; and as Massachusetts has been aptly called " the bellwether of innovations . " this report , no doubt , will be influential elsewhere . Often as she spoke to her fellow-countrymen on high themes , and much as she has done to shape the thought of her time , Mrs. Palmer leaves behind in published form comparatively little from which one who never saw or heard her can gain an adequate conception of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She seldom read from manuscript more often she spoke freely , with due preparation when it was possible , but always out of a full mind and generous heart , and the charm and power of her eloquence was that of the sort that is indefinable and indescribable , but . at the  | same time , very effective in inducing noble action . She struck deep notes of feeling . again soared buoyantly , assumed the right would be done , took her hearers into her confidence ; was brave when others were disheartened , plain-spoken when candor was necessary ; was hospitable to new ideas , friendly to all good causes ; had a . social imagination , knew not what it meant to other than democratic and sisterly , looked upon life as a joyful privilege of serving God and man , and hesitated not to speak and act instantly as if her mission in life was to elevate mankind . Her own experience when a child in the home and when a student had taught her that greater than the influence of books and facts is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remainder of her days as a radiant personality , fascinating men and women by her sincerity , her infectious yet fAN PALMER . 171 reasoned optimism , her almost supernatural insight into character , and her inclusive sympathy . More than most women of her day , she blended , ? as President Faunce , of Brown University , has said , ? the ideals of the old and of ' the new woman , " the synthesis being a coalescence , and not a mere adhesion . Her service for others and her sacrifice of self were inevitable and natural , never conventional , and always individual . Mrs. Palmer 's most abiding claim to fame probably will be that she demonstrated conclusively that women must be admitted to a front rank in the leading profession of her time in this country , and that an American woman of culture and civic , spirit can be useful to the state and to society at large while obedient to the highest domestic ideals , and this to a degree of perfection equal to anything seen in European aristocracy . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arrested ethic . " Iler culture was of the kind described by J. R. Green , the English historian : " Such a gradual entering into the spirit of the highest thought the world has ever produced as enables us rightly to know what the value of all work , and our work among it , really is . " Her aristocracy was what Theodore Parker called the " aristocracy of goodness , which is the democracy of man . " Her patent of rank in American nobility was based on her rich endowment with those virtues which President Eliot has defined as making an American aristocrat : " Fidelity to all forms of duty which demand courage , self-denial , and zeal , and loyal devotion to the democratic ideals of freedom , serviceableness , unity . toleration , public justice , and public joyfulness . " In view of such a life-record , it is not surprising that educators and public-spirited citizens already have set on foot plans to gather from donors throughout the country an adequate supply of funds with which to create " an educating memorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , with President Eliot as chairman , has sent forth an appeal for $425,000 , to be divided between Wellesley , Radcliffe , the University of Chicago , the International Institute for Girls at Madrid , and the academy and normal schools in which Mrs. Palmer was especially interested . Some of it will go to add to endowment , some to increase fellowship and scholarship funds , and to establish a professorship of social science at Wellesley , some to erect a building at Madrid , and some to provide portraits and busts of Mrs. Palmer at the many institutions which she served . Her influence has been more than sectional or national , even ; and her friends are planning rightly to commemorate her service in an adequate way .                     