@@485097

confined , too much , we think , to northern China and the region of Peking . Despite his intention and ability to be fair all round , there are some things which an outsider can see perhaps even more plainly . It seems quite clear now that , whether on account of the unintentional precipitation of the Boxer movement or otherwise , the whole series of events of the summer of 1900 is rather a matter belonging to northern China  --  an affair of Boxers and Mantchus  --  than a movement of " all the Chinas . " Certainly , in the middle and southern parts of the empire , where reform , at least in intellectual conviction , has made more solid progress , where the Mantchu rule is less accepted , and the Mantchu dynasty most bitterly hated , there have been few signs of commotion or sympathy with either the Peking mandarins or the red-sashed Boxers . Having frankly declared the limitations , along with manifest excellencies which time Will only reveal more fully , we are now Prepared to look at the contents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and we confess with a little pride that the author is an American , albeit not a lover of Russian policy , withal counting that China has been extraordinarily fortunate in having so plausible a defender in Minister Wu of Washington Of the thirty-eight chapters in the two volumes , thirteen are devoted to the causes of the convulsion of 1900 Dr , Smith treats of the remoter sources of antipathy of Chinese to foreigners . He shows that the normal mind of an orthodox Chinese is very much like that of those Christians of the Middle Ages , and later , who considered the " deposit " of faith divinely perfect , that they were the guardians of it , that originality of thought or any innovation of custom was not only blasphemy and sin , but in itself heresy , rebellion , and anarchy : As the logical fruit of medival Christian orthodoxy was the Inquisition with its unspeakable horrors , men like Philip II , - and the slaughter of heretics , so from the Chinese mind antipathy , and , through provocation , violence and murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religions of China , Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism , as distinct and separated cults , they exist in the average Chinese mind as but one amalgam . Whether Boxerism sprang out of Confucianism , or , as Landor would dogmatically assert , from Buddhism , or more immediately from the old superstition and witchcraft which underlie all formal or book religions in China , it is certain that the Mantchu mandarins , especially , were too happy to use the convenient weapon to rid China once and for all of disturbing influences . By extirpating not only Christianity but all things alien , they hoped to insulate China from the shock of change . Dr. ' Smith demonstrates that , besides troubles-from Protestants and Catholics , anti-foreign riots , and anti-foreign propaganda which , as early as 1890 , was laid open to public view by the scholarly researches of the Rev. Timothy Richards , there were the " commercial intrusion " and the " territorial aggression , " which convinced so strong a reformer as Li Hung Chang that foreign --  ers were , in their morals , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masterly grasp and insight , the author describes the reaction against the reform - which had been begun by the Emperor , advised by Rang Yu Wei . The genesis of the Boxer movement and the gathering of the storm are finely pictured . Dr. Smith makes clear the close collusion between the Boxer leaders and the Empress and Mantchu mandarins . Then follow fifteen chapters , describing the siege and rescue , given in smooth narrative , after laborious digest of details . Those on the punishment of Peking , the capital in transformation , the ruin of Tung-Chou , and Tientsin after the siege are wonderfully interesting . Not the least valuable part of the work is that containing the personal narratives of native Christians from various places in the zone of disturbance . These are modest , and notably free from hysteria and heated rhetorical reports . They give a fresh revelation of the staying powers and intrinsic manhood of the Chinese , and open a new chapter in the annals of modern Christianity The author confesses freely , with the shame that all civilized men must feel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian " nations indulged . He does not spare exposure of the thieving propensities of civilians and tourists , nor does he hesitate to brand as abominable shams some of the so-called military and punitive expeditions of the Germans . He is firm in his conviction that more punishment ought to have been meted out to the native offenders in high office Nevertheless , acknowledging all these drawbacks without stint , and not palliating their evil effects on the native mind , Dr. Smith is an incorrigible optimist as to the future . China can never be the old China that she was , but must move into a new and better life . Not that the author has any faith whatever in a mere importation of " funded civilization " in the form of steamships , railways , and telegraphs . In themselves , these have no regenerating quality , but are simply disturbing forces , destitute of all ethical value , occasioning more evils than they remedy . It is true of the Chinese , more than of any other non-Christian people , that they have never been profoundly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fighting , and the inevitable divisions among foreigners , whose union is feebleness , are over , moral forces will resume their sway . In short , one rides from this book , not only with the impression that it is a masterwork , but that the Chinese people are thoroughly human beings  --  no better , no worse , than those who call themselves Christians ; and that honesty and unselfishness in work devoted to them are no more lost than the same ethical and philanthropic energy devoted to human beings elsewhere .                     