@@430001

THE expansion of the United States into the tropics has given a new importance to the question of commercial education . It indicates that we are on the eve of important changes in both the political and the commercial world , and also that the struggle for the control of new markets is becoming sharp . The tropics are the only regions whose products are not well developed , and in which competition has not reduced the margin of profits toward the vanishing point . It is true of the tropics more than of any other part of the world , that its trade depends upon a knowledge of the conditions of life and of the habits of people who are beyond likelihood of immediate change . The rest of the world is so closely united that articles in demand in one land are likely to be desirable in all . This is not true of the tropics or of the Orient . Their long isolation from the rest of the world and their ancient and unchanging forms of society have fixed the needs of life within certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of local habits . As a consequence , there is need not only of a thorough understanding of the laws of trade and of the ways of doing business which are of universal application , but also of that particular and technical knowledge which will enable a merchant to undertake particular lines of trade with special countries , without liability of destructive mistake . This need , which the recent exploitation of tropical lands for commercial purposes has only served to emphasize , has for half a century been recognized in European countries , which found themselves distanced in commercial pursuits , or called upon by the exigencies of their national life to enter upon new ways . It has resulted in the planting of certain schools for commercial education of the higher grade , which have already become distinguished , and in the establishing of some systems of commercial education , which are new and important . The movement has so far attracted attention in this country that the Universities of Pennsylvania , California , and Chicago , as well as Columbia University , have inaugurated or announced special  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained so little gen-iune recognition , that even these courses seem tole established rather for the benefit of the local institution than because of any conviction on the part of the principals in the matter that the need is a permanent one . Indeed , in a recent article in the " Independent , " President Thwing , of the Western Reserve University , writes somewhat deprecatingly of the movement ; implying that a good education in law i , perhaps the best special training to which a merchant can subject himself , outside of the counting house , and that what is known among us ; as the ordinary business college is sufficient for present needs . This opinion rests upon a complete misapprehension of the real situation , and the failure to understand what other countries with whom we an to compete are already doing . It is not a question as to what constitutes the quickest way in which young lads who are obliged to support themselves can enter successfully into a business career ; this question in the minds of some , being sufficiently answered by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and demands a much more thorough and scientific solution . The situation is by no means one it which the slipshod method of " something just as good " will serve The rapid development of the business life of our country and the wide diffusion of wealth in the business world , have brought into the field a large number of young men destined to become the successors of their fathers , who have developed large and successfu enterprises out of the exceptional conditions which hitherto have , obtained with us . The question now is , How can this large number of favored young men most successfully fit themselves , not only fo the local administration of business , but for the wider competition in the markets of the world , and to take charge of some of the largest trusts that have ever been known ? The day of the rule-of-thumb has gone by in business no less than in mechanics . It is only the man of science , trained in the technical school of the highest grade , who , in every department of industry - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the steam railway .  - -  - finds his opportunity and is imperatively needed . It can not b that other conditions will be permanently maintained in the business world . The merchant who , through years of labor and intelligent industry , has built up a great commercial house can not see his suc cessful neighbor , the manufacturer , send his son to the technic school , and then to other lands for a year or two of study of marufactories similar to his own , without feeling grave anxiety for his  | own business , unless he furnishes his son with a similar intellect equipment . Recognizing this need , the ancient Merchants ' Guild of Leipzig ' established , more than fifty years ago , its Commercial Institute , which has long been the model for similar institutions in Germany . At last report it had no less than 700 pupils . To-day , there are in Germany fifty-five high commercial schools , with 6,000 pupils ; in Austria there are thirteen , with 3,000 pupils ; in France there are seven , besides many schools of a lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an association composed of 560 merchants of Vienna , and a subscription fund of 530,000 florins . In thirty years this school reported having had 17,000 students , and having graduated more than 5,000 . Its graduates are in great demand in commercial houses . It early instituted the custom of travelling scholarships , by which it sends out those of its young men who have had a certain practical experience , to make a careful study of foreign centres of trade . There are forty of these scholarships ; and their possessors are to be found in all the important trade centres with which Austria is connected . The course covers three years , and embraces the following subjects : three modern languages ; commercial geography , including a knowledge of the products , population , history , trade , and means of communication , of different lands ; mathematics , including commercial arithmetic , with computation in the currencies of all countries , and the various methods used in accounts of every form ; physics ; chemistry ; commercial law ; the laws of international commerce and transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods . The Superior School of Commerce in Paris has a staff of some seventy men , with an annual outlay of 230,000 francs ; and the School of Higher Commercial Studies , designed especially for training the sons of merchants , occupies splendid buildings on the Boulevard Malesherbes , and has a course of three years , with a faculty of fortyfour instructors . While it admits pupils who have had only secondary instruction , it is designed especially for college graduates . Its curriculum covers a vast variety of subjects , the aim being to supply a very broad theoretical training , together with exact and definite instruction in methods in actual use . The purpose of these schools is thus defined in an address issued in 1856 by the Commercial Council of Prague :  | material development ; but , fundamentally , they are distinguished from them . In the case of the earlier institution , it is the method of natural science training by which the technical training is accomplished . In the case of the other , on the contrary , the theory which runs through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not higher mathematics , not natural science , but that thorough and general culture which includes the application of social knowledge to experience , which relates to a knowledge of the earth and of the economic nature of its inhabitants , with special reference to one 's native country . Justification of these schools is to be found in the necessity for the higher scientific training of the merchant . This appears more and more imperative every day , as this alone qualifies him to work with such foresight and certainty as are rendered necessary by the advance of our social relations . " The course of instruction which the high commercial school should pursue has received much attention in these foreign schools . Pupils are to be taught to become good employes ? good buyers , good sellers , good cashiers , good accountants . But the art of buying and selling and of recording these operations does not constitute the whole science of commerce , nor would it insure the success of any enterprise . The art of organizing , administering , and directing is fundamental , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher schools are intended to embrace courses upon the various kinds of industries , and upon the commercial qualifications determining the capability necessary for the various enterprises . Among them may be mentioned the establishment and conduct of business , the laws of commerce , raw materials , markets , workmanship , general cost , commercial and industrial action and administration , accounting , the exact determination of the selling price , credit , corporations , liquidation , the duties of the employe , etc. , etc . Added to these are advanced courses , laid out with the same minuteness and care , in mathematics , industrial and commercial geography , transportation , tariffs , history , political economy , foreign languages , the art of public address , and so on . In view of all this , it is not surprising that German merchants should be found coming to the front in many Oriental markets , or that foreign governments are in some instances selecting their consuls exclusively from graduates of these schools . The director of the Leipzig school , in a recent report , makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young German merchant , who is coming to be recognized in foreign countries ? though in many cases with great unwillingness and with considerable envy ? is no result of routine work . It is the consequence of careful and thorough training of our young people . The nation whose commercial relations are ex- tending throughout all continents , whose mercantile and naval ms tine is well equipped for the very best service , whose banner ware over many continents , needs merchants of intelligence , financiers ol wisdom , and inventive and enterprising organizers . " - This being the model which is adopted by the countries with whom we shall have to compete , and the standard of the higher education of the business world among the most civilized communities , it may 1x accepted as indicating the kind of education which in the near future will be demanded for our most ambitious young business men .. Sim liar courses will be provided in this country when the demand for then is realized . That demand will first appear in the minds of the young people who are influenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the boys begin to inquire of them what specia courses are best adapted to fit them for their subsequent careers , it wil be the privilege of these intelligent counsellors to point out to their , pupils the new demand for education of this kind , and the new oppor tunities which are opening for those who will be found to possess it The American community may be trusted promptly to supply that for which it has come to feel the need . And those universities that firs recognize this need , and seriously and amply provide for it , will have a great advantage over all their rivals . In view of the many burden which are forced upon our growing universities , it is quite possible that commercial centres will find it necessary to provide such school for themselves , as they have widely done in Europe . That the de mand is already appearing , and that this special commercial training will soon be regarded as an essential in business life , is already clear Quite beyond its mere economic value , when its advantages are understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates the privilege of living in the spacious air which nov is looked upon as the special prerogative of the men of the professions and of those who with broad and definite courses of study have beer fitted for their life work .  |                     