@@485994

Monday 's decision of the Supreme Court will necessarily thrust our whole Philippine policy again to the fore in public discussion . It shows that questions can not be settled legally until they are settled right ; nor can they be morally . The immediate practical consequence will be to compel Congress , which has until now shirked a disagreeable duty , to walk squarely up to the debate and enactment of revenue laws for the Philippines , the existing ones having been declared illegal But with this will inevitably come a general reconsideration of our entire national attitude in this Philippine business . We can not argue about the tax on Philippine goods without having something to say about Philippine liberties . Into the discussion of the proper tariff policy , consideration of human rights and free institutions will surely intrude The Philippine question is open again . It is once more the order of the day . The decision of the Supreme Court upsetting the Government 's policy in respect of customs gives the signal to the friends of freedom and democracy to urge once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our own liberty and our historic position , and which make so powerfully for the reversal of our mistaken and misery-laden policy in the Philippines In legal effect , the decision of the Court is more far-reaching than would appear on the surface It does nothing except to affirm illegal the duties collected on goods coming from the Philippines This means , so the Treasury officials say , a loss in refunds of only about $250,000 . More serious , even alarming , will seem , from the protectionist point of view , the prospect of free sugar and free tobacco from the Philippines , until Congress acts to keep out that deadly trade Here is a noble chance for the protected interests to spring forward , as they are already doing , to propose laws to prevent the Filipinos from enjoying the advantages which the Supreme Court declares are theirs Secretary Root hoped for certain tariff concessions on Philippine products , as the readiest means of conciliating the natives , and , by making them prosperous and contented , of reducing our military force and curtailing the enormous expense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court thrown down all trade barriers against Philippine commerce than we see the angry and embattled protectionists clamoring for their immediate restoration by Congress . There may easily be more to the case than this , however The Supreme Court decides only questions that are before it , and on Monday it pronounced no opinion upon the validity of the tariff duties which have been levied in the Philippines upon goods coming from the United States Yet we are bound to believe that it would have held this military tariff illegal , if a case involving it had been before the Court . Such a decision would appear to follow from the previous decision of the Supreme Court in the first Dooley case , in which the right of the President to collect duties on goods from the United States entering Porto Rico was contested Five judges held that the military order under which duties had been collected prior to the Foraker act , " ceased to apply to goods imported from the United States the moment the United States ceased to be a foreign country with respect to Porto Rxo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchandise was entitled to free entry " It added , as if to put the case as nearly as possible on all fours with the Philippine tariff " In our opinion the authority of the President as Commander-in-Chief to exact duties upon imports ' from the United States ceased with the ratification of the treaty of peace , and her right to the free entry of goods from th.1 ports of the United States continued until Congress should Constitutionally legislate upon the subject . " We need not dwell upon the embarrassments which would attend the application of this judicial opinion to the Philippine tariff It would destroy a large art of the insular revenues . It would compel us , under the Treaty of Paris , to concede free entry of Spanish goods in Philippine ports It would grievously complicate our international relations in the Orient , where we have promised to grant as well as demand the " open door " for trade But all these points must be reserved for later discussion The great thing is that the Court has remanded the whole question to Congress That body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military necessity , or of obscurities in Constitutional right . Under the decision of the Supreme Court , Congress must enact a tariff for the Filipinos , and it may give them freedom and independence and that full national life which is their highest aspiration . The absolute power of Congress , which our highest tribunal has now asserted , may be used in a beneficent way to extricate us from our Philippine plight . The islands are ours , heady expansionists have said , and there is no way of getting rid of them But the Supreme Court has now held that they are but as other " property " of the United States , to be alienated if Congress so desires Our hands are not tied . Congiess has full power to heed the prayer of the islanders , at the same time that it consults our own highest interests , by granting Philippine independence at an early day . The President 's message reflects the general sobering on this subject . He has got far away from thefirst glorying of Mr. McKinley in our acquisition of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt they are frankly " a great burden . " There is not a word in his message inconsistent with our ultimate withdrawal  --  many words , indeed , which hint not obscurely that such may be our final goal . With this falls in the latest Filipino appeal for a promise of " the ultimate recognition of their rights " as a people . The time is auspicious , therefore , for a fresh consideration of the whole matter , freed from the old rancors and passions ; and the hope may reasonably be entertained that the American Congress and people will yet be willing to retrace their steps , and take their position again on our traditional and noble principle that no government shall be imposed upon a people without its consent . INFLUENCE WITHOUT TERRITORY . The present troubles on the Isthmus , aud the leading part which the United States has taken in the course of that Iliad in a nutshell , show what national influence really depends upon . It is certainly not the possession of territory on the spot where the influence is exerted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for territorial aggrandizement would obviously be fatal to our good offices . The Central Americans believe that , as Secretary Hay said , we covet their land as little as we do the mountains of the moon . They see our naval force conducting itself with absolute propriety , and adhering strictly to the letter of the treaty with Colombia . Our officers and men are there for a single specific purpose  --  to maintain free transit over the Panama Railroad . Yet by their discretion and conciliatory attitude they not only have played a useful part , but have signally illustrated the way in which a great nation may make its name and power respected far from its own borders . We think the instance comes happily to point the moral so often drawn in vain in the course of our recent craze for stringing islands for our national toys . We simply must have these new possessions over-sea , people argued stoutly , or else we can not take our appropriate place among the nations . Even Professor Hart , in his excellent article in the American Historical Review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national power except as somehow conterminous with national territory . He can not agree with those who think we might have " abstained " from our " recent conquests in the West Indies or East Indies . " He uses the old phrase about its being no longer possible for us to dwell quietly at home under our own vine and fig tree , and appears to think that it is our " chain of possessions from the Pacific Coast to the Asiatic " which alone gives us title and ability to take part in the solution of the great problems of the Orient . The real question is , however , whether we should not have both the right and the power to pursue our true national interest there , and in every other part of the world , without owning a foot of distant soil Does our prestige run with the land alone ' Has the American flag no function of protection , and no power to impose respect , except where it flies from a staff driven into American ground ? The Isthmian incident is a timely reminder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is anxiously asking why we do not annex a strip of land down there , so as to make our power effectively felt and advance our interests The thing speaks for itself We are better off , and so are the Central Americans , for our being able to deal with this hornet 's nest in eruption as impartial spectators and friendly counsellors , and not as owners at their wits ' end to know what to do next . Mr. Gladstone , in a remark of his about Italian ambitions which has been recently reported , put his finger upon the weakness of the ill-considered desire for territorial expansion and for cutting a great figure in the world " Ah , if Italy would only drop that senseless Ultramontane alliance , how she might go ahead , I only wish I could do anything to help her to walk in that way But it is the extravagance of newly discovered vigor Why , I saw a letter in the CoH the other day , saying that Italy must do so-and-so , if she wished to be a pi wan la @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only way to be a pi imaria 11aZIOPe is to foster your self-reliance , your integrity , all the qualities that make character , and not to be always making a great effort to do something or other " The dispute is really not unlike that between " intensive " and " extensive " farming Many a farmer has spread himself over barren acres until he is " land poor . " A neighbor , working one-tenth the amount of land under a high degree of cultivation , may be far better off . At all events , we must get it into our heads that a nation 's life , no more than a man 's , consisteth in the abundance of the things which it possesseth Character overleaps boundaries , and the influence of a nation that deserves to have influence can not be pent up within its frontiers . We have only to look closely at the facts to see what it truly is that gives America a great name abroad It is , in the first place , our highly developed resources , our expanding trade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and manufactured goods indispensable to the world 's wellbeing . It is our trade which can not be confined behind the oceans that wash our shores , and that pushes outward with irresistible force With it go American ideas By this impact upon other nations they are led to study our social and political organization , our education , our technical equipment These are the things , and not cannon , that are making the American foreign conquests in which a judicious patriotism has most reason to delight And our chief duty is to see to it that we have something at home worth sending abroad , that our government become as superior as our goods  --  our principles as admirable as our inventions The extension of sovereign rights over territory is a wholly secondary matter As we see so clearly on the Isthmus to-day , the American name may be honored and honorable , the American flag " full high advanced , " without having a single possession except self-possession , moderation , and a strict regard for our international obligations and the rights of others . DEMOCRATIC REORGANIZATION . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President is always interesting , and there are special reasons for thinking that the session which opened ca Monday may prove of cons  --  quence in the improvement of our politics . The issues of national campaigns generally slope themselves in the discussions of the Senate and House , and there are questions now pending which are certain to provoke earnest debate . This Congress is the fourth consecutive one which has been carried by the same party  --  a record without precedent in the memory of men now living . The Presidency has also been carried by the same party for the second successive term , which has not happened before since Grant 's reelection in 1872 ? if we except the term during which Hayes filled the office through the award of the Electoral Commission . The Republican majority in each branch of Congress is now so large that the party can easily carry out any policy upon which it is united . Meanwhile , the Democrats are utterly demoralized 13ryanism has reduced the numerical strength of the party until it no longer has a Senator in the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a scattering body of Representatives from this great section outside New York city . The party is as weak in intellectual strength and political sense as in numbers . Senator Jones of Arkansas , the nominal leader of the minority in the upper branch , lacks both the acumen and the breadth of view which are essential , and Representative Richardson , who occupies a similar position in the House , has never made a strong impression even upon his own party . In the men thus put to the front , as well as in the rank and file , the Opposition is so weak as almost to justify the ridicule of the Republicans . But the shrewdest leaders of the Republican party do not exult over the free hand which their organization now has . They are not glad that at the opening of a new Republican Administration the Opposition is so weak that the majority can work its will without restraint The veterans in politics recall more than one occasion within the past thirty years when a party has appeared to be invincible , and yet within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waves " of 1874 , 1882 , and 1890 in favor of the Democracy each followed Republican victories in a Presidential election , while the revolution which succeeded the Democratic success in the national election of 1892 was quite as sudden and sweeping . It is obvious that the prevailing sentiment among the Republican managers favors a do-nothing policy , which should give the Opposition a great opportunity A politician of the Hanna type is almost sure to argue , as the Ohioan does openly , that " let well enough alone " is the best course for a party which has been given victories for years by the blundeis or a Democracy that seems still to be controlled by the old blunderers Powerful financial elements reinfoi ce this pi otest of the short-sighted political managers against action which would unsettle things , " as the protected interests assert that any opening of the tariff question would surely do A whole biond of schemes seeking gi eat appr ( ) pi iations fi om the Ti easury has been hatched , and their promoters are laboring to pi event the reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order that the sin-plus may be great enough to satisfy the demands of jobbers Questions of our future relations with Cuba and the Philippines require careful attention and generous action , but selfish interests are already rallying their foices at Washington to prevent once name the discharge of our plain duty In short , the whole tendency of things in the dominant party is distinctly towards the adoption of a Bourbon policy of doing as little as possible , and " Hosting to hick " to carry the Congressiomil elections of 1902 and the Presidential contest of 1904 The first thing for the Opposition In Congress to do is to cut loose trom the burden of Bryamsm , and face the future A hopeful step in this direction has been taken by the Demociatic members of the New York delegation , who presented an admirable series of resolutions at the party caucus on Saturday night 1 these resolutions condemn " the oppressive , restrictive , and often prololotoly features of the existing tariff , " d-malid amendment , favor reciprocity treaties , call for " just and generous ti eatment ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the largest practicable liberty of commercial intei course with nisi own country , " oppose such subsidy bills as that urged in the last Congress , as well as the use in any form of public money for the exclusive benefit of private Interests , oppose the establishment of any colonial system of the European type , and demand self-government for the people of other lands now in our power " at the earliest practicable moment " These resolutions met opposition in the caucus on the supposition that Mr McClellan , the Tammany member who presented them , was only the spokesman of Croker , and that this discredited boss was trying to " rim " the National Democratic party . We learn that there is no foundation for this theory The resolutions really had their birth in Brooklyn , and they represent the same prop essrve tendencies in the Democracy of that borough which led to the nomination and election of several Gold-Standard Democrats to Congress in 1900 The matter was referred to a committee , which is to report this month , and an airing of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only future for Democracy is along such lines Independents keenly realize the terrible misfortune to the nation ot a weak Opposition , and will earnestly hope that there may be a speedy reorganization of the Democracy into a strong party THE TARIFF SAFETY-VALVE . Secretary Root speaks for the Administration , no doubt , and speaks forcibly , when he urges Congress to reduce the duties on Cuban and Philippine sugar and tobacco at once His annual report argues the matter on both economic and governmental grounds Cuba 's only possible market is in the United States ; it would be easy for us to build up a much greater market for our products in Cuba , freer trade relations will be a good thing , therefore , on both sides . This may be heresy to the hide-bound protectionist , but to the business man it will come as a cheering gleam of corn mon sense . The case is really simplicity itself . Here we have at our doors an almost inexhaustible source of the cheapest and best sugar in the world Americans are already the greatest sugar-consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extra and needless cent and a half a pound for this necessary of life ? As the Tribune 's Washington correspondent puts it , in a sudden access of frankness about the effect of protective taxes on the consumer , we pay for our sugar $84,000,000 a year more than it would cost if imported free Of this amount , he truly says , $48,000,000 goes into the Treasury , and $36,000,000 into the pockets of the protected interests . But our obvious self-interest in reducing or removing the sugar tax is really two-fold . We should buy more and cheaper sugar of the Cubans , they would buy of us more machinery and cotton goods and bacon There never was a clearer opportunity for developing a great trade , advantageous to both sides . Mr. Root states the case conclusively . His logic is unanswerable . The protectionists in Congress do not intend to answer it , but only , with their " fine brute majority , " to vote it down They ought , however , to weigh not only the Secretary 's commercial arguments , but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with vigorous but not exaggerated strokes a picture of the certain fate of Cuba if we deny her the speedy relief which we have pi omised Her great industry , the very life of the island as it is finds itself in a critical situation Unless the threatened disaster to it is averted , distress and misery will surely follow , and on an appalling scale . The good work done under our military government will be thrown away Our troops can not withdraw , or , if they do , will leave behind them only a scene of agricultural ruin and governmental anarchy With reciprocity denied , no Cuban Government could live a week All this Secretary Hoot sets forth , and shows convincingly that in Cuba , as in the Philippines , the stimulation of trade by tariff concesstons is the only direct way to the withdrawal or reduction of our garrisons , the only means of economy , and the only measure which will at once conciliate cur island wards , set them on their feet , an d enable us to face them and the world as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message is leading Congress to the water of Cuban reciprocity with fully as vigorous a jerk upon the halter , but can he and Secretary Root and Gen Wood and our worried exporters all together make the animal drink ? That is the question If we may believe the outgivings of the Republican managers , the question is already answered in the negative They have determined to do nothing If they adhere to their announced plans , the Cubans will be turned away empty-handed , the Filipinos will get nothing , and our manufacturers and farmers , with an eye on the export trade , will be told to content themselves with " the home market , " already bursting as it is with their products And all for what ? All in order that the men who see their personal advantage in the tariff , which many of them consider that they bought and paid for , may not be disturbed in their little monopolies All in order that the Republican party may , if possible , cover up its internal differences on this whole subject , lest they become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trade may be lost , and welcome , opportunities may be thrown out of the window , but if the offices are lost , what will be left for this unhappy country then ? For our part , we do not believe that this policy of silence and suppression can be followed The Republicans of the West are hot so easily frightened or gagged , and the Western Republican view of the tariff situation is that something must be done about it , and that without loss of time This view was plumply laid before the President , the other day , by Governor-elect Cummins of Iowa , who stated it to be , in effect , as follows " ( 1 ) Western Republicans want the tariff revised , either by means of a direct reduction in certain duties , or by reciprocity treaties which shall mean something tan-gible " ( 2 ) They will not be satisfied with a ' : et well enough alone ' policy , or with any makeshift which pretends to reduce , but actually does nothing ot the sort " ( 3 ) They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-competitive articles and goods , because they know such reciprocity is a sham " ( 4 ) They are not content to sit idly by while Continental countries are raising tariff rates and shutting out American agricultural products in retaliation for the continuation ot our high-tariff walls lot the benefit of Eastern manutactui ere ' ( 5 ) They will not long endure paying for home-made protected goods higher prices than those goods ai e so d 1 or abroad " 16 ) They want competition in all the goods which they consume , and if they can not get competition at home , they want the tariff reduced , so that it may come from abroad " This is the dangerous rumbling of the steam in the boilers with which the Republican engineers have to deal They can open the safety-valve and relieve the pressure , or they can continue squatting upon it till they are blown up THE DUTIES ON BAGGAGE Secretary Gage 's article in the December North American Retiew on the " Customs Inspection of Baggage " is excellent so far as it goes . It expresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it stands , without fear or favor Rich and poor alike are compelled to bow to it The " courtesy of the port " ? that mantle to cover a multitude of smuggling  --  has been abolished except in the cases of foreign ministers and commissioners , Government officials , and " invalids and their companions , " as also of " persons arriving in charge of their dead , or summoned home in haste by news of affliction or disaster . " The baggage inspectors themselves have been more rigidly inspected , and the force more ingeniously organized , for the purpo:e of breaking up the old system of bribery And the fiscal result of this new enforcement of the law is seen in collections nearly five-fold what they were During the seven months ending September 30 , baggage duties to the amount of $655,000 were turned in , whereas the corresponding period in 1900 yielded but $152,000 All this is as it should be , the law being what it is For our part , we have always desired that the full rigors of the baggage tax be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land That is the way to make the law odious By that means alone can the crass barbarity of the law be brought home to a certain order of protectionist intellect . We know , in fact , that it has had that happy effect in many cases . More than one smilingly complacent protectionist , as he was before , has left the pier , stripped and gasping , and crying out in a lamentable voice , " I believe in protection , of course , but this ! Understand , I am a good Republican , but if there is any way of making the party smart for this sort of thing , why , count me in/ " This is , to us , a delightful way of proving that the extreme of the law is the extreme of injustice More power to the rummaging elbow of the baggage inspector , say we , and may he spill out on the dock contents of the trunk of every high-and-mighty protectionist until the law is repealed . Of this method of " frying the fat " out of protectionists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's article is clay , the slightest , reference to the propriety of the law . His official position doubtless forbids him to go into that , though it is the one thing which cries out for treatment Why move heaven and earth to enforce a law which is so petty and absurd in its intent , and so offensive in its application , that it ought never to have had a place is the statute-book , and should , for all sound reasons of convenience , economy , and policy , be repealed at once ? It is unquestionably one of those laws which are better done away with because they are directly provocative of fraud and corruption and both public and private demoralization In one sentence Mr. Gage seems to flatter himself that his Department has " broken up " the system of bribery formerly in vogue in connection with the inspection of baggage But further on he thinks it safer to admit that " there is undoubtedly some wrong-doing still " Not only some , but a good deal , if the tales of returning Americans are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use the Spanish phrase In the nature of the case it must be so , sooner or later A temporary spurt of vigilance may check the corruption for a time , but it is certain to return and be more widespread than ever The law puts a premium upon bribery , offers a large reward for smuggling , and places before the officers sworn to enforce it the most alluring temptations to wink at its violation Everybody knows that this is so Human nature being what it is , the infallible consequence of a high protective tariff , enacted against swarms of travellers , is to defeat its own end , and promote only false swearing , itching palms , and payment of bribes instead of duties In addition to all this , the law is really humiliating to the United States in the exasperatingly petty attitude which it compels us to assume among the nations It makes us look as if we thought travel a crime , and the intercourse of the civilized world a thing to be putdown The vexatious inquiries , the minute cross-examination , the insulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the delays , the risks to health , the open solicitations to bribery to which Americans are now subject on coming back to their own shores , are proceedings which might not surprise one in Timbuctoo or Uganda , but are frightfully out of place in a country leading the world in wealth and power They are as much out of keeping with our station as if a Vanderbilt or a Rockefeller were to be seen with a gunny-sack on his shoulder , raking out rags and crusts from the garbage-barrels along Hester St ' eet No less miserly and paltry does this great nation appear when it harasses its own citizens for a few thousands of dollars duties on personal baggage Laws , said John Stuart Mill , are made for the protection of men , not of phrases In legislating to save the phrase " protective tariff , " the Ding-ley Act went so far as to forget the men and women whose comfort and education and general benefit in foreign travel are of more value to the public than all the dollars and , all the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the baggage law The real question is not how to enforce it , but how to expunge it As a source of national disgrace  --  for it makes foreigners jeer at us  --  as a direct prompting to corruption , and as a specimen of rag-picking legislation unworthy of a rich and proud people , Congress should " reform it altogether " ? that is , should return to the ante-Dingley practice , as regards personal baggage , in force from the foundation of the Government until the absurd " $100 clause " was put into the tariff . ASPECTS OF BIOGRAPHY . At a recent meeting of the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution Lord Rosebery , as presiding officer , discussed entertainingly the subject of biographies , a matter concerning which the author of Napoleon ? the Last Phase ' professed complete inexperience . " In my Utopia , " he said , " I would have a Board of Censors , who would not allow the biographies of any one to be issued without their sanction They would divide their time into people whose biographies were to be written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I would go a little further I would classify even those biographies that are permissible , and when the subject was once taken as being licensed for a biography , I would divide the biographies into first-class biographies , second-class biographies , thirdclass biographies , and biographies that might be put into a very expanded biographical dictionary That would be the fourth class The first class might have three volumes , the second might have two , and the third one " Just why such a censorship was desirable had been already explained by the speaker of the evening , Mr Asquith . It was not so much that there were few persons worthy of biography  --  in fact , Mr. Asquith believed that certain lives , like that of the late Master of Balliol , must inevitably evade the biographer 's analysis , it was rather that very few are fitted for the biographer 's task It is , indeed , a curious fact that one of the most difficult branches of the literary art should ordinarily be turned over to the unskilled . That the portraying of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives , indiscreet admirers , or , worse y et , to industrious hacks , brings a deeper penalty than is usually the result of dabbling in letters For most literary forms have their laws , by obeying which the most inexpert may be spared the worst indiscretions Biography , on the other hand , remains an unscheduled realm of the writer 's art . Before the biographer lies a confused mass of material  --  letters , journals , published writings , anecdotes , comments of friend and of foe From this mere cumulation of details in themselves insignificant he must select . the significant , and shape and weld it all into the figure of a living and breathing man This is his task But nothing prevents him from misusing this material He may write a series of disquisitions on phases of his hero 's activities , and bind them in a book , in the hope that paste and boards will do the part of constructive vision , or he may print his raw material in chronological order , and call upon the reader to be the biographer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No offence is more generally laid at the biographer 's door than failure in frankness . As Thackeray virtually dared the novelists of his day , himself included , to paint the picture of a man as unsparingly as Fielding had done in ' Tom Jones , ' so there is a pretty constant suspicion that most of the " lives " on the book-stalls have been pretty thoroughly Pruned in a spirit of charity . This suspicion has led to a counter tendency in biography , and to a series of " real " Shelleys , Byrons , Washingtons , etc. , in which the " real " means usually " objectionable " or " immoral " Of course this is only to replace an indiscretion of friendliness by an indiscretion of unfriendliness But it is probable that what often seems cowardice in the biographer is rather inexpertness The enormous mass of material that is at hand for a modern man of any prominence is appalling Few will handle it with the felicity that Mr. Scudder has shown in his ' Lowell ' The great majority will fumble rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superficially most attractive This procedure may well deserve the kind of reprehension it is certain to incur from Mr. Henley and professional truth-tellers generally , but the criticism really lies less against the character than the judgment of the biographer . For it all comes down to the question of judgment Mr. Henley will have it that Mr Graham Balfour has completely suppressed a very unedifying but most human and attractive Stevenson in favor of a heroic " shorter catechist " who wrote Vailima prayers and abounded in lay sermons Here we touch a difficult matter , and should not rashly decide with Mr Henley . Is it not possible that the shorter catechist in Stevenson may have been the essential man , that the conscious Bohemiamsm which Mr Henley wished to see emphasized may , after all , only be a graft upon the sturdy Scottish stock ? If so , Mr. Balfour is justified in his reticences and in the proportions which he has chosen for his book If any really important chapter of Stevenson 's life remains to be told , if experiences which wrought permanently upon his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henley if he will supply the missing clue . But if Stevenson 's random stage was simply that of many another man , the less we know of it ( except that it esistecil the better In fact , the apostles of frankness in biography often seem to have in mind a very stupid or a very guileless reader No one , for example , who knows the world will need to be told the full story of the time when Stevenson , the undergraduate , lived sordidly over a tobacco-shop , no one who is ignorant of the world should be told it If simple inexpertness is at the bottom of so much bad biography , Lord Rosebery 's Utopian college of censors might better busy themselves with deciding who should write biographies than with selecting persons to be written about For it might almost be said that no life is so unimportant . that its record under a master hand may not yield something for the recreation and the enlightenment of us all No sensible reader refuses to enjoy Sainte-Beuve 's Portraits ' simply because many of these people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is inexhaustible ; the supply of heaven-boi n biographers small Meanwhile we must put up with the publishers ' judgment , instead of Lord Rosebery 's censorship ; and even as it is , and excluding the acknowledged masterpieces , biography has a peculiar value When we are tempted , in Mr Asquith 's words , " to doubt the ultimate purpose and meaning of human existence " ? as what thoughtful mind is not at times ? ? then the remembrance of many lives which have been lived greatly brings back the assurance that , however mysterious the ends of living may be , living is itself infinitely interesting , and worth while . Some such enhancement of life comes from all great literature , from biography it comes in a form singularly personal and direct . Upon the biographer , then , rests an especial responsibility , for in his hands are the issues not of one life only , but of many lives . 