@@430148

DURING the progress of the South African War serious statements were made iii military circles as to the physical deterioration manifested in the large number of volunteers rejected as unfit for active service . In Manchester , out of 12,000 would-be recruits , 8,000 were rejected as virtually invalids , and only 1,200 could be regarded as lit in all respects . Happening , too , at a time when the standard of requirement was the lowest since the battle of Waterloo , and when the country was engaged in a serious war , these statements aroused public attention . When Gen. Sir Frederick Maurice declared that , according to the best evidence he could obtain , it was the fact that for many years out of every five recruits only two were found physically fit after two years ' service , the Government appointed a departmental committee to inquire into the whole subject of physical deterioration among the masses . It was , indeed , a startling fact that 60 per cent of the men offering themselves for active service were physically unfit . Sir Lauder Brunton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and correspondent of the Academy of Natural Sciences , Philadelphia , in his evidence before the committee , said : Poor in physique as they all are , and poor in mental capacity and power of application as many of them must be , they probably marry girls as weak as themselves , and have children , some of whom go to swell the lists of infant mortality , some to join the criminal classes , while others grow up more weak and incompetent than their parents . If unfit for soldiers , what are they fit for ? The answer as given is not reassuring . We find , from the recruiting returns for the year 1900 , that , out of 52,022 laborers , husbandmen , and servants who offered themselves , 15,025 were rejected , or 288 per thousand . Out of 11,971 manufacturing artisans , 290 per thousand were found physically unfit ; and , worst of all , in the occupations most favorable to physical development , such as smiths , masons , and carpenters , 260 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest percentage of rejections was reached in the case of clerks and shopmen desirous of joining the colors , 306.89 per thousand being the number . Now what was the standard set up ? Height , 5 feet 2 inches ; chest measurement33z inches ! During the ten years 1893-1902 , as many as 679,703 recruits were medically examined . Of these , 234,914 were rejected at once , 5,849 after three months , and 14,259 after less than two years ' service . These official admissions are intensified by the statement of Sir William Taylor , director-general , Army Medical Service , that " this percentage of rejections does not , however , represent the whole extent of the physical unfitness existing among men wishing to become soldiers . " He refers to the numbers rejected by recruiting sergeants , and consequently never coming within reach of the stethoscope . To appraise these figures at their real value we must now examine the grounds of rejection . Under the heading of chest measurement , the rejections range , during the decennial period named , from 49.88 to 139.64 per thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of the late Salford School Board , says that , in 1845 , of the soldiers measured 47 per cent were between 5 feet 7 inches and 5 feet 8 inches in height , and that in 1889 out of every thousand 481 were less than 5 feet 7 inches . This gentleman attributes most of the evil to the want of fresh air consequent upon overcrowding , and instances , in evidence of the importance of this condition , the Kerry men , who , although notoriously badly fed , are the tallest men in Ireland . It is well to point out at this stage that it does not at all follow that these results would be the same in a medical examination of every thousand of the population ; but , as the class which recruits the army is exclusively the laboring population , the evil is a serious and a growing one . This is proved by the report of the inspector-general in the year 1902 , where he says that " the one subject which causes anxiety in the future is the gradual deterioration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the recruits must always be drawn . " The Royal Colleges of Surgeons and Physicians answered the committee 's inquiry by saying that the director-general 's statements were inadequate to prove that physical deterioration had affected the class referred to , but added that we had not sufficient data to warrant any definite conclusions by comparison with past times . To this one may answer that , comparison or no comparison , a dreadful state of affairs is revealed which these learned bodies can not explain away . Statistics collected by the British Association during the years 1878 ? 83 were put in as evidence , and , though not accepted as conclusive , produced one stern proof of physical degeneration among the laboring classes . The average stature of boys between eleven and twelve attending the public schools ( in the English sense of that term ) , boys belonging to the wellto-do classes , was 54.98 inches as against 50.02 in the industrial schools . One witness , who has had an intimate acquaintance with the rural life of the country , unhesitatingly declared that the rural schoolchildren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty or forty years ago , and went on to express her conviction that physical degeneration had set in . Progressive degeneracy is reported by the committee as unproved , though the bulk of the witnesses , medical men for the most part , suggested that it had set in . Sir Lauder Brunton said that , in certain classes , progressive improvement had set in ; but he thought it highly probable that there was a larger proportion of physical insufficiency than at previous times . Mr. Charles Booth , the well-known author of " Life and Labor in London , " had no doubt that conditions unfavorable to the health of the community were growing in amount in connection with the increase of urban conditions of life . Passing to the recruits for the navy and marine services , it must be noted that , as a rule , they are drawn from a better class . No illiterates are accepted , and from artificers skill in their trade is required , with a knowledge of arithmetic . Under these conditions , of 14,848 candidates who had satisfied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year 1902 ? 03 , no less than 25 per cent were rejected as unfit by the doctors , as against 23 for the army ; and in the three years , 1900 ? 03 , of 21,916 examined in London for the navy , 32 per cent were rejected . This is not a pleasant fact for the mistress of the seas , and the recommendations of the committee go to show how deeply its members were impressed by the evidence produced . Underfeeding is the great difficulty , the initial difficulty , coupled with improper feeding , in the case of children of the working classes . So dreadful were the statements made by responsible witnesses that this strongly individualist nation is face to face with the recommendation " that definite provision should be made by the various local authorities for dealing with the question of underfed children . " On all hands there is , a demand that the school children , with suitable safeguards against economc abuse should be fed . Even a late member of the present con servative ministry is taking a leading part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the departmental committee . We feed at present all children under poor-law management , all those in reformatory , industrial , day industrial , and special schools . These are the neglected ones whom the state has taken away from bad , vicious , drunken , careless parents . Why it should refuse to feed the children whose parents are not necessarily members of these classes , only a coun try of compromises can understand . What is the case for feeding , and what evidence have we that want of food is answerable for the physical degeneracy prevalent ? Ninety per cent of the children of the poor are born healthy ? The professor of anatomy at the University of Edinburgh , in his evidence , asserted : There is a mean physical standard which is the inheritance of the people as a whole , and , no matter how far certain sections of the people may deviate from this by deterioration , the tendency of the race as a whole will always be to maintain the inherited mean . In other words , these inferior bodily characters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as syphilis and alcoholism ) , and which are therefore acquired during the lifetime of the individual , are not transmissible from one gener ation to another . To restore , therefore , the class in which this inferiority exists to the mean standard of national physique , all that is required is to improve the condi tions of living , and in one or two generations all the ground that has been lost will be recovered . Here is a decidedly encouraging statement to spur on the new edu cational authorities to provide nourishing food for their young charges , and also to make such changes in school curricula as will teach girls the values of food rather than the rivers of Europe , the rules ( if any ) gov erning the subjunctive mood , or the intricacies of algebra . Take Dr. Eickholz , the medical inspector of all the special schools in the country , as a witness . Last June I had the melancholy pleasure of visiting , under his direction , an area seven minutes ' walk from the Houses of Parliament , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starved . Here is a luridly descriptive picture of how the children in this area are fed : Their breakfasts are nominally bread and tea , and the dinner nothing but what a copper can purchase at the local fried-fish shops , where the most inferior kinds of fish are fried in reeking cotton-seed oil , and this often supplemented by rotten fruit collected beneath costers ' barrows . Absence of milk and meat is , according to this same witness , another factor in promoting physical degeneration , which is aided effectually by the stewed tea at the morning and evening meals ; indeed , in most cases at dinner as well . In one of the special schools in Liverpool for mentally defective children , I have seen a mother create a disturbance because a horrible decoction of stewed tea and an indigestible bun were set on one side . Her afflicted child , accustomed to this diet , declined for weeks to eat the specially prepared meal of excellent fish , rice , and milk pudding . I may add , in passing , as chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in breaking down the child 's prejudice , a marked improvement in mental as well as physical health resulted . In the Johanna Street Schools , Lambeth , London , the medical gen tleman mentioned above made a special examination , and reported that 90 per cent were unable , by reason of their physical condition , to attend to their lessons , and that , from October to March , 33 per cent must be fed by voluntary agencies . Having unrivalled opportunities of securing reliable figures , he stated that , in the London schools , 122,000 children were decidedly underfed ? 16 per cent of the children of that vast gath ering of human beings which constitutes England 's wonderful metropolis . Evidence in support of this statement was offered by a voluntary feeding association in Lambeth , which coped with 12 to 15 per cent of starving children in some districts and with 25 to 30 per cent in other and poorer schools . There need , then , be no astonishment to find the doctor going on to declare : Ninety per cent of the boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anemia , with pale faces and lustreless eyes , and 15 per cent had eczema in one year . A good many suffer from blight in the eyes and sore eyelids . The hair is badly nourished and wispy , giving a very old look early in life . In this same school it was found that , owing to want of food , 77 per cent of the boys were above the standard age in the grade in which they studied . In the first grade , 92 per cent were above the usual age , and this at the very threshold of education . No child in this school ever reaches the highest elementary grade . Another school in a different portion of Loudon , West Ham , showed that 87 per cent of the infants and 70 per cent of the older children were below the normal physique . These were all the children of dockers . Turning to the provinces , we have corroborative evidence . In Man chester , the centre of the cotton industry , 15 per cent of the school population was declared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this case between hard facts and the old enemy , comparison with previous years . A free meal committee with very limited resources fed 6 per cent of the school population during the year 1902 ? 03 ; and Miss Dendy , a well-known member of the education committee in that city , maintains that 15 per cent have insufficient meals as well as un suitable ones . Mr. J. B. Atkins , London editor of " The Manchester Guardian , " in his evidence , handed in figures to show that " a constantly growing dis parity is observable after the age of eight , between the scholars in the squalid surroundings and those in the better quarters . " Again : Even the most favored boy of the good neighborhood is slightly shorter and ome pounds lighter than the British Association 's normal boy of the working class of the same age ; he is three-quarters of an inch shorter and 101 pounds lighter than he average schoolboy in Boston , 1 . S. A. In Halifax , Yorkshire , the measurements are scarcely better . In Rochdale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are only equal o two boys in the great public school of Rugby . The medical officer or Manchester , Dr. James Niven , gave as the second cause for a high death-rate the inadequate diet in a large proportion of the poorer fam lies . When asked if inadequate earnings on the part of the parents would justify the local education authorities in feeding the children , he nswered emphatically that there were large numbers of underfed chil dren who must be fed at any cost . - An examination of schools in the Manchester area by a medical officer of the board of education showed that in a board school , well built nd equipped , 66 per cent of the children were below the normal physi cal standard ? an improvement on the London figures , but no matter for , ongratulation . In a Church of England school , Saint James the Less , he children in the lower grades were in a very bad condition , but an mprovement was noted in the higher ones . In a Wesleyan school , 62 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were below the normal ; but in the highest grade only 14 per cent were below he normal . In the adjoining Catholic school , the inspector says : I was astonished at the excellent physical condition of these children , especially s the neighborhood had been given to me as the very worst in Salford . Only 15 per cent of the infants were below normal , 10 per cent in the lower three standards , nd not more than 3 per cent in the upper three standards ? which shows how well ared for this Irish population is . As an Irish Catholic myself , I attribute this result to the same cause as I do many similar instances in Liverpool , namely , to the fact that the Irish mother , especially the Irish-born woman , scouts artificial aids and feeds her baby as nature intended she should . I was shocked , however , when reading the dreadful evidence of deterioration in Ireland , to find the Bishop of Ross asserting that natural feeding was on the decrease in his diocese , South Cork . The medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the slums of Edinburgh a large proportion of children were half starved , and that it was the height of cruelty to subject such children to school routine . The Scottish Commission on Physical Training said in its report : " There exists in Scotland an undeniable degeneration of individuals of the classes where food and environment are defective . " Dr. Weston , from the great seaport on the Tyne , Newcastle , said in his evidence : There is undoubtedly great deterioration in the physique of the population , owing to two chief causes : first , a decadence in home life , which entails improper food and clothing , irregular habits ; secondly , miserable houses , high rents , and overcrowding . The whole matter , therefore , under present conditions , centres around the question of school feeding as part of the school work- . I can testify to the wonderful change in the physique of the children ? 1,200 in number ? in the day industrial schools in Liverpool . In swimming competitions they have beaten every school in the city time and again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ games they have been most successful . They all belong to the lowest strata of society and all live in slumdom . Fed three times a day by the late school board and now by the Liverpool city council , they manifest the benefits of good food regularly supplied . Concerning the Manchester schools of the same type , it was stated by a witness that of the children who were physically unable to go through a course of drill on entry , only , 2 per cent remained unfit after a few weeks ' feeding . It was also declared that one could easily pick out the industrial school boy in the ordinary school after his discharge . The remarkable feature about the Liverpool children is that , despite the fact that they return at 6 P.m. to their wretched homes , they all escaped being afflicted by recent epidemics of zymotic diseases , which was not always the case with other members of the family who were attending ordinary schools and were not fed . To me it is incredible that these children are made strong and healthy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food are unable , to the tune of 80 per cent , to take part in a new scheme of drill , which had , perforce , to be abandoned . Ample evidence was produced by heads of schools that the mental powers of the children were enfeebled by want of food ; and the whole situation was summed up by Sir Lauder Brunton when he said , in answer to an economic objection , that " there is no more danger in feeding children physically than there is in feeding them mentally . " A great evil has to be met and at once , pending the day when royal commissions and departmental committees are formed to inquire into the bed-rock causes of these evils , and not their results . No uniform method of procedure is suggested in the report ; but each local authority , once the question is taken up in earnest , will probably work on lines suited to its locality , taking care to avoid demoralization as much as possible . The Paris system affords a working basis . Free meals are given to every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Bureaux de Bienfaisance " or not . Meals are served on the presentation of a token which can be bought and given gratuitously to the child , a system which enables parents who are fairly well off to secure nutritious meals at a small cost . Secrecy is observed as to whether the token was bought or received free . In the year 1897 the municipality of Paris paid for 67.84 per cent of the meals provided , which shows a fair average of payments by the parents . This method is practically that which a committee of the London School Board recommended in 1 898 , minus the all-important suggestion that when the board 's officers report that the underfed condition of a child is due to the culpable neglect of a parent , the board should have power to prosecute . The committee were much impressed by the large share borne by excessive drinking in producing and perpetuating degeneracy , and suggest educating the people through the schools on the evil effects of alcohol . At the same time , unlike most so-called temperance reformers , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the laboring population . Jr . Niven 's view that people who have not food enough turn to drink to satisfy their cravings and the mass of evidence as to the bad housing and overcrowding of the people being also responsible for alcoholic excess was generally accepted . In the report , this definite statement is made and signed by every member : Every step gained toward the solution of the housing problem is something won for sobriety . Direct proof was forthcoming of men who had been addicted to alcohol , passing into better surroundings and changing their habits . Two years ago " The Liverpool Daily Post , " one of the foremost Liberal organs outside London , in reviewing somewhat flatteringly a former contribution of mine to THE FORUM on a kindred subject , said I was writing " claptrap " in suggesting landlordism as the enemy of good housing . I had been suggesting the taxation of ground values as the only remedy . In that very report , Mr. Charles Booth , whose authority can not be questioned , actually suggests to the committee that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minority , which included leading Conservative statesmen and one member of the Government , was his proposal for solving the housing problem . In this place , I may say that a bill with this object passed its second reading during the last session of Parliament . Mr. G. H. Fosbrooke , medical officer for fourteen years to the agricultural county of Worcester , and for thirtyone years medical officer of small urban and rural districts in the same county , gave evidence proving my assertion of two years ago in these pages . He declared that , in his district , the physique of the agricultural laborer had deteriorated ; and he went on to say that some of the houses were really unfit for habitation ; that , in fact , he could name one district where a whole series of houses had been closed because the landlord ? ground landlord ? would not do anything ; and these formed part of a large estate . Mr. Arthur Lyttleton said the same : " The people can not get cottages ; they leave the country because they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet the causes of rural exodus , one being to force the rural authorities to adopt the drastic powers in Part III of the Housing Act . Then the landlord will come into prominence , as London , Liverpool , Manchester , and Glasgow can testify . England is undergoing a reaction from the wild Imperialism of the past ten years . Sober-minded men are thinking out the social problems dealt with in this admirable report ; and if the change of Government , which , at this writing , seems inevitable results in this committee 's principal recommendations becoming the law of the land , the new Liberal ministry will live long in the memory of Englishmen . But then there is Rosebery .                     