@@485091

In his recent message to Congress President Roosevelt called attention to the distressing conditions impending in the island of Cuba , and pointed out the necessity of some immediate steps to avert a grave danger . He said : " I most earnestly ask your attention to the wisdom , indeed to the vital need , of providing for a substantial reduction in the tariff duties on Cuban imports into the United States . Cuba has in her Constitution affirmed what we desired , that she should stand , in international matters , in closer and more friendly relations with us than with any other Power , and we are bound by every consideration of honor and expediency to pass commercial measures in the interest of her material well-being . " Since these words were uttered by the President , additional . information has been received from the Military Governor , showing that unless something is done at once to afford relief to the planters , bankruptcy will befall the greater number of them . They will not be able to pay the money they have borrowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laborers employed , and the latter will be reduced to beggary or brigandage . The situation is already desperate . It may become revolutionary . The President is said to be contemplating a special message to Congress to recommend the passage of a temporary measure for the admission of Cuban sugar to our ports free of duty , or at half the present rates , for six months , in order to save the island from the impending disaster . It is to be hoped that he may do so before the holiday recess , and that he may put into it the energy that he displayed in pushing the Franchise Tax Bill in New York . He might not be able to secure the immediate passage of the bill , but he could produce so profound an impression on public opinion that it would be likely to pass early in January , and so avert the threatened calamity . Of course , it will be said that the bill is unphilosophical ; that it will be virtually a donation of money from the United States to Cuba , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be better to make it directly by an appropriation of Congress than indirectly by a contribution from the taxpayers It will be said also that if we admit Cuban sugar at half rates for six months , we shall be obliged to admit the sugar of other countries at the same rates , under the " most favored nation clause " of our foreign treaties . It has already been urged by objectors to the proposed plan that it would give a large additional profit to the Sugar Refineries Company , or Trust . It is certainly desirable that the remission of duties shall be shared by the American consumer as well as by the Cuban producer . This might be secured by making the remission or reduction applicable to all the sugar imported during the six months . No American interest could be much harmed in that short period , and if some of them should lose a profit which they are now enjoying at the expense of the people , the latter will merely have recovered a small portion of their just dues . The admission of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months , at half the present rates , would prevent the Trust from getting any greater advantage than it enjoys under the present law . It would also prevent any difficulty from arising under the most-favored-nation clause . Our own sugar-producers will resist the small concession to Cuba because it embodies what they call a breach of , the prinCiple of protection . They fear the effect of one example , even if it is only of six months ' duration . They take the same ground that the owners of pine forests took after the great fire at Chicago , thirty years ago . The burned-out people of that city petitioned Congress for a remission of the duties on lumber used solely to replace buildings in the burned districts . This was a very small matter in itself , but it would be a very great matter if it should be customary to allow burned-out Americans to rebuild their houses without paying a tax to the lumber barons . When-the Chicago petition reached Congress , it was opposed in the bitterest terms by the pine-forest owners of the State of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The protected sugar interests should bear in mind that the annexation of Cuba is one of the alternatives that they have to face . By resisting any and every measure for the relief of Cuba now , and by thus precipitating bankruptcy , beggary , and lawlessness upon the island so lately freed by American blood and treasure , they can create a public opinion which will bring Cuba into the American Union with all the trade privileges that Porto Rico now enjoys . Then there will be no duty on Cuban sugar . That is the future which our cane and beet-producers will have to face if they are blinded by their greed to the present danger . It is plain that a treaty of reciprocity would not meet the present exigency . Even if there were parties by whom it could be negotiated , the time is not sufficient . It could not be made effective in regard to the present crop . But there is no treaty-making authority in Cuba now . There can be none until after the election next February . Our Supreme Court has decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of the island is our government . We can not make a treaty with ourselves , or with our own Military Governor in Cuba . Therefore , the crisis can be met only by an act of Congress . THE SCHLEY VERDICT . It was an English Admiral , John Byng , whose execution , on the verdict of a naval court-martial , gave point to the famous irony in " Candide , " that he was shot " pour encourager les autres . " Byng was found guilty simply of " negligence . " He was expressly acquitted of " cowardice or disaffection , " and the court recommended him to the mercy of the King Yet the articles of war assigned the penalty of death for neglect in a naval officer to " do his utmost " to take or destroy the enemy 's ships , and the sentence was carried out for reasons which , of course , were long and bitterly debated . The real reason , however , may well have lain hidden in Voltaire 's sarcasm . To " encourage the others " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a naval officer to the strictest accountability . The discipline , the prestige , the high sense of duty of the whole service are at stake in every naval court-martial or inquiry . Personal Considerations can not live in the atmosphere which should envelop the officers sitting in such a court  --  namely , that of pure devotion to the highest interests of the navy . They have nothing to do with the distribution of glory or the nice assignment of rewards . Their one duty is to determine and apply the loftiest standard of professional responsibility . For an American board of inquiry the sole questions should be , " Does the conduct of the officer before us conform to the stern laws and the glorious traditions of the American navy ? Does it measure up to the example of a Lawrence , a Decatur , or a Farragut ? Will it be an inspiration or a discouragement to the youngest midshipman , taught and resolved that to do his duty at all hazards is the one ambition and the sufficient laurel of every American naval officer ? " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made public on Saturday , was rendered only in the discharge of a painful duty laid upon the able and high-minded officers composing the Board of Inquiry which the accused Admiral so tardily demanded . They find him guilty of " vacillation , dilatoriness , and lack of enterprise . " They assert that " he did not do his utmost " to capture or destroy the Colon on May 31 , 1898 . This offence is punishable , in the American Articles of War , as in the English , with death . The verdict also finds that Schley did not " promptly obey " the order of the Navy Department , that his official reports regarding the coal supply and the coaling facilities of the Flying Squadron were " inaccurate and misleading , " and that he " did injustice " to Lieutenant-Commander Hodgson by publishing a garbled version of the correspondence that passed between them . Schley 's personal coolness and courage in battle are , on the other hand , certified to as unquestioned . This last is reason for general congratulation . The American navy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it had an officer in high command capable of cowardice in the face of the enemy . The verdict of the Board of Inquiry , by a further example of the unhappy fate which has attended the Schley controversy from the beginning , is exposed to misunderstanding by the public . The Admiral 's friends at once began to shout that he was condemned only by a majority of the court  --  composed of two officers who were never in a really important battle  --  while glorious Dewey stood by his brother-hero in every particular . But what is the cold fact ? Admiral Dewey must be held to agree with Admirals Benham and Ramsay except in the points where he records a specific dissent . These are entirely minor . They do not touch those capital features of the verdict which we have already quoted , and which constitute the final condemnation of Admiral Schley . Dewey , in other words , found him guilty on all the main counts of the indictment , but cleared him on subordinate charges . Then , in a burst of amiable but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not before the Board , and on which evidence had been rigidly excluded  --  namely , that Schley was senior officer present in the battle of Santiago , and was entitled to the credit for the " glorious victory . " That this is the total legal effect of Dewey 's " vindication " of Schley is made clear by the Judge-Advocate 's explanation , which has , . indeed , silenced all but the more unblushing partisans . Much keen disappointment and indignation is naturally expressed by Schley 's counsel at the damaging nature of the verdict against their client , and some of his partisans are clamoring for a Congressional investigation to break the effect of the findings of the Board of Inquiry . But this is only a counsel of rage , which will be given no heed , we devoutly hope , after the first ebullitions have subsided , and after the crushing character of the findings against Admiral Schley has had time to impress itself upon the public mind . The Board recommends that nothing be done , and surely that is the one way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in connection with this most unfortunate affair . Leave it hereafter to the historians . Let the case take its place among the historic disputes like that over the conduct of Grouchy in connection with the battle of Waterloo , about which men may debate to the end of time without coming to an agreement . It is enough that Schley 's brother-officers have now spoken . To them the Navy , at any rate , R ill listen . And their verdict will accomplish the one great result desired  --  that is , make it certain that no American commodore will ever again think that he can be dilatory , negligent , inac curate , vacillating , and disobedient , when charged with an important mission , and still be able to retain the approval and respect of his brothers in arms . BRANCH BANKING . Mr. A. B. Stickney , President of the Chicago Great Western Railway , delivered an address before the Marquette Club in Chicago on Saturday evening , in which he set forth , at somewhat greater length , the views on changes needed in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bankers ' Convention in Milwaukee last October . He holds that we need a " Central Reserve Bank , " akin to the Bank of England in its function as keeper of the ultimate gold reserve of the country , but not as a Government bank , like the old Bank of the United States , nor as a note-issuing institution . It should be an outgrowth , a product of evolution , and would be such , in his opinion , if the Government would simply withdraw from the banking business itself and allow the national banks to have branches , according to the system prevailing in Great Britain , and especially in Scotland , where it has reached its ' highest perfection . In some comments on Mr. Stickney 's address at Milwaukee , we assumed that he contemplated the establishment of an institution akin to the Bank of the United States , which expired in Jackson 's second Presidential term after a bitter political contest . This , we Said , was " practically and politically impossible , and could be expected only by a thorough Utopist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , saying : " It was not my intention to advocate the establishment of such a bank I entirely agree that the establishment of such a bank , which would be rehabilitating the old Biddle Bank of the United States , is practically and politically impossible I am prepared to go further than my critics . I deny that it is ideally perfect in theory , and it is my conviction that such a bank not only never could , but never should , be again established in the United States " Mr. Stickney goes even further , and says that he does not advocate any system to be established by Congressional legislation . He merely wants Congress to keep hands off and leave banks to grow in their own way . But in order to keep hands off , the Government must retire its circulating notes of all kinds . The Treasury must restrict itself to the collection and disbursement of the public revenues , and cease to act as the keeper of the ultimate gold reserve which guarantees the solvency of all business , public and private . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discount operations  --  as free as they are in Europe They must be allowed to have branches , many or few . Out of such a system he thinks that a central reserve bank would grow as a labor-saving device , iu order to avoid the necessity of duplicating the reserves and moving large masses of metal hither and thither . Any existing bank might be selected for this purpose , or a new one might be created by common consent , and it might be incorporated under the law of a State . We have at all times favored the retirement of the Government from the banking business . By this is meant its restriction to the fiscal operation which it performed before the civil war . By the act of March 14 , 1900 , the fiscal and the banking functions of the Treasury were separated from each other , and two departments were created , one containing the divisions of issue and redemption , and the other the general fund . The divisions of issue and redemption embrace what are commonly called the banking functions Once get rid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , requiring , in the first place , a renovation of public opinion on the whole question of banking and currency . This does not seem so formidable to Mr. Stickney as the change which has been effected on the silver question since the enactment of the Bland Silver Law in 1878 . In this conjecture he is probably right . At all events , this divorce is what all advocates of a sound currency system must continue to strive for . It is only six years since it was a doubtful question whether the legal-tender notes of the United States should be redeemed in gold or not , and if the decision had been left to Congress , they would not have been redeemed . President Cleveland and Secretary Carlisle received no help from that quarter , but rather the contrary , in their endeavors to perform in good faith the banking functions of the Government , by maintaining the parity of the greenbacks . We agree with Mr. Stickney that the banks should be allowed to have branches for discount and deposit wherever they please . Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by distributing the capital of the banks where it is most needed . Under such a system the rates of interest would be equalized , or would tend toward equality , between the large cities and the small towns . Knowledge of the demand and supply of money would be quickly conveyed by the branch at the small town to the parent bank in the city , and funds could be quickly transferred to the branch , either from the parent bank or from any other branch where the demand was less pressing . The advantage of branch banking consists in the facility which it affords for gaining knowledge of the relative needs of business in different places and of responding to those needs , through agents on the ground possessing the necessary local knowledge . It is this which has made the Scotch system so effective and useful to the small industries of that country , and especially to agriculture . Whether a central reserve bank would result naturally from the branch system or not , that system should be adopted for its own sake . This might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and take itself out of the banking field . THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY . Mr Low 's stand in favor of a short working day for public employees , and President Roosevelt 's urging of further Federal legislation on the same subject , give special timeliness to a comprehensive account of the eight-hour movement published by Dr. A. F Weber , in the last report of the New York Bureau of Labor Statistics . It appears that the movement has thus far failed to attain its object , except in special classes of industries . The only country which does not fall under this general statement is Australia , where the hours of the working day have , all round , been reduced to eight . Great Britain and the United States follow with averages of 9 and 92/. r hours , respectively , but most Continental laborers work longer . While these averages hold good for the general field of industry , the eight-hour day has frequently been secured in employments where the nature of the industry made it possible to form a close organization among the men , and where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could get labor on more favorable terms . Of such occupations the building trades furnish a conspicuous example , the world over . Although the hours of work in other trades have materially decreased , there are not more than three or four cases in the United States in which they have been generally reduced to so low a figure . The slowness with which the movement has progressed by private agreement has naturally led to a demand for legislation . Uniform laws on the subject have , however , been impossible in our commonwealths , because of the Constitutional guarantees of freedom of contract . New York was among the earliest States to pass laws for an eight-hour day , and her experience is typical . The original law of 1870 , amended in 1894 , 1897 , 1899 , and 1900 , is very explicit in fixing eight hours as the standard day , but the provisions of the act have been practically a dead letter because of the Constitutional necessity of admitting agreements for overtime . Yet this has not prevented the regulation of the work of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both their hours of labor and the age at which they may take up such employment . Quite a different phase of the question is presented in regulating the work of public servants . The Government may , of course , prescribe the conditions under which it will enter into contracts , and many of the States have limited the hours of work for public employees ? usually to eight Furthermore , it has been sought to interpret some of these short-hour statutes in such wise as to include not merely direct public service , but also the work of all employed in the manufacture of commodities under public contract . Such an issue was involved in the recent New York case of Downey vs Bender The decision of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court last January rejected this attempted extension of the scope of the law . How difficult would be the enforcement of an act covering indirect labor for the public was clearly shown by Secretary Gage in a letter written March 12 , 1898 , when a similar bill limiting the hours of all workmen employed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being discussed before the House Committee on Labor . Mr , Gage pointed out that : " A proper and efficient supervision or tke hours of service of the employees of contractors and sub-contractors , for the puipose of noting any violation of the law , would necessitate the employment of a force of inspectors sufficient to oversee the work performed under every contract and sub-contract , extending out indefinitely " Before an eight-hour law can be intelligently enacted , it must be understood whether or not a reduction in hours is to be accompanied by a corresponding reduction in pay If wages are to be lower , the eight-hour plan is merely a proposal to subdivide work and to help solve the problem of the unemployed . Such an altruistic motive as this is very far from the intention of the advocates of a shorter working day . What they mean when they ask for eight hours , is eight hours with the same wages that are now paid for a considerably longer period . The main economic argument advanced in support of such a demand is the fallacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This idea was recently expressed by a labor journal , cited by Dr. Weber , as follows : " If we succeed in passing this bill a Federal eight-hour law , it will create such a demand for labor as was never experienced , will raise wages , and give a boost to the labor movement that will make it respected by those who are its antagonists " From the purely economic standpoint , the eight-hour question turns merely upon the point at which the maximum productiveness of the worker is reached . Whether this point is represented by the 91/2-hour day is , of course , open to question . One thing , however , is certain  --  a maximum efficiency can not be attained by equal hours of work in all occupations . An example of the strange results which may follow a general enforcement of the eight-hour plan is seen in the experience under the New York law of 1899 , which necessitated largely increased payments to lock-tenders employed on the State canals  --  a class of men to whom the eight-hour principle is absolutely inapplicable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time may be spent at their homes near the locks of which they are in charge . The absurdity of an eight-hour day in domestic service and in farming is manifest Yet there are many occupations in which it would lead to difficulties fully as great The point of maximum efficiency of labor can be determined , not theoretically , but only by the study of a large number of specific instances , under free competition . As for the reasons advanced for granting unusually favorable terms to public employees , thus making them a favored class , we have frequently expressed the opinion that they are not sound . ROSEBERY AND ENGLISH POLITICS . Lord Rosebery might well pray to be saved from those friends of his who aroused such extravagant expectations in regard to his Chesterfield speech . No orator could have so cleft the earth with a single utterance as it was thundered in the index that he would do . The result is inevitable disappointment . Like the French plenipotentiary who sent relays of heralds and messengers to announce his coming with excited and repeated cries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Lord-thin cuts when we at last see the real man instead of the trumpeted hero . As a trained public speaker , Lord Rosebery must know that it is a tactical mistake to key up in advance the curiosity of his audience to a pitch which it is impossible for him to satisfy ; and nothing is more disastrous to a political leader than for predictions of his supernatural wisdom to have no fulfilment . If Rosebery 's speech had not been heralded as a kind of new political gospel of salvation for English parties , one might have thought rather well of it ; the odious comparison is that of the assumed demigod with the man himself , who has to confess that he sometimes thinks he has no more wit than an ordinary Christian . Punch had , some time ago , a clever cartoon in which Lord Rosebery appeared as the " Deus in ( not ex ) Machina . " He was staying in the bathing-machine , thence safely to give bland advice to those struggling in the waves . This air of detachment clings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intimation that the country would know where to find him if it wanted his services Yes , but how is he to serve ? Not by well-turned phrases about efficiency of government and the need of technical education . . Salisbury or Bannerman would agree to all that ; what politician , in fact , so abandoned as not to agree ? Political service in England means service through a party , and what has Rosebery to say about party government ? Not a word that alters the situation . He severely arraigns the Conservatives , and says that Great Britain is lost if there is no possibility of an alternative party in power . But what about the only possible alternative party , the Liberals ? They are hopelessly divided . They ought to " get together " ; but how , Lord Rosebery warns his hearers not to ask him . He does not know . But he did know how further to divide the Liberal party , and proceeded to do it , so far as in him lay , by contemptuously throwing over the Irish alliance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Liberal Federation . As late as December 4 , that body of more than 500 delegates unanimously adopted a resolution calling for the displacement of Lord Milner as High Commissioner in South Africa . On December 16 , Rosebery coolly remarks that he can not understand the desire of " certain persons " to " get rid of Lord Milner " ! Thus to flout the accredited action of his party is his way to harmonize it and to lead it . We can see no promise either of a programme or of leadership in Lord Rosebery 's speech , so long awaited with such comical anxiety . The most that he can possibly do at present is to form a small " cave . " Into it he could probably draw a few Liberals . Into it there might also tentatively go a discontented Conservative faction . There can be no doubt of the great and growing dissatisfaction with Lord Salisbury 's Government within the ranks of his own nominal followers . Mr. Winston Churchill has already organized a little group of dissident Conservatives Bluff Lord Charles Beres-ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mediterranean command in February and enters Parliament again . He recently wrote a letter expressing the gloomiest discontent with the course of the Conservatives , and saying , " We have no strong , bold , clear-headed leader , and we are drifting  --  where ? " This body of disgusted Conservatives , joined possibly by a few Liberal Unionists , have been thought of as possibly going over to Lord Rosebery 's Liberal nucleus to form a new party  --  the party of " all the best men , " as it has been called . It is indeed true that such an independent element in Parliament might play a valuable part in the way of fearless criticism , it might even , in time , become a new party if it had a definite programme and a resolute and untiring leader ; but with Rosebery cracking jokes in the Lords , instead of pushing the fight in the Commons , and with no platform except disagreement with both parties , what hope is there of the formatron of any such new party ? We confess we see none . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Rosebery 's trumpet gives a perfectly modulated but most uncertain sound . Where he would have changed the Government 's policy in the past , or would alter it in the present , he scarcely intimates , except in the one matter of greater tact . He seems to think that a graceful and honied speaker in the Colonial Office could have prevented the general which Great Britain has suffered as a result of the South African war . Mr. Chamberlain 's blunt and unmannerly phrases have , he apparently believes , wrought all the mischief . This is an amazing evidence of the purely academic view which Lord Rosebery takes of the whole matter . Skilful phraseology , in his mind , could make ignoble actions seem worthy ; fine words could have kept Germany and France and the United States from feeling as they do about England 's attitude in the Boer war Talk about the efficiency of Government comes ill from a statesman capable of such a pure trifler 's inefficiency as that . Let Rosebery say what he may , the Boer war lies like a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is no possibility of turning out the Conservative Government . There are recent signs  --  chief among them the confident feeling in the financial world  --  that some way out of that horrible war may soon be found . Then there will undoubtedly come a readjustment of parties in England . When it does , and the Liberals look about for a new leader , it will be strange indeed if they turn to a man who has , in these times of stress , had no clear note of leadership to sound , and who has so perversely taken for his motto the advice given by Talleyrand to Thiers , " If you want to rise , make enemies . "                     