@@430045

 |p517  THE means and methods employed in the United States at the beginning of an exposition project , in connection with the creation of public sent uncut and the enlistment of popular support for such an undertaking , make it impossible thereafter to build up within it a good business-like organization to carry out the work required to make the project a reality . If a certain number of millions of dollars were placed at the disposal of a small selected body of men and they were told that they could proceed . untrammeled in every way , to build and equip an exposition , the work would be done more effectively , with greater rapidity and with much more economy than is possible under our usual methods in such matters , but the undertaking would lack those most essential elements of success . namely : the widest general interest possible in the financial success of the work , and public contact at all points . These are absolutely necessary to the broadest success of such an undertaking , but they are at the same time the reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring together a perfect business-like organization to carry out the contemplated work . This being true , it is to be expected that one will find in a great undertaking such as the Pan-American Exposition many evidences of faulty organization . Nevertheless , I think fewer such evidences are apparent in this Exposition than in any of those that have preceded it . This has been made possible owing chiefly to the personal rather than public interest that has been taken in the Exposition by every one in Buffalo ( which comes about because of the fact that the Exposition was financed in Buffalo alone ) , and the rare general confidence of Buffalonians in the Board of Directors . These have worked  |p518  together as a unit for the past two years , and can now look with just pride and satisfaction upon the completed and successful Exposition they have created . Some dominant sentiment or idea around which a working plan can be outlined and built upon and followed , must underlie every exposition . In the Pan-American Exposition this central point has been the belief , widely if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the peoples of the Western hemisphere should know each other better than heretofore and be better informed than they have been with regard to the capabilities and needs not only of their own country but of America as a whole , and of the opportunities existing therein for commercial activity and energy . This limited the scope and work to the Western half of the world , and hence no efforts of any kind were expended in Europe . With but eighteen months within which to accomplish the whole work , both of building and securing the cooperation of countries and states and of exhibitors and the general public , the Executive Committee was obliged to formulate all of the plans required , and especially those applying . to the participation of Canada and Central and South America , with the greatest rapidity , and success in those directions had to be attained or the Exposition would not have been Pan-American and would then have failed to reach the chief ideal upon which it was based . Toward accomplishing this purpose the services of the State Department were enlisted ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set apart and put in commission for this specific work ; and representatives of the Exposition were sent to the several countries to bring the Exposition personally before their governments . With all these elements , a constant telegraphic correspondence between the Exposition and the different American foreign capitals was necessary , in order that delays might be avoided , and thus a much larger expense was incurred than would have been necessary could the Exposition have had another year within which to mature . The limited time at the command of the Executive Committee also operated as a great drawback in securing foreign government appropriations from each of OF AN EXPOSITION . the eighteen countries represented , anti properly preparing exhibits in each count and in some cases the completion of all , d their installations was , through no fault of theirs , delayed until July . The short time in which expositions are . unfortunately , usually required to be concluded is a great hindrance not only to the foreign portion of the work involved but also to planning adequately and economically the different buildings and features so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to each interest that is to be cared for by the classification of the exposition ; because , no matter how expert an architectural theorist may be in such things , there are actual inelastic physical conditions and necessities in every exposition building and ground-plan which constantly return to embarrass those who have the direction of the whole undertaking . All of this could be avoided if sufficient time were taken in the beginning to adapt the architectural plans of the buildings and grounds to what it is proposed shall be the definite scope and limit of the exposition , rather than , as is customary now , to adapt the scheme as a whole to the architect 's idealized plans . For example , a Machinery Building is so planned in the architectural scheme of an exposition ? and properly so ? that it will correctly conform to its surroundings and will harmonize with its neighbors . If in so planning the building it turns out , happily , to be adapted excellently in every way for the purposes of a machinery exhibit , well and good ; if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the management must he contented to adapt the exhibit to the building at no matter what inconvenience and expense . It can therefore easily happen . and does occur to a greater or less extent in every exposition , that the general architectural plan of an exposition may be beautiful and the outline and exquisite detail and finish of its buildings perfect and beyond criticism in all these regards , as occurs in both instances with the Pan-American Exposition , while the scheme as a whole may still be deficient in many important points . Not only could all these things he secured and a great economy of money he brought about , but , in addition , the adaptability and utility of the grounds and build/ ings of an exposition would be increased a hundredfold if in the beginning sufficient time and care were taken to adapt the architectural plans to the definite , detailed purposes of the exposition rather than to proceed , as we now do in almost every instance , to adapt the exposition to the architectural plans previously prepared . This usually occurs because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together the material for the different exhibit divisions and other features of an exposition , is evolved and put to work so slowly by the cumbersome committee organization which is always present at the beginning of such a work that , in order that the buildings and grounds may be completed on time , the construction of the exposition can not wait this process of organization and reorganization . Because of the necessity to rush everything forward , demands made later for space make it necessary that changes shall be made in building plans , usually ending in the insertion in a building of those most pernicious and irrational of all exposition creations , galleries ? which , while furnishing the additional area desired , never give satisfaction either to the exhibitor or to the visitor , and should be cut out from every exposition plan . While all parts of the machinery of an exposition organization must be put in operation at one and the same time , and kept going at high speed , that portion having to do with the participation of foreign countries must do , approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is to succeed at all . This requires the early and careful framing of circular letters setting forth , in the languages of the countries it is sought to interest , the scope , purposes and aims of the exposition . These must go to the different governments through the channel of the State Department and our diplomatic representatives abroad , who must in tutu be kept fully informed concerning the proposed exposition . Simultaneously with this , folders and other forms of printed matter must be prepared and printed in the languages of the countries to be interested , giving in detail the  |p520  exposition 's plans and the reasons and arguments which shall best show that it will be advantageous to such countries to participate in the exposition . These must be issued in hundreds of thousands , and a large force of clerks must be organized and put to work preparing foreign mailing-lists to which all this matter can be sent ; then men must be carefully selected , equipped and sent abroad to give life and impetus to the work of interesting the foreign press ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Department of the Publicity Bureau must be quickly and skilfully enlarged , pictures of the exposition being made and every form of descriptive and editorial article being prepared that can be made to touch upon the subject . These , to be readily used , must be put into slips in the different languages employed , so that they can be found by the foreign editor at his elbow when he is thinking of what he can use at the moment . In the advertising department of the exposition designers must be sought out and put to work : to prepare the forms and styles most likely to make the printed matter to be sent out attractive . Special emblematic designs for covers and for advertising heads must be secured by competition and copy lighted and put out by the millions , in every form possible , throughout the world . The working force of the advertising and press bureaus of an exposition grows until hundreds of clerks , male and female , are employed and dozens of writers and designers and bookkeepers are kept at work constantly . Bookkeeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cuts and of every bundle of advertising matter sent out becomes essential , in order that a check may be kept on the operation of the two bureaus and the exposition be able at any given moment to know how many newspapers have been reached throughout the world and to whom and in what quantities advertising matter has been distributed . While all the above-described work is getting under way , rules for the government of the great exhibit sections of the exposition and information of general interest to prospective exhibitors must be prepared and printed in many languages . The organization of the exhibit divisions of an exposition requires the greatest care in the selection of men , and when these are found , the force of clerks and stenographers under each must be completed and methodical , rapid work must be undertaken by each division through correspondence with manufacturers throughout all the countries to be interested . For this purpose , blank forms by the thousands are required . Selected mailing-lists are built up from special sources , covering only the highest class of manufacturers and producers under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promptly and effectively , involving the employment of hundreds of stenographers , clerks and office-boys . The official classification of exhibits must be prepared and printed for general distribution , in order that exhibitors may know the section of the exposition in which they will be allotted space . This matter of classification is really one of great importance , since it is the basis upon which the juries of award will later distribute the medals and diplomas of the exposition . Up to and including the classification of exhibits at the Pan-American Exposition , this work has never been done in a manner satisfactory to all , and the work will probably never be so done . since the only really comprehensive classification of exhibits would end in the three following heads : ( 1 ) Animate things . ( 2 ) Inanimate things . ( 3 ) Other things . Inasmuch as such a definition would probably not suit any one , it appears fair to assume that we shall continue making classifications as heretofore . Transportation questions affect an exposition with vital interest , because the extent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the project approach a low and generous mark , indicates the degree of general interest that will probably be taken in it by the public . It becomes . hence , most important to perfect the organization of the passenger and freight bureau of an exposition early , by the selection of the best-equipped men it is possible to obtain for that work . After that has been clone , it is equally important to see that the bureaus work with the railway passenger and freight associations in the closest harmony if success is to be expected , since no one not familiar with the actual operation of the great machinery of @#  |p521  an exposition organization can appreciate how close must be the relations between the project and the transportation companies of a country , if the anticipations of the promoters of the undertaking are to be realized . Simultaneously with the other work of organization mentioned , there is to be taken into account the formation of the police , or guard , force and of the medical and fire service of the exposition . These must be thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and discipline , so that each may be effectively increased as the necessities of the occasion require . To bring these three important features of the organization into satisfactory existence requires an immense quantity of detail . Rules for the formation and government of each have to be framed ; the type of each organization is to he decided upon ; uniforms are to be designed and adopted , and permanent quarters planned and prepared . And through all this infinite variety of organization there must be kept prominently in view the need of the most rigid economy , because if this is not done in all branches of the exposition machinery , the work can easily cost millions more to carry it out than was ever contemplated by its promoters . The amusement side of the exposition must also be put in motion early , and this involves the application of a peculiar order of business ability to the problems that will arise in the negotiations to be entered into with concessionaires of all kinds . This branch of the Pan-American Exposition was most efficiently handled by an excellent committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported to the Director-General . In this work the legal bureau of an exposition becomes a prominent factor , and just here it is opportune to say that the work of this latter bureau is not only most important but of endless variety and requires a very considerable force of lawyers and law-clerks . Blank forms of contracts of all kinds required in the work of the exposition , agreements or quasi-agreements , and all important letters which might at some time be construed as contractual should be passed upon and approved by that bureau ; and all questions of policy should be discussed with the bureau , since in that way many conflicts of authority or with regard to rights of concessionaires and exhibitors will be averted , and the working of the whole machinery of an exposition made easier and smoother than if these precautions are not taken .  |p522  While the forces of the exposition thus necessary are being formulated , focused and put in motion to create , a great and most elastic force of engineers , electricians , draftsmen , modelers , landscape-gardeners , sculptors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning , elaborating and working out , under the direct personal control of the Director of Works of the exposition , not only the broad plan outlined by the architectural board of the exposition but the numberless details incident to the preparation of the grounds and the erection and decoration and lighting of the necessary buildings . These men Will frequently be numbered by hundreds , and must supply the highest order of ability in each branch of the work to be done . Following them come the contractors of all kinds who are to carry out the plans thus prepared , and , because of the short time within which these latter can work , it always happens that a seemingly unnecessarily great force of carpenters , plasterers , staff-workers , roofers , iron-workers , painters , glaziers , masons , bricklayers , laborers and others are put at work at times in the work of constructing the Pan-American Exposition these numbered as high as six thousand . Indeed , there were days when the different pay-rolls of the Pan-American Exposition showed that eight thousand persons were at work upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures one can see not only why the daily purchases involved in carrying out such a work become a great problem , requiring the careful organization of a purchasing department and the devising of a system of requisitions and checks and approvals that will repress extravagance in purchases , but also why the necessity exists for the creation therein of a careful audit system and of a wellthought-out method of accounting , both in that office and in that of the treasurer . As the day of opening the exposition draws near , two new bureaus must be created for the operating purposes of the exposition . These comprise the department of admissions and collections ? which has to do with all ticket sales and their collection and with the operation of all concessions , in so far as applies to the percentages or money to be paid by them to the exposition ? and , lastly , the bureau of awards . To appreciate what all that has been mentioned means in the line of constant , endless , tireless application on the part of those who are the directing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn that the whole period of the life of the Pan-American Exposition from its inception to its close will comprise but thirty months . This great amount of work , with the endless detail involved in its carrying out , has been made possible only because of the application to the problem of the abilities of many persons who had experience is similar lines of work , aided by the most hearty , loyal and intelligent support of the Directors of the Exposition and the ability shown by the Director of Works . While all this is true , and equally so the fact that the operation of an exposition is now fast becoming a science in many of its branches , there still arise each hour a sufficiently large number of questions and difficulties to tax severely the patience , tact and physical capacity of those who are directing its affairs . No system of exposition organization can be devised that can be relied upon to operate effectively and properly which leaves open any possibility of something failing to be done because of divided authority ; and the only ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every one and everything connected with its work , from the inception to the conclusion of the undertaking , under the absolute personal control , direction and unquestioned authority of one strong , guiding mind and hand .                     