@@474174

A FEW years ago a Florida cowboy , whose range work extended from the Kissimmee River in South Florida to the Gulf of Mexico , and from the Caloosahatchee River southward indefinitely , dreamed dreams as he sat in the saddle by day and lay under the stars at night . The Florida cowboy was less known to fiction than his brother of the plains , but he lived the strenuous life . He dealt with cattle wild and wicked though small , yet he learned to thrust his right arm across the back of one he wished to throw , and seizing it by nose and horn , deftly turn it upside down in the air as it bucked . In place of a lasso he carried a whip , called a cow-dragger , twenty feet long , of braided buckskin dragged upon the ground until it was slick , with a snapper that made a report like a gun and was well understood by the cattle itcontrolled . When cattle were rounded up for branding , certain cowboys , famed for their skill , would call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calves among scores of brands with never a mistake , simply from having seen the calves running with their mothers in the herd . The maverick of the West is the harrydick ? from heretic , out of the fold ? of Florida , and often . goes to the small owner , whose interest is looked out for , and his calves branded for him by the big cattlemen . Our cowboy could see a cow farther through the woods than any of his fellows , and for this was distinguished among them , but lie also saw other things , more distant , and quite beyond their vision . He saw great tracts of land , fertile but flooded , near to the Gulf and above its level , only waiting for the water to be drained away . Within that indefinite region which the imaginative maps of Florida call the Big Cypress Swamp , he explored islands containing hundreds of acres of rich hummock-lands densely covered with forests of palm and pine ; live and water oak ; bays , red , white , and sweet ; wild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vines and flowers growing in tropical profusion . Within the swamp proper , much of which is dry half the year , he found forests of cypress , with individual trees containing five thousand feet of lumber , a dozen miles from the coast where men were paying sixly dollars a thousand feet for cypress boards . He knew the country as it was known to the hunter , trapper , and Indian , and he knew its resources better than they . He dreamed of railroads and canals , fruit farms and vegetable gardens , sawmills and sugar-In ills . Three years ago he sought to interest capital , and found men from the North ready to be inspired by his enthusiasm and to promote his projects . He talked of the fatal frostline that in two generations had driven the citrus family from South Carolina and Georgia to South Florida , at times causing crop failures that had raised the prim of choice grapefruit to ten dollars a box , and of laud to be bought for a song within the Big Cypress where freedom from frost would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three hundred acres of rich hummock-land , lying like an island within the swamp , fifteen miles from navigable water , be converted into a grove of eighteen thousand grapefruit-trees , which within five years should produce an annual crop of one hundred thousand boxes of fruit . As to the transportation problem , he suggested that when the crop was ready railroads could be trusted to find it ; or they-could themselves cut a canal to the coast at slight expense , building with the excavated rock and soil a permanent road , giving at all seasons access to their property by water or land , as well as benefiting by drainage a large tract in which their interests would be important and increasing . The result was that now twelve thousand healthy young grapefruit-trees are growing on two hundred acres of the hummock island . There have been previous agricultural forays within the swamp limits , but this is the most important invasion , for " Deep Lake " is so far beyond the inhabited border , and so nearly inaccessible , that the cost of carting supplies from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Uncle Sam for carrying second-class mail to Alaska or the Philippines , and the purchase price of a barrel of flour is forgotten in the cost of its transportation . When the managing owner of the plantation visits his property , his fast yacht carries him from the railroad terminus at Fort Myers to Everglade in Chokoliskee Bay , whence he is taken in a small launch up Aliens River for three miles , poled in a light skiff through a crooked creek for two more , and must then walk and wade for twelve miles over shaking sod and through water too shallow for a boat , but often inconveniently deep for a man . During the dry season supplies are hauled most of the way by oxen , a yoke of which pulls about four hundred pounds through a country where a horse would be troubled to transport himself . These oxen are small , active creatures capable of scrambling like cats out of mud-holes in which larger animals would be hopelessly stalled . For the first half-mile the road is too boggy even for oxen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on shoulders and heads , or wallow to the waist in sloughs , with a barrel of flour slung upon a pole resting upon the shoulders of each pair of them . The journey of twelve miles , which consumes eight hours , is over a prairie levet as the sea , threaded with strands of cypress and dotted with picturesque little islands of palmetto and pine , but so soft that a new path must be chosen for each trip , to avoid breaking disastrously through the interlaced roots of grass that bridge over the underlying bog . Often the rustling grass points out the sinuous path of a great black or chicken snake , or the wayside flower conceals the coils of the monster of many rattles . The trained eye of the hunter can frequently detect the light print of a panther 's paw or the heavier track of a bear beside the road , or trace the outline of a deer standing motionless against a background of grass watching him with wondering eyes . The plantation island , containing three hundred acres of land elevated enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of many to be found in this uncharted country . A cypress swamp surrounds it like the moat of an ancient castle , and the eorduroyed entrance is a floating drawbridge . Vines and shrubs have been cleared from the plantation , and enough of the larger growth to let sunlight in to the soil . For six feet around each grapefruit-tree stumps and roots have been removed , and all boulders of stone for a depth of several feet blasted and piled up for future use in the building of roads . Between the rows of fruit-trees , which have been set out thirty feet apart , many natives of the forest , live and water oak , palmetto and pine , have been left standing , to be taken away as the fruit-trees cease to require their shade and the season frees laborers from more urgent work . In the mean time they measurably protect the young shoots from the light frosts that sometimes touch this region . The plantation houae , which is principally piazza , was built upon stilts near the centre of the grove , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which timbers were hewed , rafters formed , and shingles split by the axe of the pioneer . Royal palms and poncianas have been set out around the house , and rows of cocoa-palms planted along the drives that are to be . Within the boundaries of the grove are a few low-lying primeval tangles of tree and vine , called heads , of present interest to moccasins , alligators , and wading birds , awaiting redemption through drainage , the promise of which secured to the Governor of the State the office which lie now holds . The deep lake from which the plantation takes its name is about five hundred feet in diameter , with a maximum depth of one hundred and thirty feet , or about twice that of the average " bottomless lake " of Florida fiction . It is inhabited by several varieties of fish of mysterious antecedents , among them tarpon of goodly size . Grave alligators with unwinking eyes rest upon the surface , or swim lazily about , so unafraid that I paddled a skiff squarely upon the back of one before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lake from trees on its border , and thrust snakelike necks with darting heads above its surface , ducks paddle among the lily-pads , and flocks of white ibises fly across the lake when approached too closely , in resentment of ex-cessive curiosity rather than from any apprehension of danger . Upon the plantation guns are tabooed , and deer graze nightly through the grove , to its sometime injury , while wild turkeys daily walk unalarmed among the laborers , paying for protection by devouring the worms that threaten the young trees , and , as the axemen allege , even distinguish the sound of the fall of the water-oak from that of trees whose foliage is less rich in edible insects . Occasionally a licensed gun in trusted hands is turned loose upon predatory hawks and owls , and the cook is allowed discretion in the use of clubs upon crows and buzzards when they enter his tent and snatch food from his table . The report of firearms does not alarm the wild turkeys , whose confidence has never been abused , nor the woodpeckers constantly nodding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while unapprehensive mocking-birds carol forth their faith in the humanity of man . Indian hunters bearing the historic Seminole names of Osceola and Tiger , with a plain Tommy or Charley prefix for every-day use , sometimes appear at the grove to ask for the ? Alp-me ( whiskey ) which is never given them , but they respect the request not to shoot game upon the plantation , and their guns are silent within the limits of the island . The purpose of the enterprise is not exclusively commercial , and on the lake lot , in contemplation of residential use , a few acres have been devoted to oranges of several varieties ? king , Brazilian , pineapple , and tangerine ? Japanese persimmons , peaches , plums , roses , and other fruits and flowers . A garden for vegetables is to be enclosed in wire fence that shall be proof against the deer and wild turkeys , which have hitherto harvested all such crops even before their maturity . The laborers upon the plantation are negroes , to many of whom its isolation is its attraction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the lash , and if the sheriff of the county chanced to visit the grove it is probable that work would be suspended for the day , while the neighboring swamps would acquire a considerable colored population . When off duty their waking hours are spent in gambling with each other with cards , and the game continues as far into the night as the rules of the plantation permit . If whiskey gets into the camp chaos comes with it . The negro who smuggles it into the swamp and hides there with it can readily sell the liquor for a dollar a drink , until lie is detected , when he is driven forth with the significant suggestion that if found lurking around the plantation again he will probably be mistaken for a bear . It is said that this warning has been disregarded but once , and that the mistake will not be repeated  - -  by the same offender . The pioneer work of the Deep Lake Plantation is almost accomplished , and already its promoters are exploring the greater fields that lie beyond it . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascination of the unexplored , who with them are wading in the swamps with their surveyors and engineers , estimating the trees , studying the land and watercourses by day , and camping on the high spots by night . Within the swamps and on the higher lands that border them are strange growths , odd freaks of nature , and trees of rare beauty and value . The cypress-knee , a curious cone - shaped formation , rises above the water from the mot of the tree , of no apparent use , yet if it . is long submerged the tree dies . Great vines hang from the tallest trees , and so extend and arrange themselves that the trees look like masts of a full-rigged ship as seen from her deck , while smaller vines weave nets which tie up an impatient man as the web of a spider tangles a fly . Birds drop seeds of the wild fig on the leaf stalks of the palmetto or on the bark of cypress . oak , or other tree . The parasitic tree grows rapidly upward and downward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branches twenty feet from the ground can be seen surmounted by the broad top of a palmetto at twice that height , the trunk of the former completely enclosing that of the latter . Occasionally a palmetto with two trunks is found and , rarely , a hydra-headed freak of that family . There are groups of royal palms , slender silver palms forty feet high , with coats of thorns , growing like bamboos in a jungle , and fine specimens of madeira , closer-grained and as beautiful as mahogany . Many planters who have lost successive groves and homes in the northern portions of the State , through the great freezes of recent years , are now pushing their way toward the interior , and already within the borders of the Big Cypress are little groves of oranges and grapefruit and flourishing fields of cane . Young grapefruit-trees three or four inches in diameter can he seen bearing clusters of fruit of which single specimens measure eighteen inches in circumference , and the slender branches must be carefully propped to keep the fruit from the ground and to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Often the ends of saplings from the parent stem are grafted into the trunk or branches of tho already grafted tree to give it double support and sustenance . The sugar:cane , which in other States is treated as an annual , is here perennial , living for more than a score of years , even going to seed , and the waving plumes of a field of blossoming cane are not to he found in similar luxuriance , if at all , elsewhere in the TTnited States . Nowhere in America are lands so fertile and so - reclaimable , or a climate so benignant where frost and drought are so nearly negligible as in South Florida . The waters that smother it contribute to the permanent value of its soil , and can be directed into channels of the utmost usefulness . Drainage is as simple as irrigation is complicated . Yet the latter has rescued from the desert great tracts in our Western country , and is the only hope of yet greater areas now unproductive . Of the vastly simpler work of redeeming seven million acres of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters little has been done . A territory extending over two parallels , of latitude and nearly two degrees of longitude can not be drained by a few ditches in the northwest corner , and the feeble work of a quarter of a century ago seems to have been conducted with a view to draining the State of its assets instead of its waters . In the valley of the Mississippi , communities live beneath the level of its waters , the people of Holland drain their country into waters far above the tops of their houses , ? the Floridians have only to give the water a chance to run down-hill off of their lands .                     