@@473499

SINCE the Harvard Astronomical Observatory at Cambridge captured , last summer , the first successful photograph of a lightning spectrum , attention has been again turned to a series of spectroscopic achievements which make together one of the most interesting and surprising chapters of present-day lmowledge . The basic fact of spectroscopy ? the power of a prism to separate a ray of light into the colors of the spectrum ? is common property ; but its application to the stars , and now to lightning , is less generally understood . Yet nothing in the physics of the universe is simpler when reduced to its lowest terms , and no path of human investigation leads to greater possibilities of discovery . - Light itself travels in waves , and on their way to the earth the light waves radiating from every star cross millions of miles of the ether which pervades the universe . The journey , while it somewhat affects the intensity of each wave , has no effect upon its wave-length ; the distance remains , therefore , unaltered from a given point on the crest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the next . It is the difference in their wavelengths which distinguishes the light caused by the combustion of one substance from that given out by another , and the white light of a star is made up of many waves , each in reality differently colored , and each representing one of its various components . These the prism separates one from another . A comparative study of the spectra of the known physical elements ? such as hydrogen and calcium , for example ? had made it possible , even in the middle of the last century , to analyze a substance by the spectrum obtained from it under intense heat . As early as 1864 spectrum analysis was applied to the heavenly bodies , but at that time it could be done only in the course of fleeting visual observation , and the spectrum could not be preserved in any permanent graphic form for further analysis . The first picture of a star taken with a camera was a daguerreotype made by Professor G. P. Bond , of the Harvard Observatory , in 1S50 ; it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Draper made the first successful photograph of the spectrum of a star , and so brought the heavenly bodies definitely into the laboratory for examination by the astrophysicist . The difficulties of this initial attempt were multiplied by the necessity of using a wet plate . Emulsion photography was then unknown , and Dr. Draper died before its development had made astrophysics ? as this important partnership of physics and astronomy has only recently been christened ? a practicable science . The Harvard Observatory , by an arrangement with Mrs. Draper , continued his investigations under the name of the Henry Draper Memorial . Meantime mechanical and electrical contrivances had been invented to move and guide the telescopic cameras , the observatory had conceived the project of photographing the entire heavens , not once , but constantly , and the Draper Memorial took natural shape in a systematic study of all star spectra that could thus be photographed . What may not be the ultimate development of so vast an undertaking , with all the extensions which increasing knowledge and active ingenuity will make possible ? At first thought it might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but an indefinite indication of conditions millions of miles from the camera , yet it is so secured that it is as distinct , and as full of meaning to the scientist , as if it were the record of a mere laboratory experiment the materials for which lay upon a table before him . Color photography as applied to astronomy being still a thing of the future , the photograph of a spectrum can not , of course , reproduce the original colors ; but the ray of light , split up , as it were , by the prism at one end of the telescopic camera , comes to the sensitized plate at the other end in hundreds of fine parallel lines , some of them close together , others more or less widely separated , and their relations to each other express in black and white the varying spectral tints from yellow to violet . The red end of the spectrum , as it is seen in the rainbow , can not as yet be photographed . So , then , when he has secured photographs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome the obstacle of space at one bound , for each negative is a star autobiography , an individual record of the various elements whose combined combustion produces the familiar white light of the star . The Harvard Observatory now has more than 115,000 of these plates filed away in Cambridge , and the purpose is to make them a record ? constantly increasing in completeness ? of temporary celestial conditions , each one virtually a single page in a unique history of the stars . Never a day goes by without a chapter being added , and at this very moment the instruments at Cambridge and Arequipa , where over a. century ago Alexander Humboldt pointed out the present location of Harvard 's southern station as an ideal spot for astronomical study , are either taking the latest pictures , or being made ready for to-night 's work . The study of thousands of their photographic spectra discloses a marked similarity in the composition of the stars ? that is to say , of practically all the members of the celestial family which , like the Sun , owe their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the planets , to reflected light . The chief divisions and subdivisions which the astronomers have made are less than two dozen in number , and to some one of them every AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF THE STARS . star examined is found to conform . To the first type , of which the Dog Star is a generally familiar example , belongs the largest proportion . Its spectrum is continuous , and the lines , hundreds in number and very close together , prove the presence of many different elements , and show the star to be a solid incandescent body . The second type , which includes the bright stars Capella and Arcturus , closely resembles the Sun in composition , and its spectra would appear like sections of a rainbow- if seen upon as large a scale and in their original colors . In the third division are Alpha Orionis and Alpha Scorpii , while a fourth and fifth embrace stars the majority of which are known only to the astronomer . Beginning with the first type , practically all of the bright stars may be arranged in sequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " new star , " the classification is almost as complete . The gradual change from type to type is clearly visible when the spectra are set side by side , the characteristic lines of a new star merging into these of a star just becoming nebulous ? the second step in stellar development ? and the lines of the nebulous spectrum leading gradually to the classifications alreadybriefly suggested , of which the typical stars are Sirius and ( Ile Sun . Each division is immediately recognizable . So also the constant spectroscopic record of the temporary conditions of individual heavenly bodies Such , for example , as the " long period variables , " whose alternately increasing and diminishing brightness was long an unsolved problem ? will be seen at once to be of no little value , for it sets forth their development , their composition , even their habits , so to speak , in a permanent form which can be referred to readily at any moment . Instances where this remarkable collection at Harvard has been of great scientific value are many . In May , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered an Algol variable ? two stars , one of which is not luminous , and revolves about the other so as sometimes to cut off its light from the earth . Reference to the Harvard photographs disclosed that 200 pictures of this particular star had been taken between 1890 and 1899 ; the record showed the star faint on twenty nights , and from these data its " period " was immediately determined with an uncertainty of not more than a single second . A later variable , discovered also by Madame Ceraski , was found to have been first photographed in 1890 , and the means of computing its period were thus immediately at hand . In this case the spectroscopic record provided facts , immediate and indisputable , which visual astronomy would have taken ten years to gather ; all other conditions being perfect , the task would still have required at least six years of visual surveillance . When Dr. Anderson of Edinburgh discovered Nova Auriga -- the new star of 1892 ? the Harvard negatives proved that it had been visible at least six weeks before its actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , has been shown not to have been visible two days before Dr. Anderson detected its presence . In these two typical cases the Harvard photographs did what no ordinary telescope can ever hope to do : they revealed the unsuspected past ; without the camera the conditions of these particular hours must forever have gone unstudied . Actual discovery is not . the primary object of the work in spectroscopic photography at the Harvard Observatory , but incidentally to it about a hundred and fifty additions have been made to the list of known variables . Six of the eight new stars whose brightness during the last ten years has singled them out from the host of lesser discoveries were found by Mrs. W. P. Fleming , curator of the observatory 's collection of plates , in the routine examination which precedes filing and cataloguing . All of the spectroseopic binaries whose components are both bright stars were discovered on the negatives at Cambridge , and the entire class , including countless others one of whose components is a dark body , must also be included in the enlarged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronomy had long before noted the presence in the firmament of double or binary stars . These comprised two celestial bodies revolving about each other so closely that it was difficult for the eye to separate their components ; other twin stars , so near together as to be distinguishable only by the finer perception of the prism , were still awaiting discovery . The first six spectroscopic binaries seen at Cambridge are in a class by themselves ; the others are practically little Algol variables , and are so numerous that Professor W. W. Campbell , of the Lick Observatory , estimates that about one in every seven of the visible stars belong to this recent eategory ? a striking instance of suddenly expanded astronomical know-ledge . The first spectroscopic binary was found in 1889 , when Professor Pickering noticed that Zeta Ursss Ilajoris , a star very near the centre of the handle of the Great Dipper , possessed a spectrum in which a certain characteristic line was distinctly double on sonic photographs and single on others . A few months later a similar doubling was found in Beta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single , the changes being so rapid as to he noticeable in successive pictures , or even in different portions of a single plate . The star was photographed 264 times in December , 1890 , and January , 1891 , and its variations were found to occur with great regularity , so that it became apparent that it was not single , but double ? that , in reality , two bright stars were revolving closely about each other . As one component approached the Earth and the other became more distant the wavelength of each line was diminished for the one and increased for the other , each line appearing double in the spectrum . When both stars were moving perpendicular to the line of sight , no separation could be detected . Spectroscopy has disproved the theory advanced by Sir John Herschel , on the strength of long-continued visual observation , that the stars of the Milky Way closely resemble the Sun . Those which are now visible , and have been analyzed ? and there is no telling how many millions are still beyond the investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of like origin . The Magellanic Clouds , for the systematic study of which there was no opportunity before the establishment of the southern station at Arequipa , are apparently composed of very similar bodies , and , what is perhaps most interesting , both in the Magellanic Clouds and Milky Way there has been discovered a small class of stars found nowhere else in the heavens . Some ninety-five of them are marshalled in almost exact alignment along the centre of the Milky Way , and the discovery of others in the Magellanic Clouds is an interesting corroboration of a similarity between these two seemingly most thickly studded spaces in the firmament which it needs not even a telescope to make superficially apparent . The process of taking these thousands of photographs involves , naturally , a number of instruments and a series of difficult problems . In the preparation of the Draper Catalogue , which discusses the analysis of 10,351 stars , mostly in the northern heavens , the greater number of the photographs were taken with the Bache eight-inch telescope arranged with a prism with a refracting angle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as faint as the sixth magnitude , were obtained with an exposure of ten minutes . Every portion of the sky north of ? 26 ' was photographed at least twice , the polar regions having exposures of ten and fifteen minutes , and there were secured in all some 28,266 spectra , relating to 10,347 stars , with few omitted brighter than the sixth magnitude . The telescopic camera with which such photographs as the above are taken is mounted equatorially ? that is to say , with its base parallel to the plane of the earth 's equator , and with the support on which it turns as it sweeps the heavens fixed parallel to the earth 's axis . The position , allowing for the fact that the stars are millions of miles distant , is equivalent to an actual suspension of the camera in space . An ingenious and intricate mechanism , controlled by a carefully regulated clock , moves the camera so that it exactly follows any given star in its apparent revolution about the pole . In photographing spectra , however , the rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the star , which appears as a point of light when ordinarily photographed , but shows as a line when its light is separated into its component parts by the prism of the spectroscope ; this line , when camera and star do not move exactly together , trails slowly across the sensitized plate , and produces a narrow band in which the lines of the spectrum are spread out and readily distinguishable . The taking of the first pictures of a lightning spectrum , last summer , was in many ways more spectacular than the regular work of the observatory . The telescopic camera , usually directed by machinery , was then operated by hand , for the attempt had none of the certainty which assists in photographing the stars , whose position and movements the astronomer knows in advance with mathematical exactness . Several excellent photographs of lightning flashes were secured , and a later study of their spectra brought out the interesting fact that they were not exactly similar . A comparison with the spectrum of Nova Persei showed interesting similarities between the lightning flash ? which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a star in its second stage of development , for many of the lines are identical in both , although the spectra are not in complete agreement . The possibilities which lie in spectroscopy as it has been developed at the ' Harvard Observatory ? recording not only the life history of the stars , day by day , but the very vital elements of their composition as well ? are perhaps only in their beginning . Already it has discovered a striking similarity between the surroundings of the Earth and of one of its most distant neighbors ; it may come to settle with absolute authority any question of the existence upon any other of the heavenly bodies of such human or animal life as we are here acquainted with . 