@@474797

GOOD usage is largely a compromise between the action of different agencies which are all the while operating upon speech . These agencies are sometimes more than merely different ; they are distinctly hostile . Rarely does either of the two opponents gain a full victory . Even when the influence of one of them has become overwhelmingly predominant , there are almost certain to be found exceptions which show that the triumph has not been absolutely complete . To this qualified success we owe the many peculiar inflectional forms and anomalous syntactical constructions which exist to-day in our speech . These opposing agencies sometimes act on a general scale and sometimes on a particular one . There has been occasion to speak of one set of the former class in contrasting the disposition to use more words and phrases than are really necessary for the comprehension with the disposition to express the idea in the fewest words possible . But among the more important of these conflicting influences which are always affecting the action of the users of speech , two are deserving of special consideration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever . This reluctance exists at all periods , but it never manifests itself in its full force until a people has come into the possession of a great literature . It is possible , indeed , to conceive of an uneducated community dwelling in some secluded region , and cut off from intercourse with their fellow men , which would preserve unimpaired for generations the same words and phrases and grammatical forms and constructions . But were such a dialect once exposed to frequent communication with members of the outside world using a somewhat different form of the same tongue , it would have to be endowed with extraordinary tenacity to hold its methods of expression unchanged . But what such seclusion from contact with others might do for the speech of the uneducated , the establishment of a great literature certainly does for the speech of the educated . It strengthens and intensifies the feeling which leads men to cling to what already exists . It indisposes them to substitute for it or place alongside of it any new forms or constructions . It can not and it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its lowest possible terms . Literature , in fact , anchors language , and holds it firmly to its moorings . Its great books and its great authors are read and studied and imitated everywhere by successive generations . This natural influence has always existed ; but modern agencies have strengthened and extended it to a degree once impracticable and indeed inconceivable . The invention of printing , with the consequent wide diffusion of education , has rendered misleading all inferences about the future of modern languages drawn from the fate of the ancient . The conditions surrounding them are too essentially different to justify applying to the one lessons drawn from the experience of the other . There may be for our speech perils in abeyance which will Threaten its perpetuity ; but they will not be of the nature of those which affected the languages of antiquity . In truth , the influence of literature , restraining all attempts at change , while active at every period , has become in modern times powerful beyond all precedent . A language possessing it accepts without hesitation new words which seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest alteration in its grammatical structure or to the slightest addition to its inflectional forms . The longer it exists , the intenser becomes this feeling . At a period when such aversion was by no means so pronounced as now , we have seen that it took more than half a century to introduce a pronominal form so desirable and so unobjectionable as its . With the growth of this sort of repugnance which has been steadily going on , it is unlikely that in our day an experiment of a similar sort could be tried with success . The feeling which leads to this attitude of opposition is always to be respected . The continuityof the speech depends upon its existence . Consequently the proposal of any new form which affects the grammatical structure not only encounters violent resistance , but it ought to encounter it . It is incumbent upon it to demonstrate its desirability if not its actual necessity . The fierce fight which went on during nearly the whole of the last century against the new passive form ? represented , for illustration , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one in itself , though giving opportunity for the display of much foolishness . Even opposition to the mere change in the order of words , such as is indicated by the insertion of an adverb between to and the infinitive , is deserving of respect for the motive that lies behind it , no matter if neither much knowledge nor much sense is displayed in its manifestation . Against this indisposition to change whatever has been established is the opposing disposition to make changes in order to bring about uniformity . As these two influences are always operating upon speech , they are necessarily always in conflict , Before a language has established a literature , the tendency to bring about uniformity is generally the prevailing one . When a literature has once become established , the opposite tendency becomes in turn predominant . This point can be rendered clear by considering certain inflections of the two principal parts of speech . In them the action of these opposing forces has resulted in leaving us in the possession of a number of irregular and anomalous forms . Let us begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal ways of forming the nominative and the accusative plural were in the language , as it first appears in literature . The one ending was the other was -n . Roughly speaking , the nouns were about equally divided between the two . After the breakup of Anglo-Saxon.following the Norman conquest , the plural ending in -s established itself as the favorite , and therefore the regular form . The consequence was that it steadily tended to become the sole form . The declension in did not indeed yield to the encroachments of its rival without a struggle . For centuries the marks of the conflict between the two can be traced all along the line . But the words of Scripture are as applicable to the language which man uses as they are to man himself . To that which hath it shall be given ; to what hath not shall be taken away even that which it hath . During the centuries when no great literature had as yet established itself firmly enough to counteract change the declension in -s steadily increased at the expense of the declension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the ashen and assen and been and fleen and ton , still to be found in the writings of Chaucer , had given way to the present plurals ashes and asses and bees and fleas and toes . Solitary survivals of the earlier forms continued to turn up ; but their very solitariness emphasized their coming death rather than their continued vitality . The disposition to make the plural in -s the universal plural seemed at one time on the point of triumphing completely . But there were inflections too deeply imbedded in the speech to be easily uprooted by the most violent of revolutionary changes . Those nouns which in forming their plural nilitlified the vowel. such as goose and mouse , did not go over , though , singularly enough , foot , one of them , had originally a plural in -s along with the more common form . Furthermore , a number of nouns which had the same form in the two numbers , such as sheep and ricer , refused to assume the general termination . But as against its ancient rival the declension in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughness . Egen or e'en still survives , to he sure ; but its vogue is limited to dialect or poetry . The one solitary exception to the completeness of this sweeping victory is oxen . In this instance all the unifying tendencies of speech have never succeeded in inducing men to abandon the original plural . Not that efforts in that direction failed to be made . The present form did not maintain its hold upon the language without a contest . From the fourteenth to the sixteenth century ores strove hard to displace oxen from our tongue , but all to no effect . But besides the nouns having the inflections already mentioned , there were some which had in the plural a special termination of their own . They were so few in number that at a period when literature had not yet thrown its protecting arm over language they could hardly hope to resist permanently the encroachments of the leading declensions . As might have been expected , the plural form in -s usually triumphed ; but it did not have its way in every instance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not hold their own against lambs and calves and daughters , and did not long maintain the contest . They do not seem even to have found refuge in the speech of the uneducated . Sistren appears to have had a somewhat better fortune . It is in or it is attributed to the Scotch dialect , and is said to be heard occasionally in this country . So far as ray own observation goes ? that of others more fully informed may not confirm the view ? it is never used seriously , but only in a designed jocose contrast to its correlative in such phrases as " brethren and sistern . " But one instance there is in which the plural in -n has rescued a noun from the despotism of the plural in -s . Strictly speaking , childer is the proper representative of the later Anglo-Saxon form of the plural of child . It was found to some extent in early English literature , and is still widely employed in the dialects of the United Kingdom . But the etymologically corrupt form children has established itself in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Childs no one apparently has ever felt much disposed to say , though shield or chiel , a varying or shortened form of the singular , is regularly inflected . But a form which has been in common use in a literature once fully established is never likely to die out entirely . This remains true even when the so-called regular forms have come to be universally employed . Those they have supplanted continue to survive , and on particular occasions are made to do duty . By the end of the sixteenth century ores had abandoned its long struggle for recognition . But the declension in -s made up for its failure here by capturing from its rival the correlative noun . Up to the seventeenth century kine had been the authorized plural . It itself was what some people call a corruption , for it had taken the place of the etymologically correct kye . But the time came when it in turn was to be dislodged from the common speech . It was not until the seventeenth century that the English race possessed any domestic animals called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they were found only in remote and outof-the-way places where no knowledge of the plural denoting them came to the ears of the educated . Our version of the Bible , Shakespeare , and both the poetry and the prose of Milton will be searched in vain for any mention of the kind of cattle so designated . The history of brothers is not essentially dissimilar . By the end of the sixteenth century it had already begun to displace the then accepted plural . Still , both the older forms kine and brethren , in spite of the wide prevalence of the regular ones , have never disappeared , and are never indeed likely to disappear . Let us turn now to the verb . In the case of this part of speech the conflict which has gone on is of far more interest to the student of language . This is due in part to the fact that there has been no such overwhelming triumph of one side . But it is still more so because the struggle between the conjugations exhibits the remarkable though little remarked spectacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete change in the current of tendency . A movement in one direction which threatened to sweep everything before it was much more than arrested . It was actually reversed . Reversed , that is , as far as it could be ; for a movement in the opposite direction , no matter how decided the impulse , could never make great . headway after literature has been sufficiently developed to lay its restraining hand upon usage . Many features of the conflict that took place there is no room to consider here ; one of principal importance can be brought out distinctly . After the break-up of the Anglo-Saxon there went on for centuries a steady movement to convert all verbs of what is technically called the strong conjugation ? those which add nothing to form the preterite , but undergo vowel change ? into verbs of the weak conjugation ? that is , those which form or once formed their preterites by adding d or t . Originally there was no difference worth speaking of in the number belonging to each . But after the Norman conquest the weak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As was natural before the creation of literature , the disposition sprang up to make the small minority conform to the practice of this large majority . We see the same tendency exhibited now in the speech of children and of the uneducated . They say , for illustration , seed for saw , knowed for knew , drinked for drank , drawed for drew . As most of the verbs in the language add a d to form the preterite , they are unable to discover any reason why every one of them should not do so ; or rather they instinctively apply the common rule to the few which do not . This is the unavowed feeling which once unconsciously affected the speech of all , and transformed ? to select a few examples out of a large number ? bake into baked , crops into crept , gnew into gnawed , wox into waxed , and yofd into yielded . For several centuries after the Norman conquest this tendency was more than prevalent ; it was prevailing . The weak conjugation kept on growing , and largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the verbs belonging to the latter disappeared entirely from the speech ; many of them were carried over to the former by the unexpressed but instinctively felt desire to bring about uniformity . Naturally this led to replacing the proper forms by those which , strictly speaking , are corruptions . Were we to base our speech upon pure etymological principles , we should all be saying glide , plods , glidden ; melt , molt , molten ; shape , shape , shapen ; mow , mew , mown , instead of the forms we now use . For a long period so general was the movement in this direction that to all appearance it was merely a question of time when every verb of this class would follow the road already taken by the majority , and that the strong conjugation would disappear from the speech as effectually as has the - ndeclension of the noun . More than one modern scholar has been misled by the tendency which once prevailed to draw conclusions about the future absolutely erroneous . So interested and interesting a student of the English tongue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when every strong verb would have disappeared from the language . " We may anti , 4pate a time , " he wrote , " though st ; II fer off , when all English verbs will form their preterites weakly ; not without serious detriment to the fulness , variety , and force which in this respect the language even now displays , and once far more signally displayed . " There is not the slightest warrant for this dismal outlook . What the archbishop said would have been certainly a plausible and perhaps a justifiable assertion had any one chanced to make it at the beginning of the sixteenth century . But saying it as he did in the middle of the nineteenth , it represented a condition of things which no longer exists . The transition he deplored had been completely arrested . From the Elizabethan period to this day not a single instance can be pointed out of a strong verb becoming weak , or of having manifested the slightest disposition to become so . Those that were on the border line then have remained on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave of the weak conjugation slowly carrying the day ? such as climbed for clomb , swelled for swell ? would have been just as applicable had his views been expressed in the sixteenth century instead of the nineteenth , and no more so . Glom " ) was poetic and archaic then ; it is poetic and archaic now . Shakespeare , for instance , knows only such forms as climbed and swelled ; he had apparently never heard of any other . These are merely single testimonies to the truth of the fact that there is no longer any disposition on the part of the strong verbs to pass over to the weak conjugation . But we can go farther . The tendency has not simply been checked ; as already intimated , it has been reversed . Weak preterites which were once more or less in good use alongside of the strong ones are at the present time either not tolerated at all or are regarded with disfavor . " When they looked upon me , " CONFLICTS says the Psalmist , " they shaked their heads ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their heads when they come across such a form as shaked . Not even Shakespeare 's occasional employment of it is felt to justify it for modern usage . In the same way men now look askance at such preterite forms as shined and strived which once good writers did not shun . Even more striking than any of these is the verb wake . The English Bible , Shakespeare , Milton ( both in his poetry and prose ) , will he searched in vain for such a tense-form as woke . In all these works the preterite is invariably waked . That the strong form fails to appear is not a proof of its non-existence , but it assuredly leads to the inference that it was not then in common literary use ; and so far as a necessarily limited investigation can be trusted , it was not till the latter part of the eighteenth century that the now common preterite woke makes frequent appearance in books . In truth , so general was at one time the tendency to formal regularity that it even extended to the anomalous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same temporary success , and there it met the same countercheck . Stretch and reach , for instance , by the end of the sixteenth century had either discarded or were about to discard their ancient preterites straught and raught ; and if , later , these appear , they appear as survivals and not as living tenses . But in general the use of the older preterites prevailed over the desire for uniformity . Belled and felled , sometimes found in good writers before the Elizabethan period , did not maintain themselves after it . Though reached has taken the place of the older raught , leached , while at intervals in good use , has not been able to hold its own against taught . Catched has been more fortunate , as indeed by its derivation it deserved to be . For centuries it took its place alongside of caught ; but the reverse movement in speech has been tee ) powerful for it , and it is now discountenanced . Beseeched , once in the best of use lingers yet after a fashion ; but besought is distinctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning " to illuminate , " have always stood side by side ; but so far as T have sueeeeded in gathering data indicating preference , the one-syllable form is at present the more common of the two in the best usage . The only eddy in this stream of tendency is afforded by the verb work , whose regularly formed preterite worked does not seem to have been in existence till about the middle of the seventeenth century . Even then its acceptance must have been slow . Pope , who died in 1744 , apparently knows no other preterite than wrought . The modern form of the past tense is not found in his prose ; nor is it registered in the concordance of his poetry , which , however , does not include the translation of Homer . To him indeed who studies carefully the movements going on in speech there is no question that there is now a distinct disposition to reverse the tendency which once prevailed , and to increase the strong conjugation , were it possible , at the expense of the weak . Tn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former not only disturbed the regularity of some of the verbs of the latter , such , for illustration , as hear and feel , but it made some reprisals to counteract its many losses . It added to its list fully a dozen words . But nearly all of them were comparatively late comers in the speech . Ring , however , was a weak verb in Anglo-Saxon , but later developed strong forms after the analogy of fling and sing . Chaucer , in describing the appearance of the god Mercury to Arcite , says , An hat he weared upon his haires bright . Toured is the strictly correct etymological preterite . It ought to be the only one used by those who believe in the inherent purity of speech . But the language later developed as preterite and past participle wore and worn after the analogy of tear and bear . This is in itself just as bad as it is now to use the dialectic or vulgar squeeze , squoze , after the analogy of freeze , froze . The only difference between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usage has condoned the corruption ; in the case of the other , it refuses to do so . But the influences which sufficed in the days of the feebleness of the strong conjugation to change weared into wore can not in these days of its strength produce even so much effect . It was literature that mainly checked the once prevailing tendency to make all the verbs of the language weak . But the very same agency which arrested the movement in one direction erected a barrier practically insurmountable against any violent movement in the opposite direction . That had to content itself with driving out , as it has largely done , the weak forms which had - taken their place alongside of the strong ones . Any further action was impossible ; for the influence of literature upon usage , which always exists , tends to grow stronger with the years . Only one strong preterite has been added to the language since the Elizabethan period , and its entrance was materially aided by the previous introduction of a like participle . Digged is the only form of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bible , in Shakespeare , in Milton , or in any writer of the period . It was not until the latter part of the seventeenth century that the now authorized preterite made its appearance in literature . The earliest instance of its occurrence I have chanced to meet is in Shadwell 's play of The Lancashire Witches , which appeared in 1682 . In the imitation of a famous scene in Macbeth one of the characters is represented as saying , And I Dug up a mandrake which did cry . Had dinged maintained itself to the present time , it is fairly safe to say that with the feeling now prevailing dug could never effect an entrance into the speech . Living as we do in an age when grammatical severity is often directed against what has received the sanction of all the great writers of the language , naturally an unauthorized preterite of this character could not have hoped to escape the chastening rod . Against it too would be arrayed an established literature with its hostility to the introduction of new forms . We can see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preterite dove is found frequently in various English dialects . Not infrequently it turns up in the newspapers of this country . It has been developed after the analogy of verbs of the class to which drive and strive belong . But as by origin dive is a member of the weak conjugation , dived is the etymologically correct form . Therefore dove finds its way into the speech barred by the existence of a literature which recognizes the regular preterite only . That , it must be kept in mind , is the only real barrier . The language would not go to the dogs if men should choose to say dive , dove , any more than it has gone to the dogs for their saying rang for ringed or were for weared . All that would be needed to establish it in good usage would be its adoption by a number of great writers , just as dug was adopted by such in the place of dinged . But of that event coming to pass there are no signs ; and until it does come to pass , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is , however , one curious story to be told about it . In the original impression of Longfellow 's poem of " Hiawatha " there were found in the seventh book the three following lines : Straight into the river Kwasind Plunged as if he were an otter , Dove as if lie were a beaver . How this offending preterite passed the proof-reader without protest is one of those mysteries which have never been revealed . But the form certainly made its appearance , and can still be found in copies of the poem which were regularly published and sold . Boston never received such a shock since the days when Fenimore Cooper insisted that it was only in the Middle States that the English language was spoken in its purity . But that attack came from an outsider . Here the offender was of her own household ? was , in fact , her favorite son . What means of suppression were resorted to will probably never be disclosed . A mysterious reticence has always been preserved in regard to this linguistic escapade ; the biographers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some sort must , however , have been taken at once . Dove was expunged , and the decorous dived assumed its place ; and the whole transaction was so completely hushed up that no public scandal was created . Let him who possesses a copy of that first impression continue to cherish it . Whatever may be its worth now , the time will come when it will reach the value of the virtuous woman of Scripture , and its price will be far above rubies .                     