@@486825

Though the Poe disfranchising amendment which so signally failed in Maryland on election day , attracted the attention of the whole country , it was not the only important referendum vote in the States . In Rhode Island a proposal to reapportion representation in the lower house of the Legislature was beaten ; in Ohio an amendment to the State Constitution , providing for biennial elections , was endorsed by both parties and passed ; and Chicago was given what amounts to a new charter by the confirmation at the polls of the action of the Legislature at Springfield last winter . An unofficial vote in Indian Territory showed that the sentiment in favor of Statehood separate from Oklahoma was weaker than was supposed . The seven amendments , good , bad , and indifferent , submitted to the New York voters were passed , but the vote was light , as it was in Ohio , where the referendum was hardly more than a formality . The constitutional amendment proposed by the Republicans of Rhode Island was an apparent concession to the popular demand for a revision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It provided for an increase of membership in the House of Representatives to one hundred , and enlarged the Providence delegation from 12 to 25 . But it did not touch the State Senate , which is the real ruling body in Rhode Island ; nor did it propose to invest the Governor with the veto or to do anything to make that official more than a mere figurehead . As the active opponents of the measure were quick to point out , it proposed to give additional representation to but one-seventeenth of the population , where gerrymandering could most easily be employed to clinch Republican rule . Some 17,000 votes were recorded in favor of even this insincere attempt to revise the antiquated Constitution ; but this was only a little more than a thousand in excess of the votes against it , while a three-fifths vote was necessary . The Republicans now lament the fact that revision will be delayed " for two or three years at least , " but Dr. Garvin was right in urging the voters to insist upon a real reform measure . Little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters . It was in line with the action already taken by a number of other States like Iowa and Indiana , where it has been decided that an election once in every two years is enough . Heretofore certain State and county officials have been chosen in odd-numbered years , and others in the even-numbered years . By the new provision , all State elections will be held in the even-numbered years , and only municipal elections will occur in the odd years . Gov . Pattison 's term will extend through three years instead Of the usual two , in order that the nextchoice may be made in 1908 . Another amendment provided for the exemption from taxation of municipal , county , school , and township bonds . Chicago 's " little ballot " contained a number of important matters for the voters to pass upon . These included an extension of the Mayor 's term from two to four years , a change that has been adopted throughout Indiana and in a number of our chief cities , including New York , Philadelphia , and Kansas City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of gas and electricity  --  a power that has been sought for years . The old system of police magistrates and justices of the peace  --  the inadequate " justice shops " ? was voted out of existence , and a municipal court organization substituted , the change to be made on December 1 , 1906 . Another proposition was to create outside the limits of the settled city a series of " forest preserves , " or natural park areas , in anticipation of the growth of population . It was generally supposed that this undertaking would be approved without difficulty , but the vote was so light that it may have failed on the ground that it did not receive a majority of the votes cast at the election . The figures were 87 , - 000 in favor of it and 58,000 against , while for the office of the president of the sanitary district some 186,000 ballots were cast . It will be necessary to take the matter to the courts for settlement . The habitual indifference of voters toward abstract propositions which involve no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was illustrated in the meagre attention paid to this excellent amendment in Chicago , as compared to the big poll on Gorman 's pet measure in Maryland and the Aldrich-Brayton pretence in Rhode Island . The vote on the plan to put the control of the price of gas and electricity in the hands of the city was regarded by Chicago as an advance of the municipal-ownership propaganda , and the favoring vote was larger on that account than it would have been without such a tag . On the other hand , a proposal to build a municipal lighting plant in Toledo , where a " disciple " of the late " Golden Rule " Jones was elected Mayor , failed to secure the necessary two-thirds vote . Buffalo likewise ignored its opportunity to " throttle " a lighting monopoly and authorize the erection of a municipal electric-light and power plant . In that city only 9,641 votes were cast on the proposition , though it should be said that a favorable verdict would not have been mandatory on the city . That the city-ownership idea has spread widely was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haute , Ind. , where a local Dunne defeated the present conservative Republican incumbent . Other Indiana cities rebuked the " wide-open " policiesof their administrations by putting in mayors pledged to carry out Gov . Hanly 's law-and-order policy . In Maryland and Rhode Island the verdict was sound , and in Ohio and Chicago popular assent was readily given to propositions already threshed out and approved by the voters . THE NEW YORK CITY VOTE ANA-LYZED . As Mr. Jerome 's victory was the most remarkable feature of the late election , his vote is the first to be considered in an examination of the returns . The independent candidate for District Attorney received a total of 123,980 votes . The ante-election curiosity as to the source of his probable plurality may now be easily gratified by noting how far his opponents ran behind their respective tickets . Flammer , who should not in reason have had any votes at all , polled 51,069 less than Mr. Ivins , this difference constituting the largest element in the Jerome vote . Shearn had 49,478 less votes than Mr. Hearst , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears that Ivins and Hearst adherents contributed about equally to Mr. Jerome 's success , while Tammany votes went to him in much smaller proportion . The gap of 9,820 between Mr. Jerome 's actual vote and the combined deficiencies of his opponents as compared with their respective Mayoralty candidates , shows that there must have been an average of some nine voters to an election district who either threw away their votes for District Attorney or marked their ballots improperly . This accords with our information that in a few districts there were as many as twenty ballots intended for Jerome , but marked in two circles . In passing , it may be noted , moreover , that almost a third of the discrepancy-2,885 , to be exact  --  is accounted for in Abraham Gruber 's district , the Twenty-first . It is certain , in any case , that more than 40 per cent . of the voters in these three parties successfully split their tickets and had them counted  --  an achievement which we believe to be without parallel in any State with a ballot resembling New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the strange combinations of city and county candidates favored in the various Assembly districts . Thus , of the districts carried by Osborne , 16 went for McClellan and 4 for Hearst ; of Jerome 's districts , 7 were carried by McClellan , 5 for Hearst , and 1 for Ivins ; while Shearn 's two pluralities were naturally in Hearst districts . In view of the contingency on which Mr. Ivins 's predictions of success were based  --  namely , that if he retained his full party vote , he would be elected  --  it is interesting to note that both Mr. Hearst and Mr. McClellan polled a vote larger than the entire Republican enrolment . Mr. Ivins fell 83,731 behind it , and the returns show that this falling off was in a general way uniform throughout the city . There was not a single district in which Ivins 's total was equal to the number of voters who had officially declared themselves to be Republicans in 1904 . In the district with largest Republican enrolment , the Eighteenth Brooklyn , with 9,244 , he got but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queens , with 453 , he polled but 324 . But it was different in McClellan 's case . Taking the entire city , the numerical difference between his vote and the Democratic enrolment was larger than that in the case of his Republican opponent , being 91,940 . Yet in seven districts he polled a vote larger than the enrolment . Everywhere else in the city , Hearst manifestly drew votes away from both the other parties . The seven where the Tammany enrolled vote was untouched deserve , therefore , a little further notice . The districts in question are the Fourth , Sixth , Eightlt , Tenth , Fourteenth , Sixteenth , and Twenty-seventh of Manhattan . Their respective Tammany leaders are Ahearn , T. P. Sullivan , F. S. Sullivan , Harburger , Oakley , Keenan , and Martin . Let us take the figures for the group as a whole in comparison with those for Manhattan ana for the entire city : Republican . Democrats . Enrolment . Vote . Enrolment . Vote . Specified districts 10,405 6,082 17,662 20,399 Manhattan a n d Bronx 103,139 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1VIeClellan 's vote over the Democratic enrolment in these seven districts alone accounts for 352 more than his plurality . It is to be noted , further , that McClellan 's gain over his party 's enrolled vote , 3,737 , is almost exactly equal to Ivins 's losses from his , which were 3,723 . So it seems to have been a unique condition of things that prevailed in these districts . Hearst was strong enough to carry three of them  --  the Eighth , Tenth , and Sixteenth  --  yet he did this without cutting at all into the Tammany vote , and the Tammany candidate meanwhile had received all the Republican defections bodily . It is true that the voters who did not enroll as members of any party , 22,428 in number , were more than enough to account for the Hearst vote . The total vote , moreover , is no nearer the registration figures than for the city as a whole . Yet , in our opinion , the figures , as they stand square neither with common sense nor with the observed developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here is a field for investigation at the start . In connection with the Assembly and Aldermanic candidates we notice the same divisions of districts as in con-nection with the District Attorneyship . Mr. Hearst carried eleven Assembly districts in Manhattan and the Bronx , but only two of his Assembly candidates were successful , while , though Mr. Ivins carried but a solitary district , sixteen , or nearly half , of the Republican Assemblymen were elected . Substantially the same thing is true regarding the alder-manic candidates . The choice of a Board of Aldermen with a clear Republican majority at the same time as a Tammany Board of Estimate is about as remarkable an outcome as the choice of an independently nominated District Attorney . OUR IMPOSSIBLE BALLOT . If the election did nothing else , it supplied unanswerable arguments for repealing without further delay the existing ballot law of this State . Mr. Jerome , it is true , was successful in spite of the obstacles put in his way by our clumsy and exasperating system of voting . His triumph , as a candidate independently nominated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unexampled . But the very figures that tell his story reveal the almost grotesque defects of the ballot law . How , for instance , are Flammer 's 13,000 votes to be accounted for ? He did not ask them for himself , the party organization did not ask them for him . Even a Republican bent on " knifing " Jerome should have preferred to vote for Osborne or Shearn . It is an irreducible minimum of crazy voting , and its cause is a ballot law the peculiar function of which is to scare every voter possible into voting a straight ticket , with reason or without reason . Again , there were undoubtedly cast and put aside many hundreds , if not thousands , of ballots on which voters had placed crosses in both the Jerome circle and the Republican , Tammany , or Municipal Ownership circle . There is no question as to the intent of the citizens who cast them , yet the decision of the courts on the nice - point of their legality may conceivably reverse the result of the election . That a campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to influence votes is bad enough , but that it should be possible by the mere issue of an illegally marked sample ballot to deceive voters who know their preferences into throwing away their suffrage , is unspeakably worse . That there should be any element of truth in the cry , " Vote straight it is the only way to get your ballot counted , " is itself the deepest reproach . For weeks before the election , newspapers have to be turned into primers of information how to vote . It takes a long paragraph merely to outline the two modes permitted for voting a split ticket ; and independent organizations , unless they present a full ticket againstthe machines , must perforce give as much of their attention to elucidating the mysteries of the ballot law as 10 winning friends for the candidate . Arguments why he should be voted for are almost swamped in explanations how he can be voted for . The spectacle of educated New Yorkers annually learning how to vote is quite as absurd as Congressman Mudd 's ante-election schools , where Maryland uegroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the name of " Sydney . " If all this were in any way unavoidable , we might put up with it philosophically enough . But it is not necessary . Ballots of simple and understandable form are in regular use , not only in Massachusetts , with her educational qualification , but in States where manhood suffrage obtains . There is undoubtedly some force in the argument that the ballot as used in Massachusetts ? the " pure Australian " type  --  is not perfectly suited to the needs of a community which permits its citizens to vote before they can read and write . The experience of Maryland , for example , shows the results of imposing on an ignorant electorate a ballot designed for an unusually qualified voting population . Haphazard voting is no less an evil than hidebound voting . But there are many ways of surmounting the difficulty . The essential point is : the straight-ticket circle must go . Even if the ballot were left unchanged except in this particular , it would be a great step forward . Then everybody , whether he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make as many marks as there were offices to be filled ; but the illiterate or the blind partisan has the column arrangement as a guide to his pencil . Just such a law in Montana generates an amount of independent voting that very few other States can equal . It is said that four-fifths of the ballots in that State are " split . " For a combination of practical and intelligent features , however , we have never seen anything better than the bill drawn here in 1901 and introduced in the Legislature of that year by Senator Elsberg . That bill retained the party emblem on a small scale as a concession to those whose political convictions are dependent on a picture gallery . It embodied at the same time the separate coupon for each office , so that a man who had made a mistake in one office did not necessarily lose his vote for all other offices thereby ; and , finally , substituted the rubber stamp for the marking pencil , thus eliminating at a stroke all the complex questions arising out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a better time than the present to conduct an agitation on behalf of a ballot which shall be framed in the interest of the people and not in behalf of the bosses and machines . Unfortunately , the politicians recognize the opportunities which the party-column ballot gives them , and they can not be induced to consent to alteration until they realize that public sentiment demands it . But just as the so-called Australian ballot was forced upon the politicians , a better one can also be secured from the Legislature . Gov . Higgins 's readinesss for a change is an encouraging sign . Mr. Ivins is already enlisted for the fight , and the Executive Committee of the Citizens ' Union has voted to prepare at once a petition to the Legislature , asking the repeal of the ballot law , and the adoption of the Massachusetts system . Its ballot-reform committee is to work in conjunction with other organizations , and is to obtain as many signatures as possible before the Legislature meets . Moreover , the press of the city is awake to the need of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligible ballot . " The Globe declares that it is now time to rearrange the Australian ballot  --  originally fixed to suit the politicians ? " to suit the people . " The World feels that the fact that , in electing Jerome , " popular intelligence prevailed over the badness of the law , is all the more reason for its prompt radical amendment . " The Press speaks of our " imbecile ballot . " The Sun declares that the law as it now stands is " a constant invitation to error and fraud . " In the agitation which is now certain it must first of all be made plain that the existing ballot is wrongly termed Australian . The ballot actually in use in Australia was not adopted here , but adapted , and to its detriment . It was , moreover , introduced in this State by means of a cumbersome law , which by 1896 contained no less than one hundred and sixty-seven sections . Two years later the Court of Appeals declared that it had found some of these sections " quite difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be really qualified , the voter ought to know and understand every one of them . This high tribunal then went on to state that , in its opinion , the dangers to free government from the law were so great as to " demand the attention of the Legislature . " But that attention has never been given . Complaining delegations at Albany have had the scantiest attention accorded them . The Legislature has been too busy with a thousand other matters to waste any time upon reconstructing this dangerous statute . What the Appellate Division said in 1898 sounds almost like a warning against the situation existing in this city to-day . It was : " If an election were close and the action of the district canvassers throughout a large territory were to be brought in review before the courts , we are entirely clear that the judicial machinery would break down , by the weight and number of the issuesto be decided . " In this Mayoralty case , one of the very first questions the courts will have to pass upon is whether a cross in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hundreds of votes , as we have said , were so marked , instead of with a cross in front of Jerome 's name . What possible excuse is there for a ballot which makes such errors possible ? Yet this is perhaps the simplest question to come before the judges . It must not be forgotten that the first persons to pass upon the difficult points about which the Court of Appeals complained are not jurists , but election officers , who are , in the eyes of the law , merely administrative officials . A THEATRE DE LUXE . It seems to be settled beyond all reasonable doubt that within the next two or three years New York will have one of the finest theatres on one of the finest sites in the world . The ground has been secured , the plans prepared , and the necessary millions subscribed , net only for erecting the building , but for endowing it so as to render the management independent of the box-office receipts . Moreover , this princely temple is to be under the direct patronage of some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effulgence of the opera or the horse-show ; is to open its doors at reasonable rates to all meaner mortals ; and is to be devoted to the representation , in the best possible manner , of all that is highest and typical in all forms of the drama , ancient and modern , foreign or domestic . And this interesting proclamation , promising the speedy fulfilment of hopes which the most sanguine believer in the future of the play-house scarcely dared to dream of as possibilities of the remote future , is made at a moment when the theatrical outlook is darker than it was at the beginning of the Irving period , when the race of real actors is nearly extinct , and all living writers of high repute have abandoned dramatic composition . On its face , this prospectus is almost dazzling in its brightness , but the vital question is whether it can be made good . It would be foolish and presumptuous to answer with a decided negative , but the difficulties to be surmounted are enormous . They will be best appreciated by those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Money may make the man  --  that faith is at least as old as Pindar  --  hut it is powerless , by itself , to recreate , although it may foster , an art . How does the case stand ? We all know the current managerial plea , based upon the rankest of fallacies , that the present degradation of the stage is due to the low public taste and the financial necessity of gratifying it . The millionaire theatre , of course , will not feel the weight of that sordid in-cubus . Although it expects the crowd to contribute to its expenses , its policy need not be affected by the failure of cne play or of a dozen . So long as it cares nothing about profit , it may remain open and make new productions , indefinitely . But if that were its sole object  --  the provision of a gorgeous , fashionable , and popular place of entertainment , without direct reference to gain  --  there would be nothing about it to demand present discussion . It would differ only in degree , not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it is , our stage can not be charged with lack of variety . At this hour it is giving us samples of American , English , French , Belgian , German , and Russian drama . Shakspere , Clyde Fitch , Maeterlinck , Oscar Wilde , awl Bernard Shaw are represented , not to speak of others less famous or notorious . Variety is not necessarily the spice of theatrical life . The only declaration that gives the semblance of real importance , from the serious or artistic point of view , to the rather over-confident proclamation of the National or Universal Theatre  --  perhaps the final appellation may be a trifle more modest ? is that of its educational intent . If the gentlemen who have pledged their negligible fortunes for boxes in the exclusive circle , cherish a passion for the restoration of the theatre to its proper place among the arts , realize what that aspiration means , and will interest themselves personally and actively in the pursuit of it ? then , and only then , they may achieve substantial results . If they rely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all executive responsibility to salaried subordinates , they will meet with humiliating failure . It is granted at once that they have done well in selecting Mr. Conried as their managing director . The creator of the Irving Place Theatre has demonstrated the catholicity of his taste , his skill as a stage manager , and his wide acquaintance with the comprehensive range of the drama , as known to the German stage . But Mr. Conried , in the past , has confined himself , in the main , to the production of plays which have ' already proved successes ; and it may reasonably be doubted whether he , or any one man , is capable of bearing the additional burthen which it is now proposed to put upon him . Herein lies the most obvious and disconcerting weakness of the new programme . Its intimation that money is all-potent is discouraging enough , but the apparent disregard or ignorance of the vital preliminaries to any real theatrical reform excites the gravest mistrust . One might suppose that the ideal theatre is to spring , fully equipped , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be had for the asking , and that capable actors of all standard pieces , comic or tragic , are to be picked up at every corner . As a matter of fact , it would be impossible to construct . a good stock company out of existing materials except after years of arduous training , under expert direction . Very little heed has been given , apparently , to this fundamental obstacle . But , for the sake of argument , let it be supposed that the ideal company has been found , and that it is equal to every emergency . What will then have been secured beyond the establishment of one theatre in which good performances may be expected ? What advance will have been made toward a general revivification of theatrical art ? One capable company will , no doubt , have the force of good example . It may slowly do for the elevation of dramatic taste what the Metropolitan Opera has done for musical . But we really need many such companies , and they must be in active competition if they are to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that actors , safe from outside rivalry and assured of a permanent competence , will exhibit a more rapid artistic development than their less fortunate fellows , is contrary to all human experience  --  and assured of a large and permanent income the actors of the new theatre must be , or there will soon be an end of the stock company . On the whole , the new scheme is , we fear , more magnificent than practical . That the two-million-dollar house will give distinction to its neighborhood and satisfaction to its patrons , may be regarded as certain ; that it may offer some notable representations , is by no means improbable ; but that it will immediately and directly raise the national standard of drama , or hasten the looked-for revival , only the most sanguine of enthusiasts will believe . THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION IN SOUTH AFRICA. ? I. HARVARD UNIVERSITY , November 4 , 1905 . On August 15 , 1905 , there were gathered in Cape Town about four hundred over-sea members , with a strong supplement of South African members , of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its seventy-fifth meeting . The Association has met outside of the British Isles on only two other occasions  --  at Montreal in 1884 , and at Toronto in 1897 . The visit to South Africa this summer was , however , a much more exceptional affair than a mere transatlantic jaunt ; indeed , it was the largest scientific excursion ever carried successfully through a long-distance itinerary . Three vessels of the Union-Castle line brought detachments of the party from England , the voyages varying from seventeen to twenty-three days of fair weather . The over-sea membership was of four classes . There was the " official party , " of about one hundred and seventy , including the general and sectional officers of the Association and a number of representative scientists selected by the Council from the eleven sections , from Astronomy to Education ; for all these there were liberal reductions of steamship fares , free railway transportation over long distances , and much private hospitality , as well as a generous subvention towards expenses from funds that had been placed at the disposal of the Association by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then there were foreign guests to the number of sixteen from Europe and America , invited by the Council from nominations made by the sectional committees . These fortunati were practically on a par with the official party where they were not given even greater facilities and privileges : among them may be named Engler , botanist , and Luschan , ethnologist , of Berlin ; Penek , geographer , of Vienna ; Backlund , astronomer , of Pulkova ; and Cordier , Orientalist , of Paris ; and among the five Americans , Scott , palmontologist , of Princeton ; Brown , mathematician , of Haverford ; Car-hart , physicist , of Michigan ; and Campbell , botanist , of Stanford . Third came the nonofficial party , for whom the concessions as to travelling expenses were less generous , but who , as far as the meetings and receptions were concerned , stood on an equality with every one else . Fourth were the wives , sons , daughters , and relatives of members , who were in sufficient number to give the excursion the appearance of a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial members , who , however , as it seemed to me , usually stood aside to let the procession pass . Although this peripatetic meeting was smaller than its predecessors at home , it was attended by a good proportion of representative men , from the president , Prof. George Darwin of Cambridge , to the many sectional officers and speakers ; and the South Africans may consider that they had a good sample of a scientific gathering in the various presidential addresses , sectional meetings and evening lectures , to say nothing of the personal conferences between home and colonial members , from which profit flowed both ways . Darwin 's presidential address was given in two parts , one at Cape Town , the other at Johannesburg ; it treated molecular and stellar physics in a style that must have conveyed a somewhat severe impression of popular science to the large audiences by which the halls were crowded on both occasions , but this was alleviated by the lighter vein of his frequent informal remarks  --  as , for example , at Pietermaritzburg , when he repeated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The butler says as ' ow we 're hall descended from Darwin , but the cook says we hai n't , and they ca n't agree " ; and at Durban , where he told how his father , when the Beagle touched on the Natal coast seventy years before , wished to leave the vessel and go overland to the Cape , an adventurous plan that was defeated by an off-shore breeze which turned the vessel away . " So my presence here , " said the distinguished son of the famous naturalist , " may in all probability be laid to a puff of wind . " Among the various sectional addresses , mention may be made of those on " University Education and National Life , " by Sir Richard Jebb , the distinguished classical professor and M. P. of Cambridge , who described himself as " a sort of Rhodes scholar from the other end , " and advocated a broad-minded conception of university culture , in which the narrower views of Matthew Arnold as to the sufficiency of literature were amplified by the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific training ; by Professor Haddon of Cambridge , anthropologist and explorer , on the native tribes of South Africa , their subdivisions and characteristics , their invasions and migrations , and particularly on the need of careful study and record of native customs before they are too much affected by European influences ; by Sir Colin Scott Moncrieff , army engineer in India for over twenty years , and in charge of irrigation in Egypt under the British administration , describing the systems of irrigation in various parts of the world  --  a subject very pertinent to the needs of the South African colonies at present ; by Admiral Sir William Wharton ( whose death afterwards at Cape Town was the tragedy of the whole excursion ) , on geographical progress , especially in oceanography , in which appropriate reference was made to the ancient circumnavigation of Africa , as recorded by Herodotus , who faithfully reported that the explorers said they saw the sun pass over the sky on their right hand , as they sailed westward around the southern end of the land , but added that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Oxford , on recent researches in the physico-chemistry of solutions and alloys , in their bearing on the conditions under which ancient salt deposits and crystalline rocks were formed . The evening lectures were equally suggestive . Sir William Crookes , the eminent chemist of London , described at Kimberley the various theories of the origin of diamonds , with brilliant illustrations by means of elaborate apparatus brought all the way from home , but with a stronger leaning to the origin of the Kimberley diamond " pipes " by meteoric impact than was acceptable to some of his geological listeners . Professor Poulton , zoologist of Oxford , presented at Cape Town an account of Burchard 's African explorations of a century ago , and had the good fortune to find afterwards , through the aid of one of his audience , some of Burchard 's original diaries preserved in Cape Colony and hitherto unpublished . Professor Boys , physicist of London , exhibited in Cape Town many experiments concerned with the properties of liquids . Farrar , the young geologist of the recent British Antarctic expedition , told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern plateaus of ice and snow . Professor Arnold , metallurgist of Sheffield , explained at Johannesburg the structure of " Steel as an Igneous Rock " according to modern researches ; and so on . It was the abundance of this sort of thing that gave some warrant to the superlative terms in which the over-sea members were greeted by colonial and municipal officers in the flattering addresses of welcome by which the Association was met at every stop on its long inland journey . As to sectional meetings , there was much good material , to judge by the published programmes , but nothing that calls for report here in competition with the innumerable novel experiences in the Colonies that we traversed . Indeed , it was often hard to secure a worthy audience f or papers of real merit , so distracting were the opportunities                     