@@485056

the sovereign faculty . " He hailed America as " the soil of freedom " and " asylum of the oppressed . " He called the war with Mexico for slaveholding expansion " the glorious struggle " Another visitor from abroad , Father Mathew , taken to task by Judge Lumpkin of Georgia for anti-slavery expressions in Ireland , wiped his glasses and saw only " this emphatically free country " ' astigmatism like Webster 's two years earlier , in 1847 , with an eye to Charleston , which he styled " the home of the oppressed , " though it had in 1844 expelled Senator Hoar 's father , the official agent sent down by Massachusetts to protect the rights of her colored citizen seamen in that port . In 1850 , after Webster 's 7th of March speech in ' support of the Fugitive Slave Bill  --  his last desperate bid for the Presidency  --  seven hundred Boston addressers flattered him that " he had touched the conscience of a nation . " Not so ex-Senator John A. Dix , who wrote three months later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have an ominous application to our present politics : " Commercial interests rule the day . The prices of stocks and of merchandise are considered , by a large portion of the business men , as of more importance than the preservation of great principles " It is not too much to say that the civil war was the price of the euphemisms with which the fathers of the Republic cloaked the pro-slavery provisions of the Constitution . The entire nation was committed to the use , with reference to its great iniquity , of a hypocrite terminology which salved the conscience and checked for two generations the humane impulse to put an end to slavery . We have now come round to similar conditions . Webster 's " disagreeable duty " of joining in slave-catching is matched by McKinley 's " duty " to exercise our " rightful influence in any territory over which our flag floats . " Cruelty and bloodshed lurk in such immoral expressions , and woe be to the people which habituates itself to them . They are met with at every turn in McKinley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rising of the gorge such a statement as this by its chief magistrate and commander-in-chief " It will be seen that the power of the Government has been used for the liberty , the peace , and the prosperity of the Philippine peoples , and that force has been employed only against force which stood in the way of the realization of these ends . " But it is our liberty ( the liberty of the boss , the spoilsman , and the pro-consul ) , our peace ( we make a wilderness and call it so ) , our prosperity ( the trader 's dream ) , for which we have been slaughtering without subduing the Filipinos . Who calculated how much of the twenty millions of the purchase money we should get back from the commerce and the natural riches of the archipelago ? Who , before it wa-s ' acquired , sent out geologists to explore its ' mineral wealth as a bribe to the national conscience ? Behold , " my countrymen , what has been and is being done to bring the benefits of liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Any mind is in danger , again , that is not revolted by the attempt to disguise the Imperialism with which we have succeeded Spain 's  --  by the same means , and with no greater success  --  under the name of " sovereignty . " So Stephen A. Douglas sought to conceal the extension of the slaveholders ' empire behind " squatter sovereignty , " the right of the people in the Territories to vote slavery up or down Fetches like this reveal unmistakably the Presidential progress downwards . Mr. McKinley passes , without blushing , from the affirmation that the Republican party " will not be guided in its conduct by one set of principles at home , and another set in the new territory belonging to the United States , " to speak of " the generous treatment of the Porto Ricans " in accord " with the most liberal thought of our own country , " and in encouragement of " the best aspirations of the people of the island . " In the same breath , suppressing the fact of his own " most liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Porto Ricans , as a matter of course and " plain duty , " he records the 85 per cent . reduction forced upon him by Congress as exemplifying the generous treatment ; as if that could be generous which was not even just . The rhetorical disease we are studying in the President shows its symptoms elsewhere than in the vain struggle to break the force of Mr. Bryan 's impeachment . All things considered , the worst exhibit in his whole letter is probably this account of his treachery to the cause of civil-service reform . " Important amendments were promulgated by Executive order under date of May 29 , 1899 , having for their principal purpose the exception from competitive examination of certain places involving fiduciary responsibilities or duties of a strictly confidential , scientific , or executive character , which it was thought might better be filled either by non-competitive examination or by other tests of fitness in the discretion of the appointing officer . It is gratifying that the experience of more than a year has vindicated these changes in the marked improvement of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a word of truth in this representation of an act stealthily performed without consultation with the Civil-Service Commissioners , or if there be a grain of truth , it only aggravates the general falsehood . It was the clearest case of " desertion " in place of " duty " ; and desertion from the only bold and manly stand ever taken by Mr. McKinley in his political career . He presumes , no doubt , upon his countrymen 's short memory ; but more , and with better reason , upon their gullibility by dexterous display of linguistic duplicity , in which he is past master . REPUBLICANS AND THE STRIKE . The Republican managers are nervous about the great coal strike . Some of them admit it publicly ; all of them confeds it privately . Their Congressional Committee fears that it may cost them the control of the next House . Some , timid souls among Republican peliticlans , remembering the Homestead strike of 1892 , dread that a huge labor disturbance may a second time deprive them of the Presidency . In so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of stirring up class hatred , we share it . We have no words strong enough to use in denunciation of the man who would array one social rank against another . Whether it be an agitator inflaming the poor against the rich , or a wealthy schemer urging capitalists to combine in order to exploit and oppress labor , we see in him only an enemy of society . Nor has our position respecting the reckless and tyrannical methods too often employed by labor unions ever been open to question . In both these matters and up to this point , our synipathies and our fears go with the Republicans . Where we part company with them is in the political and economic doctrines with which they confront the strike . We see , if they do not , into what an awkward and helpless position , in. the face of 100,000 men on strike , their campaign cries and political shibboleths have brought them . They have been putting the argument from prosperity in the grossest and most material form . This , they have shouted from every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Have you not enough to eat ? Are you not busy , contented , warmed , and fed ? Then how can you think of being ungrateful to the Republican party which has given you all these blessings ? This has been the argument , full worthy , in. its crass materialism , to be used by that class of men of whom the Scripture says that their god is the belly . It was an ignoble appeal from the beginning , and the gigantic coal strike has now come to shatter it . Do the Republicans expect never to enter another Presidential campaign ? One might think so from the lash way in which they are assuring in advance , by their arguments , the defeat of any future Republican Administration which may fall on evil times . Such an Administration might be clean , honest , devoted to the good and honor of the country ; yet if crop failures or bad industrial conditions should bring depression of business , the cry would be , " Away with such a party ! " and the Republicans themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not say their opponents nay . Political short-sightedness could no further go . Hanna , for his part , appears ready to say , " After me , the deluge , " and to risk everything on this blunt , coarse argument from the full stomach . Gov . Roosevelt , however , who may be supposed to take a deeper personal interest in future campaigns , has seen the danger of staking everything on , the chicken . in the pot , " and has occasionally put this matter of prosperity as if his bearers were men and not wallowers in Epicurus ' sty He has rightly exalted thrift and industry and honesty and enterprise as the manly qualities which must always be more important than mere favoring material conditions . The true line of reasoning for the Republican party to have taken up in this campaign is very simple . The gold standard is an honest and equable standard . It is good for the rich man ; it is the security and hope of the wage-earner . That it works well in good times when Providence sends big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's market , we now see . Bryan 's prophecies of disaster under the gold standard have proved ridiculous . Republicans may dwell on this to excellent advantage . But what they should also maintain is that the gold standard will also show itself the best in the times of adversity which will surely come . It will make values fall with less of a crash , when fall they must , and recover afterwards the more speedily . " You can see , " Republican orators should have been saying to workingmen , " that the gold standard has been a source of strength in prosperity . We believe it will be a help in bad times as well . " Instead of that , the Republican policy has been to hazard everything on the " full dinner-pail " of to-day , thus directly inviting the empty dinner-pail of to-morrow to sweep away party , gold standard , and all . That there is also a grave social peril in the doctrine that the workingman owes all the good things of life to the Government , we need not stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tending to make them flabby , dependent , unenterprising , querulous , or revolutionary ; it is bad for the party that preaches it , since it leads to all kinds of promises impossible to fulfil , and surely entails political disaster in the long run ; it is bad for our whole social and governmental fabric , pointing , as it does , to the destruction of individual initiative and responsibility , and straight towards a vicious paternalism , if not to State Socialism outright . The crying need of the time is for manlier appeals to the voters . Republicans are now saying that the striking coal-miners are showing themselves very selfish and greedy . Who taught them to be ? What is the Republican doctrine of protection but embodied selfishness ? Protection points to the great factories built up under laws favoring the few at the expense of the many , and then innocently laments the fact that the men who work in them are selfish and want more than their share ! Republican stump-speakers 66 The Nation . Vol. 71 , No. 1840 others the traffic is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great advance in the prices of coal and iron means increased cost in manufacturing and in transportation Railway companies are unable , for various reasons , to advance their charges to correspond with their increased expenses , and shareholders suffer accordingly . Enterprise of all kinds languishes in the face of enhanced cost of production . Some of the recent slackness in trade may be thus accounted for . Another cause for slackness is to be found in the feeling of political unrest . It is already known that the country is to be called upon for a large increase in military expenditure . Army reorganization is an awful burden when it has to be taken up do nose . The war in South Africa laid bare the defects of the British military system . While expensive in itself , it paves the way to greater expenses hereafter , but this is perhaps not the worst misfortune that could happen to the country . A greater one would be a war with a European Power , for which England would be as unready as she was to meet the burghers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopping now . The responsibilities of a world empire must be met with pounds , shillings , and pence . The taxes on the British artisan must be raised to something like the burden laid upon his competitor on the Continent . This increase of expense must be reflected in the world 's markets , and it remains to be seen how British trade will be affected by it . On the whole , Sir Robert believes that the conditions of British prosperity are generally stable . They depend , he thinks , more upon the national character than anything else , upon its inventiveness , its adaptability to circumstances , its self-reliance , versatility , and courage These qualities have carried the nation through innumerable vicissitudes , and he thinks that they are still unimpaired Combined with the accumulated capital of the nation , they are equal to any emergency that can now be foreseen , even though some countries outstrip her in particular branches of trade in which she has heretofore held preeminence As regards coal and iron , Sir Robert acknowledges that the United States has not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her in the race . Yet he is not alarmed by that fact , any more than by the fact that England imports a large part of her food . When the time comes that she has to import coal , she will employ her capital and labor in industries which require less coal in proportion to the product realized . What he says on this subject is worth quoting : " The cheapness of transport has equalized matters throughout the world , so that now people can live , and manufactures can be carried on , where climatic and other conditions are most favorable , and not necessarily in the places where the food and raw materials are produced . As to coal inparticular , it appears important to observe that the increased efficiency of the article makes the actual possession of the raw material itself less and less necessary to a manufacturing nation . Say at one time it took 250 worth of coal to produce ? 100 worth of goods , which sell for ? 105 . Clearly in such a case a difference of 10 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a foreign competitor would be enormous . The difference would be equal to the whole profit upon the business done But if , owing to inventions , ? 50 worth of coal suffices for producing ? 1,000 worth of goods which at the same rate of profit sell at ? 1,050 , then the difference of 10 per cent . in the pi ice of coal would only affect the profit to the extent of one-tenth , and there would be greater play for the factors other than coal in the ' total cost of production . " When Jevons wrote on this subject a quarter of a century ago , he said that the question was not whether England could make a living without coal , or with short supply of it at her own doors , but whether she could do , without it , what she now does with it . If not , she must lose her relative place among industrial and commercial Powers . On this phase of the question Sir Robert does not touch , and perhaps it was not necessary that he should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the conclusion of his article Sir Robert turns to the money question , with which he has had much to do in the controversies of the past few years Here he makes the astounding prediction that the annual yield of gold in the Transvaal , which was ? 20,000,000 before the war , " will be quickly increased to ? 50,000,000 , some say ? 100,000,000 . Looking then , " he continues , " at the production of gold throughout the world independently of the Transvaal , we must anticipate an enormous production altogether , which can not but enhance money prices , profits , and wages . " The world 's production of gold in the year 1898 , according to the returns of the Mint Bureau ( the latest published ) , was $287,000,000 , of which the Transvaal yielded $80,000,000 . To suppose that the yield of the latter alone will quickly rise to $250,000,000 seems to us a very wild surmise . THE CLERGY AND WAR . Bishop Percival of Hereford , England , is one of the few clergymen of the Protestant Episcopal Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their moorings . This horrible fact ? I mean the fact that these clergymen are few  --  has been brought to light , during the last year or two , by the process of " Expansion . " It has revealed , both in England and in America , the dumfounding truth that most of the Christian ministers in both countries have substituted Mohammedanism for Christianity , and are as ready to cry , " The Bible or the sword , " as were the Mussulman missionaries of the seventeenth century , " The Koran or the sword " The prospect of being able to carry the " teachings of the Gospel " in the rear of conquering armies has proved irresistible to most of them . We know what has happened to our Protestant clergy by their own declarations , and by their expressions of joy over McICinley 's conquests . We know what is going on among the English clergy from , among other sources , an article by Arnold Ward in the August number of the Ninetcentli Century . He says : " A period of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unconnected with a period of great anti-missionary activity in the Mohammedan world The exhortations of the Archbishop of Canterbury have stimulated enthusiasm There has been a tendency in certain circles to appropriate the British occupation of Egypt and the Anglo-Egyptian reconquest of the Sudan as events directly designed by God to benefit missionary enterprise . An example of this occurs in a letter of Bishop Wilkinson 's appealing for a bishopric for Egypt , as a steppingstone to a bishopric for the Sudan , and to a chain of bishoprics from the Cape to Cairo , published in the Standard of the 11th of December last Bishop Wilkinson claims the British army as a great proselytizing instrument ' How can we expect God to bless the British arms in any part of the world unless we do that work for which He gii es us the victory ? ' According to this writer , God ' has given Egypt to England , and given her for a higher purpose than the building of railways , the construction of telegraphs , canals , and systems of irrigation and barrage . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the region beyond , and , ' God helping us , who has given it into our hands . we mean to keep it against all comers , even to the Great Victoria and Albert Lakes , and beyond that , too , from Cairo to Cape Town . ' " Here , then , we find asserted precisely what an British Governments have always officially denied , that the real object of the British occupation of Egypt , and of the British advance up the Nile , . is the conversion of the natives to Christianity , and , while the whole of Lord Cromer 's work in Egypt is dismissed as an affair of railways , telegraphs , and canals , it is alleged that , in order to establish a chain of bishoprics across the continent , England has , or is about to have , a trans-African empire , which somehow ( in spite of any existing treaties to the contrary ) is to extend from Cairo to the Cape , " We find some explanation of the fact that English bishops expect to profit by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clergy of which have a not unnatural tendency to regard themselves as state functionaries They consider themselves as the religious alders and abettors of the Government of the day . The opposition of the bishops during the last century to the abolition of the slave trade was not an isolated illustration of the hostility of a state clergy to reform , But this does not explain the attitude of oar clergy towards the Government of the country when it undertakes a work of foreign conquest Our Methodist , Baptist , and Presbyterian clergy are just as eager to profit by the conquests of our arms as the clergymen of the English Church , and apparently care as little about the morality of any agency which enables them to set up " mission stations " In fact , I do n't think I should be going too far in saying that it is the eager support of the clergy which has launched McKinley on his career of conquest . This astounding fact , that in the two leading Protestant countries of the world the religious organizations exert no better influence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most solemn facts of our time The clergy in both England and America put both their preaching and praying at the service of the party which for the moment secures the majority at the polls In a powerful letter , published recently in the Evening Post , the writer in fact made the Church responsible for most of the atrocities committed in the Philippines . There is little doubt that the Methodist and Baptist clergymen have been the most powerful propagandists of the McKinley wars . Last year I remember that a church festival of some kind was fol-i lowed , for the purpose of rousing the martial enthusiasm of the congregation , by a regular battle-hymn . And this state of things is worse with us than with the English , for the reason that the masses there are still , for the most part , in possession of the dissenting clergy , who furnish most of the peace-advocates . Bishop Percival mentions , in the article in question . the conduct of Rhodes in getting up the Jameson raid , and says , " Here we see a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reprobated by the very man who did all these things , but what happens ? The verdict of fashionable society condones it , and even a leading Minister of the Crown is found to declare in the House of Commons that in all these transactions , although the man had made a gigantic mistake , he had done nothing affecting his personal honor . " Bishop Percival 's remedy is the education of the young in the gospel of Christ , at school This is very good as far as it goes , but I think the work might be more effectively done by simply confining ourselves to pointing out to children the disadvantages of war as a waste of human energy , of human prudence , of human knowledge , of human science , for unknown or uncertain purposes For instance , in our last war with Spain , large numbers of our educated young men left their studies , left their homes , their careers , for the simple purpose of killing Spaniards , of destroying their property , for what reason they did not know , except that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-educated or uneducated village lawyers and dealers , assembled in Washington , and called a " Congress . " Such things ought not to occur again in our time . E. L G LAKE BAIKAL TO THE YENISEI . KRASNOYARSK , August 27 , 1900 . The gigantic mountain wall which surrounds Lake Baikal has an opening at one point only This is well towards its southern end , and through it the clear , sparkling water rushes with great rapidity , and in volume more than half that of Niagara , to form the Angara River . Forty miles below is the city of Irkutsk ; between which and the lake , steamers run with greater regularity than is usual in Siberian waters , for so great is the reservoir that the depth of water never varies more than two feet The descent is eighty feet , but as the distance is greatly increased by the windings of the river , the current is easily overcome by the power of steam . It is painful , however , to see a galleon of the olden style working its way up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by sixteen horses . If we reckon the length of the Yenisei from its true source , the Mississippi must take second place among the rivers of the world . As ordinarily given , the 3,400 miles assigned to the Yenisei is that of the main river below Yeniseisk , with that of the Western branch added , which comes straight down from the Mongolian highlands . But if we take the Angara , which comes in fromthe east , and follow it through its wide detour before we reach Lake Baikal , and then ascend the Selenga River to its source , still farther out on the Mongolian plateau , we shall have added six or seven hundred miles to the length of the water course , and exceeded the Missouri-Mississippi by two or three hundred miles . It is 600 miles in a direct line from Irkutsk on the Angara to Krasnoyarsk on the Yenisei The old Siberian wagon road and now the railway traverse this along what was originally a nearly level plain of stratified rock . But now this is deeply dissected by several river valleys , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These rivers come down from the border of the Mongolian plateau two or three hundred miles to the south , and , after a considerably longer course northward , enter the Angara before its junction with the Yenisei . One , however , the Kan , turns west and Joins the Yenisei just below Krasnoyarsk This comparatively level area between the foothills of the Sayan Mountains and the Angara contains twice as much fertile soil as the State of Illinois , and is destined eventually to be nearly as thickly populated . It lies between the fifty-fifth and fifty-ninth degrees of latitude , which are about the same parallels as those of Moscow and St Petersburg . The climate , though cold in winter , is warm enough in summer to ripen most varieties of grain . Wheat , rye , oats , and barley yield large and sure returns , while potatoes , cabbages , and turnips find here their natural conditions . The pastures are green , and support large herds of cattle and horses as well as endless Rocks of sheep The season is too short for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe winters Neither were there any berries brought into the markets which we visited , or , at any rate , they were so few as to emphasize their scarcity . Here , however , as elsewhere throughout Siberia , cucumbers largely take the place of fruit . They are raised in profusion , and when nearly ripe are put down for a few days in a brine made from salt and oak leaves , and then are eaten both in connection with regular meals and by themselves , as one eats apples . So agreeable are they to the taste that I found myself repeatedly following the crowd which rushes from the cars at every station to buy two or three cucumbers from the peasant women who bring them for sale . With meat victuals they become absolutely essential . The streams crossed between Irkutsk and Krasnoyarsk are the Irkut , the Oka , the Uda , and the Kan . The headwaters of all these streams are in one of the great mining districts of Siberia . For a long time gold has been obtained from placer mines along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that near where they emerge from the auriferous mountain belt there should be flourishing centres of population , Such we find at Tulon , Nizhni-Uclinsk , Birusinskia , and Kansk , the last town having a population of nearly 10,000 . Long before the railway these centres had been established by the necessities of the situation . The miners needed food , and the farmers needed a market , and the gold brought in to both the few luxuries which all craved . Now that the railway opens the region more fully to the world , a rapid growth in population may be expected . The three great luxuries in Siberia are churches , theatres , and museums . Eventhe smaller villages can usually be sighted from afar by means of the white walls and the towering dome-shaped cupolas of their churches . These are all amply supplied with bells , whose rich tones roll in majestic harmony over distant hill and vale , and break the monotony of the peasants ' daily toil Inside , these churches are highly ornamented with paintings , and they are presided over by married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genuine interest in even the poorest of their flock . Beggars are not driven from the aisles and door-steps of the church , and mothers with crying children are not requested to stay away from the house of God Indeed , one of the most impressive parts of their worship is the presentation of little children by their mothers for communion . This takes place regularly , and the poor and rich are mingled in one mass . Irkutsk has no less than twenty of these conspicuous houses of worship , while Krasnoyarsk , with a population of only 20,000 , has ten large churches . Blagovestchensk is equally well supplied . In most cases these have been erected by wealthy citizens who have been prospered in their mining investments . This same class of men have also supplied and equipped museums for their respective towns on a scale unknown elsewhere Konorovsk , Nertchinsk , Irkutsk , Krasnoyarsk , and Minusinsk are thus supplied with these important means of public education . In all these places large collections , housed and well arranged in commodious buildings , are open for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is not equalled in size and equipment in the United States outside of two or three of the largest cities The Russians are , probably , now the leading nation in Europe in the cultivation of music , so that one can hear in Siberia all the best operas rendered in the best style . All the Siberian cities also contain conspicuous school-buildings and many imposing structures devoted to the necessities of the army . Altogether , these give a very grand appearance to the cities when seen from a distance But , in many other respects , they are very much behind the times . It is the boast of Irkutsk that it has no municipal debt , and even has a considerable fund in hand to meet some of the necessary expenses As an offset , however , it is to be noted that It has no pavements . no water-works , no adequate sewers , no street-cars , and no public electric lights Another thing which strikes the American with surprise in this land of forests is the absence of saw-mills . We have seen only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American This is partly accounted for by the fact that the pines of the region belong to a species that is hard and coarse-grained , and does not make good lumber , and partly by the love of the peasants for log-houses . Indeed , all the houses are made of logs , so that not much sawed lumber is needed . What there is , is sawed by hand . Just now throughout all Siberia the demands of the army continue to overshadow everything else . Low water in the rivers is not so great a hindrance to ordinary traffic as is the mobilization of the army for the Chinese war . All the cars and engines of the railway are demanded for the transportation of troops . For two months and more there is a virtual embargo on the transportation of merchandise , and , in consequence , prices of many of the necessaries 