@@430193

 |p1039  I AM on my way to Brussels to attend a meeting of the Executive Council of the Interparliamentary Union . This Council is composed of two members from the Parliament of each nation having membership in the Union . All the European nations with the Parliamentary form of government have membership in this Union . But the United States is the only American nation represented in the Union , and yet every American nation has the parliamentary form of government . The members of the Council will determine the subjects which will be discussed when the Union meets for its thirteenth annual session , which will be held at Brussels at a time to be fixed by the Council . One of the points which I have been instructed by the Arbitration Group in Congress to propose for discussion at the next session of the Union is the admission of South American nations into the Interparliamentary Union . The Argentine Republic , commonly regarded as a small nation , has a territory as large as the United States east of the Mississippi . Brazil is as large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tho little thought of by our people , are more important than some well-known European nations and have already attained a high degree of civilization . It is but just to say that in the movement for international arbitration South America has led the world , both in being first to conclude such treaties and in having concluded more perfect treaties than those that are now being negotiated in Europe , The population of the South American nations is considerably more than half that of the United States and Canada . Canada also should have representatives in the Interparliamentary Union and in the International Congress when it is organized ; for Canada is a nation , with a national Parliament , and entitled to due representation in all International Unions . Manifestly these nations have a place in the International Unions , and those Unions will be imperfect until all the South American nations are in their places . It is equally true that no South American nation need have any fear as to the future , provided it takes its place in these Unions , stands for the plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out good government at home . It is an assured fact that these nations will come into these unions in time , but they are needed in them now , and the best sentiment of both Europe and America will not be satisfied until they are . South American statesmen , by joining the Interparliamentary Union , could be of assistance in securing general assent to a form of arbitration treaty that is fit for a model because they have concluded treaties that are free from the defects which mar those now being negotiated in Europe . It was these defects , not opposition to arbitration on principle , which caused the defeat of the treaties laid before our Senate this year . They were all modeled on the Anglo-French agreement , which seemed to our State Department to represent the general sense of Europe on the subject . Instead of clearly defining the subjects included , they attempted to include all questions of a judicial order or involving the construction of treaties , and then to except such as involve the vital interest or honor of either of the contracting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vague exception was equivalent to drawing a curtain over all questions , and leaving it for future decision whether any particular question was included in the treaty or in the reservation . Consequently it was necessary to provide that in every case , after the controversy had arisen ,  |p1040  the Powers affected should enter into a special agreement submitting the same to arbitration . Manifestly real judgment of the question could be exercised only in the giving or withholding assent on these special agreements . That is one of the reasons why the Senate demanded that these special agreements be referred to it for ratification . In this way only could the Senate really pass judgment on v , hat shall and what shall not be arbitrated under a general treaty like the Anglo-French Agreement . Consequently a treaty of arbitration which will satisfy the treaty making Power of the United States must be free from the defects which mar the Anglo-French Agreement . Dr. Tydeman , of Holland , and Mr. Ernest Beckman , of Sweden , pointed out these defects at the St. Louis session of the Interparliamentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns of THE INDEPENDENT , where it was also shown what points a good treaty must have . A few of these may be mentioned . The subjects included should be clearly defined , so that no " after judgment " need be demanded by any one concerned . The Hague Court should be given jurisdiction to try questions of the kind included , and either one of the Powers interested should have authority to set in motion the trial of such questions without securing the special consent of the other . The execution of the general treaty of arbitration should be the only consent needed for questions included in it . Such a treaty would found The Hague Court on solid ground and make it an integral part of the world 's judicial machinery . However narrow its jurisdiction , the fact that it had a clearly defined jurisdiction and power of acting in that jurisdiction , as other courts act in theirs , would be the first step in the direction of broadening its jurisdiction and enlarging its powers . Nations that are very far forward in the arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions in the treaties between them , while nations that are more backward , or that still harbor bad feeling toward each other would reserve more questions for trial on the field of battle . As they rise in their attitude toward each other and as the Court shows itself worthy of trust , they would include more and more questions in the treaties subsequently negotiated . Limiting these treaties so that they expire at a stated time , unless renewed by mutual consent , removes all reasonable objection to concluding them in this form . It would , perhaps , be better to have them run until terminated by one of the contracting powers , on , say , six months ' notice . This would put the inertia of legislative bodies on the side of arbitration . It might be well also to allow for an appeal to arm from a decision of the Court affecting the independence or autonomy of the nation . It might be well also to insert a provision by which other nations could become parties to the arrangement by mere adoption of the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holland has tried this in her treaty with Denmark , but that treaty is open to the objection that it binds the contracting Powers to arbitrate all questions , reserving nothing for trial by war . The nations are not all ready to go so far . By providing that each nation may designate the questions it is willing to arbitrate , according to the terms of the treaty agreed upon and that upon this designation the treaty becomes operative for those questions between that nation and all others that have or may designate the same questions as arbitrable , you have a simple system , easily made more effectual by individual national action , and without any difficulty of administration . The second question proposed by the American Arbitration Group is the formulation of a treaty of arbitration which is fit for a model because it gives The Hague Court jurisdiction over questions included in it . Much thought must be given to the subject , however , before the Union meets at Brussels . Hence I suggest these ideas in order that public opinion may crystallize on the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other question proposed by the American Group for discussion at the next session of the Union is , the basis for the International Congress . This question bears a direct relation to giving The Hague Court jurisdiction by treaties of arbitration . The right to try questions carries with it the necessity of having principles by which to try them . The  |p1041  establishment of an International Congress must , therefore , follow close upon the general adoption of a treaty of arbitration , such as I have described . The Court , the Congress and the treaties will make a system of International Arbitration which will become more perfect with time . The following is a basis on which an International Congress can be organized : " I. An International Congress of two IIouses , a Senate and a House of Deputies . " 2 . Each nation to have two Representatives in the Senate , and representation in the House of Deputies proportionate to its international commerce . " 3 . Each nation to choose and maintain its own Representatives in the International Congress , and to have power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office to be eight years , unless otherwise fixed by each nation for its own Representatives . " 4 . Each member to have one vote . " 5 . Majority to rule in all matters , and concurrence of both Houses necessary . " 6 . Each nation to have the right to withdraw at any time from the Congress . " 7 . The territorial and political integrity of each nation represented in the Congress to be respected by all nations represented . " 8 . Deliberations of the Congress to be confined to matters which directly affect intercourse between nations , and its resolutions limited to the declaration of general rules or principles for the conduct of such intercourse , and these resolutions to be recognized as law by the nations , unless they are vetoed by an agreed number of national Parliaments . " 9 . Each nation to treat all other nations on equal terms in matters of commerce , whether they be or be not represented in the International Congress ; except that any nation can raise a commercial barrier against any other nation equivalent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While remaining in the Congress , each nation to have the right to arm itself according to its own judgment . " ii . War to remain a lawful mode of action in any dispute , except as the several nations agree to refer controversies to arbitration by special or general treaties of arbitration . " 12 . The armed forces of all the nations represented to be at the service of the Congress for enforcement of any decree rendered by The Hague Court , according to treaties of arbitration . " The idea in allowing withdrawal is ( 1 ) that this would induce the nations to enter into such a Congress much sooner , ( 2 ) it would prevent the Congress from taking any steps not generally approved , thus tending to preserve the Union and to go forward only as fast as all the members are ready to move , and ( 3 ) it would prevent war over the desire to go out , if such a desire should be engendered by what was done by the International Court or Congress . The idea in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Congress by the law-making bodies of the constituent nations is that the Union is worth more than the adoption of any particular law at a given time . If strong opposition to any proposed law for the nations develops anywhere it will manifest itself in some national parliament . And if the opposition is not strong enough to dominate one or more nations the proposed idea deserves to become a law for the nations when adopted by Congress , in which all nations have representatives . This provision is really a right application to international affairs of the modern doctrine of initiative and referendum . It will prevent the development of a desire to break up the Union . The idea in providing for armament by each nation according to its own judgment is this : Nations would not yet know how far to trust each other 's faithful observance of these compacts , even after they are made . No military or naval power being provided for the International Body , and each nation remaining free to arm as its fears may suggest , there is no reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this basis it will immediately begin to demonstrate its trustworthiness and its necessity to our modern life . And as confidence increases armament will decrease , until in due time there will be no fear and no danger of the violation of national rights , and then the armaments will dwindle to a mere international police power . The idea of providing for war between the members is this : Experience has taught the necessity of doing so . The British Parliament came into being in the thirteenth century . The right of an English citizen to try questions affecting his title to land , by personal encounter with the adverse claimant , remained until the 22d day of June , 1819 . Then it was  |p1042  abolished . The International Congress must come into being and approve itself worthy of preserving the cherished rights of nations before they will consent to the abolition of the right to protect themselves by their own powers . It took 600 years for the British Parliament to rise to the point of prohibiting violent trial of any question by the citizens . It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development in international government . But it will certainly take some time . Therefore , provision must be made for this as a suitable safety valve . This Congress being organized on the idea that every nation represented in it has the right to perpetual Home Rule or Local Self-Government , and to due representation in the larger political body of which it has become a member , these rights will be guaranteed to every nation by every nation represented in the Congress . If the guaranty is kept faithfully what more can any nation hope to justly obtain or maintain by its own armed forces ? With freedom to go armed against possible treachery , why not accept the guaranty and make a trial of a system of International Arbitration ? Every nation has to prepare to protect itself without any such guaranty as things now stand . With an International Congress organized on this basis there would be a working political Union of Nations , very feeble in power , but rightly organized and sure to grow in usefulness and in favor with the people of all nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and accomplish for nations what a Federal Union like ours accomplished for the constituent States . This would take a long time , but that is not a reason against making a proper beginning . It is a reason , on the contrary , for making the earliest possible beginning . For the sooner the work is begun the sooner it will be ended , and neither peace nor real prosperity can permanently come to any nation until this work is ended . It required a century and a war for the United States Congress to find its proper place among the political institutions of the world . As the day came for its creation , so the time has now come for creating the International Congress . As the one grew , so will the other . The business of the men of to-day is to form the one while they are doing what they can to bring the other to perfection . Surrounded as we are by the conflicts which fill the world with terror and resolved to do all that is possible to change this chaos into law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies immediately before us by looking up to the bights of these great things fully brought to pass . In this way we get light on the path immediately ahead . This reveals also the significance in the great plan of the action we are called upon to take now , whether it seems great or small . The supreme question becomes , Is it in the right direction ? If so , be it a small or a great step , it must be taken . The step now to be taken is to stand for this as the final outcome and to stand steadfastly for it until it is accomplished .                     