@@474590

TO be able to photograph wholly invisible objects by wholly invisible . light is a new and striking development of microscopy . Hitherto microscopes have been constructed for use with visible light only , largely with the yellow , green , and blue rays of the spectrum , and they have been used chiefly for direct observation . Recently a microscope has been perfected by Dr. August Koehler , at the Carl Zeiss Optische Werkstiitte , Jena , Germany , which can be used only with ultraviolet light ; and since this light is not directly visible to the human eye , it must be rendered visible by the use of fluorescent screens or pliotugraphie plates . The practical difficulties in the use of ultraviolet light with high magnifications of the microscope are great , but if they can be overcome this new departure will mark one of the greatest of all modern improvements in the microscope ; indeed , it will actually double the capacity of the best microscopes using visible light . The full significance of such an improvement will be apparent to all who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instrument has been followed by an era of notable discoveries , and there can be no doubt that this will continue to be the case . Beyond the utmost . reach of the best modern microscope is an unseen world , whose objects are the elements of the - world we see and whose exploration may be expected to throw light upon some of the most fundamental problems of science . In biology it is probable that such an improvement in the microscope would be followed by important discoveries as to the structure of the living substance of animals and plants , the cellular basis of heredity and evolution , image , since the intensity of the light varies inversely as the square of the magnification , a threefold magnification involving a ninefold diminution of intensity . Furthermore , even if the illumination might be made so intense as to partially overcome this difficulty , greater magnification than can now be obtained would be of no practical value ; it would only enlarge the details of structure already visible with lenses of high magnification , but it could not add to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of a microscope ? that is , its ability to show as separate two points or lines which lie very close together ? varies with the length of the light-waves employed ; the shorter the wavelength , other things being equal , the greater the power of resolution . Two particles which are less than one-half a wave-length of light apart always appear as one , whatever the magnification . The wave-length of yellow-green light , - which represents approximately the middle of the visible spectrum , is about .55 of a micron ( a micron , represented by the Greek letter p , being one one-thousandth of a millimetre ) , and particles which are less than half this distance apart can not be distinguished as separate when seen in this light . Any magnification which will render half a wave-length easily visible will reveal all that a higher magnificaVon . CXV ? No . GM ? 78tion could show . With light having a wave-length of , say , .5/2 , a magnification of 2000 diameters would make this wavelength 1 millimetre long , the half of which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used is a higher magnification useful . It is evident , therefore , that , so far as magnification is concerned , our best modern microscopes , which magnify from 2000 to 3000 diameters , are quite as powerful as there is any need of their being . In order to increase the effectiveness of the microscope its power of resolution must be increased , and this can now be accomplished most readily by the use of light of relatively short wave-lengths . Two microscopic particles which can not be distinguished as separate in yellow-green light may be readily " resolved " in blue or violet light . This consideration led Dr. August Koehler to undertake a series of experiments on the use of light of short wave-lengths in microscopy . For this purpose it is necessary to separate a beam of light into its component parts by means of a prism , and to send only the blue or violet rays through the microscope . In order to obtain monochromatic light of definite wave-length he found it advisable to employ the spectra of different metals rather than the solar spectrum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spark formed between two metal electrodes through which an electric current is passed . Various metals were used for this purpose , each of which has its own characteristic spectrum , but on the whole those most favorable were found to be magnesium and cadmium . In the magnesium spectrum there is one bright band near the end of the visible spectrum , the wave-lengths of which is .448 p ( Fig. 1 ) . This light can be readily used with ordinary lenses , and although it is not of much value for direct observation , it gives much sharper and more detailed photomicrographs than can be obtained with ordinary daylight . There is another magnesium band at the very limit of the visible spectrum , the wave-length of which is .383 ft and with this light still more detailed photomicrographs may be obtained , though the light which passes through the microscope is so faint that this band is , on the whole , not so favorable as the preceding one . With these visible blue and violet rays Mr. Kribs , working in the zoological laboratory of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfect photomicrographs , and it seems probable that the use of such rays may prove to be of great service in microscopy . Beyond the visible spectrum is the invisible or ultraviolet spectrum , portions of which may be rendered visible by causing the rays to fall upon a fluorescent screen . In the magnesium spectrum is a particularly intense band of bright lines having a wave-length of about .280 p , while in the cadmium spectrum ( Fig .. 2 ) is a band not quite so intense , but otherwise more favorable for photomierographic work , having a wave-length of .275 p . These bands lie far out in the invisible spectrum , and as their wave-lengths are only about half as great as that of the yellow-green light from the middle of the visible spectrum , their resolving power is double that of the latter . But the use of these ultraviolet rays in microscopy involves extraordinary difficulties . In the first place , they are absorbed by glass to such an extent that then be directed upon a quartz prism , which reflects them up through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to obtain the focus is known as the " finder . " It is shown in position above the eyepiece of the microscope in Fig. 3 ; after the focus has been obtained the " finder " may be turned to one side and the camera brought over the microscope , as in Fig. 4 , and the photographic plate exposed . Owing to faint illumination it is very difficult to see the image in the " finder " with sufficient clearness to focus the microscope with precision , and in practice this is the most difficult part of the whole process . This same faintness of image also makes this microscope of very little value for direct observation ; its usefulness is at present limited almost entirely to photographic reproduction of the image . Photographic plates are highly sensitive to ultraviolet light , but , owing to faint illumination with very high magnifications , exposures of from one to several minute are required . These long exposures , however , not only permit very high magnifications , but , just as in the photography of very faint stars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brings out faint details which would be wholly lacking in shorter exposures . Another condition which limits the general usefulness of this microscope is the fact that all objects must be mounted on quartz slides under quartz covers , and as these are at present expensive , the preparation of large numbers of permanent mounts is impracticable . With the improved methods for fusing quartz which are now being perfected , it may be predicted that this objection will disappear . The fact , however , that no ordinary microscopical preparations , - mounted in Canada balsam on glass , can be used with the ultraviolet microscope , must be reckoned as one of the limitations of the usefulness of this instrument . On the other hand , its advantages over ordinary microscopes are , in some re-spects , very great . Chief among these must be counted its greatly increased resolving power , this being about double that of microscopes using visible light . This may be well illustrated by a com-parison of photomicrographs of certain well-known objects made by visible and by ultraviolet light . The shells of cer-tain microscopic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minute pore or lines , and these have long been favorite objects for testing the resolv-ing power of lenses . In Pleurosigma angulatum there are about 40,000 of these markings to the inch ; in Am-pkipleura pellaci-da there may be as many as 100 , - 000 to the inch . Fig. 6 is a photo-graph of the shell of Pleuro-sigma taken by daylight with the best lenses and under the most favorable condi-tions . Fig. 7 is a photograph of the same object taken by ultraviolet light . Although some of the dif-ferences between Figs. 6 and 7 are due to differences in focus of the mi. - . croscope , it is evident that details of structure are much clearer in the latter than in the former . A similar comparison of the minute markings on the scales of a butterfly 's wing shows the greatly increased resolving power of the ultraviolet light , as compared with visible light. * These are only " test objects , " and their minute structures are not in themselves of any fundamental importance , although they are both beautiful and wonderful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is of great significance . Among these may be named the ultimate structure of muscle and nerve , of blood-cells , of germ-cells , of protozoa and bacteria . of cilia , pseudopodia , nuclei , chromosomes , centrosonies , and many other objects , a more accurate knowledge of which would profoundly influence our conceptions of life and its processes . Another great advantage of the ultraviolet microscope is that by means of it protoplasm , and microscopic animals and plants . may be studied very advantageously while in the living condition . With visible light , protoplasm is so nearly transparent and homogeneous that much of its structure can not be seen . It is customary , therefore , to prepare it for microscopical study by first I desire to acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. A. G. K ribs . one of my graduate students , for most of these photographs . killing and staining it so as to render visible its different parts ; but such methods of preparation undoubtedly produce many appearances which are not present in living protoplasm , but which are " artifacts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protoplasm ; it is especially difficult to distinguish between artifacts and normal structures in the minutest details of cells and nuclei . However , many objects which are transparent in visible light , such as glass , gelatin , the lens of the eye , are more or less opaque in - ultraviolet light ; and in this light the various constituents of protoplasm show varying degrees of translucency , so that they may be seen and photographed as clearly as if they had been stained . For the first time this makes it possible to successfully investigate the structure of living protoplasm , and to determine to what extent the appearances heretofore observed are artifacts . There is no prospect that by the use of this light molecules or smaller constituents of matter may ever he seen or photographed . These he far beyond the reach of even the ultraviolet microscope ; but there is good reason to hope that it may , among other things , reveal vital elements hitherto unknown or but imperfectly seen , and that its invention may mark as great an advance in microscopy as did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 