@@485055

We are getting out of China , bag and baggage . A legation-guard , larger than usual on account of the unusual conditions , is to be left in Pekin , but the orders significantly state that these troops are to be under the command of Gen. Chaffee . That is to say , Waldersee may give orders to British or French or Russian soldiers , but not to American . The remainder of our army in China Is to be shipped to the Philippines as speedily as may be . If we were ever in the concert of Powers , we are now out of it . The other nations may wrangle and jangle as they did in the affair of Crete , and let China plunge into anarchy while they debate ; we wash our hands of the whole business . The Germans may chuckle or snarl at us ; England may express her pained astonishment ; Russia may wonder what has become of her American bed-fellow , but we snap our fingers at the lot of them . The United States takes its own independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " America faro da s ? . " In all this we have merely clung to the historic American policy . A foreign entanglement was dangled before us , but we have shunned it as we would the plague . We have kept our pledges The world was cynically expecting us to display bad faith , but we have shown good faith . We said that we were sending an army to China for a specific purpose , and lo ! we are not keeping it there for another and unavowed purpose Meanwhile Mr. McKinley may not see , but others will not fail regretfully to perccive , that the same wise and American decision which he has reached in China might have been made in the Philippines , and might have taken us as quickly and honorably out of the islands as out of the Middle Kingdom Nearly every argument which has been adduced in favor of our setting about the subjugation of the Filipinos , could have been urged as a reason for our staying indefinitely in China . Senator Morgan of Alabama has made his first speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his position as the Democratic leader in the upper branch of Congress to the theory that the financial question is the immediate one . He said nothing at all on the issue of Imperialism , for two obvious , reasons ; first , that he bluntly declared , some weeks ago , that " there is no such issue " ; and , secondly , that he has from the outset supported the Republican policy in the Philippines . Mr. Morgan said ttlat " finance Is the most interesting topic to me and to the people , " and he proceeded to make a free-coinage speech of the familiar sort . For example , he declared himself in favor of silver , as a circulating medium , " because it is the money of the poor man . " Another reason why he favors free coinage is that , while silver is circulating , it draws no interest , whereas the paper dollar is constantly drawing interest , which some one is paying . Carl Schurz 's speech on Imperialism on Friday evening drew a large audience to Cooper Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was the most searching analysis of the course pursued by the Administration towards the Philippines which has yet been made , and it should be read by everybody who would master the record of that extraordinary policy . Whether one agrees with his conclusions as to political duty in the pending campaign or not every candid man will welcome the opportunity to learn how the situation appears to one who has thoroughly studied our Constitution , our political history , and our national character . Mr. Bryan easily makes his point when he reviews the record of the Republican party , as he did in his speech at Yankton , South Dakota , on Friday , and convicts it of " inconsistency " in regard to the greenback and the silver questions . There is no answer to such an indictment . The Republican party must plead guilty to the charge The wonder is that so shrewd a politician should not see that , the more thoroughly he convicts his opponents of inconsistency , the more strongly does he commend them to the confidence of the country . The Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , a quarter of a century ago , passed an Inflation Bill , which would have done vast harm if Grant had not vetoed it ; but it is right on the greenback question now . It was once terribly wrong on silver . William McKinley voted for the free coinage of silver in 1878 , and as " leader of the House " in 1890 he carried through the Silver-Purchase Act , which President Cleveland had to convene Congress In extra session to repeal , three years later ; but he is right on the silver question now , and so is the Republican party . On the other hand , the Kansas City platform expressly reaffirms the " 16 to 1 " plank in the Chicago platform of 1896 , and Bryan himself declared at Scotland , South Dakota , on Friday , that " we stand to-day opposed to the gold standard as we did then . " Mr. Oswald Ottendorfer , in an Interview in the Tribune , puts his finger on a sore spot in Mr. Bryan 's record , considering the latter 's opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain at a time when his services were not needed . In order to get into the service with his regiment , it was necessary to crowd out another regiment previously organized and desirous of entering . Not only so , but Mr. Bryan had promised to use his influence in favor of the first regiment . Instead of doing so , he raised , or assisted to raise , a second one , of which in due time he became the Colonel , and then his regiment was , by his influence , put into the service in place of the first , and against its protest . Can it be doubted that Mr. Bryan 's aim in this movement was political rather than military ? Although he never saw actual war in consequence of his enlistment , he promoted militarism to the extent of his ability , and under the circumstances disqualified himself for appearing on the stump as an opponent of militarism at any time thereafter . Mr. Ottendorfer has rendered a public service in calling attention to this evident mark of the trickster in Mr. Bryan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the damning charge at Bryan 's door of having wickedly helped to ratify that horrible , that fatal treaty which the wisest , strongest , and most beloved President negotiated . The Senator impales himself on his own logic with all his former delightful unconsciousness . He has , however , heard at last of a fact which was well known at the time . This is , that the Republican managers would not have allowed the treaty to come to a vote at all unless they were sure of ratifying it . They had only to wait a month , and then their greatly increased majority in the new Senate would enable them to do what they pleased . When Gorman , some three weeks before the vote actually was taken , offered to have the Senate polled at once , Senator Davis , in charge of the treaty , objected . The President wanted no chances taken , and would have waited , if necessary , till after the 4th of March . All this , we say , was matter of notoriety at the time . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now loftily waves it all away with a simple " I do not believe it . " Does he really believe , however , something which he himself says in this article ? He declares that the ratification of the treaty " made it the Constitutional duty of the President to reduce the Philippine Islands to subjection . " The reason we ask if Senator Hoar really believes this is , that , in his speech in the Senate of April 17 last , he explicitly asserted ( and this was more than a year after the ratification of the treaty ) , " I maintain that the holding in subjection an alien people , governing them against their will for any fancied advantage to them , is not only not an end provided for by the Constitution , but is an end prohibited therein " Prof. Goldwin Smith has sent out a small pamphlet in which he warns the American people against the dangers of Imperialism and plutocracy , and especially against partnership with England in the lust of empire , and in the greed of gain which is supposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not believe that England has ever got back the cost of her colonies , not even in the case of India , if we count all the expense she has incurred and still incurs on its account None the less is she deceived by the glamour of foreign conquest and possession , and now she would like to have the United States for a moral backer , imitator , and ally in that kind of work . Professor Smith finds an element in American society wiling to join the Tories of England in the policy of external aggression . It consists of the multi-millionaires " whose social centre is shifting more and more from the United States to monarchical and aristocratic England , where they can take hold of the mantle of high society . get more homage and subserviency for their wealth , " etc . In other words , a social influence lures an influential section of our public life to the policy of foreign empire and conquest , partly in imitation of England , partly in emulation of her supposed gains in foreign adventure , and partly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war with Spain . Professor Smith does not believe that England interposed to prevent the other European Powers from taking action adverse to us in the war with Spain The fact has been denied by the other Powers , and no proof has been given . But if any gratitude is due from us , it is due , he contends , to the Liberal party , the constant friend of the United States , the foe to Imperialism at home , and the ally of the Anti-Imperialists in America . If America wishes to exercise a truly imperial influence in the affairs of the world , let her adhere to her original position as the friend of the oppressed of all nations If she had done so , he thinks that the war against the Boers would never have occurred . " It is doubtful , " he says , " whether Mr. Chamberlain would have ventured on the South African war had he not been assured at least of benevolent neutrality at Washington . " This is surprising when we remember that the declaration of war came from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired war , and that he conducted the negotiations in such a way as to force the Boers to strike the first blow . This may be true so far as Mr. Chamberlain was concerned , but was it true of Lord Salts-bury , without whose concurrence there could have been no war ? Senator Beveridge of Indiana has given the nation a real surprise After acquiring the reputation of an orator given over to " hifalutin , " he made a speech at Columbus , Neb. , on Friday on Trusts , which is the most sensible deliverance on the subject that has come from any speaker on either side . Mr. Beveridge did not make Mr. Hanna 's mistake of asserting that there are no Trusts , nor Mr. Bryan 's of " pitching into " all Trusts indiscriminately . He defined a Trust comprehensively as " a great combination of capital designed to simplify and unify business , or a great combination of labor designed to simplify and unify industry , " whereas the average politician of either party entirely ignores the patent fact that every organization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are good Trusts and bad Trusts . As an excellent illustration of the former , he cited the department store , because it sells at a lower price better goods in more convenient form than could be previously obtained , and as another , the " Big Four " railroad system in Indiana and Ohio , which enables the passenger to travel in faster time on better cars at cheaper fares , and the farmer to ship grain at lower rates , than in the days when the lines which are now combined into a strong union were separate and weak Mr. Beveridge held that the real question as to any Trust is its effect on the consumer , declaring that " the consumer is the sovereign factor in civilization . " Holding that there are bad Trusts , Mr. Beveridge maintains that there is necessity for restrictive action by the Government . Although he believes in the organization of labor , he says that a labor Trust sometimes does wrong , and then it ought to be resisted . In like manner he admits that a Trust of capitalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , it ought to be restrained or put out of existence , " but he would not destroy all combinations of capital because one is dishonest . The Indiana Senator thinks that there is only one possible way of regulating Trusts  --  by the action of the national Government . He says that the Constitution does not now permit this , and consequently he endorses the proposition of the Republicans in Congress at the last session to amend it so that the national Government may control Trusts . There are two difficulties , however , about applying this remedy . One is , that everybody sees that it is hopeless ' CO think ofgetting two-thirds of each branch of Congress and three-fourths of the States to approve any such proposition ; the other , that the particular proposition brought forward in the House last summer was condemned by so able a Republican lawyer as Representative McCall of Massachusetts as one that , " if finally adopted , would have the effect of ultimately overturning free institutions in this country . " Mr. Beveridge is quite right when he says that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure . If they had been in the majority , they would doubtless have brought forward the same proposition  --  and then all of the Republicans would have voted with Mr. McCall against it . Archbishop Ireland 's London interview , reporting the Pope 's entire satisfaction with President McKinley 's treatment of the Catholic Church in Cuba and the Philippines , several of our morning contemporaries of the Republican press found themselves unable to print . The less astute and cautious supporters of McKinley in the ranks of evening journalism fairly smacked their lips over the interview . McKinley praised by the Pope ! Why , he will get the Catholic vote , after all ! ' But the sober second thought perceived the political inexpediency of picturing McKinley arm in arm with Leo . Have not the embattled Methodists already said unfraternal things of their good brother in the White House on account of this very complaisance of his in dealing with the Scarlet Woman in the Philippines ? And shall they now be told that , while they are immensely dissatisfied , the Pope is entirely satisfied ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the space of really wise Republican newspapers will be too great to allow them to make room for this dangerous item of news . They will remember what Bagehot says of that fine and deep instinct of English-speaking peoples which leads them to rise and destroy anything labelled Papistital , Besides , if the Pope is so pleased , how can Lodge keep his promise to take away from the Catholic Church in the Philippines all the land of which , he says , it had " robbed " the people ? Kansas this year again takes the lead as a wheat-producing State , with a yield estimated at 78,000,000 bushels . The Kansans are said to have gone " wheat crazy . " The yield in the State has been very uneven from year to year . In 1887 Kansas produced only 7,000,000 bushels , and in 1889 30,000,000 bushels ; it produced 70,000,000 bushels in 1892 , and 23 , - 000,000 bushels in the year fallowing . This year 's crop is a record-breaker , and the railroads are having great difficulty in moving it . Thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air waiting for some means of transportation . It is estimated that 130,125 standard cars would be required to hold this year 's crop of wheat in Kansas , and that these cars would make more than 5,000 trains of twenty-five cars each , and would extend in a solid block nearly from Kansas City to Buffalo , a distance of about a thousand miles . The railroads are confronted with the task of moving crops eastward each year , and the car-famine is a regular feature of the season This year one of the big grain roads is expending a million dollars for hew equipment in cars and locomotives . The annual moving of these great crops is perhaps the greatest achievement of American railroading . The task becomes each year more difficult and apparently impossible , yet it is each year performed . New testimony as to the character of the police of New York was given on Thursday in the annual Convention of the Episcopal Church , where it was made known that the efforts of the Rev. Dr. Paddock , rector of the Pro-Cathedral , to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his parish were met by insults and threats from the highest police authorities of the district . This is , perhaps , the most direct and flagrant accusation brought against the force in recent years It amounts to a charge much worse than the licensing of houses of ill-fame Nevertheless , this fresh revelation is no worse than the disclosures made through Dr Parkhurst 's society a few years ago . It illustrates the truth of the maxim that a persistent force always overcomes an intermittent one . The constant forces here are the demand for fresh victims of licentiousness and the demand for money by the Tammany politicians . Against these ever active forces we have only the volunteer service of a few workers , clergymen , philanthropists , and reformers Occasionally the latter find some opportunity out of the common , by which they can make them selves heard . Occasionally they find some member of the church militant like Dr. Parkhurst who will go into the dens of iniquity and fight the devil , not with fire , but with holy water . In every such case the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time Then comes a little weariness and reaction . The persistent forces begin to prevail over the intermittent ones , and the battle has to be begun de novo . Minneapolis has a new primary-election law , under which voters nominate candidates by direct vote . It was framed to do away with party conventions , and to take the power of nominating candidates out of the hands of professional politicians , and place it in the hands of the voters The results of the first election are interesting and instructive , if not altogether promising . The nomina tion of candidates takes place when voters are registered , and the most remarkable feature of the first election was the surprisingly large vote polled More ballots were cast at the primary election this year than were cast at the regular election two years ago . Primary elections in the past have seldom brought out half the regular vote , and in some cases not more than one-tenth . The voters of Minneapolis thus gave the lie to the predictions of indifference at primary electiOns , under the new law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heelers . In several instances " combine " Aldermen who were running for renomination were defeated . The result of the election which caused most comment , however , was the nomination of the notorious " Doc " Ames by the Republicans for Mayor . Ames ran as Democratic candidate for Governor in 1886 , and has been elected Mayor of Minneapolis three times on Democratic and Independent tickets He only recently declared himself a Republican , and Republicans generally regarded him as a weak and objectionable candidate . The only Democratic candidate suggested , Gray , was sure of nomination , and his manager is reported to have begun , a week before the election , urging the Democrats to vote for Ames , on the ground that he would be an easier man for Gray to defeat than Schlener , the other Republican candidate for name nation . It would appear that thousands of Democrats voted for Ames , to " put the Republicans in a hole . " The success of the trick seems to be good evidence that there is a defect in the Minneapolis Election Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like that in the New York statute , which restricts the right to vote in a primary to those who have declared themselves members of one party or another at a preceding registration . The theory of extension of trade through extension of empire is not working out to the entire satisfaction of Germans in the Chinese imbroglio . Trade with China is said to have diminished greatly of late , and German manufacturing interests have suffered severely in consequence . Two thousand hands out of work , and 1,000 looms standing idle in the textile industry of Aachen , is one item . One factory stopped altogether , and many operators discharged in the needle factories , is another . Those engaged in Chinese trade generally are complaining , while reports from China state that German trade is handicapped there by advancing prices . The German Imperial Navy Department estimates the amount of German capital invested in China at 300,000,000 marks . Germany 's exports to China during 1899 were approximately 29,000,000 marks ; her ireports , 50,000,000 . So that the trade argument is bound to have some weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They drive better singly . A highly significant remark fell from the lips of the Emperor Francis Joseph , in his address to the Polish Deputation in Galicia , a fortnight ago . He said to them that the dissolution , of the Reichsrath and the coming elections would be the last form of Constitutional resort employed by his Government . This declaration , if lived up to , means that the old Emperor is determined to put an end to the turning of the Austrian Parliament into a bear-garden . For more than three years now this national disgrace has been endured . The most extreme forms of obstruction , and incredible disorder systematically promoted , have not only brought the Reichsrath into disrepute , but have upset successive Ministries  --  five of them  --  paralyzed legislation , and shaken the very foundations of the Austro-Hungarian Empire . Now , says the Emperor , this thing must stop . Exactly what is implied in his threat remains somewhat in doubt Some say he intends to suspend the Constitution entirely , and govern as arbitrary monarch . But it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungary is that a Constitutional Government shall exist in Austria . Hence the rumor that Francis Joseph means to proclaim a new Constitution , under which a riotous Reichsrath may be called sharply to order . The recent Congress of French priests at Bourges was rendered notable by a striking discussion of the attitude of the Roman Catholic Church towards modern society The central figure was the Abbd Birot , who spoke with uncommon vigor and candor on the failure of the Church to play its proper part in the world at the end of the nineteenth century . " Though we love our country , " he said , " we are out of touch with our times . " With uncommon frankness he confessed that " our temper has become soured , through the changes of fortune , and we have shown it too much . " He recalled the fact that the Church made the older society , and thus held the first place in it , whereas " modern society is made without us , and almost in spite of us . " In short , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstention , when not one of obstruction , " and that , while continuing to think themselves indispensable , they have taught the world to dispense with them . These were bold words for a priest to speak before his fellows , and they were salutary words to be heard in France , where the cheap Voltaireism of the ruling bourgeois class has made the priestly function an invidious one . All the more reason , said the speaker , for frank and cheerful acceptance of the new order .                     