@@486635

One lesson of the late elections is written large on the face of the returns : the Democrats have not regained the confidence of the country . More narrowly , there remains evident a distrust of Democratic leadership . The Democratic policies give signs of winning their way again , but all the would-be party leaders of the hour have been dealt terrible blows by the electors . Even Bryan 's volubility is quenched under the cold douche of both Nebraska and Colorado gone Republican . His fellow-charlatan in Ohio has folded his tent like the Arab . In New York , Hill 's offensive personality was the obvious and agreed cause , ultimately , of Democratic defeat , If Judge Parker had been nominated instead of Coles , and if , in his judicial capacity , he had sentenced Hill to silence and effacement during the campaign , there is no doubt that he would have been triumphantly elected , and would have been to-day hailed as the coining nominee for the Presidency in 1904 . There never was a clearer case of a vicious and abhorrent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth which the disappointed and sobered Democracy must take to heart is , that an exceptionally high leadership will be demanded of it under present circumstances . What would have been regarded as passable or excusable in other years will not do now . The party is very much in the position of a man who has been running a round of dissoluteness for some years , and suddenly professes a determination to reform . This will , of course , interest all his friends and well-wishers , but they will be sure to keep a sharp eye upon him to see how he behaves . They certainly will not admit him to their houses the ' very first day after he has shaved and cleaned up . He will have to win his way back to respect and confidence by a steady course of decent living ; and if he is caught occasionally dropping into one of his old boozing kens , all his virtuous pretences will go for nothing . Reform is a good thing to promise , but where are the fruits meet Tor repentance ? For six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has sinned grievously , and driven away thousands of its best supporters . Many of them have now formed the habit of voting the Republican ticket . Forced first to do it by way of protest , and much against their will , they have kept it up year by year , until to-day it requires an unusual effort and a powerful attraction to win them back to their old allegiance . Emerson used to say that he preferred to vote with the Democrats but to live with the Whigs . Changing the name Whigs for Republicans , that attitude exactly corresponds to the po sition taken by great , numbers of - our best citizens for many years . Their political convictions were with the Democrats ; their friendships and social affinities were with the Republicans . But now they have been preferring to vote with the Republicans for several elections , as well as to live with them . That is the situation which puts the Democracy to its trumps . Yet what are we witnessing at this moment ? Nothing less than the spectacle of obnoxious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to incur new disasters . Look first at Ohio . In that State , Tom Johnson has just undergone a more emphatic and pointed rejection at the polls than any Democratic leader has suffered since Vallandingham . But what does he , propose to do ? Take his hand off the lever , retire , be silent , and give place to a worthier ? Nothing of the kind . He announces his determination to perfect his control of the party machine . His hold on the Hamilton County organization had not been absolute , and his next step is to make himself supreme in party management in Cincinnati . The idea seems to be that , if the voters show signs of being disgusted with too much Johnson , the proper move is to give them still more of him . Then , perhaps , next time the majority against him will be 150,000 , instead of the mere 100,000 of this year . What is going on in this State is fully as instructive . The Hill machine was the admitted cause of the defeat of the Democratic party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed enough votes to prevent Mr. Coler 's election . But what is the discarded boss going to do with himself and his machine ? Beyond all doubt he has already begun plotting to make himself more absolute dictator than ever . If the machine he had built up was like chastising the voters with whips , he will give them one that will be like chastising them with scorpions . Your true boss 's remedy for machine methods is more , and more outrageous , machine methods . Lieut. - Gov . Woodruff announces that he means to follow that plan in Brooklyn . The antics of his organization in Kings County have confessedly repelled thousands of Republican votes . Coler 's immense plurality in Brooklyn was a stinging blow levelled at the Woodruff-Dady machine . Yet all the talk of the defeated and discredited machine leaders is about the need of strengthening their power and making the clank of their political machinery more odious than ever . The explanation is , - that the machine has come to be thought of as an institution to be justified and upheld quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ostensibly founded . What it is really maintained for is the personal ascendency of men in control of it , their ability to dictate nominations , and the recognition of their power on 364 ? days of the year , even if on the 365th  --  election day  --  they are shown to have no power at all except to wreck their party . Studied as men with these ends in view , the bosses are seen to be as shrewd as they are selfish , But considered as aids to their party in elections , they are the absurdest of misfits , a demonstrated nuisance and calamity . A clean , strong , inspiring leadership is the great Democratic need of the hour . The issues stand waiting . A cause is prepared for which thousands are ready to fight devotedly . But they scan the field eagerly and in vain for a sight of that commanding figure , that political genius , that compelling character , who is able to unite the scattered forces , and to wield them as a great instrument for the country 's good . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eyes and hopes of the nation would be turning to him ! How the Hills and the Germans would wriggle off the scene before him ! And nothing is more certain than that seine man of his type and temper must be found and put at the head of the Democracy before it can fairly be said to be on the road to recovery .                     