@@486525

" We are going to make the dirt fly on the Isthmus . " That was the triumphant word which Mr. Roosevelt sent to the protesting Yale professors , after his unhappy coup in Panama . Nearly a year has passed , and not even the plans for the canal are yet fixed , so obstinately do the Culebra ridge and the Chagres River refuse to get out of the way at the bidding of impetuosity ! The chief engineer of the Commission , Mr. Wallace , has made a report to Congress in which he discusses the difficulties in a very open-minded way . It is evident that he favors a cut at sea-level . Indeed , expert opinion and Congressional preference seem now to be strongly leaning that way . Admiral Walker , however , stands by the old plans , largely on the score of economy and saving of time . Mr. Wallace speaks quietly of fifteen or twenty years ' work to be done . This leaves the enthusiastic dirt-flying of a year ago looking slightly premature . The watcher on the peak Darien @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships go by . In connection with the Panama Canal , the President is ' already beset by Congressmen and others to-make sure ' that all contracts go to Americans . It is true , the law requires him to get the work done as well and cheaply as possible , but it ' is argued that the intent could never have been to compel highborn Americans to compete with lowdown foreigners . Sharp complaint is made that lumber from Puget Sound has been carried to the Isthmus in German bottoms , though American shipowners stood ready to undertake the job at a higher price . Admiral Walker shows himself singularly obtuse on this point . He says that the Commission is going to get all the lumber and other material carried as cheap as possible . Bids will be invited , and if the foreigner is below the American , the former will get the contract . There seems to be something wrong about this . It may possibly be defended on business principles . but the ? canal is a great national work , and it is well known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their native land unless an appropriation or a " rake-off " apply the needed stimulus to the cardiac muscles . President Roosevelt has instructed Mr. Willcox , the recently appointed postmaster of New York , to eliminate politics from the service here ; and he has also commendably dismissed , J. C. Keller , president of the National Association of Letter Carriers , and Frank H. Cunningham , president of the National Association of Rural Free Delivery Carriers . Their cases were very clear . They had seen the pension lobbyists , the ship-subsidy lobbyists , the river-and-harbor lobbyists , and a dozen others busily pushing their schemes through Congress ; and they wanted for the carriers a chunk of the-pork . Accordingly , they absented themselves from their duties  --  for which cney were paid by the Government  --  and spent considerable time in lobbying for an increase of carriers ' pay . Their conduct was not only indecent in itself , but in flat violation of President Roosevelt 's order prohibiting individual or organized attempts of Government employees to influence legislation . The order itself was obviously in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these two men was particularly flagrant In the last election the two organizations of carriers frankly adopted the methods of the highwayman : " Money for us , or your political life . " Against this outrage the President 's action has been emphatic , swift , and salutary . For so ardent a lauder of high prices as Secretary Shaw recently showed himself , his conversion is lightning-like . Here he is calling upon American farmers to sell their wheat " cheap enough to permit the American miller to undersell . " Where is the Home Market Club ? What has become of that Midas touch , " selling to ourselves " ? Indeed , the whole professed theory of protection is topsy-turvy in Mr. Shaw 's statement respecting the drawback on Canadian wheat . The price of American hard wheat , he says , is " about 16 cents above that of Canada . " But does he rejoice in that fact ? Does he point to it as a triumphant proof that the agricultural schedules of the Dingley tariff , inserted with such broad winks to " fool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective ? No ; the Secretary is as anxious and troubled as any free-trader about our foreign market . We must seep that at all hazards . Yet our high prices are killing it . Exports of flour are off one-half . Foreign merchants are telegraphing to American millers , " Your prices are out of sight . " Hence the Secretary 's incessant labors to lower the price of wheat . But on one point he is unyielding . Flour must not be cheap for the American consumer . We may have special laws and orders , and strain every nerve to give the English artisan cheap bread ; we must do our best to feed the German and French laborer at small cost , ' but no American ' shall be robbed of the blessing of high prices tar the necessaries of life . His right to pay double is inalienable . It is the exception for Reed Smoot 's name to be-mentioned in the evidence which concerns his right to a seat in the Senate . Nevertheless , the testimony now being taken is vital to the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the case .. If the Senate is willing to have any Mormon apostle in its membership , he is the one , perhaps , to whom least objection would be made . He can be excluded only on the theory that the Church control is such that no one of its officers could be free from the possibility of its dictation even in his vote as a United States Senator . Last year , President Smith testified that if Mr Smoot had become a candidate for Senator without asking permission , he would have been considered " out of harmony with his quorum " ? an expression which does not mean much to a Gentile . He declared , however , that this consent amounted to no more than it would in any business house , where the cashier would naturally speak to the president before entering on a political campaign outside . We are now getting more light on the workings of the Church in politics . In Idaho , for instance , the Republican candidate for Governor , put up by the Mormons , ran ahead of Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counties . Many other cases could probably be discovered in the country where race or religious prejudice similarly helped one candidate and hurt another on the same ticket . A very wide net has been thrown out by the committee . It is catching no end of interesting and damaging details about Mormonism , but we are still far from a conclusive demonstration of the facts that would justify Smoot 's unseating . Upon the ? ear of a Senate fearful lest its right to go to war be curtailed , the appeal of the great arbitration meeting held in this city on Friday night should fall reassuringly . Any Government bent on fighting can do so , treaties or no treaties . One of the barbarities of war is the repudiation of treaties . Hence , even if a nation bound itself to arbitrate certa , in'questions , it could , if it chose in the madness of the warpassion , be false to its own pledges and add duplicity to misery . War being , essentially a savage ' thing , no civilized restraints can bold back people determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , need not be afraid of-binding the country too securely to civilization . All that Is asked of it is to give the peace habit a preference . After all , it can do no ' lasting harm to permit the natig  --  a tqs -- 0-tle a ' few controversies in the same way , that individuals do everywhere=by referring them to impartial judges . The arbitrament of war , as we see it just now in the struggle between Japan and Russia , is not so speedy , certain , or glorious as to make the Hague Tribunal appear contemptible . The members of the House of Representatives and of its Judiciary Committee differ on the question whether Judge Swayne 's conduct of receiverships , treatment of litigants , and alleged residence in Delaware justified his impeachment-but they agree unanimously-that his charge of $10 a day for expenses , when he really spent only four or five , constituted a " high misdemeanor . " This is undoubtedly good law , but it is a little surprising that the only unanimous condemnation should be of a practice that is so often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Mr. Lacey of Iowa asked , during the debate , what was the custom of other Federal Judges as to the $10 a day charge for expenses , and suggested that the House needed to have " a job lot of impeachments covering the whole district or circuit . " A year ago , - it will be remembered , when the special session merged into the regular session without interval , the Appropriations Committee reported in favor of paying-$145,000 for mileage to members who had never left Washington at all . It was seriously asserted on the floor that the 20 cents per mile allowed by the Constitution was not intended to bear any actual relation to travelling expenses , but was intended simply as additional compensation . The House finally decided not to take the money , but many members were unconvinced The Congressman draws his " stationery allowance " mid clerk 's salary , whether he uses them for the specified purpose or not . In the departments it is almost a general rule that when a maximum is fixed for any privilege , this maximum comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowance for sick leave for not more than two weeks in the year becomes a regular supplementary vacation . If Government officers in - general are interested enough to reflect on Judge Swayne 's case , they have many chances to put their conclusions into practice . The Philippine Improvement bill goes tack to the House a decided.y safer measure than when it started . It will not be possible now for a railroad company to mortgage away its property and leave the Government in the lurch , nor to secure the guarantee of returns - on the whole line when only a part is completed . Moreover , the guarantee itself is out down from 5 to 4 per cent . Some of - these are points which the Democrats urged in the House , but , as the measure was brought in under a special rule which forbade ? amendment , there was no chance there for alteration of the clauses Objected to . It ought to have as full and fair a discussion now on its return as it has had in the Senate The vote on Mr. Bailey 's amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a straw showing which way the wind sets . Ten Republicans , all Western men except Senator Knox , voted with the Democrats to put the control of railroad rates in the hands of the Philippine Commission . Three more Republican votes would have carried the amendment . The two hundred American clergymen , physicians , and merchants resident in China who have petitioned Secretary Hay on behalf of the admission of Chinese students and men of wealth and position to this country , would see their appeal granted at once were its justice the sole determining factor . To Fl ipinos Japanese , Koreans , Porto Ricans , natives of India or the South Sea Islands our institutions of learning stand Wide open . But to Chinese students the great educational opportunities are practically closed by the Exclusion act because of a senseless prejudice . Everybody admits that the Japanese who have been trained in this country have been important factors in bringing about the ' wonderful political and material progress of that country . It is universally believed , too , that a similar development of the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet the United States , the country which would profit most by it , takes the untenable position of excluding all who might help to bring it about . Obviously , this is giving other nations an opportunity to make their influence felt indirectly , - which is most heartily welcome . " When once they get the old man of the sea ? Protection  --  on their back , he is impossible to shake off . " This sentence from Lord Rosebery 's recent speech at Glasgow clearly refers to the efforts of this country to escape from the trammels of the protective tariff . The more we struggle , the more tightly we are enmeshed . The difficulty in the way of reform is intrenched corruption ; for , as Lord Rosehery pointed out , " protection taints every source of public life . " The protected ' interests , which draw an incalculable revenue from class legislation , - can make and unmake every puiblic from poundmaster to President . They can and do dictate to Senators and Representatives their speeches , their policies , their votes . Do Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it love of his native land , or is it tenderness towards the men who are " financing " the Republican party , Which arrays Speaker Cannon against tariff reform ? Why do the high pratestionistA tell the President that in urging amendment of the Dingley lawn he is beating his head against a stone wall ? These questions answer themselves . The people want tariff reform . The replies received from the Evening Post 's inquiry of the first thousand men in ' Who 's Who in America ' are ten to one in favor of revision . But against this popular demand stand the inordinate greed of the protected monopolies and an inexhaustible war chest . - - The Southern press has been quick to see that Senator Platt 's connection with the proposal to cut down the South 's representation in Congress is harmful to the project . The Charleston News and Conner is willing to discuss Congressman Burton 's bill , but not Mr. Platt 's , who , it says , " has never learned to play but one game  --  the game of politics  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon principle . " It is quite certain that Congress wi'l realize that this is a matter in which the guidance of peanut politicians should not be accepted . There is relief in the South that the Republicans give no sign of earnestly pushing any measure , for it was thought that Roosevelt 's landslide would encourage them to attempt something ' ' Pretty radical . It is obvious enough that the reduction of representation is really dreaded , and would be received as a severe punishment . All the talk about-the South 's wecoming it as an acquiescence in the disfranchisement of the negro appears to be in the nature of a bluff . The New Orleans Times-Democrat beseeches the South to keep quiet The Southern members must not be " drawn into debate on this subject . " for a heated discussion would have the effect of stirring up the issue and  --  note the admission ? " strengthening the hands of the enemy " All of which looks very little like a calm acceptance of reduced representation Republicans of New York can now say with - conviction , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Napoleon , " We have a master . " Mr. 0-dell has served notice on them that he holds their party in the hollow of his hand . His solemn pretence of " consulting " ' his creatures up the State on the Senatorial question would not deceive a - child in arms . Odell exhibits the Republican organization as his personal property . It is as his own horse or ass . and he will ride or flog it as it pleases him . His appointment of " Charlie " Murray to be judge of the Court of Claims , so as to get him conveniently out of the County Chairmanship , and his naming of the notorious Halpin for the - vacancy , combined with his determination to oust and humiliate Mr. Depew are demonstrating that the new-boss believes in - the policy of thorough thorough autocracy and thorough unscrupulousness . Senator Depew ought to regard it as a eettificAte of character that Odell is against his reelection . Indeed , if the junior Senator is now to quit the Scene , he may be regarded as happy in the opportunity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black at the dictation of an Odell has no real honors to bestow upon any man The public memory is short , but it-cannot yet have forgotten Black 's term as Governor . The tone of it was low throughout . He began with an ignorant , and brutal attack upon the civil-service laws . Under him the canal scandals created their stench . So bad was the impression made by his Administration that the machine dared not renal:ablate him , and Roosevelt , with all his Cuban laurels green upon him , had to be called in to save the day . Even . he narrowly escaped - defeat ; and the worst drag upon his canvass was the record of Gov . Black That this man should now suddenly appear as the Senator whom the Republicans of New York are panting to elect , is one of the most ghastly jokes which a boss ever perpetrated . The whole situation is as critical as shameful for the Republican party of the Empire State . It sees itself treated like a chattel . A Man about to retire from the Governorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party With a rod of iron . Against this degradation there will be protest if there is a ? spark of manhood left . Eleven Massachusetts cities voted in the first half of December on the Luce Direct Primary law . Nine which had tried it once rejected it for future elections . One , which had refused to adopt it in the first place , took the same action again , and but one of those which had tried the law voted to continue it in operation . Reckoning in Quincy , which acted favorably , there were more than twice as many voters against the law as for it . This is a curious result to be reported only a month after an election in which primary reform made great advances all through the Western States . The feature of the law which caused its unpopularity seems to be its requirement that the voter , before sharing in the primary , declare whether he is a Republican or a Democrat It is considered a violation of the principle of secrecy in voting , which of course it is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voter just as plainly made known his allegiance when he attended a caucus . The provisions designed to prevent unscrupulous voters of one party from packing the other 's caucus have been the weak points of every primary law yet drawn . The Boston Transcript compares the Luce law unfavorably in this respect with the statute just adopted by referendum in Wisconsin , which does not make the voter declare his party preference , but permits him to vote for candidates of only one party . Mr. Luce himself says that only a long trial can be expected to secure the results for which his bill was framed ; but the Massachusetts cities are impatient . " We should always remember with satisfaction that peace reigns in six-sevenths of the industrial world , " wrote Andrew Carnegie in the address read before the Civic Federation on Thursday night . The other seventh is " expOsed to successive and disastrous outbursts of war " That the word " war " is not purely metaphorical in this use is brought out by a compilation which Mr. Slason Thompson has prepared for the Outlook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of strikes in this country . Mr. Thompson collected his data through the cooperation of trustworthy newspaper men in sixteen cities who examined the files of leading papers for reports of all strikes . Where the newspaper report used the word " several " the figure 2 was entered ; - where it said " many , " 3 were added . As the table stands , though incomplete , it shows that deaths from violence incident to strikes were four-fifths as many as in the two days ' fighting at El Caney and San Juan , while the injuries were actually one-third more numerous . There were in all 180 deaths , 1,651 injuries , and 5,533 arrests . The largest number of deaths was in Colorado , Illinois , and Pennsylvania ; but New York is among the first three States in the number of injuries and of arrests , the figures from January 1 , 1902 , to June 30 , 1904 , being 4 killed , 123 injured , and 1,010 arrested . No exact figures are available as to the number of striking workmen in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps 100,000 men concerned , and the clothing strike with 30,000 . A further - analysis establishes the Tact , which hardly needs statistical proof , that the deaths and injuries are chiefly inflicted on non-union men , while most of the arrests are of union strikers . Of the 180 killed , 116 were non-union men , 51 union strikers , and 13 officers . Of the 1,651 injured , 1,366 were non-union men , 151 union strikers , and 134 officers . On the other hand , of the 5,533 arrests 5,159 , or nearly fourteen-fifteenths , were of union men . If we assume these proportions to hold good for New York State , about one striker out of every two hundred must have got himself arrested , while for about every 1,700 men on strike a non-union man was injured . Mr. August Belmont , as a large employer of labor , was obviously on the eligible list for the presidency of the National Civic Federation . His election to succeed the late Mark Hanna is , however , something of a surprise . He may perhaps signalize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has generally marked the proceedings . In fact , the danger of an organization that has merely advisory functions is-of degenerating into an amiable circumlocution office . We do not underestimate the value of frank conference between employers , labor leaders , and prominent professional men ; only good can come of it . Mr. Easley very justly pointed out on Thursday night that the problem of successful employment was largely one of the amenities of life . He instanced the happy condition of agricultural and domestic service  --  this over-hopefully , perhaps  --  in comparison with the more impersonal service of the mills and mines . Yet of incisiveness there was little in the proceedings . Mr. Mitchell 's admission that the lockout- is equally justifiable with the strike was candid and welcome ; but the only thing that really struck fire was President Eliot 's demand for " industrial peace with liberty . " Upon the old-fashioned right of a man to bargain as an individual if he chooses , and to observe his own interests- in the contract , he dwelt with his- customary sturdiness . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late pest-prandial period of this love feast , but who shall say that it was not more wholesome than the vague conciliatory expressions - so common at these meetings ? M. Witte 's large plan for reform of legislation affecting peasants is published at a significant moment . It offers the Czar Ian-alternative course to acceptance of the zemstvo petition . Instead of sweeping reforms forted extra-officially upon his notice , he will be able to offer smaller but still important measures framed by his personal councillors . That may well be the meaning of the publication of Witte 's plan shortly before the reply to the ' congress of zemstvo presidents . But it should not be assumed that the Czar will necessarily use the Witte proposals to give color to a complete refusal of the broader petition . There are within the zemstvo scheme , without accepting the radical demand for a parliament , numerous concessions that could be made ? In fact some that Prince Mirsky has made in advance of the requegt . So the Czar would be short-sighted if , yielding to alarmist counsels of the reactionaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his people as expressed by the zemstvoists . The numerous disorders , which in part seem to be - due to agents provocateurs of the eonservative faction , call loudly not for repression , but for some expression of liberal intentions towards an oppressed people , now coming to a dangerous stage of self-consciousness . 