@@486576

be explained only as pure fabrications , for no amount of ignorance would enable him to imagine that he was determining his longitude by any observations of the sun he could make when within a day or two 's journey from the Pole . As for such assertions as that in which Cook calmly stated that he " advanced the fifteen seconds " ? a quarter of a mile ! ? lacking to the Pole , or that wonderful reference to " local noon " at the Pole itself , these trifles were charitably passed over with very little comment , though either of them , rigorously judged , would have been of itself almost fatal to his credit . However , it is human to err , and there might be-some way of explaining all this . But here came in the other big factor in the case , and that the most damning of all  --  the human factor . Confronted with the fact that he was suspected of fraud- by the great majority of the scientific men of his own country and England , Cook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free himself from the imputation . So far as we know he has not had a talk with a single reputable scientific man designed to set him straight before honest critics . Nothing would have been ' easier , so far as the main grounds of suspicion were concerned , than to dispose of them by meeting a committee of impartial scientists and answering such pertinent questions as they might put . Far from courting such an examination , he went around lecturing to large paying audiences , and when that came to an end kept himself carefully out of the way . Meanwhile he was charged with imposture in the Mt . McKinley affair , and adopted similar tactics in that matter ; the climax of this part of his adventure being reached when the Montana audience whom he tried to convince of his honesty , voted him down after Bassin had denounced him face to face . Seeing that the only basis for the acceptance of his claim  --  except the hasty judgment at Copenhagen in September  --  lay in Cook 's own word , was it going too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he persistently - violated the first requirements of the conduct of a man of honor ? Indeed , the behavior of some of the Cook people can be explained only on the supposition that they hold any man who says he has made a discovery to be entitled to all the honors thereof until the contrary has been absolutely proved . In foisting the fraud upon the world , Cook was guilty of much more than an injury to the man whose laurels he was , falsely claiming . It has been a great loss to all the world that one of those rare events in which mankind spontaneously finds occasion for triumph and+ rejoicing was converted into a time ofnoXious wrangling . As for Peary himself , he has been defrauded of something which can never be restored te him . The enthusiasm which in the first . instance would have hailed the accomplishment of a feat that heroic venturers for three generations had strenuously sought to compass , can never be resuscitated out of the possibilities of the past . Such is the temper of man . False as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has dimmed the lustre-of the true discoverer 's achievement . He will receive the full acknowledgment that his work merits , in the form of recognition from scientific and other bodies and of a sure place in history ; but the joy of the acclaim that should have greeted him at the triumphant close of his twenty-three years ' quest cam never be his . And one more word of regret is in order . The denunciations of Cook 's story telegraphed by Peary from the far North were made the occasion of criticisms which are now shown to have been unjust . That Cook was an outright impostor , without the slightest title to consideration , was doubtless a ? well known to Peary from the beginning as it is to us all now ; we could , not make allowance for the state of his knowledge , as he did not make allowance for the state of ours . Finally , in bidding this strange story good-bye , there is one reflection that must be of great comfort to all Americans  --  that the-fount and origin of these woes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own country , but in the ill-considered impulsiveness of the authorities of an ancient European institution-of learning , in whose discretion we are not to be blamed for having reposed some degree of confidence . PROFESSIONAL ARMY TRAINING . Gen. Leonard Wood 's appointment as chief of staff of the army to succeed Gen. Bell will undoubtedly start anew the discussion about the value of professional training in the army . Since Mr. Root 's reorganization of the service , officers have studied more diligently than ever before . In addition to grad-mate schools for engineers , artillery , cavalry , and infantry , there is a staff college at Fort Leavenworth as well as a War College in Washington . But the - spectacle is now presented of the appointment to the most influential position of one who attended neither West Point , nor any other military school in or outside of the army ; who was until - eleven years ago in the active practice of medicine and surgery ; who never - drilled a company in his life ; whose experience as a regimental commander ' lasted but two months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a good 4eal of force , that if a man of this education and experience , trained for a totally different profession , is entitled to what is practically the headship of the . army , all the laborious studying of the modern officer is needless They will with justice point out that such a happening would , be impossible in any other country than our own . Here the belief - still persists that any man can abandon the plough and become at once a competent colonel or general . All of this feeling is not due to jealousy of Gen Wood , or to his personality . The opinion of the army , as it comes to us , is that Gen. Wood 's unflagging activities , physical vigor , and genuine ability have won him the respect of many who felt bitterly aggrieved at his being made a general . It is known that Mr. Taft formed a high opinion of Gen. Wood 's - energy and worth as he observed them in the Philippines Such personal criticism as remains attaches to Gen. Wood 's insatiate ambition and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the space to discuss at this time . We would merely point out to-day that while nobody is permitted to enter the line of the navy save by way of Annapolis , or , in a few cases , after long service in the forecastle ; while the bars are being put up around the ' consular and diplomatic services , army ' officers complain because youths from civil life without adequate preparation or examination are almost daily being commissioned officers even in branches like the Coast and Field Artillery , which demand elaborate technical , knowledge In other words , it is said that despite all its educational facilities for a man after he enters the service , the army has not yet been able to get-recognition from the War Department or Congress that it is now a specialized profession demanding as high standards of fitness as any other scientific or semi-scientific calling . Two weeks ago , for instance , four corporals and sergeants were appointed second lieutenants in the Field Artillery , a branch of the service with which they were totally unfamiliar . Upon this point , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the highest standing : In the navy all officers have to run the gantlet of four years at the Naval Acedery , they have two years ' probation at sea before they are commissioned , they are examined at every promotion , and the ineligibles either drop out voluntarily before reaching high rank , or are forced out by elimination . Just contrast this with the army . We have the most elementary examination for entrance for those from civil life and the ranks ; in the line . examinations cease with captains ; the only test held officers have is the easy ride and a physical examination , against which many of them protest The condition is absurd . Nov.i , we are not among those who think that every army officer should be a graduate of West Point ; that would tend to narrow the service dangerously . The men who have come up from the cranks keep the corps of officers in closer touch with barrack-room conditions than would otherwise be the case ; those who are carefully selected from civil life bring in a fresh and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diligent , may easily become valuable officers . Gen. W. W. Wotherspoon , now president of the army war college and lately assistant chief of staff , is an excellent example of the officer who comes in from civil life and attains high standing in his profession . The trouble is that not sufficient care is taken in selecting the men to enter either from the ranks or civil life , and in promptly eliminating them , if they are lacking in soldierly qualities , just as the navy now weeds out midshipmen for what it merely calls " ineptitude . " Far too often politics interferes ; men who are found disqualified are permitted to enter by the waiving of this or that defect . The designation of candidates for examinations is too often done by politicians . Indeed , the army , even after seven years of Mr. Roosevelt , who vowed early in his Presidency that lie would separate the service from politics , might almost be called the last refuge of the spoilsman . Congress gladly increased it in 1901 , because there were then a thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid ever since by one scandal after another for the many worthless political proteges who were foisted upon it  --  often after examining boards had rendered an unfavorable verdict in their cases . The great majority of courts-martial in the service to-day is of men who came in from the ranks , civil life , or the volunteers . But worse is the ease with which men who do not study but prefer to stagnate , remain in the army . For this the service is in part to blame in that the examining boards are not rigid enough . A recent Secretary of War once said that the difficulty was this- " Retiring boards do not retire , survey boards do not survey , and examining boards do not examine " The army retorts that it can not be expected to do its duty when it is so often overruled for political reasons by the War Department . This condition can only be remedied when politics is excluded , precisely as it is from the navy , on the ground of the high requirements of the military profession . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so long as the Executive and the War Department together place in positions of importance men who owe their successes to other reasons than scientific training , adequate service with troops , and genuine military achievements . No matter how great the fitness of Gen Wood , to-day , the safe rule is to educate and train your generals , not after , but before they become generals . IRELAND AND THE LORDS . The full commitment of the Irish Nationalists to the Liberal party , for the pending campaign , sharply points the danger which all along lay in the course of the House of Lords . If the Liberals win and come ba  --  cle to power with a popular mandate for Irish home rule , how can the Lords resist it ? On their own showing , they would be bound to submit to the will of the voters . Their motion throwing out the budget was framed on the theory that the people must first be consulted about so important a matter . But when you consult the people you have to take their whole mind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish affairs that question , too , becomes one of the things on which the electors will be be asked to record their will . The Lords have appealed to Cmsar , and if Caesar decides for a large measure of local government in Ireland , how can they hereafter withstand the v.irdiet which they have ostentatiously sought ? This hazard in the action of the Lords was clearly laid before them by many thoughtful and cautious statesmen . Lord Rosebery warned them that they were risking the loss of their entire veto power . So did Lord Balfour of Burleigh ; while a large body of sober-minded Conservatives , whose opinions were admirably expressed ' by an article in the Edinburgh Review , argued that it was a terribly mistaken policy , for the sake of a mere temporary and tactical advantage , to throw the whole make-up and power of the House of Lords into the melting-pot of a general election . The case , as they put it , was as follows : The right of the Lords to veto a money bill was at least highly questionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not its exercise at this juncture more perilous than would be its waiving ? Budgets come and go . What is done one year may be undone the next . And the great value of the veto lodged with the second chamber lay in its being reserved for serious national crises , when the unity of the Empire or its necessary defence might depend upon the Lords in opposition to ill-judged action by the Commons . This " very matter of Irish , home rule was adduced . The Lords had defeated it once , but could they again if the whole question of their right to veto legislation were put to'the people and decided adversely ? In vetoing a single budget , the upper house might disable itself from ever vetoing another bill of any kind , no matter how radical . This was the powerful argument from consequences to which the heady Lords would give no heed . But the disagreeable consequences are already coming The hearty espousing of the Liberal cause by the Irish must have brought home to many a peer the words of Sir John Eliot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliaments but in the end Parliaments have broken them . " In its practical effect upon the elec-tiOn of a new House of Commons , the determination of the Irish to support the Liberals may not mean the winning of many seats . Of course , the Nationalists hope to maintain their own Irish representation intact , and probably will be able to do so , despite the announced purpose of the Conservatives to contest every constituency in Ireland . The chief interest turns on what the Irish vote in England will do . It is large enough in some constituencies to hold the balance of power , but it is highly doubtful that the Liberal candidates will get the whole of it . The official influence of English Catholics has been pretty favorable to the Conservatives in recent years , especially on account of their attitude towards church schools . The Duke of Norfolk , the premier peer of England , is a Catholic , and is naturally one of the stoutest champiohs of the Conservatives . The Liberals may well be advised , therefore , not to count too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . They are probably not " deliverable . " Moreover , the obvious interest of the Nationalists is not to have too large a Liberal majority in the Commons . For the past four years , the Irish have played an insignificant role at Westminster , largely because the Ministry had such an enormous majority that it never needed them . It would please Ireland better if there could be a return to the conditions of 1884-86 , when neither party could carry on the government without the aid of the Irish members . Yet it would remain true that a large Liberal majority pledged to home rule for Ireland could send a bill to give it effect up to the Lords with a greater show of Popular demand than would attach to a measure dependent upon Irish votes in Parliament . Thus one sees how mixed are the motives which will enter into the casting of ballots next month by Irishmen in England . Election forecasts are notoriously more precarious than even weather predictions . Extreme partisans are cocksure ; cool-headed men suspend judgment . Joseph Chamberlain , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Winston Churchill is sure that the Conservatives will be smashed . Mr. Haldane holds a more measured opinion . He points out that at least 40 per cent . of the voters in England are men who go little to public meetings , take part in no political demonstrations , and gravitate now to the Liberal side , now to the Conserva rive . They . do not advertise what they are going to do this time . Yet the fact remains that the present composition of parties is such that there will be need ' of an even greater landslide against the Liberals in this election than there was in their favor in 1906 , if the Conservatives are to return with a majority . There are to-day only 168 Conservative-members of the House . The Liberals , with the aid of the Labor members and ' the Irish , can muster 502 votes on a division . Hence the Conservatives might win 176 seats and still be short of a majority over all . Where can they make gains ? Confessedly , only in England . A half-dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but even the most hopeful Conservative arithmeticians admit that they must look to the 46 ' 5 English constituencies . Of these , the Conservatives hold 138 . Out of the remaining 327 , the Conservatives must win , say , 170 , if they are to have any majority at all . In view of these cold figures-it is not surprising to learn that the betting odds at Lloyds are 3 to 1 on a , . Liberal victory . KINGS IN BUSINESS . There is no need to enter into a personal appraisal of Leopold II , King of-the Belgians . History has usually employed a double standard for such purposes . It weighs the king and the individual . A monarch may be a good king . and a bad man , a bad king and a good . man , or doubly good . For Leopold II , we need a three-fold category . He was a good king , as kings go , in Belgium ; he was a bad king in the Congo , and he was a most unedifying example of personal conduct . Belgium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in part , the country 's prosperity is ascribed to the King's. efforts from the beginning of his reign to extend Belgian commerce and industry . But it should be remembered that . Belgium is the ancient Flanders , the old industrial centre of Europe , the most congested working population in the-civilized world , and that its high state of economic development is rooted deeper than in the personal efforts of any one man . Leopold 's other great service to his subjects , and the first in importance , is , commonly found in the organization of the Congo Free State . Whether Belgium , will have reason to be grateful to him for the creation of a colonial empire which its own efforts could never have achieved , time alone will show . In these latter days of imperialism , broad colonial acres pass for an unquestioned blessing in themselves . But to Belgium 's annual $1,300,000,000 of foreign commerce , Congo has never contributed more than seventeen or eighteen millions , a little more than one per cent . It is not colonies that , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seventh place absolutely among the great trading nations , and no less than sec- " Aid place if we count relatively to population . On the other hand , it is certain that Belgium has inherited in the Congo a problem of immense difficulty and with it an evil reputation which it will take decades to live down . To the reputation of Leopold II , of course , the Congo attaches as a perpetual stain . His original motives in building up a vast domain for himself in the heart of Africa may have been all that his eulogists have claimed . But there is no doubt that the man who may have founded the Congo Free State for civilizing purposes became the head of a thoroughly vicious political and economic system . The English critics of the Leopoldian regime in the Congo may have been guilty of bias and exaggeration . But it was no answer to their charges to argue that conditions under the civilized rule of a European monarch were really not so bad as they were in the old days of cannibalism and witch-hunting . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into concessions to rubber-gathering companies in which Leopold was a stockholder , the removal of the natives from the soil , the practice of forced labor as the general form of taxation , all go to make up a classic illustration of what perils are involved to civilization when kings go into the money-making business . By the side of Leopold'a - Congo - ventures , Prince Albert of Monaco makes a respectabl living at the roulette-wheel and the card-table . Respectable by comparison are the means by which Spanish-American dictators managed to provide for themselves a peaceful old age among the Parisian kings in exile . Direct extortion by a monarch has behind it the authority if not the sanction of the ages . But it is shocking that the privileges of sovereignty should be employed for the - - purposes of drumming up business . Between the barbarian king who cuts off heads with his own hands and the modern king who cuts off coupons on which the dividends are paid in human life , the choice is hard to make . The Russo-Japanese war was probably hastened by the operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timber concessions on the Yalu River . Behind the Jameson raid and the South African war rumor placed certain exalted names deeply interested in Transvaal mining shares . The fact is that kings and rulers of the earth , ever since they have been put on the civil list , have been subjected to the temptations that beset the ordinary man of wealth . The future of monarchy the world over is not so unclouded-that a prudent regard for the welfare of one 's progeny is altogether amiss among heads that wear a crown . The harm comes when the king and the speculator or man of business get mixed . THE UNDERGRADUATE AS POLITI-CIAN . When Gov . Hughes said at Yale that our politics would be regenerated if col-lege men were always honest , he struck a blow at a cherished and ancient illu-sion . Commencement orators since no one knows when have blandly assumed that the graduating classes represent the moral yeast of the younger gener-ation  --  the " picked recruits , " as George William Curtis expressed it , marching out " with beating drums and flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressmen with a message from the ensanguined field , the college boy of with his heart full of innocence and his head full of beautiful dreams . This fair impeachment has been attached not merely to the newly-fledged columns , but to the graduate of long standing , also . College breeding has , in the political world , been made synonymous with lily-handed fastidiousness , with airy superiority , with cultivated indifference , with meddlesome and unpractical idealism  --  with anything you please except with successful and dishonest politics . Yet this disinterested visionary , it seems , is as much an illusion as the " noble savage . " The pain of this disillusion would be somewhat assuaged if we were still able to reply that the college man leaves his Alma Mater , at least , integer vetw , seelensque punts But the corrupted currents of the extra-academic world are not alone responsible for the undoing of the " picked recruits . " As a matter of fact , many of the young men welcomed on commencement day into a wider field of virtuous activity are already accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carved out a career in a. community of several hundred members  --  ample scope for the development of nascent political talent . They have dealt with political groups in the form of classes , clubs , fraternities , and unclassified " barbarians . " They have been interested in innumerable offices , and have duly weighed their honors and honorariums . As managers of various - undergraduate organizations  --  musical , theatrical , journalistic , athletic ? they have arranged tours of the United States , and even trips to Europe , and have received and disbursed thousands of dollars . They have undertaken the construction of public works of general utility  --  sumptuous students ' unions , expensive grandstands , -class-monuments , incomparable cinder tracks . By necessity they have familiarized hem-selves with the means of levying taxes , both direct and indirect . Now that students have undertaken their own education and are training themselves for " efficiency , " it is sheer nonsense to talk about the cloistered walks of the acaland village . On the contrary , several things make it a rather inferior training-school for honest politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New England village , but heterogeneous and cosmopolitan , like a great city . It is constituted of few Puritan and many Cavalier consciences- - the college student hates a Roundhead . Except for athletics , as the president of Harvard declared In his inaugural address , it has ne common interests . It may demand open competition and choice of the best men for its athletic teams  --  though even here there are rumors of favoritism . On most other questions it falls apart into cliques and rings which  --  experienced undergraduates confess  --  draw up their " slates , " and dicker and bargain over candidates with all the secrecy and skill of their betters . Active electioneerers hustle negligent voters to the polling-places in automobiles . It is whispered that students have been bribed to cast the correct ballot by the payment of their class taxes . The gentle art of " seeing " the faculty  --  the men " higher up " ? in behalf of disqualified athletes is notor ions . That the financial management of the miscellaneous functions and organizations of college life is often absurdly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the purses of parents . That managers are sometimes consciously and disgracefully wasteful , that they have been known to enter private luxuries under the head of " incidental expenses , " is a fact that occasionally is carried into the dean 's office , where , like a corpse in a morgue , it is decently covered . About such matters as these the undergraduate press  --  there is unfortunately no Opposition sheet  --  is always as silent as the grave . Yet it is popularly held that the college man in politics is a fool ! We have no Morrison 's Pill for purging all the distempers of the undergraduate body politic . Some of them spring from the original corruption of human nature . Some of them are fostered by the centres of aristocratic and plutocratic exclusiveness against which the president of Princeton has teen making experimental attacks . Some of them must continue till the reign of the athletic ring is broken . But suppression of sheer extravagance , wastefulness , and actual dishonesty on the part of student treasurers , business-managers , and executive committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities . There is no obvious reason why every chartered organization of any importance could not be compelled to render to faculty auditors an exact account of every dollar received and expended . In most of our leading institutions , perhaps , some sort of auditing committee is , in fact , already established . But its work is too frequently performed in an entirely mechanical and perfunctory fashion . It looks to see if accounts balance , but does not inquire very curiously for itemized bills or vouchers . The intelligent but unscrupulous student easily learns to conceal slip-shod bookkeeping and to doctor discrepancies till all looks right to the casual eye . Though this kind of training may be of inestimable service to him in later life , it will not hasten the political millennium . Those who believe still , in spite of everything , that education is the forming of character , should look pretty closely into the educational value of undergraduate activities . 