@@430223

 |p1292  THE above title is the characterization by Mr. Justice Brewer of a decision recently rendered by the Supreme Court of the United States in a Chinese case . It adds another to the long list of acts of an unfriendly class inflicted upon the Chinese people which have reflected so unfavorably upon our nation . The case , briefly stated , is that of a native-born citizen of the United States who , having made a visit to China , the country of his parents , on reaching San Francisco was held by the immigration officials to be a Chinaman and was refused admittance into the United States . Under a writ of habeas corpus he was brought before the United States District Judge of San Francisco , who upon hearing evidence decided that , having been born in this country , he was a citizen of the United States and as such entitled to admission . The case was appealed by the Federal authorities through the Circuit Court of Appeals to the Supreme Court . The latter court has just held that , in view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which provided that the decision of the proper immigration officer excluding an alien from admission is final , there can be no adjudication of the question of citizenship by the courts and that relief can not be had through the writ of habeas corpus . If this is to stand as the law in the United States , punishment by banishment may be inflicted upon a citizen of the United States in violation of what have heretofore been held to be inestimable guaranties of the Constitution . Article III , section 2 , provided that " the trial of all crimes , except in cases of impeachment , shall be by jury ; " and by the Fifth Amendment no person can " be deprived of life , liberty or property without due process of law , " and , further , " no person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime , unless on presentment or indictment of a grand jury . " The highest court of our country has decided that due process of law is granted by the hearing before the immigration official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way superseded ; that a citizen may suffer the infamous punishment of perpetual banishment from the land of his birth by the same procedure , and that the writ of habeas corpus , so dearly prized as " the remedy which the law gives for the enforcement of the civil right of personal liberty , " is ineffective against the decision of an obscure immigration officer . Let us see what is this " due process of law . " The immigration officer who controls the Constitutional guaranties above cited is rarely if ever possessed of any legal education and is chosen rather because of his fitness as a police officer or detective . Under the authority of the laws . passed by Congress for the exclusion of Chinese laborers a series of rules have been adopted by the Immigration Bureau . These rules provide that when a Chinese person arrives at a port or on the frontier of the United States the immigration officer shall prevent the Chinese person from having communication with any one but the officer ; that the officer shall examine him in private touching his right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an attorney or friend , and that only such witnesses shall be heard as the examining officer shall designate , and they examined in private . In this way the right of the Chinese applicant to admission is determined . If admission ' is denied , the applicant is advised of his right of appeal to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor , when he can employ counsel , who is permitted , upon filing notice of appeal , to examine , but not to copy , the ex parte evidence taken by the immigration officer . Notice of appeal  |p1293  must be filed within two days , and within three days a record of the case , including new affidavits ( for there is no open or public hearing ) must be forwarded to Washington . The burden of proof is placed on the Chinese person , and in every doubtful case the benefit of the doubt is given to the Government . No provision is made for summoning witnesses from a distance ( for instance from the State in which the applicant was born ) or taking depositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this be not a star chamber proceeding of the most stringent sort , what more is necessary to make it one ? I do not see how any one can read these rules and hold that they constitute due process of law for the arrest and deportation of a citizen of the United States . " And this in a case where the applicant : ad been judicially determined to be an American citizen . Under such circumstances the Justice quoted and the two colleagues who unite with him in dissent Justices Peckham and Day ) are justified in the declaration : " Such a decision : s appalling . " I give the concluding paragraph of the dissenting opinion : " The statutes of the United States expressly limit the finality of the determination of the immigration officers to the case of aliens . It has been conceded by the Government that those statutes do not apply to citizens , and this court made a most important decision based upon that concession . The rules of the department declare that the statutes do not apply to citizens , and yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they may be enforced against citizens , and that Congress so intended . Banishment of a citizen not merely removes him from the limits of his native land , but puts him beyond reach of any of the protecting clauses of the Constitution . In other words , it strips him of the rights which are given to a citizen . I can not believe that Congress intended to provide that a citizen , . simply because he belongs to an obnoxious race , can be deprived of all the liberty and protection which the Constitution guarantees , and if it did so intend , I do not believe that it has the power to do so . " The act of Congress which has brought about this " appalling decision " was inserted as an amendment to the Sundry Civil appropriation bill of 1894 , and illustrates the evil effects of such a method of procuring legislation . It was prepared at the Immigration Bureau , " smuggled " into the appropriation bill , where it had no legitimate place , and went through Congress without its real character being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not intend by its enactment to make it apply to citizens or to deprive them of their Constitutional guaranties . It is not my purpose to arraign the majority of the Supreme Court . If I attempted it I could not use stronger language than that uttered by one of its own members . Possibly the court believed with President Grant that the best way to secure the repeal of a bad law was to enforce it vigorously . Such ought to be the result of the recent decision . When it is so plainly made to appear that under the act of 1894 , as interpreted by the Supreme Court , an immigration officer may by a star chamber proceeding exclude a native-born citizen from his own country , Congress ought not to hesitate to repeal the law or so modify it as to remove this objectionable power . This occurrence emphasizes the necessity of cultivating among our people , and especially our rulers and lawmakers , a higher standard of justice in the treatment of the Chinese race . Our Secretary of State has justly won the commendation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrity of that great Empire so that our trade with it shall be free and unrestricted . Our Churches are contributing many millions of dollars to carry thither our religion and our civilization . But Congress , under the whip and spur of a small section of our population , enacts legislation which affronts and maltreats that cultivated and populous nationality and in great measure undoes the enlightened work of our Government and the Churches .                     