@@485018

President McKinley 's interpretation of the election in his speech to the Union League Club of Philadelphia on Saturday was thoroughly characteristic . He threw the sop of " generous acknowledgment " to the Sound-Money Democrats who had again voted for him , in forgiveness of his treatment of them in 1897 , and to imaginary Independents who had returned to the party " to stay , " and then discovered a popular approval of every act of his Administration in the past , and mandate for every act iu contemplation ? " industrial independence , " alias the tariff in principle and in its present form ; " peace and beneficent government under American sovereignty in the Philippines , " neither a paramount nor a real issue in the canvass , according to the ante-election McKinley . He left it to his lieutenant , Senator Lodge , to say bluntly that " the people have voted to maintain the protection system , and to have that same policy extended to the unhanding of our merchant marine . " Of course they have ; they always allow their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding that success at the polls means general condonation and carte blanche . The platitudes in which our chief magistrate wrapped up his little-joker lesson were worthy of his reputation in that line . Congressman Burton of Ohio , Chairman of the Committee on Rivers and Harbors , is quoted in an interview as saying the right thing about the Ship-Subsidy Bill Nearly all the men in authority who have been interviewed on the subject since the election have " hemmed and hawed " over it , saying that they believe a subsidy bill would pass at this session , but that the pending bill might need some further amendment . Mr. Burton , however , is quoted as saying that the principle itself is wrong , and that ho can not support it in any form . It must be surprising to Senator Hanna that the representative of the Cleveland district should set himself up to have an opinion of his own on this question . Mr. Burton is quoted also as saying that he considers it doubtful whether any subsidy bill can be passed at the coming session , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill already reported . On the other hand , Gen. Grosvenor is alleged to have said that the pending bill will be passed by a good majority early in the session ; but Gen. Grosvenor has been a false prophet on this subject on former occasions . There is no reason to sup , pose that he is better informed now than he was when he assumed that the Committee on Platform in the Philadelphia Convention would report the particular resolution that he sent to it with the seal of his approval . He was in quite a stuttering state when he found how it had been " Quigged " in the committee room . It is important , however , if any subsidy legislation is to be passed , that it should be done quickly . The business of our merchant marine is growing so rapidly , and our ship-yards are so crowded with work , that if the bill should be postponed a year , even its present advocates would acknowledge that there was no need for it . That Figaro interview with McKinley , of which we had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now arrived by mail , and we do not see why Its authenticity should have been so confidently denied . It is signed by Etienne Richet , who describes himself as a returned Alaskan traveller , and explains how he secured an introduction to the President by the- French Ambassador at Washington . All this seems regular enough . Highly probe . Tile , too , appears his version of Mr. McKinley 's conversation . It reveals a m6lange of the noblest sentiments and questionable deeds . That , surely , is lifelike . It is only what we have had in messages and speeches for four years . " War , " says the President McKinley of the Figaro interview , " is the most horrible of scourges . " We know well that Joseph Surf aceism . " I pleaded the cause of peace in the bosom of my Cabinet . Several of my Secretaries felt as I did . But we had to yield to Congress . " What is there in that to arouse suspicion ? It is exactly what happened , according to the ? best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not having the advantage of an American reading public , thought that all this about having to yield to Congress might seem a little too steep to Frenchmen , and so he added the footnote : " It is a fact that Mr. McKinley has always been the slave of Congress ( On sait que M. MacKinley fut toujours l'esclave du Congras ) . " In this country we need no such explanation . To us , M. Richet appears to be a very Truthful James in his care to " state but the fact . " A cablegram from Manila reports trouble with the double standard of value , and lapse into medievalism in consequence of it . It seems that the Philippine Commission has put an export duty of 10 per cent . on silver money in order to keep down the value of the Mexican dollar to one-half the Value of the gold dollar , that ratio hay ing been established by Gen. MacArthur . The value of silver has been rising lately , and the value of the Mexican dollar , which is the prevailing currency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its weight . At the MacArthur ratio the Mexican dollar was worth more for exportation to China than for circulation in Manila , and it began to flow out of the country . So the Commission , on the motion of Mr. H. C. Ide , who is a member , adopted this tax , which it was thought would be prohibitory . The Commission followed the sapient example of the governments of the sixteenth century-when they found themselves pestered by exportations of one or other of the precious metals in consequence of changes in the market ratios . There is no instance recorded in history where these edicts had the intended effect , or any effect at all except to expose the stupidity of their authors . If the Mexican dollar is worth more than a gold half-dollar in China it will be worth more in Manila , and no decree of the Philippine Comniission can make it worth less . If the decree can be actually enforced ( which is much to be doubted ) , it will cause a decline in the prices of the exportable commodities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under natural conditions takes place because the Chinese merchant who imports them prefers them to the goods . He will take the goods only if they are offered at a lower price . The real justification for the sanguinary onslaughts which the farces of civilization are now making on people of dark skins is beginning to be discovered . " Duty " has grown rather shamefaced , " Destiny " is getting worn out , and " Benevolent Assimilation " has come to provoke derision . But there is something back of all these , and , curiously enough , Gen. MacArthur and Gen. von Gossler , the German Minister of War , simultaneously disclose it . Gen. MacArthur suggests that the Aryan races have been seized with a fit of homesickness , and are obeying the mandate of the mysterious " homing " instinct in seeking to reinstate themselves in their ancestral abodes . Gen. von Gassier declared in the Reichstag that what the German troops were now doing in China was " merely retaliation for what the Huns did to us for centuries . " This explains why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some virtuous Americans as an . appropriate retribution for the recent massacres of our missionaries . Very probably the occupants of these tombs , if they did not participate in the ravages of the Huns , at least approved of them , or would have approved of them if they had known that they were taking place . According to this view of justice , all the incursions from which Europe has suffered are now to be avenged on the present inhabitants of China . Even the Troglodytes must have some claim to indemnity , and if their grievances can be discovered and the proper claimants be ascertained , justice may at last be done them We observe no indications that the Aryan races mean to relinquish their present abodes when they reoccupy those of their Asiatic progenitors ; and as there is no vacant continent to which the inhabitants m Asia can betake themselves , the policy of killing them seems to be quite as merciful as it is just . The Chinese Minister occupies a delicate position in this country . The situation is almost unparalleled , for , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China and the United States , pacific relations have been , superficially at least , maintained between the two Governments . War has existed de facto , and in one sense de jure , but the conditions have been so peculiar that its existence has not been diplomatically recognized . Hence the Chinese Minister was not recalled or dismissed , and it is simple justice to say that his conduct has been not only irreproachable , but in the highest degree praiseworthy He would have been entirely justified in keeping silence and avoiding publicity ; but the character of his utterances is such as to fully justify his speaking The address which he delivered at Philadelphia contains as good an account of the Chinese situation as has anywhere appeared , and his explanation of the causes which brought on the outbreak brings as probably as near the truth as we shall ever get . We can but admire the judicial impartiality and lucid reasoning with which this representative of a people whom we call barbarous states their case . He does not defend the savage excesses of the Boxers , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indirectly suggests how their repetition may be prevented . Matthew Arnold once commented on the " modern " style in which Thucydides wrote history , meaning that he displayed calmness and rationality . Whether we can now regard this as a modern trait or no , Minister Wu certainly displays it . ? Fifty years ago the representative of a people defeated in the struggle for independence and exiled from his country was brought to our shores in one of our war-ships , and received a magnificent ovation , not only from our people , but also from our Government . Times have changed since Kossuth 's day , and our Administration jdurnal 's comment on the enthusiastic reception of Kruger at Marseilles with marked restraint . We have contracted some " entangling alliances " which would make it highly inexpedient for the Administration to extend any courtesies to this fugitive , and his appearance in the halls of Congress would be very embarrassing . Being at present engaged in forcing our own sovereignty on an unwilling people , we need to be very guarded in expressing sympathy with those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republican government . Possibly Aguinaldo may somewhere attempt to pose in the character of a patriot , and occasion awkward and invidious comparisons As for the acclamation of the French populace , they must be regarded as mere expressions of hatred of England , or as the frothy effervescence of a volatile people at the sounding names of liberty and independence . Under different circumstances Kruger might receive an enthusiastic welcome if he were to visit our country ; but until the subjugation of the Filipinos has been completed , we shall not be in position to use the language which would be appropriate on such an occasion A correspondent of the Pall Mall Gazette , writing from Johannesburg . makes a suggestion which deserves the attention of Imperialists . His proposal is to form a company to acquire the farms from which the Boers in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal Republic have been driven , and dispose of them to English buyers The terms , it is claimed , could be so fixed that " the company would have no risk , " while the price paid would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : " There will be hundreds of farms in the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal that will have to go into the market when peace is proclaimed Prisoners of war on their return will find , in nine cases out of ten , that their homesteads have been owned down , and scarcely a head of stock left in the country , and as they will be unable  --  even if they had the means  --  to purchase a single head of cattle , by reason that there are none , their only method of raising money for bare subsistence , to say nothing of payment of interest on their bonds  --  for nearly every property in this country is mortgaged ? will be the sale of their farms ; unless , indeed , the demon of conciliation enters into the soul of the British Government and drives them to tax the Briton to provide means for setting the Boer on his legs again . " It would appear from this that the British forces have been engaged in burning the homes of the Boer prisoners whom they hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too destitute when released to be able to recover their property The scheme is apparently quite feasible for current events in various parts of the world indicate that the " demon of conciliation " has been thoroughly exorcised . In fact , the proposals of the European Powers in China are quite akin to this plan , and can be earned out perhaps with even greater ease Dead Chinamen will make less trouble than living Boers , in spite of their captivity , and the protests of the survivors will receive little consider . ation when the cause of empire is involved . " Death in the Flames " is the heading , in flame-colored type two inches high , on the first page of the Denver Tunes , which reports the burning of Preston Porter by a mob at Lake Station , Colorado . Beneath the caption , and extending nearly across the page , is a picture of the burning . Porter is shown in the midst of a roaring fire , bound with chains to a stake , screaming with agony , his arms extended towards heaven , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more fuel and others enjoying the spectacle of the horrible torture . A graphic description , in the letterpress ? accompanies the pictorial representation of the scene . The hell which Milton imagined contained nothing more hideous . What kind of schooling the youth of Colorado are receiving at the hands of their elders and through the medium of their newspapers we can only faintly conjecture , but unless the perpetrators of this awful crime are brought to justice , Colorado will be moving towards anarchy more swiftly than when she elected Davis H. Waite as her Governor . Waite only talked about wading in blood to the horses ' bridles . He did n't mean anything by it . He was only a Populist , indulging in harmless rhodomontade , and it can be said of the Populists that their bark is always worse than their bite Gov . Waite may have disgraced Colorado , but he never endangered it as it is endangered by this horrid act . Gov . Roosevelt has made short ? work of the New York Trorld 's petition for the removal of Mayor Van @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called Ice Trust . This action was begun as an advertising dodge to sell newspapers . The Attorney-General of the State advised the Governor that no proofs were advanced to sustain the charges , and that as the Mayor acquired his interest in the Ice Company before the latter had any dealings with the city government , there had been no infraction of law . This fact disposed of the case , and the matter might have been dropped at that point , but the Governor improved the occasion to make some very sound obserVations on the impiopriety of removing elective officers ontrivial charges . The only power fit to remove the Mayor of New York , unless he has been guilty of a penitentiary offence , is the power that elected him . The people deliberately chose him , and they must and ought to have him for their chief officer and representative to the end of his term . When they can get rid of him in the proper way . Bishop Potter is again entitled to the thanks of the community for his forceful sermon at St. Paul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " His call for 25,000 vigilance committeemen should not only meet with prompt response , but should also bring to his side others of his own calling . There never was a plainer issue between right and wrong than is presented in this fight with the legions of evil , and the clergy of the city can not afford to take less than a leading part in the struggle . The renaissance of the influential Manhattan Club and the numerous quiet meetings of Gold Democrats bent on purging the city of Crokerism are additional and encouraging signs of the growth of the uprising against Tammany . There can be no doubt that the forces of righteousness are in a great majority in this city , and that a union of all those opposed to the plundering and debauching of the city is the one essential to the overthrow of its present rulers Senator Platt , it must not be forgotten , is now the chief danger to the consummation of this union , but even his successful turning over of the city to Croker in 1897 would not have been possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , placed party loyalty above the community 's welfare . It is regrettable that the idea of segregating the social evil has entered into the present discussion of the best means of ridding the city of the vice which so openly flaunts itself , with police sanction , upon our streets That Tammany should be in favor of this is not surprising , for it would simplify the question of tribute and in a way lend official sanction both to the evil resorts and to the present system of plunder . That an Episcopal rector of standing should favor such a project  --  certain to develop into official regulation in the long run  --  is nothing less than astonishing . The city might as well set aside one district for burglars and another for highway robbers to ply their trade in undisturbed , for they , too , will be with us as long as human nature remains unchanged , and they , too , are outlawed What the present situation calls for is not a discussion of the Lest methods of dealing with the evil to be attacked , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police , and the lawbreakers , by which the latter flourish and grow apace Thanks to it , the police force has truly become an institution for the propagation and widespread scattering of vice , instead of a body for its suppression and punishment . Residents of Chicago are taking their taxation more seriously this year than ever before , and have been sending delegations of business men to Springfield to reason with the State Board of Equalization . It appears from the assessment returns that there is $118,000,000 less taxable property in the city this Year than there was last The explanation is simple . Under a new revenue law , the first " generally honest assessment of property in thirty years " was effected last year The law encouraged honesty by providing that the tax rate should not exceed 5 per cent . on an assessed valuation equal to one-fifth of the full valuation  --  that is to say , an equivalent of 1 per cent an the full valuation . Under this assurance the assessed valuation of property in Chicago more than doubled , rising from $180,041,154 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , the Supreme Court came in to interfere with honesty , by nullifying the provision of the law limiting the rate of taxation , so that the assessors of Cook County " found themselves in the galling and intolerable position of having secured an honest assessment by a false representation " As a remedy , . the County Board of Review proceeded to bring down the valuation this year to $260 , - 564,522 The experience of the world , it is said in defence of this scaling down , demonstrates that " there can never be an honest and equal assessment of property so long as it is possible to levy a tax rate of over Ws or per cent . " Honesty draws the line at that point , and when the rate is forced higher , property begins to disappear . This , we submit , is a somewhat novel theory of finance . While undervaluation of property for assessment of taxes is not by any means a practice peculiar to Chicago , it has perhaps been carried to greater lengths there than elsewhere . The motive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State taxes , but the game is so simple that more than one can play at it , and when the practice becomes general throughout a whole community , as in Illinois , there ceases to be any advantage in it for anybody Whether or not the city of Chicago pays its just proportion of State taxes , there is something childish and highly absurd in the fictitious valuation of property for assessment purposes A few years ago the report that the Board of Visitors of the Andover Theological Seminary had abolished the quinquennial subscription to the creed of the founders would have raised a storm of protest . Now it is likely to pass with little comment . The embers of the former controversy are too cold to be blown into flame , and the death of the mainstay of the old order , Professor Park , affords a favorable opportunity for recognizing changes that have undeniably taken place . The trustees of the seminary , in their application to the Visitors , point out that the creed is written in ancient phraseology , and that misinterpretations of it have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of which they doubt if its public reading and subscription express the true intent of the founders . The truth is that the creed itself is obsolete . The trouble is not with its ancient phraseology , but with its antiquated conceptions ; not with its misinterpretations , but with its correct interpretations . It asserts beliefs which hardly any one now pretends to hold , and which this generation finds it hard to believe that any one could have ever held . In these circumstances , it had become as impracticable to secure competent professors willing to subscribe as it would be to find professors of astronomy willing to declare their acceptance of the Ptolemaic system . The Board of Visitors hab been discreet enough to decide that the requirement of subscription was " directory " merely , and could be dispensed with m the case of a professor who had approved himself a man " of sound and orthodox principles in divinity " The " Andover controversy " expired some years ago , and this action simply provides for its decent interment . While the effect of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of unity of race in the delegates , at least one very practical end was attained , namely , the voting of a plan of compulsory arbitration by the South American republics The motion was introduced by Peru , which has the most to gain by arbitration . Chili 's was the sole dissenting voice . This recalls the fact that Chili consented to take part in the approaching Pan-American Congress at the City of Mexico , only on condition that any arbitration there provided for should not concern her own disputed boundaries . Now if arbitration is anywhere needed in South America , it is precisely on the question of the Chilian boundary It will be remembered that the Peace of Anson deprived Bolivia of her entire seacoast to the advantage of Chili  --  a harsh and oppressive measure ; also . that Chili holds from Peru the provinces of Tacna and Arica , subject to the final decision of a plebiscite , which has never been taken and apparently never will be , while for years the question of the Argentine boundary has been a source of irritation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for arbitration , one would say . Not so Chili Confident - that it is het part to shed the blessings of her civilization over an expanding territory , she waves aside any proposal to reason together , and , first of Southern republics , imposes an her people compulsory military service . All we want is in pax ( peace ) , protested a Chilian delegate at a former Pan-American Congress . We suspected you wanted ' La Paz ( the capi.L. tal of Bolivia ) , was the retort .                     