@@486917

always been the vice of tariff hearings  --  a procession of millionaires who go to Washington in the form of paupers to beg tariff crusts . One belated diversion the high-tariff people are now trying to make They betray a sudden anxiety about the revenue It may be , they say , that a case has been made out for lowering or abolishing certain duties , which are not needed for protection , but what is the Treasury going to do for money ? They point to the huge and constantly accumulating deficit  --  nearly $60,000,000 for this fiscal year alone  --  and ask how we can possibly spare the income from high duties . But the moment you begin to talk of the tariff as needed for revenue , that moment you abandon the protectionist point of view To fix the duties at a level where they would produce the greatest revenue is a process which has nothing to do with protection . In-stead of keeping up the rates for the purpose of bringing in more money , the true way might be to cut them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wells established when Commissioner of Internal Revenue He urged the reduction of the tax on whiskey from two dollars to one dollar a gallon , on the ground that by halving the tax , you would double the revenue , and the result showed that he was right The same principle would apply in the case of hundreds of tariff taxes If it is really revenue that we want to get from them , they ought to be lowered rather than raised Ten automobiles imported under a tax of $100 mean twice the revenue produced by a tax of $500 , under which only one would be imported If the argument on the score of greed and oppression is all against the high tariff taxes , so is the argument from revenue Any competent Finance Minister with a free hand  --  a Gladstone , a Turgot , any minister responsible for the finances of Germany , or France , or England to-day  --  would jump at the chance of raising the needed revenue for the American government He would see vast sources of taxation here practically untouched . We can but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the condition of the Treasury . It may lead therm to recall Rnnatnr Ala-mob 's AIIMISbefore committing the government to a vast expenditure that might lead only to a catastrophe . That demand was brushed aside , but now , apparently , it is to be met , at this late day Better late than never , of course , but the reconsideration will not enamour Congress or the country of a project which had such weighty expert opinion against it , and which is certain to cost three times the original estimate President Roosevelt had good grounds for his attack upon the New York World That newspaper has not been able to substantiate grave editorial allegations of wrong-doing in the purchase of the Panama Canal . Any newspaper guilty of such blunders , whatever its motive , must take the consequences Its dragging in of the names of Douglas Robinson and Charles P , Taft it now admits to have been wholly gratuitous . As in the case of its bogus interview with Kaiser William , an imposition of this kind damages not merely the World , but the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Roosevelt 's language and method of rebuking Mr Pulitzer , nothing can be said in their defence . The President of the United States should not so far forget himself and his office as to lay no restraint upon the bitterness of his anger and the violence of his epithets . Historian as he himself is , nobody should know better than Mr Roosevelt that his long series of violent denunciations and of branding men as liars will always be a terrible indictment of the sanity and wisdom of his Administration . Gen. Clarence R Edwards , the chief of the Bureau of Insular Affairs , says in his annual report that it is still too early to decide the exact value to the government and the people of the islands of the experiment of educating Filipino students in this country Every sign points , he affirms , to the " immense importance " of the movement As for the individual students now here , their work has averaged " very good , " and , in one or two cases , is of an " exceptionally high order . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value and effect of the policy . There is India Thousands of its citizens have been educated in the homes of their conquerors , and some of them have won highesthonors at the universities . But , while they have absorbed the culture of the West , they have gone home as much a race distinct as when they came , in their ideals and their hopes for their native land . It is certain that their influence has not been thrown in favor of the dominating white man and against the present stirring of the masses . So it is likely to be with the Filipinos . It is difficult to believe that the Filipinos who have been educated in this country will ever be at home anything but advocates of Philippine independence . Whatever may have been the misconduct of certain soldiers of the Twenty-fifth Infantry at Brownsville , it is a fact that their brethren in the service are winning high praise . Following in the footsteps of a recent commander of the Cavalry School at Fort Riley , Col. H. L. Scott has again nothing but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Point : The cavalry detachment ( colored ) has continued its excellent showing and has demonstrated still further the advantages of colored over white men for this duty . There is a waiting list now , and only experienced men having former service and very good and excellent records are accepted . The Adjutant-General 's annual report gives further praise to the colored troops by saying that , while the percentage of desertions among the white troops is 4 7 per cent. , that of the colored is hardly more than one-half of one per cent This trait of loyalty has long been noticed , as has the greater abstinence of the colored soldiers Their devotion to their officers also distinguishes them . Incidentally , it may be noted that for nearly a year past there has been much friction between the troops of the Second Cavalry at Fort Des Moines and the people of that city , who declare that these white soldiers are largely a set of drunken rowdies . Press and pulpit have denounced them It is not , then , the black troops who are wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest revelations of corrupt alliances between " business men of high standing " and base politicians Some bank officials there have , it appears , been paying councilmen handsomely to retain for their institutions the privilege of acting as depositories of city funds Of course , the defence will be the old one , heard so often in New York , San Francisco , Philadelphia  --  wherever graft has reigned . Since the stockholders would make rather than lose money by the transaction , and the corrupt officials were there , the only thing to do was to be practical and " get the business . " These same bank officials are doubtless models of correct deportment in their own homes : upon the adulterer , the swindler , the drunkard , the burglar , they look with holy horror . But to misappropriate bank funds to buy the city officials is sound business policy . Well , the result is for the city another story of shame , and for the bribers , let us hope , a straight road to jail As President Eliot said in his speech here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this are much worse than the bribe-takers They sin knowingly and deliberately , and merely for the gain of a few dollars Next month , the trial of some of the alleged bribe-givers in San Francisco will be held . If they and the Pittsburgh criminals are sentenced for long terms , it will be a blessing to the whole country , and may result in a decrease of crime among our most estimable and influential citizens . The decision of the up-State Public Service Commission , in the matter of the Delaware and Hudson Railroad 's proposed new bond issue , involves some important principles In 1906 , a trolley company operating in the district around Saratoga and Lake George , and known as the Hudson Valley Railway , was bought up , through subsidiary companies , by the Delaware and Hudson . The financing of the purchase was somewhat complicated , but it depended ultimately on the raising of $4,665,000 , on its own short-term notes , by the Delaware and Hudson These notes the company wishes to take up by placing a mortgage on its own property . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground that the trolley property is disconnected from the Delaware and Hudson 's steam railway operations , and has " no definite relation thereto . " To mortgage the Delaware and Hudson 's own property in order " to pay a debt incurred in the purchase of a totally disconnected property " is contrary to the purposes of the statute , and can not be allowed . The company 's application , similarly to mortgage its own property to take up $2,500,000 notes issued to buy up Pennsylvania coal lands , is also denied , on the ground that the coal property itself ought to be pledged for such a purpose . The Delaware and Hudson officers announce that the matter will at once be carried into the courts If so , we shall presently have a significant ruling on the scope of the commission 's powers Our own judgment is that the commission not only acted within its mitt ority , but that its reasoning is sound . Its decision can be attacked , we believe , only by attacking the statute conferring the powers thus exercised The case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the fundamental purposes of reform , with a view to which the commission was created . One has only to recall the scandal of the Union Pacific 's investment , during that same year 1906 , of $120,000,000 of its shareholders ' money  --  most of it raised by mortgaging the Union Pacific property ? in the stock of railways " operating a wholly disconnected property , " in some cases separated from the Union Pacific 's field by half of the American continent The seeming helplessness of Union Pacific shareholders and creditors , against this most obnoxious and suspicious use of trust funds and credit , shows plainly the need for such restraint as New York State has empowered its Public Service Commissioners to apply Ambitious and speculating railway men may as well make up their minds that , whatever incidental defects in a given statute the courts may find , the principle of supervision of this nature has come into our legislation to stay We are equally convinced that honest , conservative , and right-minded railway men will welcome it Turkey 's first Parliament met in March , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war with Russia Turkey 's second Parliament assembled at Constantinople last week under far more favorable auspices The outlook in the Near East is for peace When the crisis over Bulgaria and Bosnia-Herzegovina arose , it seemed doubtful whether the Young Turks would be equal to the double task imposed on them They had to uphold the national dignity so as to prevent the part:sans of the old regime from raising the issue of a false patriotism , and at the same time they had to be sufficiently conciliatory towards Bulgaria and Austria-Hungary to make war and a second swamping of the Constitution impossible The Turkish reformers have met the demands of the occasion . The new Parliament has the sympathy of the outside world and the support of the vast bulk of the Turkish nation Turkey has what Russia and Persia have not had in great abundance ? wise and temperate leaders That group of statesmen-reformers whom we speak of as the Young Turks have the amazing record of a revolution effected quietly , bloodlessly , and completely ; of a difficulty with foreign nations handled with skill and admirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Young Turks have managed Sultan , foreign diplomats , and excited Constantinopolitan mobs so successfully , the chances are in favor of their mastering the science of parliamentary government . People are asking whether Turkey will disappoint expectations as Russia and Persia have , in large measure , done That depends upon what we mean In the sense that no great change of government can fulfil all the hopes born in high moments of revolutionary enthusiasm , the new Turkish Parliament will prove a disappointment Sooner or later it is bound to come into conflict with the old regime , whether in the person of Abdul Hamid or some other Sultan , sooner or later the hotheads will attempt to seize control , produce crises , bring about adjournments or dissolutions , and succeed temporarily , or lose temporarily Yet we ought not to expect a constitution to work well within a year , or five years , when a comparatively simple matter like an education bill keeps the British government busy for a half decade , when a workmen 's insurance bill is debated in France for years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know well enough that England 's Parliament took four hundred years in the growing , yet are surprised at the feebleness of the Russian Duma  --  age , two years , six months We know that France has passed through one hundred and twenty years of revolution and reaction without reaching absolutely firm ground Germany 's Reichstag , after thirty-seven years , has far less power than the new Turkish Parliament , with its right to overthrow or impeach the Sultan 's Ministers Yet if within the next few months business is not running smoothly , public hopes will be dashed                     