@@486900

The end of partial suspension of cash payments by the banks is plainly in sight . Whether other cities will return to a cash basis simultaneously with New York , is a disputed question ; but in any case general resumption can not be long delayed . With such resumption , not only will the currency premium disappear , but huge hoards of cash will return to the banks for deposit . Blockade of exchange between interior cities will be broken ; the wheels of commercial machinery will again move freely ; " token money " will disappear ; and mills , shut down merely for outright lack of currency will start up ; Stock Exchange prices will seemingly declare that the panic of 1907 is over . What then ? Paul Leroy-Beaulieu 's Paris Economiste has prophesied that " a season of reaction is in store , not for a few weeks or a few months , but for several years . " Not many American prophets have publicly taken such positive ground . Roswell Miller of the directorate of the Chicago , Mil . waukee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not recover from this reaction for several months " Stuyvesant Fish declared the country to be " confronted with a period of depression which must of necessity last until confidence is restored , " and the only basis for such restoration he believed to be " house-cleaning " by corporations in whose management the country has lost faith , or punishment of the guilty officers This would take more than " several months " President W. H. Truesdale of the Lackawanna predicted better things " after a period of reaction " ? whether of months or years , he did not say . James J. Hill observed that the country " needs the rest cure , " that " we all want to go to sleep for a good long time and wake up with both eyes open . " But Mr Hill did not say how long the sleep should be . Reasoning on somewhat different lines , Sir Felix Schuster , one of the most far-seeing London bankers , declared that " the United States out of its own resources would ultimately overcome the present troubles " ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What have we ahead of us ? In his heart , every financier and business man of ex perience will answer , " 1A long period of slackening trade , with incidental industrial depression , and a slow recovery . He feels this to be true , for two good reasons  --  one , that the blow has so injured the whole credit system that it can not recover except after prolonged liquidation ; the other , that general trade , quite as truly as financial values , has long been on an unnatural and inflated basis . This second assumption does not mean that the country 's merchants have as a class been doing business in a speculative way . The fact seems to be that they have not ; that they had distrusted the reckless tendencies of the day , and were sailing reasonably close-reefed when the hurricane broke . Had they not been doing so , we should have heard a vast deal more of mercantile failures since October .24 . But what the man of experience knows quite as well , - is that even where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . con sumers have . The buying capacity of the . community as a whole has been radically cut down by the shock , excesses in the scale of living must perforce be abandoned ; retrenchment instead of lavish expenditure will become the social virtue ; and all this means that for a good while to come trade demand will contract and production will decrease . The community as a whole must . now set to work to pay its debts , and debt-paying does not mean continuance of a , " boom . " There are reasons for hoping that the-parallel with the panics of 1893 and 1873 , . so remarkably close up to the present moment , may not be so exact in the longer sequel . The aftermath of those older American panics was three years of genuine hard times on the one occasion and four on the other But we are not burdened with the bankrupt industrial West of 1893 . To-day the West is considering , not where it will borrow when panic is over , . but where it will lend Nor is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1873 ; we are still largely in , command of the international exchanges ; we have paid off our foreign debt , and we have a vast reserve of resources which . Europe , willingly or not , must buy from . us . The extent to which these factors will in the next few years offset the inevitable hardships of forced and prolonged , industrial liquidation will soon be evident-                     