@@485016

Granting the sincerity of the Senate in its action upon the Hay-Pauncefote treaty , we can only say that it has shown an extraordinary mastery of the art of how not to do it . Professing an ardent desire for the immediate construction of an Isthmian canal , the Senate has deliberately chosen to put the whole matter over for at least a year more . It was burning with impatience to abrogate the Clayton-Bulwer treaty , yet has gone ingeniously to work to make it more binding than ever . With loud pretence of friendly feeling for the Central-American republics , it has taken a step which can but excite their suspicions and fears in acute form . What the British Government will do with the mangled treaty we do not profess to know . It needs no prophetic gift , however , to say that Lord Salisbury will take his time about it . If we have occupied eleven months in muddling the treaty , the English Foreign Office is entitled to at least three in passing upon our handiwork . That will mean the impossibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We are aware that Senator Morgan 's latest report on the Hepburn bill advocates instant action without waiting to know , or caring , whether our solemn and acknowledged treaty obligations stand in the way . But it i3 incredible that the Senate will follow him in such headlong folly . If it should , the President would be bound to - Veto the Hepburn Canal Bill . He said last spring that he would , and his duty is unchanged by anything that has happened since . Hence , we say , the Senate has put it out of the range of probability that there will be any canal legLslation at all during the session . it is not an enemy that hath done this , but the friendly Senate  --  the Senate which vows on every occasion that not a moment must be lost in beginning the work of connecting the oceans . The indecency of trying to " supersede " the Clayton-Bulwer treaty in the way attempted by the Senate might well be remarked upon ; but we prefer to dwell upon its fatuousness . We were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to modify it , in certain particulars , with the consent of the other . Then we coolly slip into the modifier , tion a notice that the whole contract is abrogated . That is surely not decent ; nor is it even clever . We put ourselves absolutely in Lord Salisbury 's power . He can keep us on tenterhooks , and with our hands tied , for a year , if he likes . He can then say , " I observe that you desire to void a contract existing between us . What consideration have you to offer ? Will you give Canada a port on the Lynn Canal ? What will YOA give ? Of Muse , you mean to give something . " Thus we should be thrust back to the beginning again , and the Clayton-Bulwer treaty left in full force meanwhile . This is what comes of being too sly . The way to abrogate the Clayton-Bulwer treaty is to negotiate directly to that effect , and the attitude of the British Government on this subject has always been that of the Earl of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Majesty 's Government would not decline the consideration of a proposal for the abrogation of the treaty by mutual consent . " Snap judgment on one side is not mutual consent . ' In striking for the abrogation of the whole treaty , including even those parts which bind the United States to make no acquisition of territory in Central America , the Senate has done its best to alarm the republics to the south of ITS . They can see in this action but a covert threat to their territorial integrity . Do not say that only a malicious Mugwump will suggest this . It was Mr Blaine himself who , in November , 1881 , wrote to Minister Lowell about this provision of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty . " If the United States should seek its annulment . it might give rise to erroneous and mischievous apprehensions among a people with whom this Ghvernment desires to be on the most friendly terms . The United States has taken special occasion to assure the Spanish-American republics to the south of us that we do not intend and do not desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrity , and we shall not willingly ' ulcer the list of a misunderstanding , by annulling the clauses in the Clayton-Buiwer treaty which forbid such a step with respect to Central America " Surely the oracles are dumb when a Republican Senate gives no heed to that voice ! We have been writing on the assumption that the Senate really meant its action to promote , not to retard , an interoceanic canal , and to solve the questions connected with it , instead of plunging them into hopeless confusion . But it is hard so to exalt its sincerity at the expense of its understanding . If they are truly the innocent Senator ; they pose as being , one could only compliment them , as Chesterfield once complimented the House of Lords , by assuring them that they might well thank God that it was not necessary for them to live by their brains . There may be a simple-minded remnant in the Senate which thinks that it has followed a wise and patriotic course ; but the treaty muddle seems to us to be too studiously and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence working craftily for that end . In fairness , one word must be said about the President 's part in the sorry business . If he had stood up like a man and ' a conscientious Executive for the treaty as it was originally framed , there is no doubt that it could have been ratified in that form . If he had shown . one-tenth the firmness and patriotic conviction which Washington displayed when the Jay treaty was so vehemently assailed , he could - have triumphed quite as easily as did the first President . But Washington took the duties of his , office seriously . When he , as directed by the Constitution , " recommended " a measure to Congress , he did not indifferently throw it to the wolves , not caring in what shape it might emerge from their jaws , but exerted himself , and went behind the Senate and appealed directly to the people , in order to save a treaty of the highest public importance . Mr. McKinley prefers his ease . Under the form of carefully observing the Constitutional " division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the powers of the President , and allows the Senate to usurp or trample upon the rest . If we thus have a rot fain  --  ant , we need not be surprised at having a do-nothing Congress . Muddled good-nature in the White House leads straight to such a calculated and malicious muddle as the Senate has now made of the Hay-Pauncefote treaty . THE OLEOMARGARINE BILL . Very little attention has been given by the press to the bill ( H. R. 3717 ) which proposes to put a prohibitive tax on oleomargarine . This is an article of food manufactured from the fat of certain animals and the oil of certain vegetables . No sooner was the manufac ture of this article started ( some RE teen years ago ) than the butter-makers became alarmed and went to the State legislatures demanding laws to overcome the competition of the rising industry . A great number of devices were resorted to for this purpose , under the police powers of the States . At first it was thought to be sufficient if the new article were marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ package could . be sold without giving notice to the buyer that it was not butter . Some of the labels required by State laws were ingeniously contrived to create prejudice in the minds of purchasers . Thus , one of the States prescribed the phrase " adulterated butter , " and required this name to be inscribed on the package , and also to be placed on every dish containing it on a hotel table . A law of California required the words " substitute for butter " to be put on the packages , together with a list of the ingredients of which it was composed , and also a verbal notice to the buyer at time of sale . Connecticut requires , in addition to other notices of the character of the article , a sign to be displayed over the shop to let the public know that imitation butter is sold there In Massachusetts hotel-keepers must notify guests if they use oleomargarine . Florida - prohibits the sale of " any spurious preparation purporting to be butter . " Most of these laws prohibited the use of coloring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the article should be colored pink . In short , all possible devices were employed to prevent the sale of oleomargarine , or butterine , or any article resembling butter , which was not made by churning milk . In the course of time the public found out that oleomargarine was " good to eat , " that it was a wholesome , palatable , and useful article of food . The consumers ceased to be deterred from using it by the labels , signs , and spoken words devised to alarm them . Many who had had experience of bad butter came to prefer oleomargarine because of its uniformly good quality . Moreover , the laws governing interstate commerce interposed many difficulties in the way of suppressing the traffic . So the butter-makers went to Congress and demanded a tax on oleomargarine , together with rigid inspection laws under officers of the internal revenue , on the pretence that the article was made of all sorts of deleterious stuff , including . dead cats and dogs . Congress acceded to both these demands by putting a tax of two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semblance of butter . and established a system of inspection , while special taxes were levied on the manufacturers and dealers , both wholesale and retail . The total tax on oleomargarine under Federal law in the year 1899 was within a small fraction of $2,000,000 . Notwithstanding all these persecuting laws , both State and national , oleomargarine continued to grow in popularity . The quality , too , improved , and to this end the Federal inspection law was of some service , since it not only insured the purity of the article manufactured , but gave a sort of public certificate of its goodness . It has passed through all stages of trial , and now commands a market on its own merits . Professor Chandler of Columbia University says of it : " I have studied the question of its use as food in comparison with the ordinary butter made from cream , and have satisfied myself that it is quite as valuable as butter from the cow . The product is palatable and wholesome , and I regard it as a most valuable article of food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania , the Stevens Institute of Technology , Yale University , Cornell University , and other first-class authorities . Professor Atwater of the Agricultural Experiment Station at Washington says : " It contains the same ingredients as natural butter from cow 's milk ; it is perfectly wholesome and healthy , and has a high nutritious value . " All attempts to break down the character of oleomargarine and to prevent its sale having failed , the butter-makers have gone to Congress and demanded a tax of ten cents per pound on oleomargarine unless the makers will put it on the market without any coloring matter . Both butter and oleomargarine are colored yellow by the addition of aitatto or some other substance which neither adds to nor detracts from the value of the articles as food , but merely pleases the eye of the buyer . Custom , habit , prejudice require that butter shall be golden in color , and this color is produced artificially both by the butter-maker and by the manufacturer of oleomargarine . All the agricultural newspapers and the dairy journals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the supporters of the bill now pending in Congress that if oleomargarine make 's and vendors can be prevented from using coloring matter , they can not sell their product , and thus their competition will be destroyed . This may be true , but the logic of this measure is that the strong arm of the Government is used to break down a legitimate and useful industry for the benefit of another , and at the same time to deprive the public of an article of food which has the advantage of being cheap as well as nutritious . The blow will fall with greatest severity on the laboring classes in cities , who will be deprived of an article of diet to which they are accustomed , and compelled to pay higher prices for a similar one . This is , at all events , the intention of its promoters . It is needless to say that such a law is spoliation , and that the principle can be extended to the suppression of any other industry whenever a sufficient number of votes can be obtained . Cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can suppress nickel , nickel can suppress aluminum , and so on through the whole list . We presume , however , that the bill will pass because the butter-makers have the votes . The day when bills were passed or defeated according to their merits has gone by . It may come again , but it is not the present day . MR CLYDE ON SHIP SUBSIDIES . Mr. Thomas Clyde , in a letter to the Evening Post , asks the opponents of the present Ship-Subsidy Bill to draft and present a better measure for the revival of our merchant marine before condemning the one now before Congress . " Revival of our merchant marine " belongs to a class of phrases condemned by Aristotle and all other writers on logic as petitio princapii , or begging the question . It assumes a number of disputable points as being already proved . The phrase was introduced into-our political jargon two or three years ago , when a tremendous ef fort was made to manufacture public sentiment in favor of subsidies . It as sumes ( 1 ) that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we ought to have one ; ( 3 ) that the only way to get it is by Government subsidies ; ( 4 ) that the men who are now lobbying for the Subsidy Bill at Washington are working for the revival aforesaid rather than for their own pockets . All these propositions are disputable except the second . We agree that a merchant marine is desirable on condi tion that it supports itself and is not a burden on the taxpayers . We consider it a nuisance and a national curse it it depends on the public treasury ; and this for a variety of reasons . It is state socialism on a large scale . It introduces fundamentally wrong ideas into the national life . It establishes a dangerous precedent . It prompts other industries , cliques , and sections to demand similar benefactions from the public funds It makes the amount of the subsidy a matter of hugger-mugger between the beneficiaries and Congressmen , thus tending to corruption  --  witness the old Pacific Mail subsidy and its story of sin and shame . While we should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none , we should consider it a present affliction and a future danger if it were estab lashed in the way proposed . Now as to the first example of petitio princspii , implying that we have no merchant marine . If we have one now , it is deception to talk about " reviving " it . We only revive that which is dead . To show that we have a merchant marine now it is only necessary to point to the Clyde Line , which has been in existence for twenty or thirty years . Surely that line needs no physician . We have some merchant marine now , and the question is not of reviving , but of getting more . And this question brings another in its train , " What is the proper way to get more ? " Before entering upon that inquiry , however , we shall call attention to the progress we are now making without the help of any subsidies . The report of the Commis stoner of Navigation for the year 1899 furnishes unimpeachable testimony on this point in its opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 30 1899 , American shipping industries shared in the general prosperity of the country , and the new fiscal year has opened with the promise of continued activity in our shipyards . . . Our documented tonnage on June 30 , 1899 , was the largest since 1865 . . . . Our tonnage of steam vessels registered for foreign trade is the largest in our - history . . . . Our construction of steel steam vessels was greater than in 1891 , or than in any year of our history . " This roseate view of our shipping interests continued throughout the year , and even grew brighter as the months rolled on . In his report for 1900 , just published , the Commissioner says : " The fiscal year ended June 30 , 1900 , has been not only the most prosperous known to American shipping - interests during recent years , but , measured by absolute , not relative , statistical standards , it has been the most notable year in the history of American shipping The returns for the first quarter of the current fiscal year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1901 , will surpass even the remarkable record of the fiscal year just closed " Such a picture of growth and prosperity would not , if left without am-planation , be a very good argument for ship subsidies . The present Commis sioner of Navigation , who has changed his views on the subsidy question since the McKinley Administration came hi , accordingly hastens to show the gloomy side of it . " There is a reverse to these gratifying statements , " he says . " During the last fiscal year American vessels carried the smallest percentage of our exports and imports in our history . " This means that , although- we are in a period of great prosperity as regards shipping and ship-building , the most notable year in our history , yet we need $9,000,000 a year for twenty years from the public Treasury for what ? Not to enable our ship-owners or our ship-builders to do a good business but to enable them to run a race with other countries ! In the view of Commissioner Chamberlain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ought to be promoted by public appropriations even when it is in affluent circumstances , because some other nation ( Norway , for example ) is doing more of it than we are . ' The answer would seem to be that i f little Norway is doing more shipping business than the great American republic , the reason probably is that Norway can find more profitable employment for her capital and labor in ships than in other things , while the reverse is true with us . It should be borne in mind , also , that large amounts of American capital are invested in foreign-built ships , the earnings of which go into American pockets , although in the statistics that Commissioner Chamberlain hurls at us they figure on the other side . The great and growing Atlantic Transport Company is one of this kind . It figures against us in Mr. Chamberlain 's tables , but its net earnings mostly go to Baltimore . If it is so desirable that its tonnage statistics should be on our side , that change can be accomplished in a twinkling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such a law would cost nothing . It would not alter any existing fa ctS3 but it would marvellously change the looks of things . If the revival of our merchant marine is something to be prayed for , this is the cheapest and surest way to begin . ENGLISH IN THE UNIVERSITIES . The better organization of that part of our higher education which has to do with the study of our language and literature , is a task whose successful accomplishment is a matter of such immediate and practical importance that it can not be long put off . There seems to be a growing conviction that this work should be the next step toward perfecting our educational system . In most other branches of learn-mg which have a practical bearing on every-day life , education has availed itself of the results of modern science ; yet here ds one whose practical importance is unquestioned , but whose organization has stubbornly resisted all attempts to put it on a scientific basis . In the last twenty years the scientific study of English has furnished us with a standpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago as is our modern notion of biology different from that of the seventeenth century ; and scientific research has also contributed a great mass of organized knowledge that is now available for purposes of practical teaching . It is high time that these things were getting into our elementary education even . But various obstacles stand in the way , chief among which- is the notion that the scientific study of English , being the study of a " modern language , " must first dispossess classical study in order to win its place iu educational curricula . President Hadley voiced this the other day in the following expression ? " The marvellous grammatical system of Latin and Greek , coming to us in a foreign language , arrests our attention and makes teachers and scholars feel that it is something to be seriously studied When we have a body of instructors who are ready to teach English with equal seriousness , and are able to suppress that vastly greater body who handle it mechanically or carelessly , then  --  and not till then  --  shall we be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " These sentences form the conclusion to a very one-sided statement of the practical importance of English in higher education  --  one-sided because it considers language merely as a means of communication , and therefore important only as a vehicle of expression . But is it at all a question of the supersession of Latin and Greek ' ? Either English is vita ) or it is not vital in our education . If vital , ought it not to be taught in the very best way we know how , regardless of other disciplines , - whether effective or ineffective ? Are we to admit that a vital discipline 15 to be taught in a way that is not serious , not scientific ? Suppose that President Hadley had been speaking of economics , and had made the point that economics was of great significance to the proper conduct of our national life ; and had then gone on to the conclusion that when a body of instructors arose who should be able to teach economic facts ' with serious-ness and earnestness , we could talk about superseding history ? Should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a question of superseding anything , it is a question of teaching a vital subject in a serious way ; if the teachers of economics in institutions of higher learning can not teach the subject with due seriousness , it is your duty and the duty of other university presidents to roake your instructors teach the sub sect seriously , and to see that their teaching is effective in your university d:scipline , quite regardless of the side-issue as to whether economics will or will not supersede some other kindred discipline in your university curriculum " ? In like manner have we not a right to ask our universities to teach English effectively , quite regardless of the question as to whether English will supersede Latin and Greek , or not ? This common notion that the question of studying English " seriously " is primarily one of superseding Latin and Greek , rests upon a wrong conception of English and its relation to our national life . The misapprehension is an easy one ; for when our present methods are called in question , their most significant weakness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly developing peech of ours as if it were a classical language whose standards of idiom were to be fixed by ultimate preScription and enthority , and whose standards of literature were to be permanently established by a comparison with classic models . It is easy to pass on to the unwarranted conclusion that scientific English study is naturally antagonistic to classical study . Classical study is even now rapidly escaping from meo-alval method , and very soon it will come about that the medival notions of the classics will be represented solely in our study of English . Latin and Greek are themselves not only permanent factors of culture which can not be superseded in higher education , but they bear such intimate relations to English study that it would be inexpedient to supersede them if supersession were possible , and this proposed supersession should be resisted tooth and nail by the English student himself . It would be unfair to overlook the value of President Hadley 's frank and practical paper in the New York Independent , simply because there is contained in it this common misapprehension of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would be equally unfair to place upon Yale in particular the onus of the admission that English is not seriously and effectively taught in our institutions of higher learning . But we certainly have the right to ask where are those serious-minded instructors of English that President Hadley speaks of to come from , if they do not come from the universities ? We can not expect them to fall upon us like beneficent rain from heaven . They must be trained , and be trained by just such universities as the one that President Hadley is the head of , under the strong and effective guiding hand of liberal-minded , far-seeing men like President Hadley himself . And if English is once seriously and effectively taught as a general and necessary discipline in our best universities , the " marvellous " characteristics of its language and literature  --  characteristics whose " marvellousness " has already been frankly admitted by great Continental scholars  --  will not be long in striking the minds of earnest students ; for these marvels of English belong in a far higher category than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wait for revelation to unfold these things to us , when their perception depends only upon intelligent familiarity with the phenomena of English . It is an unfortunate circumstance that none of the effective administrators of our American universities have made themselves distinguished primarily by their scientific knowledge of their na tive idiom and their native literature . Chemistry and the physical sciences have been represented by some of the most effective organizers in our educational history ; theology and philosophy have likewise numbered between them some of our best college presidents ; modern economics and modern classical studies can claim two of the youngest and most promising heads of universities ; law and commerce likewise have had their share ; but where is the American university that is directed by a president who has had a thorough and firsthand scientific knowledge of English ? Each of these other subjects has at one time or another got its proper orgaiaiza.tion from the first-hand knowledge of tile university president himself , modern English study , however , has so far had to depend for its proper place and organization in university curricula @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be that here lies the explanation of the presence of that body of incompetent English instructors which President Hadley laments  --  teachers who handle English mechanically or carelessly , teachers who teach English language and English literature off-hand and without previous preparation , teachers whose work for one reason or another makes no impression , or but feeble impression , upon university life . For surely the removal of such teaching is a question of university administration and executive action , and not a question of the development of higher popular ideals of English education . College presidents can not expect inefficient and incompetent teachers to remove themselves , nor can they expect that English education will organize itself . Neither can they afford idly to wait for a supposedly possible supersession of Latin and Greek before " talking about " organizing the teaching of English so that this vital subject shall be presented with seriousness and effectiveness The whole problem is one of organization , and only awaits the coming of a man of strength and power who can gather together the scattered forces of scientific effort and make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On reading the newspaper report of the proceedings of the Civil-Service Reform Association the other day , in which the Committee speak of the cause being still " in a dangerous condition , " I could not help asking myself why , after thirty years of apparently successful agitation , " the cause , " as it is called , has not achieved a complete triumph One of the great difficulties , it seems to me , is that it has received little or no hearty adhesion from American public men . There are a good many m public life who refrain from open opposition to it , but how many active politicians give it a sincere support ? Not one dozen , I think . Take as an illustration the case of Gov Roosevelt . The Governor used to be himself an active and earnest civil-service reformer , but no temptations to be anything else had as yet been offered to him As soon as he found that political promotion depended upon open alliance with the most truculent enemies of civil-service reform , he began to wabble I might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only until they had something to gain or to lose by continuing their championship of the cause , when they lost their interest in it . Although this may not stop the advance of civil-service reform , it certainly makes its progress slow and hesitating . Now what is She reason of all this ? The reason is that the mass of the people do not learn from the action of the leading public men that the reform of the civil service is of any serious public importance , The reform , in fact , has made considerable progress , but mainly through the exertions of a very small class , Take the case of the revered McKinley . He was supposed to be , if not a civil-service reformer , a man who would not let the cause suffer harm . As a matter of fact , he has done it more injury than all of his predecessors since Gen Grant He has during his term diminished the number of officers subject to the rules by ten thousand . His use of the appointing power has been in many cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country ? Not in the least He has received as many honors and rewards as any other President , and as much flattery His disappointing conduct with regard to the civil service has not damaged him at all . Take the case of Gov . Roosevelt . His adhesion to the civil-service cause was received with great delight by civil-service reformers , but as soon as he found that there was political profit in making friends and allies with its worst enemies , he did so unhesitatingly . The same thing is true , with some modifications , of President Low . Although an advocate of civil-service refiorm , he has publicly eulogized and acted with its enemies . Senator Lodge , also , although he has never taken the stump in opposition to civil-service reform , has taken a thousand occasions to show that he did not rate its importance very highly . To invite men of this sort to the annual banquet of the Association will be naturally taken by the mass of plain people as a proof that even the reformers themselves do not consider steady adhesion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been done by the antislavery men , or by the anti-corn-law men , or by any sect of religious reformers . What impression would it have made ? Why , that the reformers were neither cold nor hot ; were , in fact , amusing themselves , and need not be listened to carefully If Platt can be an estimable public man , in spite of twenty-five years of hostility and contempt for everything connected with reform , what is the use of making such a fuss about it ? Why can not these gentlemen dine about anything else that amuses them  --  woman suffrage , the liquor traffic , or popular education ? The reason why the work of the abolitionists was so effective was that they allowed nothing to stand in its way or to divert attention from it . This is the important matter in every agitation which has to succeed through strong popular support . If you wish " to make men weep , " as the poet says , you must weep yourself , you must not go round the country preaching that everybody who differs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " hoodoo " I used to be a good deal impressed in listening to Wendell Phillips . What he said was often wanting in good taste , and sometimes in fairness , but there was no mistaking what he considered " the main question " of the day Instead of inviting a pro-slavery man or a " doughface " to dinner , and listening to his blatherskite apologies for his own position , he- held him up to the scorn of gods and men But the evil of our day is general want of seriousness about any political matter . As long as you are covered by the name " Republican " or " Democrat , " especially " Republican , " you may burn a " nigger , " or attack peaceable " niggers " with State militia , or make fraudulent secret interpolations in a bill , or steal the public funds , or open private letters , or hold fraudulent primaries , or vote for a man whose unfitness for office you have just exposed , or ridicule and violate ; the Constitution under which you hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your party I do not mean to say that similar things might not occur if the Democrats were in power , but the fact is that ever since the Republicans have ceased to be concerned about the rights of the negro , these offences of party workers have made the party platform rather ridiculous reading But a party can no more allow its name for an indefinite period to cover criminality than can a church . It must , sooner or later , find better work to do than to apologize for rascality or tergiversation . A free government can not be maintained indefinitely by such means . E L G.                     