@@486725

A. MAN 'S A MAN FOR A ' THAT . President Roosevelt 's vigorous reaffirmation of the principle that this Government can not discriminate among its employees on account of creed , color , birthplace , occupation , or social condition , comes like a gust of fresh air into the sultry and fetid atmosphere of our labor troubles . This clear-cut statement is , in View of all the circumstances , one of the most important of President Roosevelt 's utterances . There has never been a moment when plain speaking on the labor-union question was more needed . There is no man whose voice will carry so far as the President 's . Our walking delegates have reached the summit of insolence . For some years the country has floated on the high tide of prosperity . For capitalists the movement culminated about two years ago in an orgy of promoting and stock-watering The country saw speculators make millions  --  on paper  --  overnight ; and everybody rushed for his share of the pickings The workmen demanded higher wages , and generally received them . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success . The great anthracite coal strike of last year was the most significant event of the labor campaign , for the miners won many of their contentions , and won them largely through the intervention of the President . Flushed with this victory , and confident that they had the sympathy of President Roosevelt and others in authority , the labor unions have been proceeding as if wages could be raised 10 per cent . every three months till the end of time . But the tide of prosperity is indubitably ebbing . Wall Street is aware of the turn , for it has seen the paper profits , the magical wealth , of two years ago wiped out , as it was created , in a few hours . Shrewd financiers frankly admit that this country must face a period of falling prices . With falling prices a lowering of the general rate of wages is as certain as the flow of water down hill Here and there local causes may for a while obstruct the current , but in the course of time wages will obey the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our labor leaders seem not yet aware . They imagine  --  as Wall Street imagined two years ago  --  that the upward trend can continue forever ; they have clean forgotten the lessons of the past ; they talk in the , language of high finance about " breaking all precedents , " about " a new era " in the industrial and economic world . Their error is natural ; ' they are no wiser than our new school of stock-jobbers was a few months since ; but their mistake is no less fatal because it is due to ignorance rather than malice . The results are no less appalling . New York has suffered from countless strikes , and in particular from unionism run wild in the building trades . Agitators have preached with such fervor the gospel that the union can do no wrong that Sam Parks , convicted blackmailer , holds his leadership by a majority vote , and boasts of raising a fund of half a million to wage industrial war in New York . The conditions here are matched in other trades in Chicago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is infallible and omnipotent . The worst feature of the situation is the assumption of the divine right of labor unions . To be a member is to be above the unwritten code of society , the Constitution , and the fundamental principles of justice . A manufacturer who dares to open his shop on equal terms to ' all honest and skilled workmen ranst expect to have his buildings destroyed , himself and ' his family assaulted , . and his business boycotted into bankruptcy . The man who accepts a place in an open shop knows that his wife and children may be stoned , his house blown up with dynamite , ' and his own throat cut . Outrages have gone so far that in . Chicago last week a national association of employers was formed to protect the interests of independent workmen . The union have played upon the cowardice of politicians to secure State aid for their schemes of exclusion . Sometimes by law ? and sometimes by-threats at the ballot-box , they have practically barred non-union laborers from public employment in most parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreman who obeyed the law of the land rather than the regulations of the labor unions should not be summarily dismissed . They knew the President to be a friend of labor , and they supposed that with a national election in sight a sufficient show of force would awe him into acquiesence . But they left out of their reckoning Theodore Roosevelt 's love of fair play , his instinctive desire to give every man a square deal . As a result , they have drawn from him the most stinging rebuke that organized labor has ever received from a President of the United States His deliverance is admirable in manner and in matter  --  incisive , absolutely unequivocal , and sound to the core . He gave the delegation of laborers a full hearing , which was all they could ask ; his decision is : " In the employment and dismissal of men in the Government service , I can no more recognize the fact that a man does or does not belong to a union , as being for or against him , than I can recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Jew or a Gentile , as being for or against him . " The question of Miller 's personal fitness is entirely apart , and is to be settled by itself . So far as the impudent request of the union is concerned , the President rests on the impregnable doctrine of the Declaration of Independence ? civic equality . The President has done the country a great service ; for to this position , sooner or later , we must all return . We must perceive and admit that before the law the capitalist , the unionist , and the nonunion man are exactly the same . The fall in wages , which has already begun , doubtless marks the beginning of a long and hard struggle The cut in the price of pig iron means lower wages in that industry , and so on through the whole list . The workman must accept the inevitable there just as the capitalist has had to stomach the drop in stocks . His failure to grasp the economic law will hurt him quite as much as it will hurt his employer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President enunciates will be equally disastrous . In New York the unions may by a sort of political terrorism succeed in keeping non-union men from building the schools and constructing other public works , but when the unions have secured general acceptance of their theory tiny will have over turned that foundation stone of human equality , regardless of rank or power , which has made America the Land of Promise for all toilers CALLING EVIL GOOD . It is just a week since the alarmed Tammany leaders Called upon Independent Democrats not to commit themselves to the Fusion nominees until they had seen the Tammany platform and ticket . This was in line with the talk so persistently kept up about a mysterious regeneration of the corrupt old organization . Well , we have now seen the promised revelation of Tammany purity and wisdom , and the more closely we look at it the most clearly do we perceive that it is a transparent humbug . Indeed , the common complaint among even those wavering Democrats who might have supported a first-class Tammany nomination on a taking platform is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time more fatilous than at present . It may , in fact , be truthfully said that Tammany shows signs of being in eoeremts . We do not mean alone its evident apprehension lest , being but " scantily fed with the offal of plunder , " it may be " driven out of sight and left to perish obscurely , like rats , in holes and corners " What we refer to mainly is the progressive degradation of Tammany Both intellectually and morally , it never stood on a lower level than today . Even in the years when its rottenness seemed most in evidence it had men who could speak  --  like Cockran and Col. Fellows . At present its chief spokesman is one whose only eloquence is insult , and whose habits are so notorious that Boss McLaughlin was not hitting below the belt when he  --  referred to this orator as having been cautiously taken out of " a sanitarium " to address Thursday 's Convention . As for skill or low public plunderers to flaunt their stolen wealth in the eyes of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lot of children and women bitter ; to cause outraged virtue to hide itself for safety , and to make it appear that the pander , the gambler , and the criminal have come to their own again  --  that is the way to elect a Democratic President ! .73A.LFOUR AND CHAMBERLAIN . ' Mr. Balfour 's Sheffield speech is not in the least likely to straighten out the problem of British fiscal change . It possesses all the dialectic and linguistic skill for which the Premier has long been noted , but it is paradoxical , it contradicts Mr Chamberlain , it signally fails to outline any working scheme of preferential trade ; its allusions to the United States are not happy , it is historically weak and philosophically and economically crude . In short , it is a purely doetranaire production , and not a good one at that . The Premier apparently finds himself in somewhat the same situation that certain eminent Democratic leaders occupied in 1896 , when Mr. Bryan foisted his sixteen-to-one heresy on the party He may be given credit for more sincerity than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an uncongenial effort to find arguments for a policy which has been unexpectedly thrust upon him . Mr. Balfour today continues to avow himself a free-trader , and the presumption is that until very recently that term . meant to him what it has always meant to the average mind . Mr. Chamberlain has now forced him to hold it with reservations ; but when his statements regarding these are read carefully , it will be perceived that he has taken refuge very largely in paradox . His contradiction of Mr. Chamberlain 13 explicit . In his recent contribution to the Daily Telegraph , the late Colonial Secretary said : " It is intended to give preference to the colonies whose chief exports are articles of food . It will , therefore , be necessary to put a duty on food . " Mr. Balfour , however , says that " though he believed that the evils of the taxation of food had been exaggerated beyond what reason and logic justified , still he thought that public opinion was not yet ripe for the taxation of food . Therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound to tell them plainly that it was outside the limits of practical politics . " This is categorical , though Mr. Balfour puts his objection to the impost on the specific ground of political inexpediency . He says nothing regarding the economic aspect of the proposal , differing radical-1.7 in this respect from Mr. Chamberlain , who adopts a high economic tone , and boldly declares that the producer pays the tax . Mr. Chamberlain 's fixed plan of minimizing the revolutionary character of his fiscal programme is continued in his latest outgiving . The pamphlet , " Mr. Chamberlain 's Proposals , " by C. A. Vince , explains that there is to be no increase in food taxes ; on the contrary , a rearrangement which will result in an actual decrease . The $65,000,000 now raised by duties on tea , cocoa , sugar , and other foods will in the future be raised from foreign meat and grain . The consumer is to gain as much on tea , sugar , and possibly tobacco , as he pays on bread The plan reminds one a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rioters . Mr. Chamberlain , proposing a two-shilling tax on foreign wheat , virtually says to the English workingman : " If you do n't like the dear loaf , why , drink tea and cocoa , eat sugar , and smoke tobacco . " We doubt if this clever shuffle of the cards will fool the British voter . Then there is a budgetary aspect to Mr. Chamberlain 's reduced programme . Mr. Balfour has said that it is all the same if revenue greatly exceeds expenditure , British financiers for two generations to the contrary notwithstanding ; but the new Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Austen Chamberlain , must needs have - some concern in seeing that revenue shall meet expenditure . Were young Mr. Chamberlain likely to direct the treasury for a long period , he would certainly look with anxiety at the paternal contempt of the steadiest and most firmly established customs taxes . What a two-shilling grain tax , waived in favor of the colonies , will bring in , is matter of sheerest conjecture ; but Mr. Joseph Chamberlain crosses bridges only as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get a majority of votes for the protectionist policy . To this end his campaign is very astutely shaped . It is highly interesting to note the number and the nature of the special interests which he invites to enlist under his banner . In the United States , we know , there is no difficulty in , pointing out the different industries whose representatives write our tariff schedules whenever a new tariff act is framed . In Great Britain , on the contrary , industries have so long been accustomed to standing on their own feet , and have so long eschewed seeking their profits through the operations of the revenue laws , that Mr. Chamberlain 's protective nucleus had to be formed largely from a grouping of nationalities and social classes , instead of manufacturers . Irish Nationalists , for example , are to receive in return for their support of protection a Roman Catholic university at Dublin , built and supported at the cost of the British taxpayer . The opposition which this establishment is expected to create in Ulster necessitates a further sop to the Orangemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the state additional endowments . The laboring classes are to be brought into the protective fold by receiving titular recognition in the Cabinet . A Ministry of Labor is to figure hereafter beside the Foreign Office and Board of Trade . The Minister of Labor will be charged with ascertaining the conditions under which British imports are produced . Finally , Mr. Chamberlain has gone out of his way to take the side of the keepers of public-houses , in their contention that they have a sort of vested interest in their liquor licenses . The publicans are now expected , of course , to become deeply concerned about the Empire , and to vote as one man for Chamberlain and protection . Whatever the success of Mr. Chamberlain 's little tariff job , it is not unfair to predict that future generations will rise up and exclaim at the Promethean audacity of the man in trying to create out of whole cloth an empire the like of which history has never seen . Cobden never posed as a philosophic historian , but he had grasped a truth which Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his countrymen : " Empires have arisen unbidden by us ; others have departed despite our utmost efforts to preserve them , All have undergone a change so complete that , were the writers who only a century ago lauded the then existing state of the balance of Europe to ' reappear , they would be star ? tied to find in the present relations of the Continent no vestige of that perfect adjustment which had been purchased at the price of so much blood . " QUESTIONING COLLEGE STUDENTS . College students are probably the most interrogated class in the community  --  not excluding the dwellers in the slums Grave men question them on every topic . What is the state of their spelling ? How do they write their mother tongue ? What books do they read ? What courses have benefited them ? Have athletics marred their scholarship ? These are some of the more pertinent inquiries that must make American student life seem one long census-taking . " Gaudeamus igitur , " one must presume , is sung only in the intervals of severe introspection . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dialect experts wish to know if our students say pail or bucket , and doubtless they are occasionally polled on antivivisection and the Macedonian atrocities . The docile college students who answer any and all inquiries must end in a deplorable state of neurasthenia . For it must be doubted if their tender minds grasp the desirability of standing up and being counted . It probably gives them imperfect satisfaction to have President Thwing , in the North &; American Review , prove for the twentieth time that their business prospects are excellent . Most of them are experimenting in college life generally ; many are body and soul in sports ; a silent minority is studying  --  to all of them business prospects are as remote as the gold at the rainbow 's end . Even Mr. A. Lawrence Lowell , when he writes in the Atlantic Monthly that " high-stand " men have the best chance of distinction in after lite , that baseball players and oarsmen are simply like their average college mates in scholarship , while football players are distinctly inferior on this count  --  tells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience . It was generally understood that the vigor of football training in most cases suspends all intellectual processes so long as it lasts ; and the football players , who have concededly only a twentieth chance to get into ' Who 's Who , ' doubtless comfort each other with the reflection that their fame is already won and that graduation at worst is honorable retirement In any case , we are certain that the market for college statistics is not in the college . The accuracy of some college statistics is somewhat open to doubt . For such useful studies as QWr . Lowell 's , ordinary printed sources suffice ; but frequently the college student is taken at a disadvantage in this examination papers , and on direct questioning he is usually evasive or facetious . Only four ? out of fifty sophomores would tell whether they said pail or bucket , and a fifth wrote that , being well brought up , he said receptacle . The ironical spirit is evident in the yearbooks which successive class secretaries compile . What would the New Zealander say of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he base his monograph on favorite books , pursuits , types of beauty , etc. , as set down by our last year 's semors ? ' A college in which there was only a pitiful handful of Democrats periodically paraded in force for Mr. Bryan at the height of the free silver agitation . " It helped out , " the leaders of the undergraduate Republican machine used to explain . In view of a certain amiable jocularity of the undergraduate , all serious answers to the numerous questionnaires must come from a very small class . Sometimes we have suspected that there is just one student in every college who has established a prescriptive right to speak for the community . It is he who examines his own case in the night watches and decides whether fine arts or philosophy more advanced him toward intellectual mastery , whether coeducation is advisable or not , whether the curriculum should be of two , three , or four years ' duration . Clearly , it is this responsive undergraduate who , once arrived at eminence , reports individually for all his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation of interviewers . Yet of all the questioning and answering it must be said that it gives an innocent pleasure to the interrogator and does no possible harm to the college student . In this respect it recalls the much discussed science of " child study " and the more infantile forms of experimental psychology . You can not easily make a prig of the average undergraduate . And whatever peril may exist on that score is assumed vicariously by the limited class of responders to whom we have alluded . Finally , these rather inconclusive inquiries as to the intellectual status of our students have this to be said of them  --  they are read with almost pathetic interest . Not in colleges , of course , but by the host of mothers and fathers who have a bay in training for college life . Naturally , these anxious parents read , as they would the latest historical novel , descriptions of college luxury and statistics from the football-stricken field . So long as editors feel this quite legitimate demand , we shall have the college boy served up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles will serve their useful purpose , and the tribe of sub-freshmen will undoubtedly continue to ' increase . Whether a census of students , by students , and for students would not bring out vastly different results it is needless to inquire . We have not yet come to a point where college life is taken solemnly enough to make such a. census possible .                     