@@430340

 |p1279  A COMFORTABLE man is apt to be an optimist . A prosperous man is naturally averse to changes . Such a man is likely to be well satisfied with conditions as they exist . He looks with skepticism upon suggestions that would tend to bring into the situation new factors or new conditions . Bankers as a rule are regarded as typically comfortable and prosperous citizens , and perhaps it is small wonder that they are slow to recognize serious defects in the conditions surrounding them . At least , it is a fact that in the history of American finance , unless spurred to action by some great and immediate necessity , there has rarely been a time when bankers have given effective consideration to questions of banking or currency . There are in our laws few important enactments in relation to money that have not followed and in a large measure been the outgrowth of some financial calamity . The Bank of the United States was rechartered as a result of the monetary chaos in which the country found itself at the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because State banks allowed their notes so to depreciate that the banks became unsafe depositaries for public funds . The Civil War was responsible for the greenback and for the national bank note . In financial legislation w e have been opportunists . We have rarely done anything until forced to do it by misfortune . It is not that we have been extraordinarily conservative , but rather that we have been inactive whenever conditions permitted us to remain inactive . If financial depression or panic pressed us to a point where legislation became im-  |p1280  perative , we then legislated with more haste than wisdom . The experiences of the recent past should certainly result in financial legislation during the next Congress . A canvass of the opinions of bankers up to a month ago would have left doubt whether or not there is any currency problem . Certainly there were many successful bankers who said there was not . They said our currency was as good as gold , and that no one ever had to consider whether any note was better or worse than another , for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there was no lack of currency in a country that has been able to increase its gold stock in ten years from five hundred million dollars to more than one billion and a half . So it appeared that , at the start of any discussion on the currency , there would be doubt thrown on the very existence of a currency problem . The recent events have convinced practically all thoughtful men that something must soon be done to remedy our currency laws . A physician counting the pulse-beat and taking the temperature of a patient may foretell with certainty an impending crisis in the patient 's physical welfare . A temperature of 103 with a corresponding quickening of the pulse-beat means that the patient is in danger and that the cause of that danger must be removed , or sooner or later serious results may ensue . Let me tell you that alternating periods of too per cent . and 2 per cent . money in Wall Street are just as certain indications of a deranged financial system as is the register of 103 degrees in a clinical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not immediately follow in either case , but if the evidences of derangement repeatedly occur , it is only a question of time when , in both instances , unfortunate results will follow . The physician who finds the pulse-beat too rapid does not necessarily locate the difficulty in the wrist of the patient for the reason that it is there he finds the evidence that something is wrong ; nor would there be more logic in saying that. , because we have seen periods of too per cent . money in Wall Street . the seat of the difficulty must be in Wall Street and the remedy should be applied there . The trouble is not with Wall Street ; it is fundamental and is inherently related to our unscientific currency laws . Periods of excessively high rates for money , recurring seasons of stringency following each demand for funds with which to move the crops , other periods of superabundance , of gorged bank vaults and interest rates falling to a point where the return on a loan is hardly worth the expense of making it ? all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They point , I believe , with absolute certainty toward organic weakness . The fundamental causes which lead at one time to manifestations of high rates and at another to abnormally low rates , that bring periods of stringency followed almost in a day by periods in which funds accumulate more rapidly than they can be wisely employed ? the fundamental causes of such changes are dangerous to permanent prosperity . Just as surely as temperature and pulse-beat may become physical danger signals that the wise man should promptly recognize , just so surely we are receiving periodical warnings in the abnormal register of the pulse of Wall Street money rates , and in the alternating periods of currency stringency and currency redundancy that may be observed at all the money centers . If we sit smugly by and say that we are satisfied with the measure of prosperity which we are having , and that we think we shall go on very well with things as they are , then sooner or later we shall come to another period that is not satisfactory . We shall come to another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the important existing financial legislation . Then we are likely , in great haste and with little consideration , to enact legislation which might better be undertaken before the necessity for it becomes painfully evident . I believe there is the gravest need for legislation which will provide a scientific system of bank-note currency . I believe . too , that the responsibility for such legislation lies heavily upon all bankers . Congress is not alone to blame if we are lacking in wise currency laws . If financial leaders are utterly oblivious to the necessity for such laws ; if bankers , even after they come to the conclusion that  |p1281  legislation is desirable , are unable to reach an agreement as to what sort of legislation is expedient , it is with poor grace that those financial leaders and those bankers blame Congress for failing to enact wise laws . There is no association of bankers upon whom the responsibility for a clear understanding of the currency problem falls with so much force as it does upon the bankers of New York . The bankers of New York will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there . With leadership come grave responsibilities . New York is the financial center . New York bankers ought to accept the financial leadership . They ought to have well-considered opinions upon the currency . The financial portion of a whole country looks to New York for this leadership . For New York bankers to say that anything practical in the way of suggestions must , for political reasons , come from some other quarter , is but a cheap way of escaping responsibility . For the financial leaders of New York to say that the popular prejudice against Wall Street is so great as to prevent their voices being effectively heard , and that it is useless for them to devote thought to a problem the solution of which must , because of political exigencies , come from some other place , is to offer but lame excuses for failure to do their duty . I believe there is little force in these protestations behind which New York bankers modestly step into the background . Their proper place is at the front in a currency discussion . Financial leaders should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few of them have given less earnest consideration to the great national question of the currency than they have to any one of dozens of corporate underwritings or reorganizations . I believe the country is ready to accept the leadership of New York if New York will accept the responsibilities of her position . If New York bankers will study the currency problem until they are ready to bring forth a plan which they believe is the best for the whole country ? a plan which is not narrow and provincial , a plan free from personal and local bias ? then the judgment of New York bankers will be received by the rest of the country with respect and consideration . If the officers of the institutions represented in the membership of the New York State Bankers ' Association will reach substantial agreement in regard to what constitutes the currency problem , agreement as to what are the principles underlying its correct solution , and what forms of legislative enactment will be wise from the point of view of the whole country , I am perfectly confident that the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The principal reason that New York has been unable to influence the public opinion of the country on financial matters has been that New York bankers have had no well-considered conclusions . They have not accepted the responsibilities of leadership . They have failed to give the subject the consideration it merits . They have reached no agreement in regard to the course which ought to be followed . The country believes that when there is real need for legislation that need will be recognized by the leaders of finance . If the bankers of New York would once clearly recognize the need , that fact alone would go a long way toward making the country see the necessity for action . New York bankers may think it is easier to temporize , but the country looks to New York in this instance to accept the responsibilities of leadership . It looks to New York to recognize the necessity for legislation if urgency exists . It expects New York bankers with unanimity to point out a course that , with the welfare of the whole country in mind , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should ever come because we have failed to enact proper legislation , the blame for that disaster will lie against the bankers of New York more directly than against any other group of people . The bankers of New York , more than any others , have a duty imposed upon them ? the duty of leadership . They can not escape the responsibilities of leadership . The country will some day understand that the financial leaders have thus far failed to measure up to this responsibility . If that failure ever stands out clearly against a background of financial dis-  |p1282  turbance , the fact will not be helpful to New York 's pre-eminence . To my mind we have been in a lethargy of success . We heard paeans of prosperity sweetly sung on every side . Unexampled totals marked the measure of every phase of industrial and commercial life . We have engaged in expenditures of capital on a scale so vast that it makes the financial operations of other days seem petty by comparison . Labor was never before so fully or so profitably employed . Business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us say , there surely can be nothing wrong with a situation that gives such evidence of health and growth . Truly it is a magnificent organization of business which we have . With the health and vigor of the business condition impressed upon us , it is difficult to understand that an occasional irregularity of the financial pulse-beat may be an important warning . The pulse-beat of abnormal money rates in Wall Street , rates that are abnormally low or abnormally high , have recurred and past , and it is easy to believe that they mean nothing serious . It is , perhaps , hard to believe that a brief period of overflowing bank vaults might in the end work toward serious disorganization of this magnificent fabric of business . We see undue accumulations of currency at the financial centers ; we see banks that must pay interest on these swollen deposits reloan the money with nervous haste at any return , no matter how low ; we know that funds in this way may some day become tied up so that there may be greatest difficulty in liquidating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not seem to come with much force to the average banker that the legitimate result of such a situation may be financial disaster . Even tho a clinical thermometer registers a degree or so too high a temperature , a strong man may think it a matter which in his strength he may disregard , and so the business community seems to rest in the security of an all-pervading prosperity , while the vast financial work of the day continues to be performed by machinery devised twoscore years ago to fit a then abnormal situation . The free and normal development of our banking system has been prevented by prohibitions which had their birth in the financial exigencies of the Civil War . In every other field of activity we have recognized that new conditions made new machinery desirable , but the machinery of banking has not been permitted to develop so as to keep pace with the growth of the work it has to do . With the increase in the volume of business done in the United States , and with the growth of the value of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maximum and minimum need for currency has widened . That margin between the greatest amount of currency likely to be needed at one period and the least amount likely to be needed at another has probably doubled in the last ten or fifteen years as a result of our development . At the present time there is reason for believing that the country at certain seasons requires $150,000,000 more currency to transact its business than is required at other seasons . Now , remember I am writing of currency , not of credit . To meet this fluctuating demand for currency there is absolutely no provision in our laws . Our bank notes increase or decrease in volume as a result of the fluctuation in the market price of Government bonds , and there is practically no relation between that price and the current demand for currency . Our banks are permitted to give freely to their customers credits in the shape of deposits , but when a customer wants to convert that credit into the form of a circulating note he can only be accommodated by taking from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first principle to recognize is that there is not an essential difference between a bank credit in the form of a deposit and a bank credit in the form of currency . Certain safeguards must be thrown around a circulating note that are not required for the protection of a deposit , but with that exception in view , this principle stands , I believe , as perhaps the most important one to recognize in a currency discussion ? that there is not an essential difference between a bank note and a bank deposit . and that the customer of a bank ought .  |p1283  under satisfactory safeguards , to be able to convert one into the other at will . One other principle that has been totally lost sight of in half the discussions of the currency is the principle that adequate redemption facilities are a certain bar to an over-issue of circulating notes . People talk of the country being flooded with an asset currency . With adequate redemption facilities such a thing is inconceivable . Let any student of the currency question keep in mind the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank note will never stay in circulation a day beyond the time when a bank credit is no longer preferred in that form rather than in the form of a deposit , and half the difficulties of the inquiry are at once cleared away . This is , of course , no place for a thoro discussion of the currency question . I have no plan to propose . The one thing that I want to urge is the importance of providing a scientific bank-note currency if we wish an indefinite continuance of prosperity .                     