@@474462

E have been told that most of Africa is explored , and yet we see scores of African explorers now for every one afield in Livingstone 's day . They are studying in detail what the pioneers revealed in outline . The meaning of the term unexplored depends upon the standpoint , and a writer who uses it should define what he has in view . In this article we should not class the Maine woods as unexplored . A wise man will not risk his life in parts of them without . a guide , and many years may elapse before they are tolerably well mapped ; but in a general way the lay of the land and the geographical aspects are known . The Yang-tse head waters have been traced to the Tibetan plateau , and commerce floats on the river for fif-teen hundred miles from the sea ; but we know nothing of the intricate gorges through which long stretches of the river flow , and thus parts of the stream are unexplored . We are dealing here with regions of which we have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guess at the forms of the land and the diStribution of the water systems . The polar regions do not fall within the scope of this paper . It is often unsafe to infer much knowledge of an unexplored region from what we know of its surroundings . Incorrect deductions were made from the phenomena which a few Saharan explorers observed along their routes . The present result is that recent French researches are changing our old notions of the central Saharan hydrography ; and we now know that the Sahara , viewed as a desert , is much less extensive than we once believed upon the testimony of pioneer explorers . The makers of a certain official survey-sheet inferred too much when they mapped the mighty ranges of the central Tien-shan . The German explorer , lferzbacher , who followed them , proved , three years ago , that Tengri Khan , the dominating summit , was misplaced on the map . This mountain is not the background of valleys , mistakenly represented as radiating from it the ranges slope gently instead of steeply to the plain , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is better to leave white spaces on the maps than to cover them with surmise . It is not hard to - find the unknown areas in the best atlases . These works are compiled from careful surveys and the best route maps and explorers ' reports , and critical judgment is exercised as to the value of all the material for mapping . Sprinkled over these atlas maps of the continents we may find areas in which rivers or lakes are shown by broken lines , or mountains are faintly and indefinitely indicated , or incorrect information is stamped as such by question marks . Other areas may be left entirely white , showing that we have no geographical data concerning them . The boundaries of the unknown are thus outlined in a few authoritative atlases ; and from these sheets maps may be made showing approximately the extent and distribution of regions still unexplored . These unknown regions have wholly disappeared only from the map of Europe . Its entire surface has been scientifically explored , though much detailed research remains to he made . Its map is approximately correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of its material resources . Europe may thus claim the first place in the earth 's geograpby , for it is geographically better known than any other part of the world . Many years will elapse before any other continent is as well mapped as Europe ; and perhaps the era of perfected mapping all over the world may never come , because surveys are very expensive , and the five other continents have far larger expanses than Europe of comparatively worthless lands that do not call for the most detailed and refined cartography ; but a large amount of pioneer work still invites the explorer , for many of the unknown areas have much territorial extent . In the Amazon basin , for example , three of these regions are each much larger than all of our New England States . One unknown area in Northwest Alaska is nearly as large as New England ; and the Sahara has two areas in black that are each twice as large and another three times as large as New England . Asia still has several of these vast mysterious spaces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the largest island in the world excepting Greenland , would swallow up New England and leave a black border all around it .. Many little patches of the unknown are not marked on our maps because they could hardly he seen on so small a scale . Traders in the Solomon Islands say that the natives come down to the coast by daylight to sell their cocoanuts to the white men and incidentally to ascertain the position of his bed , hoping to shoot him at night through the wall . Little faith is yet reposed in any of the Melanesians among their myriad islands from New Guinea to New Caledonia . Some of the larger islands are absolutely untraversed . Map-makers are dependent for much information upon sketches and surveys made from the decks of vessels . The day seems late for explorers to be still looking wistfully towards the Kronprinz range of Bougainville and wondering if they will ever reach it . These little fields for virgin exploration are still numerous in the western Pacific and even in better-known parts of that ocean . The German island of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the coast , and little is known of the interior of Savaii ( Samoan group ) , where violent volcanic outbursts were recently reported . There is no rest for the cartographer . Late in 1905 the ninth edition of a great German atlas , after several years of labor , was placed on the market . In June this year the revision of sheet after sheet of this practically new work was taken in hand . Research of many kinds is in progress . Ethnologists are pushing new routes through the still unknown , as Theodor Koch has just done on the Rio Negro of the Amazon basin , where he has brought to light not only the head streams that form it , but also new tribes of Indians . The gold-hunters of western Australia liave extended their quest into new parts of the northern desert , and the Survey Department at Perth is busy mapping fresh discoveries of ranges and of gold and water finds . Governments are making boundary surveys in many colonies , so that new frontiers are being exactly defined in regions hitherto unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefit of future mapping , and geographical discoveries of great interest are being made . such as the continual encroachment of the western Sahara upon the Sudan along the French-British frontier . As the French travel through the Sahara they find that many oases and wells were placed on the maps from fifty to one hundred miles out of their proper position . The place on the map of Lake Albert Edward , one of the sources of the Nile , must now be changed , because its correct position has only just been ascertained . The blunders of the past and the corrections and discoveries of the present are thus constantly affecting the world 's geographical aspect ; war , too , is making its great changes , and Japan instead of Russia is now the lessee of southern Manchuria . A map of the unexplored areas next year will not be quite what it is to-day , for men are pushing through these regions or whittling off their edges . Scientific curiosity will continue to be a leading motive for these researches . ' The black space that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Burma was , in May last , the subject of an interesting petition from the officers and council of the Scottish Geographical Society . These geographers ask the Indian government to send an expedition in sufficient force to explore this unknown stretch , about two hunBred miles long , of the famous Asian river . Here the river breaks through the eastern Himalaya to descend to the plains of Assam , and as it drops through narrow and tortuous gorges , the mighty torrent is guarded against all corners by savage mountaineers . No explorers have ever intruded far within their domain , but years ago marked timbers set adrift in the Sangpo of Tibet were found in the Brahmaputra of India , proving that they are one and the same river . The waterfalls of great height that are said to mark this descent , the rock walls hemming in the stream and exposing a geological section through the ranges , the climatic gradients along this drop from the high plateau to the low plain , and the natives themselves , cut off by nature and their own will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not much longer be delayed . A mere glance at our maps impresses a few general facts upon us . We see that the largest areas of the unknown are now in lends that are too dry , as in the Sahara , the desert of Arabia , and the steppes of Mongolia ; lands that are too wet and hot , stimulating almost impenetrable forest growths , as in parts of the Amazon and Congo basins ; lands that are too cold and bleak , as portions of the northern areas of America and Asia . Even the characteristics of the inhabitants influence the extent of the unexplored . In proportion to total area there is more unknown surface in Liberia than in any other political subdivision of the world , because the Liberians , content to live along the coast , have scarcely entered their vast forest mazes , though they teem with rubber and other resources . In spite of the wonderful energy that revealed Africa in sixty years , the unexplored is still more liberally sprinkled over this second largest continent than in any of the others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in progress in Africa greatly exceeds the volume of similar work in any other land , and with good reason . Here is a continent most of which in a generation has come into the possession of a few foreign powers . All the governments are eager to turn their new holdings to good account . Their civil servants and mil itary officers were embarrassed at every step by lack of maps and paucity of information . The result is that most expeditions to quell a tumult , to man a station , or for whatever purpose intended . have been exploring parties . Hundreds of the government , trading , and missionary posts are centres of scientific observation and study . Scores of white men in the service are competent to fix the geographical position of places and to make good surveys and maps . One of the latest sheets of the large-scale map of German East Africa , now being made by officers in the East Africa service , is the result of sixty-three surveys by twenty-nine travellers , during which the latitude and longitude of 13i different points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last , shows that climatic data are now being collected at nearly two hundred stations in tropical Africa . These many hundreds of workers are rapidly supplying the information that will soon take nearly all the unexplored areas out of the category of the unknown . The Germans and French especially are filling new map-sheets with detailed information . There are parts of our own country which are not yet so well surveyed as the Togo Colony of Germany , whose map , on a scale of three miles to an inch , will soon be completed . White spaces appear on these sheets , as in nearly all African mapping ; but , on the whole , it may be said that the average quality of the map-work now coming out of Africa is far superior to most that has hitherto been produced in newly explored parts of the world . The largest unknown regions are in the Sahara , but we may look forward with confidence to the time now approaching when at least the central and western parts of the Sahara , the three-fifths belonging to France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pioneer discovery in Africa will doubtless be done in the eastern Sahara , or Libyan waste , which is still little known , though many years ago Rohlfs travelled far into it . In Africa , as well as in the subarctic , temperate , and torrid regions , there are two leading motives for the attacks that are everywhere being made upon the scattered patches of unknown lands . One is the - present impulse to search out every nook and cranny not yet permeated by the forces of our own . civilization , that we may see what they have to add , if anything , to the wealth and opportunity of the world . The other motive , important though subordinate , is the desire to clear the ground everywhere for human activity by wiping the words terra incognita off the face of the globe . Geography has been called the mother of science because it was exploration that brought to notice countless facts which stimulated the development and organization of geology , botany , zoology , chemistry , and other scientific specialties . These branches are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ethnology of most of the interior of New Guinea is still little known , and every party sent there to study the natives OnVoL CX1V. ? No 080.  - -  1 0 larges also our knowledge of the rivers , ranges , and plains . Arehnologists say that their branch of science requires the exploration , from their special point of view , of most of western North America from Nevada to the arctic ; but they can not enter parts of this area without cutting into regions that have never yet seen en explorer . Meteorologists say that we have little definite knowledge of the climatic features of the entire northeastern part of South America from Argentina to the , Caribbean because meteorological observations there have been so few and so far apart . Observing-stations are likely to be multiplied in those regions ; and no branch of scientific inquiry will be established on a satisfactory footing over those high plateaus and lowlands and among those selves and Hanes without helping to reduce the size of the unknown regions so conspicuously shown on the map . At present the quest for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Amazon basin are becoming smaller . We may not speak of rubber forests on the Amazon as wo would of oak or pine forests at home . The trees that yield Para rubber are scattered among other kinds of timber and form only a small proportion of the forest growths . The demand for rubber has so largely increased that collectors are now going farther afield to hunt for new supplies ; and as Fierce Braziliensis is scattered rather thinly over wide areas , considerable new territory is being roughly explored , and rubber collection is spreading out a little up the tributaries of Amazon affluents , and is thus cutting to a small extent into the unknown regions . Some new territory has thus been revealed in Bolivia as well as in Brazil . It is a slow process , for the dense tropical growths make penetration difficult ; and the prospect that rubber-planting may be successful will not tend to accelerate the present phase of utilitarian exploration . Whenever ethnological or other scientific study or missionary work may profitably be pursued we shall expect more or less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger parts of the gloomy and stifling woodlands with their tangled undergrowths are likely still to be untraversed after the characteristics and resources of most other continental areas have been brought into view . If we were to cover with black such bits of the unknown as the tips of rivers in Texas , New Mexico , and elsewhere whose exact position is still involved in some doubt , it would be easy to make a larger showing of the unexplored in North America . But small maps can effectively call attention only to fields of considerable extent . The fact which our map makes prominent is that on our continent the really important opportunities for pioneer exploration are practically confined to Canada and Alaska . The usual attitude of governments towards exploration was illustrated the other day by the reply of a Canadian official to the question whether the Dominion intended to survey the still unknown sections of the coasts of Baffin Land and to explore the interior . He answered that the government had no such purpose , in view of the greater importance to the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still unexplored . In other words , the primary geographical interest of governments relates to the discovery of material resources and new transportation routes . Official surveys in Canada have in fifteen years reduced the unexplored areas more than one-half , revealing the great forests south of Hudson Bay , the splendid waterways tributary to that bay through Chesterfield Inlet , new gold-fields in the Northwest , and some coal and copper on the arctic coast . They have also made contributions of the highest value to geology and other sciences . Not less has our OWE search for material benefits widened , since 1898 , the geographical knowledge of Alaska . It is believed that no mountain ranges remain undiscovered , the courses of all but two of the larger rivers are well mapped , the coast-lines have been surveyed , and per-Imps nearly all of the larger geographical features are outlined . But although about half of the territory is now well mapped , there are still left in Alaska the largest unknown areas to be found in our domain . We may get a little idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that parts of Alaska aggre gating an area six times as large as that of New York State are still unmapped and practically unexplored . Geographers generally agree with Prince Krapotkin that the orography of Asia and the extent and distribution of its various land forms are now clearly discerned . The exploration of Asia has made great strides in the past twenty-five years , and Russia 's part in the work has been preeminent . No other explorers have made a greater name than those of Russia for enthusiastic pursuit of geographical knowledge and accurate results . The Russian workers have been scattered from the Pamir heights that overlook their Turkestan domain to the frozen tundra of the arctic coast , and there is very little of Siberia which they have not made known , at least in outline , excepting some parts of the north , whose material value is still very small . The map of Australia shows the areas of the desert and the tropical north that still await investigation . We see explorers as far back as the light of history may dimly be projected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime of the Euphrates and the Tigris ; they had sent their vessels outside the Persian Gulf and had pushed westward to the deserts of North Africa . Myriads of explorers since then have outlined most of the world and studied a great deal of it in detail . But the best geographical information in time becomes antiquated . The forces of nature and of man are constantly changing the aspects of the earth 's surface . The mountains , valleys , rivers , and coast-lines will not be tomorrow just what they are to-day . So in a broad sense exploration will never end .                     