@@430277

 | bright , precocious childhood he was the idol of a wise father , a fond mother , brothers and sisters who shared his tastes and in some measure his abilities , and a circle of literary and artistic friends at the head of which was the aged Goethe . In later years he had all the advantages of university training , the best teachers in music , foreign travel , varied friendships , a happy marriage , and a fame extending to all corners of Europe . Appropriately indeed was he named Felix . All this good fortune , moreover , was but the proper setting for a character of rare purity , radiance , and refinement . His temperament was as sensitive , his heart as affectionate and chivalrous , as his mind was keen , flexible , and well stored . He carried the same grace , the same distinction and elegance , that gave his letter-writing , his water-color sketching , and his music their peculiar charm , into his courting , his friendships , and even his casual relations with acquaintances . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this exquisite sensibility . His pride was insatiable . He was quick to take offense at a fancied slight , and could never forget a grievance . He had the princely habit of exacting complete , unreasoning devotion from his subjects . " Write soon , and love me , " he ends one of his letters . To a friend who had ventured to warn him against a lowering of his ideals he writes : " Upon my word , when I improve or deteriorate , I shall let you know by express ; till then believe it not . " " He loved , " says one of his friends , significantly , only in the measure that he was loved . " The same sensitiveness led him to avoid all painful and disagreeable subjects , to dwell on what was bright , gracious , and delightful , and to maintain a Spartan reticence regarding his private affairs and deeper feelings . These essential qualities of his character reveal themselves everywhere in Mendelssohn 's music ? in the suavity of his melody , in the purity of his harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of contrast , whether in harmony , in dynamics , or in style , he punctiliously avoids . All is clear , unperturbed , discreet , harmonious . The lavish sensuousness of Schubert , the impulsive sincerity and passion of Schumann , were impossible if not distasteful to this cool , detached temperament . Mendelssohn instinctively maintains in all he does the aloofness of the student , the technician , the dispassionate observer ; personal sentiment , self-revelation , the autobiographic appeal , he avoids as the purist in manners avoids a blush , an exclamation , or a grimace . If he is a romantic in his love of the picturesque , in his sense of color , and in his tendency toward definite expression , his emotional reticence is entirely classic . He is more observant than introspective , and his art is more pictorial than passionate . Compare for a moment , by way of illustration , the overtures " Manfred " and " Hebrides . " Schumann 's work is intensely human from the opening onslaught of syncopated chords to the final deepdrawn sighs of the contrabasses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked " In leidenschaftlichein Tempo , " there is the very accent of a lover 's longing in the beautiful Astarte theme . The music constantly rushes on into feverish excitement , only to expend its force and die away to tender sadness , whence in a moment it lashes itself again into new fury . From this so human world " Of infinite passion , and the pain Of finite hearts that yearn " ? Mendelssohn transports us , in his " Hebrides , " to an island set in a boundless expanse of the sea , where we watch only the rise and fall of great billows and hear the long sigh of the wind and the cries of sea-birds . The fierce dissonances of Schumann , his ceaseless modulation , his never-resting movement , give place to clear ethereal harmonies , to high , pure trumpet calls , poising violin melodies , and the thin note of the oboe suggesting infinite distance , and to an undulating movement like the ebb and flow of winds and waves . These two works are typical . If Schumann is incomparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human heart , Mendelssohn is one of the greatest of landscape painters . What is true of the Hebrides Overture  | ination , he painted his delicate aquarelles of fairyland and romantic natural scenery , he was an incomparable master . In that rarefied atmosphere sentiments , like objects , were quite properly somewhat ghostly , tenuous , impalpable ; the cheerful Mendelssohnian contentment sufficed for joy , the tender Mendelssohnian melancholy for sorrow . But unfortunately , as years went on , he could not resist the temptation to express those cruder and less bloodless passions for which his own nature , delicate , protected , and amiably selfish , lacked sympathy . There was the incentive of example in such composers as Schumann and Chopin , and of increasing maturity in himself , which may well have made the man of forty discontented with that gracious insubstantiality which was entirely charming in the work of a youth of seventeen . But if there were incentive and excuse , there was not justification ; for Mendelssohn simply lacked the qualifications for the music of human emotion . When , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the adagios of his symphonies , and in his songs and oratorios , he ventured on ground where Beethoven and Schumann were at home , he made it at once evident that his sentiment was sentimentality , that his tragedy lacked body and virility , and that he was quite innocent of humor . The " Songs Without Words " are an insipid brew of music-and-water ; the slow movement of the Scotch Symphony , in spite of noble moments , sounds effeminate when compared with any similar movement by Schumann ; and the oratorios , so suspiciously popular with that element of British taste which takes its music religiously instead of making its religion musical , fairly drone with pious platitude and dull devotion . Mendelssohn 's innate shortcomings were pitilessly fostered and increased by the too unrelieved good fortune of his lot , a good fortune which was in truth misfortune . The smile of Destiny , constant from his youth , became at last fixed and vacuous . His circumstances were too favorable ; they protected his failings as well as his virtues . If he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit by its tonic effect upon will-power , persistence , and resourcefulness . If he was not discouraged , neither was he stimulated , by adverse criticism . As a rare plant , kept always under glass , withers at a breeze which would invigorate the hardy weed , so he could but shiver and shrink from those winds of impartial opinion which ruder natures inhale with elation . Like all spoiled children of fortune , he grew irritable with advancing years . Nor can we blame him when we realize the ennui and disappointment that must have been his . To set yourself a pace which no mortal could maintain by writing the " Midsummer Night 's Dream " Overture at seventeen , to marry an angelic creature who agreed with your most casual word and kissed your hand when you improvised in public , to move among admiring friends , relatives , pupils , and acquaintances as a king might move in a neverending triumphal procession , to find all qualms you might feel from time to time as to the superiority of your work immediately drowned by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with other ideals , winning a success which your universally recognized fair-mindedness would not let you deny ? all this might bring pangs of bitterness to a saint . That Mendelssohn felt these pangs no one can doubt who reads with attention his later letters and conversations . If during his life Mendelssohn was thus surrounded by an atmosphere of adulation almost asphyxiating in its density , since his death this idolatry has gradually given place to an equally fatuous contempt or indifference ; it has become the fashion to sneer or to smile at Mendelssohn 's music . This is to be regretted ; for not only could a single masterpiece like the " Midsummer Night 's Dream " Overture atone for a thousand " Songs Without Words , " but had Mendelssohn never composed a note , his work as a conductor and performer , his Bach propaganda , and his many-sided industry for the elevation of musical taste in his day , should win our admiration . But if we can not justify , we can easily understand , the present tendency to underrate him . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | artistic principles that have been much more brilliantly and thoroughly illustrated by bolder spirits like Schumann , Chopin , and Liszt , who have accordingly somewhat eclipsed him . His conservatism also made him retain many of the traditional formula and mannerisms of classicism which have become distasteful to our less conventional age . Above all , since his romanticism was a matter of imagination rather than of passion , of fancy and delicate sentiment rather than of turbulent feeling , it is inevitably voted dull by a generation given over like ours to the pursuit of thrills , tolerant of any turgidity that can excite , and preferring intensity to clarity of emotion . Mendelssohn is thus undeniably , for the present , among the fallen gods . Whether a maturer taste than our own may some day set him up again is a question we can hardly hope to answer .                     