@@474298

UNIVERSITIES , like poems and pictures , are largely determined in their character by their environment . Given a location wherein great history has been making for two thousand years ; where Germany , France , and Italy unite as on neutral territory ; a spot which Ruskin calls the " most lovely and the most notable , without any possible dispute , of the European universe " ; given . too , a climate in which , as say the guide-hooks , " the heat is always bearable and the cold is never excessive " ; and given , also , a people whose fathers have won their political independence , and are able to maintain their political rights rather by the sufferance of the European concert than by the force of their own arms ; a city which M. Guizot used to say represented one of the two ecclesiastical centres of Europe ; a city , moreover . whose people have been called the most cultivated of the world , whose social relations are simple , free at once from the extremes of both luxury and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . as compared with the population of metropolitan cities ; a community , also , Progressive without radicalism , one whose religion is both Protestant and Catholic , in whom also is found the heritage of great respect for education , ? given all of these conditions : ? what shall be the type of the university that . shall emerge ? How far forth shall early conditions determine future and ultimate development l The early people of Geneva , says John Morley , " had a zeal for religion , a vigorous energy in government , a passion for freedom , a devotion to ingenious industries , which marked them with a stamp unlike diat of any other community . " The type , indeed , shall not ho an Oxford , for Oxford is the home of the Middle Ages and the nurse of high and narrow traditionalism . Neither shall it be a Leipsic or a Berlin , for the university on the Spree represents imperialism in scholarship . Nor shall it he a St. Petersburg , for the university on the Neva stands for limitations in undergraduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an illustration of the Aristotelian doctrine of the golden mean ? a university in which students shall neither be so numerous as they are in Berlin nor so few as they are in Rostock ; in which professors shall belong to the great third estate of scholarship and teaching ; in which the courses of instruction shall embody the large historic movements of learning and of tuition ; and in which student life shall be simple without plainness , and dignified without luxuriousness . Such , indeed , is the result as embodied in the University of Geneva . Behind this result , at present ob taining , lies a prolonged and preg- nant history . This history begins , for our present purpose , with John Calvin , under whose guidance and inspiration Geneva founded , in 1559 , an academy having the four faculties of Philosophy , Jurisprudence , Theology , and the Natural Sciences . It is to the disadvantage of Calvin that the greatness of his fame as a theologian has obscured his merits as an educator and administrator . Of him a writer of the traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the father of popular education , the inventor of the system of free schools . . . . The Pilgrims of Plymouth were Calvinists ; the best influence in South Carolina came from the Calvinists of France . William Penn was the disciple of the Huguenots ; the ships from Holland that first brought colonists to Manhattan were filled with Calvinists . He that will not honor the memory and respect the influence of Calvin , knows but little of the origin of American liberty . " In the regard which Calvin paid to education , elementary and advanced , he was simply illustrating and promoting the intellectual movement which preceded , accompanied , and followed the Protestant Reformation of the sixteenth century . The principles upon which the academy of Calvin at Geneva was founded were logically and pedagogically sound , and its methods of administration efficient . The general course of study was not unlike that prevailing to-day in the best fitting schools , omitting the sciences and the modern languages . The Greek and Latin authors read then are the ones which are still read , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The students in Calvin 's institution were obliged to follow a strict regimen . The rules governing their behavior were more personal than emerged in the history of Harvard College , almost one hundred years after . Cards , dancing , banquets , " les reunions joyeuses inter poeula " were prohibited . Even the freedom of " drinking punch in a sober manner , " which was later td-lowed to Harvard men , was denied to the Genevese student . The moral and ecclesiastical beliefs , too , to which the teachers were obliged to assent were stiff . although not unreasonable , seen in the light of the religious methods of the second half of the sixteenth century . Anabaptists , as well as Romanists , were not to be suffered to ravage the sheepfold of the true faith . Great names adorned the history of the institution at the beginning and for more than a century and a half . The greatest of these names , after that of Calvin , was Besa , who was his successor in the Chair of Theology , in whose arms he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From many parts and for diverse purposes , came those who were enrolled upon the teaching staff . Thomas Cartwright. and Andrew Melville came from England as lecturers . From Germany , as well as from France , also were called professors . Joseph Justus Scaliger , acknowledged as the chief scholar of his time , here lectured for two years , from 1572 to 1574 . Isaac Casaubon filled the Chair of Greek from 1582 to 1596 . Charles Frederick Necker was a Professor of Law from 1725 to 1762 . Jacob Vernet served in the Chair of Literature from 1732 to 1756 , and in that of Hebrew from 1756 to 1786 . Horace Benedict de Saussure was Professor of Philosophy for almost a quarter of a century , beginning his term in 1762 . In the last years of the eighteenth century occurred a singular episode in the history of the university . Political disturbances were ravaging the academic establishment . The professors were dissatisfied with their environment . It was a time in America when the French influence was strong . From both Geneva and from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the faculty of the university to the New World . Jefferson had given up his idea of trying to develop the old William and Mary College into a State university . Correspondence between Jefferson , Washington , and representatives of the university at Geneva shows that had the people of Virginia favored the scheme , the Academy of Calvin might have become the University of Jefferson . Among the teachers whom it was proposed should come to America were Mouehon , Pietet , Senebier , Bertrand and L'Huillier , Prevost and De Saussure . These men were distinguished largely for their researches in mathematics and in the physical and natural sciences . But the conservative Virginians thought the scheme too expensive . The appeal which Jefferson made to Washington for support did not receive encouragement . The sober - minded Washington doubted the wisdom of bringing a body of foreigners into America who might not be familiar with the language and whose political environment was unlike our own . He also believed that if foreigners were to be elected as professors they should not all hail from a single . nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Presently the project came to an end . Jefferson had to wait more than a quarter of a century before founding a university , one into which he did finally bring several great men and foreigners . The Academy at Geneva was thus privileged to pursue its normal and historic development . In the year 1873 , more than three centuries after the foundation of the Academy , the university was finally and formally established . The physical conditions were and are not without a certain general relation to the great principle of Aristotle of the golden mean . On one side of a noble park stand the buildings erected thirty years ago . The main entrance is made through the Bastions , symbol of rest and of pleasure . The rear wails abut on the public street , significant of human relationships . Near by is the noble theatre . The buildings are three , built on as many sides of the square , yet so united as to appear as one . The architecture is of the German type , of strength and of plainness . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The lecture and other rooms , too , represent the German type . Mueb , also , of the physical apparatus seems to have a certain heaviness indicative of Teutonic origin . If the Germans , by the way , are greater than the Americans in forming theories of the great laws of nature , in making instruments to present these theories and to illustrate these laws the new people over the seas are far more apt . A similar large and common character is manifest in the courses of instruction which are offered the students . Unique courses are seldom proposed . I find , for instance , no such affluence of offerings of courses in the mathematical and physical sciences as Harvard University sets forth in these departments . Leaving out certain subjects offered by the privet docents , the better denominational colleges of Illinois , of Minnesota , or of Iowa are giving as full instruction to their students in the great scientific subjects as the University of Geneva . The comparison to the American college can not be so fully or advantageously extended as to cover the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the classification and general history of the sciences ? historical and geographical ? and Egyptology , represent courses , too , which are not given in the larger share of the American colleges . Yet the place occupied by the " Seminary " in Geneva is one which represents an opportunity seldom offered to the American student . The opportunity is becoming open to him , and as he proves himself more worthy of the closer personal association which it represents , and more able to discuss the problems which it formally and informally offers , it will become his privilege more constantly and in larger relations . The type of theology which is taught in the lecture-rooms of the university is not what would be called in New England " Calvinistic . " Although Dean Montet , Professor Chantre , and other members of the faculty of theology still think of themselves as the spiritual descendants of John Calvin , yet the kinship is one rather of atmosphere than of specific beliefs . The rallying cries are " essential religion , " " spiritual Christi ? anity , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought . " The ideal conception , both theological and political , is found in the free church in the free - state . The members of the faculty find theological associates in such scholars and teachers as Otto Pfieiderer and Adolf Harnack of Berlin , Professor J. Eslin Carpenter of Oxford . Dean Fremantle of Ripon , Professor Oort of Leyden , and in leaders of the liberal movement in religion of the United States . such as Professor Francis G. Peabody of Harvard , and Dr. Samuel A. Eliot . Forces which make a college valuable to a student are numerous and diverse in origin and application . Among such forces are the personality of the teacher , and , to a degree , his reputation , the formation of the habit of work , the enrichment of friendship , and a deepening acquaintance with humanity . The personalities who constitute the faculty of Geneva and of the other Swiss universities do not , or can not , lay claim to such eminence as belongs to Haeckel at Jena , to Weissman at Freiburg , in Baden , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most famous member of the staff of Geneva of recent decades was , of course , Amid . But the fame of Amid is not primarily academic . ITe belongs to humanity and not to the plane-trees . Amid died in 1881 . One of his students said to me recently that his college lectures were comparatively without interest . The number of his students was small . Purposely , he declined to impress either his personality or his message upon his auditors . His respect for their individuality was so great that he refused to ask them to accept of his own . " He protects the intellectual freedom . ? . of his students with the same jealousy as he protects his own . Them shall be no oratorical device , no persuading , no cajoling of the mind this way or that . " Mrs. Ward also says in her preface to his Journal , " As a professor he made no mark . " She further ( motes one of his students as saying : " His pupils at Geneva never learned to appreciate him at his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a knowledge as varied as it was wide , to his vast stores of reading , to that cosmopolitanism of the best kind which he had brought back with him from his travels ; we liked him for his indulgence , his kindly wit . But I look hack without any sense of pleasure to his lectures . " For , in the academic lecture he was a different being from the writer of the Journal Intime . Schematismus took the place of interpretation , intellectual framework of speculation , and formal presentation of formal truth stood in the stead of expositions of the relation of man to the two worlds of the finite and the infinite between which he ever moves . It was not until after the publication of a few of the seventeen thousand pages of his manuscripts that his students and the Genevese realized that their city had had its Dante . In the university signs of his presence arc not lacking . A noble bust stands near the entrance to the Aula ? a bust which conveys an impression of spirit , vigor , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far more impressively than any one of the several photographs which I have seen intimates . But an environment historic and vital may , in certain respects , have an influence as valuable as is the influence of personality . An environment ? noble , impressive ? touches the student of the University of Geneva . For here Rousseau labored to make the community , as well as Calvin the church , democratic . Here the cause of international arbitration began its great and enlarging history and achieved one of its greatest results , settling grave questions touching England . the United States , and the world , in what is known as the Geneva Award . Here the Red Cross movement had its origin , and here . too , the cause of minority representation in political bodies -- a cause which is sure to have its revival ? took its beginning . Arnie ! says , under date of the Eth of July , 1880 . " Geneva is a caldron always at boiling-point , a furnace of which the fires are never extinguished . Vulcan had more than one forge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the greatest number of projects have been hammered out . When one thinks that the martyrs of all causes have been at work here , the mystery is explained a little ; but the truest explanation is that Geneva , ? republican , protestant , democratic , learned , and enterprising Geneva ? has for centuries depended on herself alone for the solution of her own difficulties . Since the Reformation she has been always on the alert , marching with a lantern in her left hand and a sword in her right . " Personalities many and great have their association for the student in this academic neighborhood . The streets arc generally named after the great men of Geneva . For it is not simply the city of Calvin and of Rousseau , it is the city of Voltaire , of Madame de Sta41 , of Necker , and of men as diverse as Sey , the political economist , of Ampere , and of Albert Gallatin . Here Guizot spent his early life ; here John Knox preached two years , and hither in 1829 came Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " greatest discovery , " Faraday . Time would fail one to tell of Victor Cherbuliez , of Wagner ? who here wrote a part of his Valkyrie , ? of musicians , of statesmen , of poets , like Byron , whose personalities or works are associated with the little city and make it of inspiring and achieving force for the student . This influence of atmosphere belongs to all the students in at least some degree . It also serves to unite the diverse conditions of men and women who hither come into the academic community . For the community is composed of both men and women , of students of the summer schools as well as of the more regular matriculants , and of hearers ? a form of the university community which exists in many Continental universities in a larger degree than in the United States , and which is worthy of a more careful elaboration . The summer school in the French language and literature appears of special significance . It . is designed particularly for foreign teachers who give instruction in this language and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community come constantly foreigners of many nationalities , among whom Russians are conspicuous . For Geneva is a city of refugees . It occupies a place such as Holland 's cities filled three hundred years ago . The university partakes of the freedom and hospitality of its community . Many Germans matriculate for a semester to learn French , the Russians to learn medicine , and the Americans notmany ? to learn a bit of many things , or , less often , much of one . Geneva is only one of the universities of its little Switzerland . Basel , founded in 1460 ; Lausanne , founded as an academy in 1537 , and as a university in 1890 ; Zilrich , founded in 1832 ; Bern , founded in 1834 ; Freiburg , founded in 1889 ? have each secured a high educational place , though in its historic impressiveness Geneva is unique . But Geneva and her five companions are noble illustrations of the spirit and power of democracy . Their support is derived largely from the Cantons in which they are located . Although the constitution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a polytechnic school and university , the university has not been established . The cantons support their universities with a willingness which is as great as obtains in the States of the American Union touching their respective State universities . The University of Zurich is maintained by a contmonwealth of but three hundred and fifty thousand people , and within an area of less than seven hundred square miles . Basel , with a population of less than one hundred thousand , supports its university . They are examples of the power of an enlightened democracy which interests itself in the highest education . This interest is not confined , either , to the cause of liberal learning . For the technical schools of Ziirich are among the best of the world . The republic of the United States and the republic of Switzerland are alike in their belief in the necessity of the highest education for the highest life of the people . The spirit of Geneva and the spirit also of every worthy university town is well indicated in an inscription which is cut in a stone tablet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building , to the effect that in the dedication of this building to the higher studies the people of Geneva acknowledge the benefits conferred by an institution which guarantees the fundamental principles of liberty . This sentiment , liberally translated from the French , is only a modern version of the Hebrew principle , " Where there is no vision the people perish . "                     