@@486938

Mr Carnegie 's article in the Century , advocating a tariff ' for revenue only , is one calculated to make hidebound protectionists wish that it , too , had been suppressed . For , say what they will , it is a body blow to them . They have been asking for men who can speak with authority , and here they have got one who throws his authority - squarely against them . They have wanted " practical " witnesses , and in Mr. Carnegie they find one without a single trait of the despised college professor or closet-philosopher . Of course , they will abuse him as a " renegade . " Indeed , they are already beginning to do so . Senator Burrows of- Michigan , for example , is quoted as saying that Mr. Carnegie " made his fortune manufacturing steel under the protective policy of the Republican party , " but now " seems disposed to tear down the walls which afforded him protection and enabled him to amass wealth . " The sole question with reasonable men , however , is whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past , is to-day speaking words of truth and soberness . In the steel business , he is an acknowledged master . Here his statements are as conclusive as they are distressing  --  to the high-tariff fanatics . They have talked glibly , but insincerely , of tariff duties designed to equalize the " cost of production , " at home and abroad . In especial , they have pointed to high wages in the United States as making it absolutely necessary to protect the dear workingman . But Mr Carnegie blows them out of the water with , his assertion that steel can be made in this country " cheaper than anywhere else , notwithstanding the higher wages paid per man . " He goes on : " Not a ton of steel is produced in the world at as small an outlay for labor as in our own country . " This is heartrending . But worse is to come , for Mr. Carnegie , in defiance of the high protectionists who point to the danger of an inundation of cheap goods from Germany , declares that in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " greater than with us , unusually high as our wages are at present . " Thus is this stone of the free-traders , rejected all these years by the tariff-builders , made the head of the corner . We can but hail Mr. Carnegie 's aid in enforcing a truth which trained economists have long maintained , but which our law-makers have sneered at . With them , it has been axiomatic that higher wages mean higher labor cost . Mr. Carnegie shows that they may often mean a lower . His article should be a kind of surgical operation on the heads of protectionists , which can not fail to make their brains work better , and we may even hope that it will improve their morals . The confusion wrought in the high-tariff camp by Mr. Carnegie 's bombshell is highly illuminative of the way which protective duties are paid . Washington dispatches show the Republican tariff-makers spluttering and running to cover . They can not and do not deny Mr. Carnegie 's facts , but they consider his publication of them " astounding " In other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be liable , Congressmen say , to " infinite embarrassment , " if they consent to placing steel on the free list , and then stand out for high duties on other manufactures in which their own " States and districts " are particularly interested . The whole log-rolling theory of tariff-construction is revealed in the attitude of Senator Sutherland of Utah . He is bound to demand a high tariff on lead , wool , sugar , and hides , products of his State , and therefore declares that it would be " most unwise " for him to commit himself to " wiping out the duties on the commodities produced in some other State " Apparently , he fears that if Dalzell should lose the steel booty , the enraged Pennsylvanian would compel others to give up their tariff loot , in turn . We see how frankly the tariff is thus coniassed to be the result of a combination of special interests . Low-tariff men and convinced free-traders may well rejoice in the discussion which Mr. Carnegie 's article is certain to stir up . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Con. gress , more receptive to the truth than it has been before . All that any one can ask is fair debate , with all the facts brought out , and then a willingness to " follow the argument , " as Socrates used to say . The argument really leads further than Mr. Carnegie goes . In specifying manufactures of cotton and wool , together with those of glass and china , and fruits , as imports " used almost exclusively by the rich , " and arguing that the duties upon them ought to be maintained or even increased , he overlooks entirely the way in which the tariff enables the domestic manufacturer to increase his charges for what the middle classes and the poor are compelled to buy . This reflex action or a high tariff , by which the right to tax the consumer is placed in favored hands , is something which no thorough and honest inquiry can leave out . But that will all come , in time . For the present , it is sufficient cause for congratulation that Mr. Carnegie has sounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE LIQUOR QUESTION . The agitation for the restriction of the liquor traffic is rapidly moving from the South and West to the North and East . The question will soon be , indeed already is , before us in this State In the last election the liquor interests worked quietly but effectively against Gov . Hughes on the theory that he is " nairow and puritanical , " and is therefore likely to sign a restrictive bill . Just after the election ? November 12 , to be exact  --  the Lager Beer Brewers ' Board of Trade of New York and Vicinity held a meeting and passed resolutions professing " readiness to cooperate with the authorities in the work of practical regulation of the liquor traffic , " hoping that " in a short time " objectionable places would be " put out of existence , " but protesting against " unenforceable laws " which are urged by " our overzealous paternalistic friends . " Certain it is that , with or without the recommendation of Gov . Hughes , local option bills of one kind or another will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect we welcome as an uncommonly timely publication the November issue of the Annals of the Amer-wan Academy of Political and Social Science , devoted to " Regulation of the Liquor Traffic . " It contains seventeen papers treating different aspects of the subject , from a general article , " The Local Option Movement , " by the Rev. S. E. Nicholson , superintendent of the Pennsylvania Anti-Saloon League , to " The Regulation of the Liquor Traffic in England " by Miss Agnes E. Slack of the National British Women 's Temperance Association . Since an adequate summary of such a large and varied miscellany is impossible here , we shall touch upon only two or three points that bear directly on conditions in New York State . The case for the liquor dealers is presented in " The Saloon Problem , " by Hugh F , Fox , secretary of the United States Brewers ' Association ; and " The Attitude of the Distillers and Wholesale Liquor Dealers on the Regulation of the Liquor Traffic , " by David Stauber , secretary of the National Wholesale Liquor Dealers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the earnest desire of liquor dealers as a class to conduct saloons " in a decent and orderly manner . " Although the more intelligent and far-sighted mem- . bers of the trade may feel this desire keenly ( they are aware that every vile grog-shop is an unanswerable argument for severe restriction ) , yet we can not believe that the influential brewers and distillers are united in serious efforts to improve the moral tone of the saloon . If they are , then they have failed lamentably . A large number of saloons are nothing more than agencies for the sale of this brand of beer or that of whiskey ; they are conducted much as the virtual owner , a brewer or distiller , wishes to have them conducted ; and if in a given locality  --  say the " Tenderloin " in New York city  --  systematic law-breaking is profitable , the law will be systematically broken , with the approval , or indeed at the behest , of the wealthy proprietor This fact it is which makes us skeptical when the liquor men promise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to work out their own salvation . Under the present law nothing prevents their malting the saloons as virtuous as may be ; but the saloons remain plague-spots in the community , centres of drunkenness , licentiousness , and crime . Nothing , we are convinced , can protect our citizens , young and old , but severe restriction . The sole issue is as to the form of that restriction . Various suggestions are made : high license , State dispensaries , local option ( perhaps combined with high license ) , and prohibition . The last mentioned plan , we are confident , will no longer be seriously urged in our large and populous Eastern States . Prohibition enforced by a general statute , applying to wide areas , containing both densely crowded cities and thinly settled farming country , has been a failure . It is a failure in Maine to-day . In some rural districts the law is enforced with fair success , and the results may be beneficial ; but in the long run the law has been scandalously broken in such centres as Portland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State dispensaries been very encouraging One of the most interesting contributions to the Ana ale , " The State Dispensaries of South Carolina , " by Niels Christensen , jr. , of the Beaufort Gazette , tells us that " the State did not succeed as a barkeeper . " By way of summary , Mr Christensen says : The dispensary accomplishes much in abolishing the social features of the saloon and the element of private profit that is so Potent in pushing sales . But in putting into the hands of public officials the power to purchase liquor , the door for graft is thrown wide open , and through it at any moment may enter corruption that will render the system as evil as the worst . This is not , of course , the last word on the dispensary ; for our experiments have not been conducted long enough and under sufficiently various conditions to enable , us to reach a final judgment . We believe , however , that the most successful of our endeavors thus far have been along the line of local option , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass a really comprehensive measure embodying that principle The present law certainly - works badly . Whatever may be said for it in the hills of Schoharie , does not apply to New York city , and , moreover , the provisions that may he satisfactory near Central Park are often preposterous on the Bowery . The problem of Sunday closing is not the same in Coxsackie and Canal Street . It is for these reasons that we should like to see this State try a local option law that shall be more extensive in scope than most of those now in operation . In the average Western State , the city or town is given the option of " going wet " or " going dry . " And in New York it is only fair that towns in which the majority of voters oppose the sale of liquor should have the right to see what may be done by prohibition in a limited area . But we wish also to see a vote , not merely on the question of saloons or no saloons , but , when saloons are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Sunday . Only in this way can we find out the real opinion of the vicinage and arouse sufficient interest to secure the enforcement of whatever regulations may be imposed . For one of the worst evils of the saloon today is the demoralization of our police and of whole groups of citizens through collusion in violating the provision for closing . POUREN AND THE RIGHT OF ASY-LUM . While waiting for the Federal authorities to decide whether Jan Pouren , the young Lettish peasant whom the Russian government is so anxious to have retored to its paternal arms , is a political refugee or an ordinary criminal , we may call attention to the extraordinary zeal with which the government of Nicholas II has suddenly set out to vindicate the majesty of the law . Since the beginning of Russian emigration to this country thirty years ago , some two million subjects of the Romanofs have landed in this country . Among them there must have been hundreds , at least , who were fugitives from justice . Yet , Russia was content to let us enjoy her brigands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until their ranks began to be swelled by members of a new criminal class who call themselves revolutionists . Only then did the Czar 's government recollect that a treaty of extradition gave it the right to demand the Surrender of runaway " crmmals " Pouren 's case was only a beginning Apolinaris Alexandrovitch , a youth of eighteen , was recently haled back to Russia for the offence of forging a certificate of advanced academic standing Two arrests at the instiga tion of the Russian authorities are reported from Chicago If the world at large has been led to think that several hundred executions a week were enough to keep Russian justice reasonably employed , it was mistaken . Appetite notoriously grows by feeding , and the Russian government , having established the reign of law within its borders , by means of drumhead courts , military courts , states of major siege , states of minor siege , states of extraordinary security , and states of merely reinforced security , is evidently sighing for new worlds to conquer . The true object of the present campaign of extradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create the impression that America can no longer be looked to as asylum for enemies of the established order . In Continental Europe , the places of refuge are being steadily circumscribed Germany has long been surrendering political prisoners to Russia ; Switzerland is beginning to do so The task before the Russian government seems simple At home , it has stamped out revolution , or driven it underground . The main preparations for a new revolutionary campaign must be carried on abroad , as were the preparations for the upheaval of 1905-07 . If the world can be closed to the revolutionists , with anything like the effectiveness attained within the Czar 's dominions , the autocracy will have reduced to a minimum the chances of further revolutionary opposition England and the United States are the only two great nations which still offer generous rights of asylum to opponents of political misrule . England , however , is now the close diplomatic friend of Russia . All the more reason why this country should be careful not to withdraw a privilege which , by the very nature of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political progress the world over To draw the line between the ordinary criminal and the political refugee accused of acts of violence , is often very difficult . Revolutions are not fought and won by armies composed exclusively of Mazzims or Jose Rizals . Not every workman who mounted the Moscow barricades in December , 1905 , could have drawn up a convincing brief for constitutional government as against autocracy . Not every Lettish peasant who waged guerilla warfare against the RusSian government and the German feudal landowners in the Baltic provinces kept his hand to the precise measure of violence justifiable in revolution . Thus it is that the principles of political asylum obtaining in this country and in Great Britain make explicit recognition of the inevitably irregular nature of revolutionary warfare . In 1897 John Sherman , Secretary of State , in the course of certain negotiations with Mexico , quoted from a judicial decision in the Federal courts : One can not look too hardly and weigh in golden scales the acts of men hot in their political excitement . . . An act of this description @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furtherance of a political rising , even though it is an act which may be deplored and lamented . . . by those who calmly reflect upon it after the battle is over . Obviously , the intention of the law is that every chance shall be given to the refugee who pleads his political opinions as a defence against extradition . Even then the case of the defendant is sufficiently hard . Victorious govern-. ments may produce documentary evidence in profusion ; a fugitive revolutionist is not likely to carry with him irrefutable testimonials of his identity . The question arises whether the accused was a member of an organized revolutionary party , and witnesses testify to his presence at this or that secret meeting of a revolutionary junta . " Were minutes of the proceedings kept ? " " Yes . " " Where are they ? " Where , in the natural course of events , would the records of a party be , whose members have been shot , hanged , imprisoned , or sent into flight abroad ? The revolutionary records are gone , and counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their existence has no weight against the thousand printed folios adduced by has client . Often a refugee will refuse to answer questions which may endanger those who are still within the power of the accusing government . At every step the prisoner is handicapped . Not to recognize that such disadvantages rest upon the ordinary political fugitive , is to deny him in fact the right of asylum which we grant him in word . The world is stirring with the forces of political progress . Turkey , Persia , China  --  who knows , Germany , perhaps  --  may any day be sending us suppliants for protection , whose greatest guilt will be that they wished well to their country . The open door should not be closed to them , an , open door far more important to the general welfare of humanity than one admitting thousands of bales of American cotton goods into Manchuria . Today , the Russian government calls for the surrender of a Pouren , who may or may not be an ordinary criminal . Tomorrow , it may call for the surrender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet done with the internal crisis created by the German Emperor 's indiscreet interview in the London Daily Telegraph , the Reichstag is compelled to face the duty of imposing new and heavy taxes . The Imperial Ministers have of late years thought imperially , but managed their budgets with but little foresight and wisdom . Hence , it has become necessary to raise for the Empire an additional annual revenue of no less than $125,000,000 , while the Prussian Ministry is at the same moment casting about for new means of covering annually a part of its deficit of $50 , - 000,000 . The prospects for a happy winter for the taxpayer are not bright ; and if he studies the matter he will find that retrenchment and saving are two words wholly unknown to the government . It has regularly incurred , without thought of the morrow , heavier and heavier expenses for army , navy , and colonies , and for the ever-increasing army of governmental employees . It must be admitted that the Chancellor and his new Finance Minister , Herr Sydow , have round fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make other European ministers of finance envious . At the same time , Germany has had to resort to expedients which will quickly bring this new burden home to the ordinary citizen . Thus there will be a tax on gas and electricity , a partial monopoly of the manufacture and sale of spirits , a tax on beer , a new tax on wines , a tax on advertisements , death duties and a military service tax in connection with these death duties , an increased excise on tobacco , and a radical overhauling of the law of inheritance by which the state takes the places of distant relatives , In addition , there is to be an increased tariff on foreign sparkling wines Finally , as these taxes will not suffice by seven millions of dollars , the regularly as sessed contributions of the individual States to the imperial treasury are to be increased by that amount . For the next five years each State will therefore have to contribute a sum equivalent to 80 pfennigs ( 20 cents ) for every inhabitant . This doubles the present rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceeds of the Imperial trade in spirits are to be credited to the account of the annual assessment of the several States . Then there is to be a new plan of amortizing the Imperial debt , or that part of it which comprises loans for non-productive purposes . Hereafter , it is hoped , it will not be necessary to borrow money for non-productive undertakings , as contrasted with loans for railways , canals , etc. , which bring in an income . Two of these expedients , the limiting of the right of inheritance and the monopolizing of the right to purchase and sell wholesale , as well as to distil and to refine alcohol , obviously smack of the socialistic , and as such may be welcome to the Left of the Reichstag , although the Socialist members know better than any one else how heavily the existing taxes bear upon the working classes . The levies on alcoholic beverages will , of course , be felt with unusual keenness by a people as addicted as the Germans are to wine and beer Moreover , the gas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the consumer ) will be a genuine hardship to the very poor . Just as the old historic French tax on windows produced almost windowless houses , so this tax will decrease the use of gas and electricity by-those who greatly ' need them Household and electric bells and alarms , an well as telegraphic and telephonic installations , are exempt ; but this will hardly still the outcry over this fresh invasion of the household by the tax-collector . The tax on advertisements applies to all commercial or other business announcements in the dailies , weeklies , and magazines , and to all printed circulars . Dailies must pay a rate ranging from 2 to 10 per cent. , according to their circulation ; weeklies and monthlies , a flat rate of 10 per cent . Charitable appeals are exempted , and also advertisements , not over five lines in length , for situations . Plainly , there-is likely to be a marked falling off in advertisements and consequent coolness of the press toward the new scheme . From the industrial point of view no less than-fromthe. political , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tariff and the Agrarian policy , the cost of living has increased far beyond the normal , the price of meat , partichlarly , having risen so that hundreds of thousands must go without it . The existing depression bids fair to continue for some time . Hence , the possibility that these new taxes may increase the present disaffection . The German people are long-suffering , but , as has just been shown , their wrath , when once aroused , is to be feared . They know that political power is unequally distributed within the Empire , and particularly in Prussia , - where the conservative and Agrarian influences retain control by means of the antiquated suffrage laws  --  the worst system of suffrage , Bismarck called it , that man had devised . This will probably be the first line of attack , precisely as it was last winter . And the new taxes should also increase the agitation for a Ministry that is more directly responsible to the Reichstag . A WORD FOR THE TEACHER . The importance of the teacher is , we are glad to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For many years the air has been filled with talk of methods of pedagogy , syllabuses and outlines , construction of laboratories , plans of rooms for manual training and cooking , arrangements for ventilation , and vertical penmanship . This strong emphasis on the mechanical side has made some of us forget that , after all , the one essential is the competent teacher . We would not undervalue dynamos and fresh air ; we would not have our programmes less logically ordered , or our workshops and kindergartens less fully equipped ; we are passionate supporters of vertical penmanship ( or perhaps it is sloping , this week ) ; but without the inspiring teacher all these paraphernalia are as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal ; and it is true that if we seek first the teacher , all these things shall be added . This , we take it , is the thesis of two books issued within the month : " Personality in Education , " by James P. Conover , master in St. Paul 's School , Concord , N. H. ; and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by George Herbert Palmer and Alice Freeman Palmer . It is the thesis also of various papers and addresses , - like : that , for example , on " The Humanizing of Study , " by President Faunce of Brown , published in the School Review for October We have made great progress in the arts of building and organizing , but far less in the art of securing what Professor Palmer calls " the ideal teacher . " We wish , then , that all school boards and superintend-dents , all college trustees and presidents , would take as their motto a single sentence from President Faunce 's speech : " Above all , we must exalt personality above mechanism in school and college . " This exaltation of personality is the great problem of school administrators to-day . How shall we attract the finest minds and characters to the profession of teaching ? We are not doing so now . Too many of our college professors are men of the second and third rank , too n any of the instructors in grammar schools and academies , public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One trouble is that we do not pay them enough . This argument we need not elaborate , for our readers are all familiar with it The teacher 's wages are often less than those of a skilled mechanic . He does not earn enough to give his family the social advantages , the opportunities for travel , for visiting picture galleries , for reading and for hearing good music  --  in short , for all those activities and pleasures of the mind which , for cultivated men and women , are the necessities of life . In the School Review of November Prof Francis W Kelsey of the University of Michigan complains rather bitterly : In the profession of teaching outside of the colleges and universities there is uncertainty of tenure , with which is coupled insufficient remuneration . Every year men of marked success , with an equipment representing a large outlay of time , energy , and money , are forced out of the profession , and young men of promise are deterred from entering it , because they can foresee no time when the rewards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This statement is exactly true , and it applies to most small colleges as well as to institutions of lower grade . In fine , we shall not get an adequate supply of good teachers till we offer them enough to live on in fair comfort . But money is not all . Both the teacher and the minister of the gospel find large compensations in the interest and stimulation of their work ; they are willing to accept an income far smaller than that of the successful lawyer , merchant , , or Jianker .. " Those are-fortunate , " says Professor Palmer , " who are able to devote their lives to its enriching study . " Yet even in towns which can not afford at present to pay teachers suitable salaries much may be done to make the calling more attractive . In many places , particularly outside of New England , the profession is not highly regarded . The prosperous pork-packer or manufacturer of steel rails looks with ill-concealed contempt on a man or woman who deliberately chooses a career in which the acquisition of wealth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social tone . As a result , the teacher and his family , who may be among the most cultivated and agreeable people of the place , receive little or no social consideration This phrase we use in its broadest sense . We would not suggest that the schoolmaster and his wife would be rendered any happier or more contented with their lot if they were patronized by Mrs Porkpacker and invited to join the rabble at her pink teas . But we believe that the schoolmaster and mistress would have a more dignified and enjoyable career if their intelligent and well-educated neighbors would make more of them , would take the trouble to seek them out and discover their accomplishments and attainments . The teacher is usually modest and retiring , and is only too keenly aware that he can not freely contribute money to the community enterprises . But he can , if called on , generally offer what is even more valuable in the conduct of boards , committees , and clubs  --  devotion and a trained mind . The teacher ought , outside the walls of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and well-esteemed of persons ; if he is thrust into a corner , the fault is often that his neighbors have been too stupid or indifferent to detect his worth . And there is one other point to which we have referred in times past  --  the adjustment of the teacher 's tasks so as to allow a little energy and time for study and reflection . The man of scholarly tastes is often not attracted to teaching because he knows that , in addition to the privations of the career , he will really be so overburdened that anything like scholarly pursuits will be impossible . He will be robbed of the legitimate perquisites of the calling , of - every change to keep his soul aliie within him . He feels that he might almost as well slice cheese at a handsome profit , and done with it . If our school boards and our college trustees would make it their policy to encourage the man and woman of parts to make something more of themselves than a machine for instructing and disciplining the young , we should get more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus greatly improve our teaching forces , and , through them , our own children . RECENT FRENCH BOOKS ON HIS-TORY . Runs , October 30 . With October the tide of new publications rises to its full As usual , the proportion of books on history , grave and gay and controverted , is very large . Let us take those which interest the foreign reader or general student in the order of the centuries of which they treat Dom Fernand Cabrol , abbot at Farnborough , England , of an exiled French community of Benedictines , publishes one of those learned works in ecclesiastical history for which his order has so long been famous ? " L'Angleterre chretienne avant les Normands " ( Gabalda ) . " Les Divins Jongleurs , " by A. Bailly ( Plon-Nourrit ) is a series of episodes of the Franciscan epopee , from that early period of the fulfilment of St. Francis 's description of the brethren ? " We are the Lord 's wandering minstrels " ( for this , and not the modern " juggler , " is the equivalent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is far , both in time and reverence , from the equally familiar chronicle of le grand siiele Intime , " De Richelieu a Mazarin ( 1642-1644 ) , " by Emile Roca ( Perrin ) , although there is something edifying in the religious resignation of Louis XIII to the multiple remedies with which his doctors made sure he should die " regularly . " The third and last part of Prof. Fortunat Strowski 's great work on the history of religious sentiment in France in the seventeenth century , " Pascal at son temps " ( Plon-Nourrit ) , deals with the writings by which Pascal is best known , " Les Provinciales " and " Les Pensees , " each of which has been essentially rejected by the Roman Catholic Church , in favor of whose religion he thought he was working . The author , though a member of the State University , seems to be a Liberal Catholic Though later in time , the sympathy of the subject places here " Une Suite h l'histoire de Port-Royal , " by A. Gazier , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Writers . The book is from unpublished documents and deals with the years from 1750 to 1782 , when the discredited movement ceased acting above ground in face of the opposition of Rousseau 's adversary , the really great pre-revolutionary archbishop of Paris , Christophe de Beaumont . Two publications , noteworthy for the student of Protestantism and religious liberty , are the " Histoire de la revocation de l'eclit de Nantes h Bordeaux ( 1653-1715 ) , " by Paul Bert , a complete documentary work on one diocese ; and the third volume of an equally documentary effort from the Catholic side , " Etudes sur la revocation de Pedit de Nantes en Languedoc  --  les fugitifs ( 1685-1715 ) , " by the Abbe Rouquette ( Savaete ) . In the popular Collection historique illustree , " La Vie a Ia Bastille " ( Savine ) contains the authentic reminiscences of a prisoner , Constantin de Renneville ( 1702-1713 ) , with illustrations from the French archives Maurice d'Avray , in " Le Proses du Chevalier de La Barre " ( Ficker ) , tries to prove that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cause from the tragic trial , of which he studies the court records . In any case , it was time such a regime should come to an end , as might be gathered from another book , as light as that is tragic , " Amours d'Op  --  ra au XVIIIe si  --  cle , " by the veteran musical critic and historian , Adolphe Julli en ( published expensively by Daragon ) ; here the philosophes come to their own with Grimm and Mademoiselle Leclerc . " Saint-Domingue ( 1629-1789 ) , " by Pierre de Vaissiere ( Perrin ) , is an extensive volume on Creole life and society in that island during the entire period of colonial life under the Old Regime , with an account of the sons of French nobility who went thither to recuperate their fortunes . One of these , Marquis de La Pailleterie , legitimately married a colored proprietress , Colette Dumas , following the example of many others ; and if their son , Napoleon 's general , the first Alexandre Dumas , chose his mother 's family name rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of safety and patriotism during the anti-noble Revolution ; his son , the novelist , was still acknowledged as a legitimate marquis down to 1848 , as those who doubt might see in the French peerage of Louis Philippe 's time The book has actual interest for Americans , both from past and present history - " L'Eglise de Paris et la Revolution , " by P Pisani , of which the first volume ( 1789-1792 , down to the Massacres of September ) has appeared ( A. Picard ) , is the most complete and technically the most intelligent work on its subject ; the advantages of its author , a canon of Notre Dame , over Professor Aulard , for example , both in access to documents and the understanding ofthem , are evident , in spite of his belonging to the side of the slain The " nationalization " of church property , which the book narrates , may be compared with " La Politique relig:euse de la Revolution frangaise , " by Emile La-fond , a doctor of laws of the opposing camp , as might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Paul d'Estree 's " Le P6re Duchesne " tells from recent authoritative works and from unpublished documents the story of the infamous Hebert and the Commune of Paris during the years of the Terror ( Aubert ) . Jean Drault , a counter-revolutionist of to-day , finds arms for his cause in an interesting episode of the Terror at Lyons , " Le Barbier Gracchus " ( Librairie Nationale ) . Ernest Daudet , an authority of greater weight on the same side , gives another of his books , pleasant to read and valuable from unpublished documents , " Resits des temps revolution-noires " ; it throws new light on the plot of 1800 against the First Consul . " Bibliographie du temps de Napoleon , comprenant l'histoire des Etats-Unis , " by Frederic M Kircheisen , treats of the political , economic , literary , and military books of the Napoleonic era , not only in France and the other countries of Europe , but also in the infant United States of America . The first volume is out , the second is in press ( ChOmpion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who still holds her own against Napoleon is Paul Gautier 's " Mathieu de Montmorency et Madame de Stael " ( Plon-Nourrit ) , based on unpublished letters of the man in the case to the heroine 's cousin , Madame Necker de Saussure . Mathieu de Montmorency was already sympathetically known from the life of Madame Recamier ; his religion did not lead him to shun those whose lawlessness was endeared by genius . There are few rarer episodes in troubled history than the interruption of his reading of St. Augustine 's Confessions at night by the pretended dying struggles of Benjamin Constant , who , in a neighboring room , was striving to win the heart of their masculine-minded hostess Gilbert Stenger continues his substantial historical work by " Le Re-tour des Bourbons ( 1814-1815 ) " ? that short-lived reign of the emigres , beginning at Hartwell and ending in Ghent with a revulsion of the French people to Napoleon , whom only a foreign occupation could depose ( Plon-Nourrit ) . " Lettres du Prince de Metternich h Ia Comtesse de Lieven ( 1818-1819 ) " ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes by Jean Hanoteau , is a book throwing curious light on the interior of a man whose activity ruled Austrian policy with sentiments usually considered foreign to love until after the middle of the nineteenth century . The countess was not less wonderful , for she wound up with the Calvinist                     