@@430281

 |p518  THE National Capital celebrated its centennial upon the 12th of December , 1900 . From that day , when the attention of the whole country was fixed upon it , a new interest in its development has appeared everywhere . A new desire to learn its history , its needs , its plans , and its prospects naturally grew out of that new interest . It yields also a general desire on the part of all intelligent Americans to see it become the greatest and the best capital in the world . Many people want it to be the model for the municipalities of the United States primarily what is sometimes called " a permanent civic exposition " of laws and customs , as well as buildings and parks and institutions of all sorts . They point out that without any extra cost it may be more instructive than any temporary exposition , and that already thousands of visitors find it to be so . As the political capital , as a social , scientific , and educational center , it draws constantly from the most intelligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington are sensible of the change in the feeling of the country towards its capital , and grateful for it . We welcome intelligent co-operation in carrying out the plans for the advancement of the common capital of us all . We can not help seeing , however , that there is still much ignorance throughout the country as to the actual conditions here . In many quarters it seems to be understood that the Executive Department of the National Government governs the District of Columbia and pays all the municipal expenses , and at the same time that the people have the right of suffrage . Of course neither of these things is true . The Constitution does not mention the Executive Department in connection with the Federal District , but says Congress shall exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over it . Congress  |p519  can not , of course , act as an executive , and therefore has created the municipal corporation known as the District of Columbia , with the three Commissioners as its official head , to exercise the executive authority . When this Government was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Congress assumed half of the municipal expenses , the taxpayers paying the other half . The two contributions make up the appropriation fund for the municipal expenses , to which , before 1878 , Congress had contributed nothing , leaving the whole burden upon the people who lived here . There are many who believe that Congress ought to provide more than one-half , and , indeed , should pay the whole of the expenses of such things as parks . Senator Hoar suggested that Congress should pay whatever was necessary over and above a fair contribution by the taxpayers , whether the amount was one-half or two-thirds . But half a loaf is so much better than no bread that the half-and-half arrangement , as it is called , has given general satisfaction . It limits , however , the possible expenditures , and makes it necessary to consider all objects of expenditure at the same time . We would all like to make the capital beautiful in every respect at once , but that would require an expenditure that only Congress could meet . In the past quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its duty to its capital , more progress has been made than in all the three-quarters of a century before . It has been until recently chiefly material progress , in buildings , parks , and streets , although a fine public school system has been developed , and of late years a good public library and the beginnings of important social undertakings . The building period naturally came first , and in the past six years has reached the climax with the project for the elimination of railway grade-crossings and the construction of the beautiful new union station , freeing the Mall from the servitude of the old Pennsylvania station and tracks ; the construction of the filtration plant , and a new pumping station and a sewage disposal system ; the District Government building and new bridges , together with new school buildings and other similar structures , and the building for the public library given by Mr. Carnegie . At the same time busy with these things and with the financial burdens which they impose , the Commissioners and the community have been seeking to improve the capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The capital has not led in these matters , but it has taken up new ideas as rapidly as they have been shown by experiment elsewhere to be sound , and has either adopted them , where that was possible , by its own action , or asked Congress for the legislation and appropriations necessary to carry them out . In general , all this legislation and appropriation , even the appropriation of its own tax money ( which next year will amount to five and one-half million dollars ) , must be passed by Congress , which acts generally upon the recommendations of the Commissioners as at once its agents and the representatives of the people . There are , in round numbers , about 320,000 people in the District of Columbia ; over 60,000 of them live outside of the old City of Washington ( which now has no legal existence , being merged in the District of Columbia ) , in a large number of small towns and villages scattered over the hills and valleys of the territory . About one-third of the population is colored ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world ; about one-fourth of the population is very poor ? poorer than most poor people elsewhere in the United States ; there is much abject poverty . This has had much to do with the deplorable condition of a considerable portion of the population which lives in what are called alley slums , where about nineteen thousand people reside ; unable to pay more than a few dollars a month rent , they have had to put up with very poor quarters , including a number of buildings that ought to be renovated or destroyed , for sanitary reasons . The Commissioners have been seeking and expect soon to secure legislation that will enable this to be done , and at the same time are asking for more inspectors in order to better enforce the sanitary regulations .  |p520  This is the type of an effort that is being made to improve conditions . A juvenile court law framed by the Commissioners has just been passed , and a new court will be set up on the first of July . A new compulsory education law , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment agencies , and other similar measures have been presented by the Commissioners , and are likely to be passed by Congress . Special thought has been given to the needs of children . The improvement of the public schools by the substitution of new buildings with adequate playgrounds for the old-time buildings with their small and unattractive yards , in addition to the new buildings necessary to provide for the increased school population ; the improvement of the school system by all necessary additions , as , for example , vacation and trade schools ; the increase in the salaries of the teachers now underpaid ; the extension of municipal playgrounds , school gardens , and small parks , are among the things especially desired ; the enlargement of the work of the public library by the establishment of branches and the increase in its facilities is also being pressed in this relation . In a general way , it can be stated that every feature of a complete municipal programme of social betterment is included in the plans of the National capital , and is now being pressed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more interest in the projects for making Washington physically more beautiful than there is in the projects for making it morally more beautiful . Selfishness , whether enlightened or not , naturally produces a deep interest in the sanitary conditions which affect the health of the whole community . The high death-rates , now happily reduced below twenty per cent. , although still higher than in some other communities where there is not the same kind of population or the same climatic conditions , have given great concern for many years to all responsible officials and thoughtful citizens . The completion of the filtration plant last year and the sewage disposal system this year marks one form of the effort to remove the causes that contributed to the high death-rates . Other attempts have been , by legislation or education , to diminish the dangers of infection or contagion . Just at present special attention is being given to the so-called " white plague , " which is especially serious among the poorer classes . The Commissioners are urging the construction of special tuberculosis wards on high ground bought for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and treat the worst of the indigent cases . If they secure all the legislation and appropriations which they are asking for the purpose of improving the social conditions , the next few years will witness a remarkable change for the better . It will not be possible then even for those who delight in exaggeration to make sensational statements such as have been made about the present conditions . Some of those conditions are bad , but in so far as human laws and human action can change them they are likely to be changed ; and the prospect is very hopeful because of the public interest and the public effort in changing them . Poverty will not be abolished , here or elsewhere . The destruction of the poor will continue to be their poverty . But whatever can be done in the way of amelioration will be clone . The public spirit and civic activity of the intelligent citizens of the capital are not excelled elsewhere , and in the past ten years have been of special value . We all feel that , as this is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the endeavor to make it a model in all respects . The Senators and Representatives all represent the District of Columbia in legislation , but each represents a particular constituency outside of the District of Columbia . That constituency ought to be as much interested in the National capital as in its own home affairs . It is for the extension of the interest which now exists in many minds and its expression in proper ways to the Congress , which is supreme over the District of Columbia , that the people of Washington appeal . At the same time , it is only fair to say that Congress does not deserve all the , adverse criticism passed upon it in                     