@@486619

Senator Aldrich 's speech of last Saturday to the Chicago Commercial Club makes one thing plain beyond dispute  --  that no-plan for currency reform has yet been agreed on by the Monetary Commission . It is true that Mr. Vreeland , whose chairmanship of the House Banking and Currency Committee makes him an influential member of the Monetary Commission , has taken ground in a public speech for a Central Bank . It is also true that Mr Aldrich himself , in private statement of his views , has shown his own attitude to be similar . The coincidence , last September , of President Taft 's public reference to the Central Bank plan and of the formal launching of an " educational campaign " for such a plan at the National Bankers ' Convention , led to popular belief that the scheme would at once be pressed . The truth was , however , that the Monetary Commission had not yet acted formally on any plan . Secretary MacVeagh declared , after Mr. Taft 's speech , that the Administration would assume no official attitude in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aldrich said as positively on Saturday that " the question of a definite plan for reforming existing conditions has not yet been taken up by the Commission . " Under such circumstances , it was hardly to be expected that the chairman of the Commission would at this time set out to tour the country in advocacy of an expedient of his own , which might or might not be adopten by the full Commission There seems to have been a prevalent idea that this was Senator Aldrich 's purpose , but he is making no such blunder . There were nevertheless certain passages in the Senator 's speech of Sturday which showed that he had a Central Bank in mind His four important stipulations as to what should be " guarded against or eliminated from any possible scheme " were these : a " credit organization that would interfere with or control existing banks " ; an organization . " whose resources or credit could be used for speculative purposes " ; one " that could possibly be dominated by the financial men or institutions in one section of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of branch banking . A glance at these four " elim inations " shows that only a central institution could be referred to , and this brings the discussion fairly back to the Central Bank . The " branch banking " question is of practical importance , because it touches on an aspect of the matter which has largely inspired such suspicions of the project as exist among inland bankers . If Senator Aldrich 's statement , that he does not believe it possible to adapt that system to existing conditions in the United States , is to be interpreted as meaning branches of a Central Bank , it might tend to reassure these local misgivings . But Mr. Aldrich did not touch on the seemingly unavoidable alternative , also objectionable to interior markets  --  namely , that if a Central Bank were to be the sole depository of government surplus funds , and yet were to have no branches , it would necessarily , at a time when public revenue ran far beyond expenditure , pile up in one locality the proceeds of Federal taxes raised in a hundred other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to markets whose own actual money supply might thus be drained away . That a Central Bank could properly aspire neither to control existing banks nor to interfere with their business through direct competition of its own , is a proposition which will command universal assent . So will the two propositions that its credit resources must not be used for speculative purposes or manipulated by financial interests for their personal advantage . No one in his senses would in the same breath propose an institution of the sort and admit that such use of its machinery was probable . We are not sure , however , that Senator Aldrich realizes how important is the bearing of these considerations on the whole project of a Central Bank . To forbid by law the lending of such an institution 's money to speculators in commodities or stocks , as Mr. Reynolds proposed in his recent speech to the Bankers ' Convention , would be simple ; but every one conversant with the history of the money market , and especially with the history of the great state banks of Europe , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's experience , the relations of such an institution to the speculative influences of the day are well understood Only a few weeks ago , the president of the Imperial Bank of Germany , in a speech to the governing board , formally declared that the raising of the bank 's official discount rate " was dictated in the main by the wish to curb the excesses of speculation . " It is precisely at such a juncture that the question of a central bank 's policy being dominated , in its broader aspects , . by men or interests who may have a stake in the speculation , becomes of high impOrtance . The Yale Review , in its current number , is impressed with this as the supremely important phase of the problem . It asks how far an American Central Bank could be trusted to perform the function , and answers that , in its judgment , " it is questionable whether men could be found , who , at the head of a great bank of immense resources , would use their power in this conservative way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go so far as that . There are conservative men and conservative institutions in this country whose ideas are not shaped in Wall Street speculative circles . But the serious question remains as to the pressure which would surely be applied to prevent the exercise of such restrictive powers . The mere assertion from London , a few weeks ago , that the Bank of England had advanced its rate to check the recourse to London 's money market by the managers of an extravagant Wall Street stock speculation , was received in America , even in banking circles , with an outburst of angry denunciation . That is not altogether a happy omen . HONORS TO PEARY . The award to Commander- Peary of the gold medal of the National Geographic Society , and the action of that body preceding and following the award , should have the effect of bringing the question of Dr. Cook 's claim to a new stage . The event happens to be coincident with Dr. Cook 's return to New York , and it ought to be evident to that gentleman and his friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different attitude , if he is to retain any standing among thinking people . For the salient peculiarity of his conduct has been the apparent desire to put off as long as possible the meeting of any such test as even the most favorably situated claimant to the honor of the discovery of the North Pole would , as a matter of course , have to undergo ; not to speak Of a man placed , whether by his- misfortune or his fault , under grave suspicion . Commander Peary , whose ' return from the Far North was considerably later than Cook 's , has ? presented kis records , has - had them . examined , has appeared personally before the committee , and has had his story authoritatively passed upon ; while Dr. Cook has allowed nine weeks to pass without furnishing a single item in the way of evidence in support of the bare assertion made in his first story . The action taken by the National Geographic Society in arranging for the appointment of a committee of experts to inquire into " the question of whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points the way for Dr. Cook to correct , if he will , the impression that his conduct thus far has produced . Even if he feels that he can not , out o1 regard for the authorities of the University of Copenhagen , submit to this committee the records of his journey , it is perfectly possible to put himself into such relations with it as to give evidence of good faith . And if he should take the ground that the personnel of the committee is such as to give him reason to believe that it is biassed against him , he might easily suggest some other committee before which he would be willing to appear . In default of some move on his part to indicate that he is anxious , or at least willing , to cooperate with those of his own countrymen who desire to arrive at the truth of the matter , there can be but one feeling as to his course . Many weeks are sure to pass before the written evidence he is preparing gets to Copenhagen the chances are that when that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be called for , as it was at Washington in the case of Peary ; and so another long vista of delay opens up . It must be remembered , moreover , that the University of Copenhagen is in the peculiar position of a tribunal that has pronounced judgment in advance of the trial , and that therefore if its second judgment shall be in Cook 's favor , it will still be necessary for an uncommitted body of experts to inquire into the case before the decision is accepted as really authoritative . The National Geographic Society- deserves special commendation for undertaking to probe this question to the bottom . President Moore of the society is ' quoted as saying that , in its efforts to get the truth before the society 's membership of 50,000 , it will spare no expense or trouble . In executing this task the society will be performing a public duty ; for it would be a reflection on the national character if a question of this kind were allowed much longer to remain in its present condition . The incidental features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throw into the background the essential thing . Here was a man returning successful from a quest which had engaged his unremitting efforts for twenty-three years , and which had enlisted the heroic en-deavors of generation after generation of dauntless explorers . The event was one in the acclamation of which the whole world would have united , an occasion of a kind rarely to be paralleled in history ; but instead of this exhilarating triumph , for the discoverer and this moment of sympathetic jubilation throughout the world , what actually took place was a most unpleasant discussion of the question whether another man , claiming prior discovery , was an impostor or not . Everything else was lost sight of ; and we are very much in the same state still . With a firm determination to bring the question to an issue ? at as early a date as possible , the gentlemen constituting the special committee of the National Geographic Society will , we confidently hope , bring this situation to a close in a reasonable time . What is wanted to this end , above all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group of competent persons , prepared to put to him those crucial questions which offer no difficulty to the man who has been telling the truth , but which are sure to bring to grief the pretender or the impostor . CAPITALIZING THE OUTDOOR LIFE . The pernicious habit of translating human values into money values has invaded the realm of sports . We Anglo-Saxons are looked upon by the rest of the world as the race peculiarly addicted to violent exercise and hypocrisy . The first charge is undoubtedly true ; the second may be true . In any case , we seem to reveal a combination of both traits in the fashioiS we have lately fallen into of showing how moral , . how useful , how civilizing a thing it is to kick a football or to shoot partridges . Kicking a football enforces temperance , teaches self-restraint , fosters the spirit the growth of the spirit which plays to win at any price , the cultivation of physical exercise to the exclusion of every other interest . The Quarterly writer bewails the fact that cricket is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the enthusiasm of boys , and with all the cold calculation of veterans . Veterans do not always play fair . Spectators do not always prefer fair play . Gone , in other words , is the ethical content of sports , its influence for self-restraint , fair-mindedness , , mutual helpfulness . But if that is so , how does it happen that during the same time the British Empire has gone On expanding ? British administrators brought up on the right kind of sport made a bad mess of things in India  --  witness the Sepoy rebellion  --  and nearly drove Canada into revolution . British administrators trained on demoralized cricket and rowing have added Egypt and the Boer Republics to the Empire , and set up three great commonwealths ? in Canada , Australia , and South Africa . The close connection between field sports and foreign dominion stands imperilled . The truth would seem to be that athletics and efficiency are not necessarily related as cause and effect . The connection is probably accidental , or at most , incidental . The destinies of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Great Britain and America , and both like outdoor exercise . But let us remember that two hundred years ago the destinies of Europe were shaped by Frenchmen who did not care overmuch for sports . Three hundred years ago unathletic Spaniards conquered a new world . Fifteen hundred years ' before that , the civilized world was ruled by a race which preferred the enervating hot bath to the cold tub on which the son never sets . And there are at present some eighty-odd millions of unathletic Germans who have definite ideas concerning Europe 's and the world 's near future . The Englishman in India probably finds his university cricket stand him in good stead ; but the French administrator finds his gift for conversation useful in dealing with African natives ; and the German finds his gift for discipline and order equally useful . If a nation passionately fond of stereopticon views and moving-pictures were to win a great naval battle , the connection between vaudeville and victory would not be irrefutably established . Tying up outdoor exercise with ethics and world-dominion is , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a good deal out-of-doors . If the foreigner thinks we go in too much for that sort of thing , why not admit that we have had the habit for a thousand years and get a lot of enjoyment out of it ? As a matter of fact , our outdoor habits are less closely connected with the march of history than with the phenomena of digestion . If one breakfasts on oatmeal , eggs , mutton --  chops , potatoes , griddle-cakes with syrup , ale , and tea , one is apt to feel the need of a fair amount of animated locomotion Every nation has its favorite method of stimulating the gastric juices . Britons do it by violent exercise . Frenchmen do it by good cooking , light wines , a bit of cheese , and lively conversation . Germans do it by means of beer , tobacco , and silent reflection . An acute French observer would have no difficulty in tracing a good deal of America 's love of the open-air to dyspepsia . Not all who walk ten miles a day are drawn by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by swallowing hot biscuits and wonder why they find it so difficult to stand still . The practice , of course , is not inconsistent with a real love for free air and the trees . We may start under doctor 's orders and get to love nature for her own sake . In fact , it would not be out of line with Nature 's roundabout methods if she gave us dyspepsia for the express purpose of sending us into the open to observe her miracles . - THE NEW SATIRIC VEIN . That William Watson 's metrical attack upon an unknown gentlewoman should be cabled to this country with columns of speculation and comment , shows , we trust , less a hankering after the sensational than the rarity of the event itself . Satire has pretty well perished , just as modern society seems to need it most . In an England that once had Pope , Gifford , and Byron , your poet rarely names a contemporary except , to praise . In fact , the satiric vein hardly outlasted the middle of the nineteenth century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Biglow Papers , " may be regarded as the afterglow . ? The poets , Swinburne and Hugo notably , continued to fulminate against dominions and powers , but the old traditions of personal attack were in abeyance . Such a laceration as the Italian poet Carducci dealt to the pedantic grammarian Fanfani waa exceptional . At this point one would gladly yield the theme to Mr. Chesterton . He would prove that this weakening of the contentious note in poetry is the index of our general moral flabbiness . We can hear him demonstrating the futility of pretending to love our neighbor most of the time unless we are sufficiently preoccupied with him to hate him heartily on occasion . One might also cite Whistler 's experiments in the gentle art of making enemies . But in spite of Ruskin and " ' Arry , " the white-plumed champion really hated not individuals , but middle-class institutions . Mr. H. G. Wells in a charming essay on the " Decay of Quarrelling " comes nearer to establishing the laws of war between friends and neighbors . Has the slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , replaced the invigorating drumbeat of satire ? Mr. Watson rises to answer , No . Personally , we are a bit discomfited to find the sonneteer who boldly renewed the ample manner of Milton and Wordsworth , in satire a running mate of Kipling . " The Woman with the Serpent 's Tongue " is too obviously half-sister of " The Vampire . " And Mr. Watson departs from the finer traditions of the satirical code in aiming not to cripple but to kill . The appropriate response would seem to be not a more stinging poem , but a caning from the male relatives . Where absolute violence comes in at the door , poetry escapes through the window . We might refer Mr. Watson and his followers to the debate between the French and the Italian schools of swordsmanship . The Italian tactics are summary , ' erect , and formidable . In a bout , the Italian maestro will usually pink his man . But lovers of the classic duel have justly pointed out that the institution exists , not for the sake of slaughter , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it suffices to win a mere tactical or moral advantage on the stricken field . To jump in tiger-like and impale your opponent abridges a stately spectacle and deprives the event of that traditional element of give-and-take which is the essence alike of true sword-play and fine manners . Yet we heartily hope that Mr. Watson is a harbinger . Our age needs the satirist . Never were pretence and fatuity so full blown . Just one month of Pope or Boileau , or better yet a reincarnated Horace vouchsafed for a space , might help us to see ourselves ; one Rabelaisian laugh might dislodge the tabernacles of conceit , in which we sojourn so complacently . One . could wish that Mr. Watson had chosen to be less an innovator than a renewer of the broken tradition of classic satire . Why should one wish to slay folly in institution or individual ? There is something cramping to the imagination in so definite a purpose . The excuse for satire is the immortality of folly . The sport lies in prodding the monster , in making him forego the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satirist should , in a manner , acquiesce in the fatuity of the world that he may undermine it the more effectually . He may even succeed in loving his victim a little , or if ? this be impossible , he should at least find his theme too engrossing , to be rashly exhausted . The new satire , when it does come , will , we trust , partake rather of the humane indirection of Erasmus than of the bludgeoning of the Kipling school . Or if Erasmus and Horace seem a shade too genial for work-aday purposes , at least let us try to revive the merciless wit of Pope and the volcanic raillery of Byron . 