@@430003

Only scattering and fragmentary reports of the annual meeting of the National Educational Association , held last week in Charleston , S. C. , have yet reached the public . Scattering and fragmentary as these reports are , yet , taken in connection with the elaborate programme previously published , they bring under survey nearly the whole field of education , public and private . Among the many important subjects discussed , none surpassed those relating to secondary and higher education , especially as these relate to each other . The truth is that in the two fields ? or in the one field , if we are to consider them as being but one ? very unusual progress was made during the year just closed . A resume of the leading facts constituting this progress may aid readers of THE DIAL to grasp the import of the Charleston discussions , and to discern whither , for the time , the educational affairs of our country are tending . The Committee on College Entrance Requirements , appointed in pursuance of action taken in Denver in 1895 , finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and discussion at the Los Angeles meeting a year ago . The main object of this Report , it will be remembered , was not to fix or to recommend requirements for admission to the colleges and universities , but rather to make up a list of studies deemed suitable for this purpose , to establish a series of units or measures , and to urge the adoption of this list upon the secondary and higher schools . To repeat a figure that was used in the discussions at Chicago last year , the aim of the Committee was to create a uniform educational coinage with which students going to college could discharge their entrance indebtedness , the amount of which indebtedness the various institutions would fix for themselves . Four periods a week for a school year was made the unit of value ? the dollar of this new coin of the educational realm ; and the colleges were strongly urged not to break up these dollars into " change , " save perhaps in a single instance that is more apparent than real . To carry out this central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stamped " than any institution could require or most secondary schools could furnish ; thus preparing the way for a liberal list of electives in the secondary schools and of entrance alternatives at the colleges . Still , the Committee strove to hold both electives and alternatives in check , by insisting upon certain  | constant studies : namely , four units in foreign languages , two units in mathematics , two in English , one in history , and one in science . Beyond these constants , it was assumed that the schools would do the work they were best fitted to do . Important discussions and legislation have followed this report , conforming in general to the lines the Committee had marked out . In fact , no one of the numerous reports which the National Educational Association has published in the last few years has been followed by happier immediate results . The Board of Education of the City of Chicago has adopted a programme of studies that is in many respects in accord with the recommendations of the Committee ; while a committee is now at work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State of Illinois . In May last , the Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools of the Middle States and Maryland adopted a plan of organization for a College Entrance Examination Board that should do the work of examining for all the institutions directly interested . This movement had its immediate rise in an address upon the subject delivered before the Association in December , 1899 , by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler . The new board , which is the central feature of the plan of organization , consists of the president or authorized representative of each college or university of the Middle States and Maryland having a freshman class of not fewer than fifty students , counting both the course in Arts and in Sciences , and of five representatives of secondary schools to be chosen annually by the Association from among those that adopted the plan , or in such manner as it may direct . The machinery and methods of this board are topics that lie aside from our present path . It suffices to say that the object of the board , as expressed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about , as rapidly as possible , agreement upon a uniform statement as to each subject required by two or more colleges for admission , " and to " hold or cause to be held , at convenient points , in June of each year , a series of college admission examinations , with uniform tests in each subject , and issue certificates based upon the results of such examinations " ; the several colleges in the Middle States and Maryland to accept the certificates so issued , " so far as they go , in lieu of their own separate examinations . " This scheme will go into operation the coming autumn , and the first examinations will be held in June of next year . The subjects that have been chosen are English , history , Latin , Greek , French , German , mathematics , physics , chemistry , botany , and zoology . The institutions represented are Barnard , Bryn Mawr , Columbia , Rutgers , Swatbmore , Union , Vassar , and Woman 's Colleges , and Colgate , Cornell , Princeton , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the geographical limits described which have freshman classes of fifty or more students . These names are at once a pledge that the new plan will be thoroughly tried , and also that , if successful , it will exert a far-reaching influence . The board of examination does not propose to interfere directly with college entrance requirements in respect either to the studies or to the amount of work and study that shall be demanded for admission ; but only to establish and carry on a mint for the coining of money that shall have a uniform value , with which students can pay their college entrance charges . However , results that are not formally provided for are quite certain to follow . The plan will save much labor and expense ; cause the necessary work to be better done ; bring about a healthful degree of uniformity in studies ; save students , preparatory teachers , and professors ( deans especially ) much unnecessary work and perplexity ; cultivate good relations among institutions , and between institutions and the public ; and tend to abolish what Dr. Butler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is too much to expect Eastern colleges and universities to adopt at present the Western plan of receiving freshmen on the leaving certificates of approved preparatory schools ; but while they are moving slowly toward that goal , the Middle States and Maryland may well be congratulated on the long step they have taken in establishing this Board of Examinations . Henceforth , Chaos ought not to sit as umpire over the colleges and universities of that region , and , by deciding , more to embroil the fray . Much the most important action taken by any single college or university during the year in respect to entrance is the new requirements for admission to Columbia College . Elementary French and German have long been college studies , and within the last few years some institutions have put elementary Greek on the same list . Columbia has now taken the unprecedented step of adding elementary Latin . The immediate result will be that a student who has taken a non-Latin course in the secondary  | school may enter Columbia College and proceed to the degree of A.B . without prejudice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fixed at fifteen points , of which three must be in English and three in elementary mathematics ; while the remaining nine may be selected , in measures ranging from one point to four points , from a total of twenty-six points to be made in Latin , Greek , history , French , German , mathematics , physics , Spanish , chemistry , botany , physiography , and zoology . At the University of Michigan , also , the entrance requirements have been revised in the interest of simplicity and elasticity . At the Washington meeting of the National Educational Association , two years ago , the writer of this article presented a paper in the department of Higher Instruction on the possibility and desirability of forming a federation of colleges and universities in the United States similar to the Association of American Medical Colleges . After discussion , a committee of five was appointed to report at the next annual meeting of the department a practical plan of effecting such a federation , and to offer recommendations with reference to the same ; but this committee was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another movement , somewhat similar to this one in the outcome , but wholly separate from it in origin and original purpose , has eventuated in an organization known as the Association of American Universities . A circular letter , signed by the presidents of Harvard , Columbia , Johns Hopkins , Chicago , and California Universities , was sent to certain selected institutions , inviting them to a conference to be held in Chicago in February , at the time of the meeting of the Department of Superintendence , to consider primarily the relations of American schools and students to German universities . In the course of the discussions at the conference , this subject was quietly dropped , and an association bearing the name already given was organized . The object of this organization is the consideration of matters of common interest relating to graduate study , and its membership is naturally limited to institutions that are actually engaged in giving advanced or graduate instruction . The initial membership consists of California , Chicago , Clark , Columbia , Cornell , Harvard , Johns Hopkins , Michigan , Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Catholic University of America ; and provision is made for lengthening the list at the annual conference , by the admission of other institutions , on the invitation of the executive committee endorsed by a three-fourths vote of the members . It is expected by the founders of this association that it will do something of value for fixing the standard for the Ph.D . degree , and for its proper administration . It may prove to be , what one writer has already declared that it is , " a long step toward complete university cooperation . " To explain in full the present status of the proposition to found a national institution of learning at the national capital is not an easy matter . It appears ; however , to present three distinct forms . The first is the plan , which has Washington for its author , to establish at the capital of the nation a statutory university . This plan is now pending before the Senate in the form of " A Bill to Establish the University of the United States , " introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to organize for the purposes of instruction the various scientific facilities , resources , and materials belonging to the government at Washington , ? such as libraries and museums , collections and laboratories , ? under the supervision and oversight of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution , which forms the centre of the new scheme ; the instruction furnished to be limited to students who are graduates of properly accredited institutions , or those who are otherwise properly qualified ; and no degrees to be conferred in connection with such instruction . The third form of the proposition is to make the Bureau of Education , rather than the Smithsonian Institution , the administrative centre of the Bureau of Research , as the new organization is sometimes called . Of these three plans , the first is pressed more or less vigorously by a national committee of some four hundred members , having Dr. John W. Hoyt as its chairman ; the second is urged with much persistence by the American Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations ; while the third does not appear to have any organized support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Council of Education , in July , 1898 , to investigate the entire subject of the establishment of a National University , has pronounced decidedly against the plan of a statutory institution , and has virtually , if not formally , declared in favor of some alternative plan . The attitude of this committee is well shown by two of the propositions that it has adopted .  | " The government is not called upon to maintain al the Capital a University in the ordinary sense of tha term . " " That a sub-committee be requested to prepare for consideration by the full committee a detailed plan b ) which students who have taken a baccalaureate degree or who have had an equivalent training , may have full and systematic advantage of the opportunities for ad. vanced instruction and research which may now or ma hereafter be afforded by the government ; such a plat to include the cooperation with the Smithsonian Insti. tution of the universities willing to accept a share o the responsibilities incident thereto . " For some reason , the full committee did no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but , after discussion , referred it back to the sub-committee without action , It was expected that the subject would COME up for final disposition at the late meeting of the National Educational Association , in sub . stantial accordance with the above report . So the matter stands at present . Unless Congress shall sooner cut the Gordian knot , which is hardly to be expected , the next step , if any , will no doubt be taken by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution . Conjectures as to what they will probably do would be pre . mature . It is known , however , that while the Regents are in sympathy with the ultimate purpose of the American Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations , they find themselves seriously embarrassed when they take up the question of the provision of funds with which to do the work that would be required , and the further question of correlating formal instruction or teaching with their own original and primary office of advancing knowledge among men . To quote one of the abler organs of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now going on in higher education in this country is that which looks toward a better training fo business men and civil servants . Whatever the prevailing view of the primary objects of a college or a university , and however narrowly one may be disposed to limit its essential field , there can be no question that the most progressive of these institutions are now zealously seeking to put themselves in touch with the practical business needs of the times , and to fit their students for participation in every-day affairs . " Proofs of this tendency have become to pronounced to be overlooked or underrated . The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania , the School of Political Science of Columbia University , and the elaborate courses in history and economics at several of the stronger institutiohs , were the forerunners of the new movement . Two years ago , the University of California founded a School of Commerce , including in its curriculum studies in history , political science , commercial and international law , technological subjects , and modern languages ; and laying emphasis upon our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year ago , the New York Chamber of Commerce determined to cooperate with Columbia University in establishing a collegiate course of instruction in commerce , to be open to high-school graduates , and to cover four years . Dartmouth College has recently announced the Tuck School , with a programme of studies bearing directly upon preparation for business and administrative life . Again . the University of Wisconsin has also taken steps to organize a School of Commerce , while the University of Michigan has just sent out an announcement of special courses in higher commercial education and in public administration . These courses are especially intended for students , graduates or under-graduates , who desire to specialize in history , economics , and related subjects ; but they are also thrown open to those who wish to prepare for the political and social side of newspaper work , for teaching history and political science in tolleges and high schools , for philanthropic and pastoral work , or for diplomatic or consular service . These several schools and courses of instruction are not yet fully organized , but that consummation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , and that promise to produce others like them , call for but the slightest suggestion . They are the in dustrial and political , the commercial and social , activities of the times . Such schools and courses would no doubt have come in time , had the nation moved on in its old path ; but they have been materially hastened by the fuller development of the national self-consciousness that has followed events in our recent history . Those persons who adopt Mr. Lowell 's characterization of a university as a place where nothing useful is taught , are not likely to take kindly to the new development ; but they are no more likely to oppose to it a successful resistance . sistance . In fact , we are but following in the footsteps of Europe . Special schools for teaching business and administration have already been successfully established in France , Germany , Austria , and Italy ? the best known of all , perhaps , being the school at Leipsic . The new University of Birmingham , England , will include a faculty of commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             