@@486939

Sin : The dilemma proposed by President Pritchett of the Carnegie Foundation , and echoed by you in your issue of November 5 , respecting the denominational colleges , is that if they have any right to exist it must be either because of a desire on the part of the church to " control and direct " institutions " in which men may grow up trained in its ideals and devoted to its service , " or because of " Its fitness and efficiency as an educational agency " Both alternatives suggest the claims of the mediceval church , and its spirit as still preserved to some extent in the church of Rome ; and both are , of course , in conflict with the educational ideals of our age But , as in the case of many another apparent dilemma , there is a tertiuni quid which represents the real choice of those concerned rather better than either of the alternatives as presented . I beg leave briefly to , state the case for the colleges founded and maintained by various Christian communions , not by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a deinurrer to the contempt with which they are frequently regarded by the enlightened And I may preface the defence with these explicit admissions : First , that these colleges have frequently been guilty of publishing misleading catalogues , as President Pritchett justly complains ; second , that , like churches , they have been absurdly multiplied without reference to local needs ; third , that they can not hope to rival the efficiency of the large and independent universities in what may properly be called university work , and , fourth ( by way of anti-climax ) , that the present writer is fortunate enough to be connected with an institution wholly separate from denominational control , and is heartily content so to be . The defence proposed for the church college is , in a word , this : the legitimacy of deliberately setting collegiate education in an atmosphere fitted to promote certain desired tendencies in the realm of faith and morals . This reads not unlike President Pritchett 's words , " Institutions in which men may grow up trained in the church 's ideals " , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals peculiar to the particular denomination ' concerned , as distinguished from those which it liblds in common with other churches , and also that it implies a certain amount of specific training for the utilities of clericalism Neither of these is included in my statement , which rests merely on the ground that many parents desire , and are justified in desiring , that their children be trained ( consistently with due respect for the natural development of individual freedom ) along lines parallel with the ethical and religious doctrines which they themselves hold . Is it illiberal if , while wishing for every Jew , Mohammedan , Mormon , or atheist unlimited intellectual and civic liberty , I nevertheless prefer that my child 's tutor shall be neither Jew , Mohammedan , Mormon , nor atheist , but Christian ? True , I must recognize that the time will come when the child 's mind must step out from all external guidance , realizing for itself the whole length and breadth of the possibilities of belief , and choosing whether he will hold to his father 's or no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first into this uncharted realm , because of their exaggerated sense of the sacredness of his right of individual choice ; but they are so few as to be negligible . Most parents wish to guide their children 's thought in matters political , ethical , and religious , at least as long as they guide them in their choice of bodily food . That they should wish their children 's teachers to do the same , so far as is consistent with the peculiar demands of non-sectarian public education and like problems , is no mere strange The only question , then , is as to the point where this policy ceases to be legitimate  --  a difficult question , and one which reminds us that the whole matter of the boundaries of school , college , and university is undergoing reconsideration of an important kind To argue it here is impossible ; I wish only to note the fact that many of us who are engaged in university teaching have become aware that the average freshman and sophomore is a vigorous living contradiction of the pleasing hypothesis that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw his own charts and map out his own course . This is coming to be much talked of on the strictly educational side , it will soon come to be much talked of on the moral side ; and , while morals and religion are far from identical , they have not yet been finally divorced . If , then , we arc awakened to the suspicion that we had better give some wholesome guidance to the boy of eighteen in his choice of studies , after a period during which we have tried the experiment of turning him loose in the universe of knowledge and bidding him pick for himself , is it not possible that he may still be profitably guided in his choice of recreations , of ideals of conduct , and even of his dominant thoughts as to his relation to the universe and its animating Spirit ? Guided , I say , not controlled , and , letting pass altogether the explicit guidance of spoken or printed word , I have in mind above all the guidance of environing personality For consider whether , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence the boy most strongly be well-mannered in all things , and cultured far otherwise than what is demanded in their actual teaching , we may not also desire that they be religious , whatever " religious " means to us It is this uncatalogued training which impresses one most in contrasting the heritage of the youth of England with that of America . And surely the time has well passed when the daily uprising of hymn and prayer from the chapels of Eton and Rugby , and of all the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge , meant any inhibition of the intellectual liberty of those being trained within 14 sound . There is some defence , then , for the deliberate setting of collegiate education in a religious atmosphere by those who wish it for their children and their children 's children . The State can not - do this ; the several churches are the only agencies which have done it , or are likely to. - Of course , whatever absurdities there are in the multiplication of sects , and in the narrowing or cheapening tendencies of particular creeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges which they may found . But far less , fortunately , than might be supposed . It is doubtful whether , in any large proportion of the numerous American colleges founded and maintained under ecclesiastical auspices , the narrow peculiarities of the creed concerned are emphasized by those in charge , or even well known to the majority of the students . Nor is there much more reason for assuming that the freedom of the members of their faculties is hampered by contributors and administrators , than for the equally prevalent impression that professors in State universities are continually oppressed by politicians and those in privately endowed universities by monopolistic donors Just here lies the fallacy implicit in the second horn of the alleged dilemma  --  the theory that the church " has peculiar fitness and efficiency as an educational agency . " Of course it has not , neither has the State , heaven knows , neither has Mr Rockefeller nor Mr Carnegie All that any of them can do is to turn over the control of the institution they found to those believed to have such fitness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as often by churches as by States and cities . One could easily name at random , if good taste permitted , one after another of the little colleges which , making only honest pretensions , and not aspiring to the name or the work of the universities , preserve the honorable traditions of a strictly collegiate education with those of a dominant but not tyrannical religious at-mosphere It need hardly be said that these considerations in no way affect the position of strictly university education , and the obvious reasons why it is neither practic'ai nor desirable that this should be carried on under ecclesiastical auspices . The time certainly comes at length-not to every man , but to all who are fitted to pioceed to the higher education  --  when completely unrestricted individualism is both safe and wholesome , along lines of scholarship , conduct , and religious thinking alike But , I beg to repeat once more , it is becoming more and more clear that many admirable young fellows are being sent to the unii versity every year who do not belong there ? and with painfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it tries to do for those poured into its walls , a steady outworking of the process of the survival of the fittest ; and many of those unfit for its free and irresponsible life would be well cared for in some college of the type now under discussion The prosperity and development of the type , therefore , are not to be treated lightly Some of us believe that the right direction has been most clearly indicated by President Jordan , in his proposal to cut out from the university system the present freshman and sophomore years , and to keep students of that stage of development under the educational and moral conditions better suited to their immaturity . RAYMOND MACDONALD ALDEN . Stanford university , Cal. , November 12 THE RECORD OF THE RHODES SCHOLARS , To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sin : In the Nation for October 22 Mr , George L Fox has revived the question of the record of the American Rhodes Scholars . His method has prow facie much to commend it . The number of Americans in each honor school , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of candidates with the numbers in the class lists . Apparently these statistics prove conclusively that the record as a whole is disappointing . But as I shall attempt to show , the figures present only one side of the story In the first place , the name of Lloyd of West Virginia should be added to those who got " firsts " in 1908 , his work being in geology ; he has also been awarded the Burdett-Coutts scholarship in geology ( a " university " honor ) Nor is any mention made of the 7 research degrees-4 B Litt ' s and 3 B Se ' s , which have been won by Americans Mr. Wylie , whose long experience as a don , and whose position as Oxford agent of the Rhodes Trustees , entitle him to be heard with respect , is my authority for the statement that a research degree is fully equal to a first class in an honor school , if it does not stand on a higher plane In fact , Mr. Wylie was inclined to regard the 5 research degrees taken in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 firsts If we accept this basis , the American Rhodes scholars can be credited with 20 firsts , instead of 9 , as set form by Mr Fox . Following his example , I append this roll of honor : In 1907 , Tucker Brooke of West Virginia , in English Literature ( after one year 's work ) , and Brown of New Hampshire in Physics ; in 1908 Armstrong of Maryland in Medicine , Schaeffer of Pennsylvania and Hack of Massachusetts in Classical Archmology , Cronkhite of Rhode Island in Philosophy , and Aydelotte of Indiana in English Literature . In the second place , many of the figures given for the actual entries and results of the schools are inaccurate Four candidates are put down for " Greats " ( classics ) , with 3 successes . But the fourth scholar had taken Honor Moderations in his second year , and therefore could not take Greats until the end of his fourth year . The History figures are correct In Law , instead of 8 there were only 6 candidates , and all got through , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of his second year ( 1906 ) and secured a second . In the B. C L examination , there were 6 candidates , as stated , but one forfeited his scholarship by marry-ing , and leaving Oxford before the examination , while another passed at the end of his second year , so that all are accounted for instead of only four . Lastly , only 3 out of 4 candidates are credited with getting through in English Literature , whereas the fourth took a first at the end of his second year In 1908 Mr. Fox finds 8 men " in for " Greats , while only 2 got through . As a matter of fact , 3 of them did not take the examination : . 1 resigned his scholarship , 1 was called home a few months before the examination , and 1 died . And Mr. Fox is wrong in his number 8 , for only 7 ever entered for the classical course Of the 5 men in for History , 3 secured seconds , and 1 a third , instead of 2 in each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ' work In Law 4 men did indeed enter , but 1 resigned his scholarship , and 1 was so seriously injured playing football that he could not proceed with his work ; the other 2 achieved the classes Accorded them . In regard to Theology , it is only fair to the fifth candidate , who failed to get through completely , to say that he was ill at the time he took the examination , and had to undergo an operation shortly afterwards There were certainly only 4 men in for English Literature , and 3 got through , the fourth having been called home , and resigned his scholarship before be was half-way through his course . No record as given of the solitary student in Science ; as a matter of fact , he took a first class . Then the scholar who was able to get only a fourth in Mathematics is almost laughed out of court . But here again the time usually taken for this course is four years , and the scholar really deserves considerable credit for getting through . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1 third class , which is credited to 5 candidates , there were 1 second and 3 thirds . And it should be explained that the B. C. L. examination is of an unusually difficult character . It is supposed to be taken only by those who have taken a B. A. in law and have had several years ' experience at the bar . It is the most difficult examination at Oxford , and seldom do more than one-half of the candidates satisfy the examiners . In the case of Americans a special dispensation is made , allowing them to enter for the examination without the previous training . One can , therefore , hardly complain seriously if a single Rhodes scholar failed to pass . What are the conclusions to be drawn from these facts ? Instead of 26 successes out of 35 candidates , as Mr. Fox reports for the scholars of 1904 , there were actually 30 passed out of 31 who took the schools . Twenty-seven scholars of 1905 took the schools and 23 got through , whereas Mr. Fox finds 15 failures among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascribed to the Rhodes scholars by Mr. Fox , there were m reality only 5 , and I have attempted to show that in two cases there were extenuating cicumstances . There were 10 firsts , 19 seconds , 20 thirds , and 4 fourths . In this connection it may be interesting to quote the Morning Post ( London ) for July 22 , 1908 : " The number of first and second classes that have fallen to so small a body of men the American Rhodes scholars is nothing short of phenomenal . " And the 7 research degrees , equal to 10 or 11 firsts , must not be forgotten As there were 43 scholars who took up *This scholar intends to return to Oxford this coming June and take Lie examination their residence at Oxford in 1904 and 38 in 1905 , there remain 17 who have not been accounted for by the schools or the research degrees . Three died in harness , while another , as remarked previously , was incapacitated by injury . One read for the Diploma in Economics , which he obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law School or the B. C L. examination . Four resigned their scholarships , for reasons best known to themselves ; 2 who were not able to finish their work , as explained above , expect to return to Oxford and do so . One scholar who wished to work for a B Litt. was compelled by his college first to take a Pass B A degree , which he easily did , but he did not have left sufficient time in which to complete his B Litt. thesis . The four others worked for B Litt degrees One ' gave up his work in despair because of the lack of sufficient encouragement , while all the notes and bibliography of another disappeared in the British Museum , a few months before leaving Oxford , when it was too late to begin again Though the other two did indeed fail to secure their degrees , it should be remembered that failing to present a satisfactory thesis for an advanced degree is on a different plane than failure to pass a prescribed examination Finally , it may be useful , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , present , and to come , to speak generally of their position at Oxford For many reasons the Americans can never be expected uniformly to take first classes . Most of the firsts in the Oxford schools are secured by scholarship men , men who have won their scholarships by competitive examination and have had special training in their subjects long before they come up to Oxford . Particularly is this true in Greats and History . One history scholar whom I knew had done most of English history before he came up , and he is only one of many . And it is notorious that in classical training the American college graduate is behind even the public school man of England . As such men as these set the standard for a first class , it is asking a great deal that every American who goes to Oxford with the general training usually afforded by our colleges and universities should measure up to these trained students who are the pick of the English public schools The American who has had a special training of any hind is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not show his calibre against the similarly trained Englishman , who is taking the schools in order to get his degree , - But even supposing that an American enters on an equality with the young public-school man , he soon loses it by reason of the peculiar position in which he is placed , Vacation to us means the time for relaxation from college work . The Englishman looks upon it as the opportunity for serious and concentrated study Oxford 's educational and social system is founded on this belief , and hence the plan ? so curious to the uninitiated American  --  which prescribes the days spent at Oxford as the time more especally for recreation and social intercourse , while the hard and telling " reading " is done during the " vacs . " Of course , I do not mean to imply that no work is done during term , but one does enjoy unlimited opportunities for intercourse with one 's fellow students and for breathing that " atmosphere " which constitutes the peculiar charm of Oxford above all other universities of the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can give to a fledgling of their own creation " This admirable system - is understood and bargained for by every Oxonian , but the American Rhodes scholar feels that he must utilize his . splendid opportunity , and naturally spends - considerable time in travel The Englishman is content to wait for this indulgence until he has taken his degree , and spends his vacation in serious study Of course , one meets Oxford undergraduates on the Continent , but they are seldom the men who arc working for , or who achieve first classes Thus the American is placed at a serious disadvantage , yet one can not blame the man who wishes to see something of the world , and I do not know a tingle Rhodes scholar who would exchange the experience and knowledge gained by travel on the Continent for several first classes . Next , the ideals of the individual scholars must be taken into consideration . Not all of them by any means aspire to first classes , for they fully realize the amount of work and undivided attention which this honor postulates . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my own college was an artist of considerable ability and spent much of his time in Italy and the Louvre instead of putting it all in on schools . I recall another scholar , a very clever fellow , who secured a second . But no one realized more successfully Cecil Rhodes 's ideal of his scholars He visited frequently in the homes of Englishmen and entered strenuously into every phase of his college life . There is not a Rhodes scholar who has contributed more to a better understanding of our country by Englishmen , or who is eo thoroughly acquainted with English life and institutions Still a third man , who took a , third , was captain of his college boat club and one of the most popular men in his college Finally , one may note that many of the scholars spent much time in learning to speak one or more of the modern languages . One scholar became fluent in French , German , Italian , and modern Greek , and many in the first two mentioned The Nation , I am sure , will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion I would say that this letter does not represent merely my own opinions and knowledge of the facts , but has been prepared in consultation with three other Rhodes scholars , two of the first American contingent and this country . The figures for the schools and other degrees have been taken from the official " Oxford University Gazette " For the rest , it may perhaps be permitted to say that the general consensus of opinion among those who have returned to America after having enjoyed three years ' residence at Oxford is that a very generous Measure of success - has been accorded the Scheme of Cecil Rhodes , and , as Mr. Wylie says , that the net results are by no means to be sought in the mere mathematics of firsts . BERNADOTTE E. ScHawrm , late Rhodes Scholar from Tennessee . Madison , Wis , November 11 . AMERICAN NEWSPAPERS A CENTURY AGO . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : The bibliography of journalism in America is a subject that has attracted comparatively few workers , it may interest them and perhaps others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dans les Etats-Unis de l'Amerique , " which occurs in 111-apazin de ' literature europeenine , Tome I , Paris , 1802 , is a pertinent item It is interesting for two or three reasons , one being that it names the editors of the papers and another that it shows the ideas then prevailing in Europe as to the relative importance of cities For example , it places Philadelphia as the first city of the United States and speaks of cities of the second order as Southampton , Lancaster , and New York The article praises very highly American editorial work and states that these papers at the end of the year form a general repertoire of information - - - WILLIAM BEER Howard Memorial Library , New Oileans , Noyem , bet 10 , THE " HERO " IN LITERATURE AND HIS-TORY : PO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION " SIR Within the last few months several of Emil Reich 's historical works have come into my hands , and I am gratified to find that he lays a great deal of stress on personality as a determining factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profess to be an historian , I have been a careful and somewhat extensive reader of history Long ago I became convinced that it is an error to attribute the origin of popular . institutions and popular movements to a sort of indefinable Volksgeist Among students of both physical and psychical phenomena it is an accepted maxim that we should explain the pas , by the present in every case an which the present furnishes the same or similar data Every important discovery and invention has been foreshadowed by a number of previous discoveries and inventions Instances may be easily furnished by hundreds It has been frequently remarked by German critics of Gtote 's " Greece " that the author 's opportunities for seeing the workings of popular government at close range gave him an insight into the Grecian democracies which was lacking to the mere Stubengelelirter . We need not be surprised , therefore , that his magnum opus still holds its own It is interesting likewise to find the acknowledgment so often in German books that the English first taught their countrymen the true insight into Homer and formulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent book on Homer , Professor Drerup virtually accepts the theory of Grote and other English scholars that there was a Homer , although the Homeric poems were - not composed by him ' in their entirety or in their present form The Germans seem to have definitely given up the radical theory so elaborately worked out by Lachmann and others which resolved these poems into a collection of-lays of unknown authorship . Rohde maintained the essential unity or the poems Busolt does not express himself very definitely , although he admits that " Die Dichtungensuidwesentlich Kunst  --  poesie " 13e/och takes substantially the same view . While , then , there may have been in vogue many brief popular epics they could be fused into a fairly consistent whole only by one master hand , or at most by two or three . Popular poetry is poetry for the people , poetry that expresses the feelings , the national or tribal consciousness . It is composed for the people , not by the people . The same statement is true of great lawgivers In a somewhat similar sense it may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lycurgus , codified national aspirations in institutions . It seems probable that in prehistoric and in early historic times the influence of prominent men was greater than at later periods when intelligence became more gen , eral and when there were better opportuniities and greater inducements for individuals eto think and act for themselves A strong man can more easily influence a group or : a tribe than a nation , hence it is a perfectly justifiable assumption that the prestige of the " hero " was greater in remote antiquity than in later ages The saying of Pope that wit is what oft was thought but ne'er so well express 'd is true , in a sense , of great men . They appear at times when their countrymen feel the need of them and are ready to follow their lead or obey their laws The reason given in the Bible for the choice of Saul as king is an illustration of this condition of affairs It is reasonable to assume that what holds good of peoples at the present time has always held good , those that do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That Sparta at a comparatively early period-became the leading state in Greece was due not so much to the obstacles with which that branch of the Dorian race had to contend as to the fact that these obstacles produced a leader whose influence was sufficiently great to bring his countrymen under his sway , and whose life was - sufficiently long to make this sway permanent Such an hypothesis is rendered the more probable by the fact that in subseqUent times no man of such force and insight arose as to induce his countrymen to change their ancient constitution when the conditions that called it into existence no longer obtained . Notwithstanding the intense conservatism of the Jews they came in time to see that the maintenance of their peculiar institutions did not depend upon the form of government under which they lived , and that they were religious rather than secular . But that the expectation or an earthly kingdom long survived among them is evinced by the belief and the hope of some eV Christ 's disciples that He had come to restore their ancient autocracy . If we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ m war-and politics , in the arts and sciences , in. literature , in exploration , and discovery , we need but to read the lives of two or three ' score representative men and we shall find that the ground has been pretty well covered . A crowd- may destroy ; it takes leaders to build up . The great man can succeed only Whei , the way has been prepared for him by circumstances and when he is supported by other men who are only a little his inferiors . The truth of this statement is proved by such examples as Luther , Queen Elizabeth , Louis XIV , Napoleon , and many others Demosthenes failed because he was born out of due time ; he stood in a measure alone . It is , however , in the nature of tradition to lose sight of men of second and third-rate ability and to attribute their words and deeds to him who occupied the foreground . We all know how many stories are credited to Lincoln which he never told because he had gained the reputation of being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history will doubtless never come to an end , but there has been a marked tendency within the last decade or two to place more reliance on the early records , in the main , than was done a generation ago , Ettore Pais to the contrary notwithstanding CHARLES W SUPER . Athens , 0 , November 17 . THE BIBLE AND THE SUNDAY-SCHOOL To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION . Sul : In the matter of the growing ig ? norance of the Bible , lamentable alike from a cultural and religious standpoint , I wish to direct attention to the fact that this growing ignorance has fallen in point of time with the growing importance of the Sunday-school , and the extension of the reliance religious leaders have placed upon it in church culture . I think this fact is undeniable , and has not been before noticed It may be accounted for as accidentally synchronous , or the result of a common underlying cause , or there may be a relation of cause and effect This is my view after some careful study and observation . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ignorance ; because at has drawn to itself the responsibility for the training of the young , a responsibility which , because of its purpose , method , and personnel , it is incapable of filling .1 have but to close my eyes and I see a knickerbockered boy with legs too short to reach the floor of the church , occupied despite protesting kicks with the dominating and cultured words of a distinguished clergyman now dead . whose discourse was windowed with openings into great . vistas of Biblical allusion , which , when the boy read the Bible , fastened its meaning eternally in his mind This in contrast with the modern small boy  --  mind having danced through the catchy opening hymn , attention occupied with his small boy neighbor , getting his Sunday portion of 5 per cent . Bible , and the rest of the exercises at best cheap moralizing and sometimes unscholarly religiosity I think the old was better Perhaps , too , the cause is general to mod : ern pedagogy The Sunday-school follows the methods of the public school , and aims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the success the public school has in fitting its pupils for the superstructure of knowledge The answer would scarcely satisfy a careful thinker . I am convinced that the hope for the future lies in a rethinking of the purpose of the Sunday-school , in the light of its origin , which will lead to a considerable readjustment in bhe estimation of its value as an agent of Christian training ; in a shift of the attention of the Church from its sociological and institutional outlook , a consummation most desirable , to its legitimate functien as a leader of worship , and the mould of culture ( the charitable and polemic duty of the church is a deplorable accident ) , and in the return of the child to his father 's church , to the gain of child , church , and priest . These are the thoughts of a pastor , whose lips are weighted because of this Biblical ignorance , and sometimes perversion ; and whose heart is sad because the modern child misses so much of the Vision of Eternity , which came to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the diagnosis . The remedy  --  well , the priest is always chained , the chains now are the conceit of ignorance , covering misinformation by mere logical analysis and sounding words . ( REV . ) OSCAR . WOODWARD ZEIGLER The Rectory , Durham Parish , Grayton , Md. , November 13 . A BIOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN A. DOUG-LAS . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I am gathering material for a biography of Stephen A. Douglas , and I take this means of appealing to readers of the Nation for letters written by Douglas , copies of letters written to Douglas , and pictures of any member of the Douglas family and of persons who came into contact with Douglas in any way . If I may have the loan of anything that might be thought of interest in such a connection , I shall regard the favor highly . I should like to receive suggestions as to personal traits , anecdotes , or any other item , no matter how trifling . In fine , if any person who can throw the least light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place me under a deep obligation FRANK E. STEVENS Sycamore , 111 , November 23 . THE TARIFF AND ANILINE COLORS . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION . Sin : In an editorial paragraph in your issue of November 19 , in discussing the tariff hearings before the Ways and Means Committee at Washington , you say : Again , I F Stone , Frederick Schoellkopf , and S. Hartford of Buffalo , makers of coal tar colors , ask to have the duty on their product raised from 30 per cent . to 40 , and some of their raw material put on the free list  --  this in the teeth of an admission that under the Dingley schedules they have doubled their plants and their profits . The ' ' admission " which you mention is apparently a reference to a report of the remarks of Representative De A S. Alexander I wish to say that to the best of my knowledge and belief , Mr. Alexander did not say we had doubled our plants and our profits , but that we had doubled our plants and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and our specific reason for asking an increase in duty was that while we had increased our plants and production as a consequence of the Dingley law , we had unfortunately not increased our profits ; the statements of both Mr. Schoellkopf , who preceded me , and myself , before the committee , being that in spite of our increased plants and production our profits were no larger than they were several years ago , when our production was perhaps only a third of what it is at present ; the decrease in profits as compared to our production being caused by the increased competition of our foreign competitors , particularly the Germans , who , feeling our increased competition , . have reduced prices to offset it until some of the principal colors are sold at or below cost to us , although presumably still at a profit to them It is for this reason that we ask for additional protection so as to be in a position to be on an ' equal basis and build up in the United States an industry which will be of as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logical sequitur is that this additional protection will build up the industry in this country or force the German manufacturers to build factories here , either of which alternatives will be of advantage to this country , it being obvious that with the present duty the Germans can manufacture aniline colors m Germany , pay the present duty , and sell here in competition with American manufacturers , or they would have already established factories here for such competition . I F STONE . National Aniline and Chemical Co . New York , November 20 . The comment in the Nation was based on the press report of the hearing . The stenographic report , now issued from the government printing office , shows that , as Mr. Stone says , the word used by Representative Alexander is " products , " not " profits . " ? ED . NATION. 