@@486821

The meeting of the National Academy of Sciences in New Haven on November 14 and 15 was perhaps not as full as might have been expected ; no quorum of the Council was present , and the number of papers by members was not large , but it may be doubted whether there ever was a meeting in which so much was brought forward that had a flavor of great scientific novelty , inasmuch as the new conception of matter which has resulted from the study of various kinds of radiation is now taking on the aspect of a greater revolution in science than did the advent of the doctrine of energy or that of natural selection , and therefore of the greatest since Newton , if not since Copernicus . The most astounding surprise , though the matter had been rather skeptically heard of before , was the demonstration shown in photographs brought home from South Africa by Prof. W. M. Davis , of the ancient glaciation in that country . Prof. Davis reported that , as far as he heard , all the geologists at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the scratches on the rocks and other apparent vestiges of a great glacier sheet were veritably what they had seemed to South African geologists to be . Yet , in addition to some minor difficulties , such as the total absence of terminal moraines , this South African glacier sheet presents two features wholly unprecedented , one of them truly astounding . The former is that this glacier belonged to the Permian epoch , though it has hitherto been supposed that the glacial ages were all , geologically speaking , recent , and indeed have not yet quite come to an end . One is hardly prepared to say why there might not have been glaciers in Permian times ; but belief is almost staggered when we learn that this sheet , starting well within the tropics , moved due south toward the Cape . We are reminded , however , that the newly discovered source of energy by radioactive decomposition of elements of high atomic weight is so tremendous that the age of the sun , and consequently the length of geological eras , must probably be far greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been accustomed to think . Moreover , the present view is that the planets generally have performed a half-somersault under tidal action , so as to rotate now from south to east , though at first they turned from south to west . But such a change , by dynamical necessity , must have been accompanied by a vast shifting of the axis of each planet . We are , therefore , tempted to think that there might have been a time when South Africa was warmer than the parts that are now in latitude 20 ? S. Somebody ought to examine into this . It illustrates . at any rate , how limitless is the field of consequences which may result from Madame Curie 's discovery . We can not be surprised at finding that young men are the most alert in assimilating the new conceptions which old and young are now driven to admit , but the old with some not very definite reserve . Dr. B. B. Boltwood , who was introduced by Prof. H. L. Wells , exhibited a curious table showing calculated ages of certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have to remember that there is no longer any solid reason for refusing to acknowledge the lengths of geological time upon which the geologists have always insisted , nor , indeed , if the affirmative reasons are sufficient , the still vaster durations demanded by the palaeontologists . It now appears that helium is set free in all radio-active decomposition . and in point of fact the atomic weight of uranium exceeds that of thorium , as nearly as we know , by twice the atomic weight of ? helium , and exceeds the atomic weight of radium by three times the same amount , atomic weight of helium , as if Rd -- -Pb He3 . For this and another weighty reason , Dr. Boltwood suggested last spring that the final product of the decomposition of radium is lead , an idea which has been received with favor . The other reason to which we allude is , that the proportions of lead and helium in the radio-active minerals are correct if we suppose that they were all pure thorium minerals at first ; and in point of fact all do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each kind of radio-active decomposition remains absolutely constant at all pressures , and at temperatures ranging from that of liquid air to the highest temperatures that have been tried . Nothing seems to disturb its march . On this basis , then , Dr. Boltwood has determined , from the amounts of lead and of helium per gramme of the mineral , the length of time required to produce that amount for all the minerals for which the calculation is possible  --  a long list from various parts of the world ; and the truth of the calculated times seems to be decidedly confirmed by the calculations turning out to give all the minerals from any one region , however different they may be in composition , pretty nearly the same age , although minerals from different regions show decidedly , and sometimes vastly , different calculated ages . Thus , the calculated ages of five minerals of Connecticut range from 92 to 98 millions of years , those of North Carolina 119 to 127 millions of years , and those of Norway from 290 to 383 millions of years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not appear that the physicist can any longer deny them , and they appear to receive some support from the southward motion of the glacier sheet of South Africa . There is , however , one point of serious doubt . Many chemical reactions proceed with extreme slowness at ordinary and lower temperatures , but , when the substances are heated to a certain point , they suddenly advance with great rapidity . Now experiments upon radio-active decomposition have never been made above 200 degress C , which is below the beat of a good baker 's oven . It is , therefore , quite possible that at some higher temperature this decomposition should proceed very fast , especially if certain other conditions that might be pointed out should be realized . For the present , this consideration must throw a not inconsiderable doubt over Dr. Bolt-wood 's calculations . Dr. H. A. Bumstead , who was introduced by Professor Hastings , is ' a Yale graduate , already favorably known to the scientific world , who has been working for a year under the guidance of Prof. J. J. Thomson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - in the Cavendish Laboratory . His paper greatly impressed the physicists by its refinement and cautious attention to every source of error , although it is impossible here , in short compass and without drawings , to give any idea of its merits . When the R ? ntgen rays strike upon metals they liberate a quantity of energy considerably in excess of that which went to their production . This excess of energy can be due only to the radio-active decomposiof energy in combustion as very great ; but that which is liberated in radio-active decomposition is millions of times greater . Dr. Bumstead has taken a pair of elements , zinc and lead , the one of low atomic weight , the other of high , and , by measuring the difference of energy resulting from the action upon them of the R ? ntgen rays , studied the radio-active decomposition . Another young man , known for excellent work in collaboration with Dr. Bumstead , Dr. L. P. Wheeler , introduced by Professor ' Hastings , gave an excellent paper and one very convincing of the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Willard Gibbs . It was a mixed mathematical and experimental research , admirable in both directions , into metallic reflexion , the polarization-effects of films and of scratches , etc . Another paper connected with the new conception of matter , and indeed opening a rich field of suggestion concerning electrons , was by one of the leaders In physics , Professor Trowbridge . He described , and illustrated by photographs thrown upon the screen , the singular effects which he had produced in large tubes traversed by a current from a battery of twenty thousand cells of great resistance . When sparks are used , we get only instantaneous effects , but , with such a continuous source of high-tension electricity , slow alterations are obearvari neeenvine- miniitee yin their nerfermance . A volume-ionization is manifest , which slowly increases , and also an ionization-lag . There is a decided unipolar discharge . With some arrangements , rotating brushes are seen , together with phenomena which decidedly resemble the shifting of the Northern lights . A paper , perhaps indicating an unrecognized state of matter , was by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his observations upon the deposition of sediment from water in which clay had been stirred up . But , the vessels nit being transportable without disturbance , it was not until the Academy came to New Haven that he could actually exhibit his results . He ' had several two-gallon bottles with vertical sides , containing clay and pure water , which had not been shaken for fourteen and for twenty-two years . Yet an opalescence was still visible in them , and Professor Brewer was of opinion that the clay never would completely settle . It seemed to be in a colloidal condition , in semi-chemical union with the water , aid diffusing through it . But Professor Brewer informed the Academy that if a minute quantity of salt water were to be added , the water would completely clear itself in a few days . To this paper Professor Brewer appended another with specimens demonstrating that wood will never rot under the influence of pure air and moisture , even if considerably heated . If , however , the smallest particle of rotten wood be introduced into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood present . There was one exceedingly interesting paper upon mineral chemistry by Professor Penfield , the well-known mineralogist . It seems that some time ago he received from a correspondent a package of small crystalsfound at Borax Lake in California , the sender remarking that they contained magnesium and sodium in the form of carbonates and chlorides . One crystal , being taken at random for analysis , was found to have the described composition , with the singular difference that , instead of chloride , it contained sulphate . Now every student of chemistry knows that a sulphate can not replace a chloride without a complete change in crystalline form ; yet all the crystals were alike . It was , therefore , at first supposed that some blunder must explain their having been described as containing chloride . However , further examination showed that of the crystals which remained after taking away that one , some seven thousand in number , not one contained any sulphate at all . After that , one other crystal was met with which contained sulphate and no chloride . The formula of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; That of the other seven thousand was 2MgCO3 , 2NA2CO3 ; 2NaC1 . The crystals containing chloride were somewhat soluble ; those containing sulphate were insoluble . Moved by a rule of old-time chemistry about the precipitation of insoluble salts , Professor Penfield imagined that though the sulphate crystals were so rare in nature , it might be easy to crystallize them from a mixed solution of their ingredients . It proved to be far from easy , but was accomplished by five days ' digestion over a bain-marie . There were , then , two independent phenomena to be explained : ( 11 the isomorphism of the sulphate and chloride compounds ; and ( 2 ) , the difficulty of formation of the sulphate salt , with its consequent infrequency in nature . We now pass to the physiological and anatomical papers . The very first memoir read was an elaborate piece of work by Dr. L. B. Mendel , who was introduced by Professor Chittenden . It related to the presence of Sucrase , Maltase , and Lactase in the tissues and liquids of pigs and dogs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details , though interesting , would require too much explanation to be given here . The differences found at different stages of development doubtless depend upon such facts as that the embryo-muscle has no work to perform , and that the embryo does not so readily get rid of substances which it can neither absorb nor transform , as the adult does . Dr. F. E. Beach , introduced by Professor Hastings , dealt with the errors of eccentricity and collimation of the human eye . He corrected certain errors of Helmholtz , and showed how they had arisen . The axis of distinct vision is inclined some 3 ? or 4 ? from the axis of the cornea , which has not the form of a portion of a spherical surface . A person looking into an eye which looks straight into his will see three reflections  --  one from the cornea , and two from the two surfaces of the crystalline lens . It was to the departures from the character of an ideal optical instrument which are betrayed by the locations of these reflections that Mr. Beach 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unquestionably that of Prof. Edmund B. Wilson , who attacked one of the great traditional mysteries , the problem of sex-determination , and distinctly brought it one long march nearer to elucidation . His admirably clear diagrams , drawings from microphotographs of wonderfully prepared specimens , showed groups of bodies known as chromosomes , which are found not only in the cells immediately concerned in fertilization , but also in the cells from which these cells are formed by reduction . The animals from which they were taken belonged to six different genera of bugs . Three of these genera have , in each cell of the ovarian follicles from which the egg-cells are formed , a fixed number of chromosomes . This number is ? even without being divisible by four ( such as 14 or 22 ) , consisting of an odd number of pairs , the chromosomes of each pair being alike in size and general appearance , while the different pairs differ more or less in these respects . In particular , two chromosomes , in every case , are vastly larger than any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accessory " chromosomes ; but Professor Wilson , having proved the gross impropriety of this designation , renames them the " heterotropic " chromosomes . Exclusive of these two , the number of chromosome 's is divisible by four ( as 12 or 20 ) . The corresponding cells in the male contain each one chromosome fewer ( as 13 or 21 ) , since they possess but one of the heterotropic kind . The ordinary chromosomes in the male correspond exactly , one to one , to those of the female . From each of the cells of which we have been speaking , is formed , in each sex , two cells of the kinds directly concerned in fertilization . In this process of division the two members of each matched pair of chro- " mosomes separate and go , the one to one of the new cells , the other to the other . But since the cells of the male contain but one heterotropic chromosome , half of the new male cells contain one , and the other half none at all . In the act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , which thus comes to contain the chromosomes of both ; namely , a number of ordinary chromosomes divisible by four , and either only one heterotropic chromosome , which is the characteristic of the male , or two of these , which is the characteristic of the female . This is what happens in three of the genera examined . In the other three there is a slight difference , in that the original cells of the male , instead of containing ordinary chromosomes equal in number to those of the male together with a single chromosome which is a good deal larger , contain , beside all those , an additional chromosome which is a good deal smaller than the ordinary ones . This little chromosome acts like the mate to the big one , in that , in the division of the cell , it always goes to the opposite one of the new cells ; that is , to that one of the new cells which the big one does not enter . If we leave the little chromosome out of account , the phenomena of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson entertains no doubt that it is this second arrangement that is the primitive . one . These facts seem to show that the determination of sex takes pace at fertilization , wherein a signal addition is made to our knowledge of the subject . Still , Professor Wilson does not believe that the chromosomes are the direct determinants of sex , but rather that they are concomitants of that determination , which he thinks may be a matter of metabolism , perhaps of growth . Mr. Agassiz , the President of the Academy , as usual wound up the session with one of his delightful papers , which are always followed without difficulty , and are always full of interest . It related to the various forms and functions assumed by the spines of sea-urchins . We have not mentioned three mathematical papers by Dr. Franz Boaz , Mr. C. S. Peirce , and Prof. Asaph Hall . ! Professor Hall 's paper related to the calculation of the anomaly of Halley 's , or any similar , comet . The meeting was an exceptionally enjoyable one ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not often offered to mere scientists . 