@@474509

recently we have viewed the history of human music from an egocentric standpoint . We believed we were able to follow ' the entire development of the art from its earliest beginnings ; and though we were acquainted with some fragments of aboriginal music that had no visible connection with our own , we were disposed to look upon these as unimportant vagaries of barbarism . The earliest traces of our musical system , which we have regarded as the sole musical system of the world , are found among the Greeks of the fifteenth century B.C. A brief glimpse of a rude beginning is all that we have , but during the succeeding centuries a stringed instrument of four notes , which was known as the tetrachord , was developed . The four notes sounded by this primitive instrument are believed to have been e , f , g , and a : Other tetrachords subsequently came into use that combined whole and half tones differently , though still confined to their four notes . These various tetrachords took their names ? Lydian , Dorian , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , respectively , they originated . In the seventh century B.C. the scale was extended to seven notes by Terpander , who combined two tetrachords of different pitch , but having the highest note of one identical with the lowest note of the other . Finally , Pythagoras ( 800 e.c , ) combined two tetrachords so as to leave a whole note between the upper and the lower , thus completing the octave . Pythagoras , by means of experiments with a single string ? monochord ? also determined the ratio of the octave , the fifth , the fourth , and other intervals of the scale . lie found that half the string would sound the octave of the note sounded by the whole string , two-thirds would sound the fifth , three-fourths the fourth , four-fifths the third , and that other intervals bore a similar mathematical relation to the whole string . These and other important discoveries have won for him the title of " Father of Music , " art honor which has seemed eminently due to the inventor of the complete scale , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full scale much more varied and extensive melodies were possible than formerly , but as yet , and for many subsequent centuries , no sense of tonality , such as governs modern music , was present in the mind of composer or listener , to insist on a definite key-note on which the melody should finally rest ; nor had an even metrical rhythm yet become a requirement to the musical ear . The melodies , therefore , that were relished by the assemblages in Greek amphitheatres and temples and in the Christian churches of a later period were such as would be meaningless to us . A few of the ancient masterpieces have been preserved , and their irregular metre and peculiar intervals show how little musicians of the twentieth century have in common with those of these early days . Here is the beginning of a hymn to Calliope , a composition of the third or fourth century A.D. : . The following hymn is an example of the music of the early Church : It is needless to any that no modern musical car would derive any pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , produced by combining different tetrachords , and given names corresponding with those of the tctrachords thus combined . AR of these but two , which correspond with the modern major and minor , have been abandoned after having persisted as late as the eighteenth century . Modern harmony , with its rich and varied modulations , had its origin in a crude accompaniment of fourths , fifths , and octaves . This was replaced by counterpoint ? a weaving together of different melodies ? which arose about six hundred years ago , and was developed to a high degree , particularly by the Netherlanders , who led the world in music for a century and a half . From this time , harmony , freed from successive fifths and nets Ws , and gradually emancipating itself from the limitations of counterpoint , has made steady progress to the present day . As it has advanced , musical taste has grown broader and broader , and many combinations of tones once harsh and intolerable have become pleasing harmonies , while rules of composition formerly inflexible have been relaxed or abandoned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major chord , such as Schubert 's Serenade , link us to the time when it was unsatisfying to the musical sense to end a piece with an imperfect chord . This brief sketch will serve to show how our music has grown from a very simple and primitive beginning to the present elaborate and intricate system , and also how the taste of those among whom its development has been accomplished has correspondingly changed . With the same spirit that causes us to regard our zenith as the highest point In the sky , we have accepted this as the history of all music ; and as the development we here find has seemed to follow such impulses as it has happened to receive , a belief has found current acceptance that the evolution of music is fortuitous , and that musical taste has no better foundation than custom ; that is , that any form of music to which we have become accustomed will please us and touch responsive chords . But recent research has brought to light numerous facts that overthrow completely our self-important belief and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these hits of evidence is in itself sufficient to accomplish this destruction . Benjamin Ives Gilman has discovered a hymn which was in use in the temples of China long before Pythagoras " invented " the diatonic scale , and probably long before that barren period when the music from which ours has descended was confined within the narrow limits of the tetrachord of ancient Greece . I quote the first part of this hymn : This piece of Chinese music , which readily lends itself to very attractive harmonization , could be sung in our churches of to-day without attracting attention as being noticeably different from modern music . In its venerable presence our notion that in the history of our music we have the history of all music slinks away , to lose itself among the shades of discredited and forgotten traditions . The Chinese , who discovered the art of printing Iong before the period of Gutenberg , and whose astronomers were calculating eclipses two or three thousand years before the birth of Hipparchus , the " Father " of our astronomy , again in music emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from recent discoveries , that this ancient people , who may call our ancients children , were well acquainted with the full scale and its intervals , and used both the heptatonic form ( of seven notes ) that we use at present , and the pentatonic form ( of five notes ? the fourth and seventh being omitted ) , that finds its latest place in old Scotch songs , but has also been in use in other parts of the world . We have likewise come into the knowledge that the literature of India contained evidences of a complete musical system several centuries before Pythagoras ? a system in which the full diatonic scale was recognized , several modus were used , and fourths and fifths were named and well understood ; and that the octave was well known to the Babylonians , Pluenicians , Assyrians , and Chaldeans . And in 1891 there were brought from Egypt and placed in the British Museum flutes nearly five thousand years old , which , when played , gave the full diatonic scale . Not alone from the Old World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of music similar to our own : the " sehalmei " of ancient Mexico had the first five notes of our major scale ; ancient flutes of the Iroquois Indians have been discovered which give the first five or six tones of our minor scale ; and in every quarter of the globe we find savages singing or playing music that differs from our own only in the degree of complexity . There are two important ways by which we may reach barbarism ? we may go backward along our own track down the centuries , or we may make lateral excursions among contemporaneous savages . Thus to find the stone age of our ancestors we must seek prehistoric times , but Dr. Dane found it in Greenland only fifty-three years ago . Hence such music as is in vogue among the Eskimos or South Sea Islanders , or in other unploughed fields of savagery. may be said to be practically contemporaneous with that of the peoplesamong whom our music and that of the Orient originated . Here are two examples of Papuan music from Schelling : It will be observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third , fifth , and octave of the modern scale , is regular in its metre , and is marked by a certain dignity of movement that is not without attractiveness . The second uses the first , second , third , fifth , and sixth , and shows acquaintance with at least the pentatonic scale . It is also regular in metre and attractive in theme . The melody is graceful , and is composed of rhythmically arranged phrases . Both melodies close with the key-note . While they are simpler than the early examples of our music just quoted , they are more intelligible to the modern musical ear than those unattractive combinations of notes . The Bushman of Australia seemed , when first we knew him , the lowest type of the human kind , yet in the following example of Bushman music we find the expression of a sense of harmony as we know it to-day , an appreciation of regular rhythm , and a slight knowledge of the chromatic scale : Observe , too , the taste manifested in the avoidance of too great monotony by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the treble part . Primitive as this example seems when we reflect that it is the whole composition , yet it could readily be incorporated in a modern piece of music . Its harmony is far more modern than the Greek accompaniment in fourths and fifths . In estimating the weight to be given these examples , however , allowance must be made for the fact that they are unchecked records , dependent for their value on the unknown degree of trustworthiness of their transcribers . Still , in the absence of specific knowledge of their unreliability they may be safely regarded as probably substantially correct , and so may be received as evidence tending to show that the music of the Papuans and Bushmen was governed in its construction by rules similar to those that govern ours . The securing of exact examples of pure aboriginal music , unalloyed by Aryan influence , is a matter of the highest importance to the student of the history and philosophy of music , and of the origin and nature of the esthetic sense in man ; and it is gratifying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records of such music -- a method originally employed by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes , of our own country , in his ethnological study of the Zuni . Indians . This means , although not absolutely faultless , is in many respects more satisfactory than one dependent on the accuracy of the lobserver . Were both methods used as independent checks on each other , the resultant records , if agreeing , would have the highest degree of scientific value . The element of doubt in the case of phonographic records arises mainly from the mechanical imperfections of the instrument , the more or less constrained poise of the performer , and , when a song is recorded , the singer 's lack of experience necessary to insure a faithful re production . I have listened to phonographic records , secured by Dr. Fewkes , of songs sung by Ilopi ( popularly known as Moki ) Indians which were practically impossible of transcription because of the almost constant blare of the instrument due to the singer 's mouth being too close to the mouth-piece . On the other hand , however , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , Came out very clearly : This is not the whole song , but enough is quoted to show the general character of the music , which is quite comparable with ours . It is possible that it derives resemblance from influences due to the singer 's having received her education among the whites . Still , it may be utterly free from Aryan influence , and the fact reported by Dr. Fewkes that it was greatly enjoyed and constantly requested by the Hopi Indians at least shows some degree of appreciation on their part of music following our rules of construction . The Zuni records , which have been transcribed by Dr. Benjamin Ives Gilman. are probably perfectly accurate rep-reductions of pure aboriginal music . A long song entitled " is characterized by use of the intervals of our scale , a fairly rhythmical construction , and a high grade of melodiousness , and shows correspondence with the modern sense of tonality . Finally I may add that I have frequently listened to a cylinder record of the singing of a native song by an Eskimo . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's expeditions , and is now in the possession of Mr. R. J. Meigs , of Washington , D. C. , also uses the diatonic intervals , especially the first , third , and fifth , is quite rhythmical , and , while not very melodious , as we understand melody , closes its phrases with the key-note , of the value of which it shows a marked appreciation . Here , then , we have several independent musical evolutions in progress , all of which , if we may trust the best evidence in each case , use the same scale and are governed by practically identical requirements of rhythm and melodic construction . In one of these ? our own -- -we are acquainted with the gradual growth and know that its changes have been the result of internal development , uninfluenced by the already well-advanced systems of China , India , Egypt , and other countries , however much these may owe to each other . With satisfactory evidence before us that many independent evolutions have followed practically the same course , we are compelled to abandon the haphazard theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been the sole musical evolution on earth , and substitute therefor the belief that some unknown law holds the progress of music to a certain channel , along which it proceeds toward a fixed ideal . This law , like all other evolutionary laws , is flexible , as is shown by the known use of other scales and other melodic principles than those that govern us . The vast number of diverse influences pressing on every general principle makes uniform progress impossible in any evolutionary line . But the general course is so distinctly marked that these inconsistencies may be regarded as merely variations that sooner or later pass away . The idea of a fixed ideal standard in music , though rejected by most , students of the evolution of music , has been consciously or unconsciously accepted by musicians , who have not hesitated to assert positively that a Beethoven symphony is of a higher standard than a ragtime march -- that is , nearer to an assumed ideal ? and that the fact that the ragtime march is preferred by the majority shows the prevalence of a musical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ragtime order , but distinctly inferior to that which finds greater pleasure in Beethoven . If the discovery of independent evolutions of human music all tending in the same direction indicates the existence of an ideal standard toward which progress leads , how much stronger is the evidence afforded by the fact that bird music is developing along the same lines ! It seems a far cry from a Beethoven symphony or a Wagnerian opera to the simple lay of a sparrow , but as we trace the course of the mighty river of music back toward its source , the stream becomes narrower and narrower , until it is contracted to a point where it is no broader than the little rill of bird music . Nor does the decrease stop there ; for , remarkable as it may seem , there was a time when the music from which ours has been evolved was inferior to some of that which floats to our ears from the woods of spring . This is not to say merely that the songs of certain of the birds involve more intervals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order judged by our own modern standards . Compare with the Greek hymn to Calliope the following song sung ever and over in strict time by a wood-pewee , which I took down . note for note as it was uttered : Were the two melodies here compared to be played before a twentieth-century audience , which would most completely satisfy the ear of the hearer ? The Greek hymn , composed at least as late as the third century A.D. , uses intervals which do not appeal to our present sense of the beautiful , and lacks the rhythmical arrangement of notes and phrases which our musical sense demands . The wood-pewee song , on the other hand , uses intervals attractive to us , is divisible into regular bars , after the style of modern music , and exhibits E. rhythm in construction which , as I have elsewhere pointed out , is the same as that governing many of our ballads and hymns . This . song is not unusual , but may probably be heard by any one who listens for it in the twilight hours of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sung exactly a : here noted , but may always be distinguished from the ordinary utterances of the wood-pewee by its continuity and the regularity of its construction , and by the fact that it is a twilight song . Similar comparison would result favorably to the birds in many cases , though in few to so notable a degree . Simple as are some of the melodies heard from song sparrow , chew-ink . Carolina wren , meadowlark , and their associates , they are yet closer to the modern idea of melody than any theme to be found in the music of ancient Greeks or early Christians . Let me not be misunderstood . The human music referred to was more elaborate in construction , and in its harmonization , crude though such harmony may have been , was far in advance of the musical achievement of any bird ; but the rules of construction by which much of the bird music is governed produce a far closer resemblance to our own music . flow much more intelligible to our cars , for instance , is this bit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its home not far from my own ! ? which came in my open window at the Department of Agriculture many times daily through one summer a few years ago ! Sometimes the identity of melodic construction is emphasized by accidental coincidence with bits of our music , as in this fragment from the Toreador 's Song in Carmen that in two successive summers were flung across the field to my ears by a meadowlark : This resemblance must be regarded as purely accidental . It is quite certain that Bizet had not heard this meadowlark when lie wrote his opera ; and it may he predicted with almost equal certainty that the meadowlark , which does not belong to a species commonly caged for its song , was never taught the theme by any human being ; nor is it at all likely that it picked up the strain from a human whistler or singer . Sometimes , though extremely rarely , bits actually appropriated may be heard from wild birds . Thos a writer in The Ema ( an Australian quarterly ) for April , 1906 , tells of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a captive , had been taught to whistle " Merrily danced the Quaker 's Wife , merrily danced the Quaker , " and passed the song on to its young , through whom , in a more or less fragmentary way , it was transmitted to subsequent generations , so that " there are many now in the forest who still conclude their beautiful wild notes with The ascending notes which terminate the old air . " These notations of bird music are a few representative examples out of hundreds I have secured in my own observations , which have been confined almost entirely to the vicinity of Washington . If the generally accepted theory of gradual development of higher from lower forms of life be correct . then the modern avian musical status has been attained by development from primal ejaculations . How gradual has that development been ? Unless it has been marked by unusual rapidity , there was a time when the music of some birds was superior to most , perhaps all , of the music of mankind . To those who have been accustomed to regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or melody , this will seem a startling assumption . Yet. , judged by our present standard , the songs of some birds must he ranked above the best music of many primitive races of to-day ; and if we may assume that bird music has developed even a shade more slowly than human music , retracing the centuries would constantly increase the proportion of inferior human musicians , and at last bring us to a point where the best musicians were in the tree-tops.                     