@@430138

 |p513  THE varied beauties and wonderful scenic features within what is now the Yellowstone National Park early attracted the notice of explorers and fur hunters , seekers after wealth and adventure , who , on returning to civilization , related marvellous tales of a far-away wonderland . Others followed in their footsteps and confirmed these strange stories , and the attention of the world at large was gradually called to this remote region in the heart of the Cordillera . Much of the credit for setting aside the Park as a national reservation is due to the late Dr. F. V. Hayden , who returned to Washington in the autumn of 1871 , after a summer 's geological reconnoissance , full of enthusiasm for the natural wonders of the region and laden with what was , for that early day , an astonishing series of photographs by that pioneer of landscape photography , Mr. William Jackson , of Colorado . The glowing accounts of Hayden , and these admirable pictures , created great interest , and action by Congress followed . For the passage of this act the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most prominent statesmen then in public life . The act of Congress forever setting aside the region " as a public park or pleasure ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the people " was approved March 1 , 1872 . It was placed under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior , who was empowered to provide against wanton destruction of fish and game within the Park , and against their capture for the purpose of merchandise or profit . Historically , it is worth noting that it was the first large game preserve established by our national government . In the organic law , shooting was not strictly forbidden in that unfrequented land . Its prohibition followed a few years later . The reservation thus dedicated received its name from that most impressive of geographic features , the Yellowstone River , the name of which , even in its English form , comes to us as one of the oldest in Montana . Those intrepid explorers , Lewis and Clarke , employed it as early as 1805 to designate in their reports to President Jefferson the longest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as officially adopted by them , one finds only a literal translation from the French , the stream being known as the " Roche Jaune " to the restless , untiring voyageurs in the service of the Hudson 's Bay Company . Many American and European travellers on their first visit to the Park express surprise , not unmingled with disappointment , at the outlook . A misconception of the usage of the word " park " is doubtless responsible for this first impression . Applied in the Yellowstone , and , indeed , all through the Northern Cordillera , its meaning has a significance quite different from that given to it elsewhere . The Yellowstone Park bears but slight resemblance to a wellcleared and carefully kept bit of woodland , and there is no enclosure as required by English law . In the recent editions of our dictionaries , definitions may be found of the modern usage of the word " park " ? a large area of country containing natural @#  |p514  curiosities , withdrawn from settlement and reserved by the government for public enjoyment . Probably no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural objects capable of arousing wonder , enthusiasm , and awe , as are found crowded together in the Park . Its many scenic features of restful charm , found alongside areas of never-ending activity , with weird , grotesque surroundings , surprise one at every turn . Yellowstone Lake , the largest sheet of water in America at so high an elevation , with its indented shore line and 140 square miles of surface dotted with forested islands , presents to lovers of nature a series of picturesque landscapes unequalled upon any other inland-waters . The far-famed falls of the Yellowstone , with their unique and marvellous rock setting , and the Grand Canyon , with its majestic outlines and brilliant coloring , are worthy of all the praise bestowed upon them , and merit a separate descriptive article . More than a score of waterfalls and cascades , some of them of exquisite grace and beauty , pour the waters of mountain torrents and plateau lakes from the uplands to the lowlands . Many of them well deserve a visit , but their fame is obscured by the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so seldom visited , tell a most interesting story of a buried plant world , of explosive eruptions of mud volcanoes , and the gradual piling up of erupted lavas and ashes . All these , enticing as they seem , appear insignificant when compared with the hydrothermal phenomena displayed in geysers , boiling springs , hot lakes , solfataras , and numberless fumaroles , which have gained for the Park the appelation of the wonderland of America . Unquestionably it is this hot-water treatment which the region has undergone that has developed most of the objects of interest and made the Park famous the world over . Even the lake owes much of its attractiveness to its hot springs and paint pots , and the Grand Canyon would lack its brilliancy of coloring and its sculptured buttressed walls but for the long-continued action of hot as well as cold water . Descriptive accounts of Yellowstone geysers have been published from time to time in periodical literature , giving details of their caldrons and cones and startling features of eruption . In this article some of the more scientific aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ briefly . Only two other localities are known where geyser action may be witnessed on a grand scale ? Iceland and New Zealand . For over a century Iceland has been visited frequently by savants of Europe for the purpose of scientific investigation . It was here that Bunsen worked out his generally accepted theory of geyser eruption , and this barren northern island furnished the civilized world with a new word , derived from the Icelandic verb " geysa . " Here , midst the more austere aspects of nature , surrounded by active volcanoes , mantled by profound glaciers , occur the earliest discovered geysers . In New Zealand , on a far-away island in the Southern hemisphere , midst sub-tropical vegetation and in a genial climate , lies the other locality made famous by its geysers . These regions in many ways resemble each other , both being situated at comparatively slight elevations above the sea , not far from shore , on islands in mid-ocean . All the rocks at both places are of igneous origin , and show evidence of violent eruption and seismic changes within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pink terraces of Rotamahana in New Zealand were completely destroyed by mud flows from Mount Tarawera . Possibly still another locality should be mentioned , one which is little known , although unquestionably a region of true geysers , but whose individual displays , so far as described , fall behind those in other parts of the world . These geysers are situated in a remote region of Thibet , our knowledge of them coming from native Hindoo explorers travelling under the auspices of the English government . They are found at an elevation between i 5,000 and 16,000 feet above sea level , at a locality known as Peting Chuja , along the Lahn Chu River , one of the sources of the great Bramaputra . One of them throws a jet of boiling water sixty feet in height , which in falling freezes , building up pillars of ice close to vents of hot water and steam . In magnitude and variety the phenomenal display of geysers and hot springs of the Yellowstone far exceeds those of Iceland and New Zealand , but their existence was made known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first described with any degree of accuracy less than thirty-five years ago . For years they remained less  |p515  accessible than those found in the distant islands of the sea , being situated far inland , a thousand miles from any railway , in the heart of a dangerous Indian country . Today everything is changed ; railways approach the Park borders , government highways lead all over the reservation , and thousands of pleasure-seekers annually visit the place . To a correct understanding of the geyser area , certain geographical details seem essential , even at the expense of some tediousness . Included within the Park are somewhat more than 3,300 square miles . The central portion , in which all geysers and most of the hot springs are situated , may be described as a broken , accidented volcanic plateau . Encircling it on all sides stand rugged mountain ranges , with dominating crags and peaks rising from 2,000 to 4,000 feet above the enclosed tableland . All these ranges are of much greater geological age than the enclosed area , and present diversified forms of mountain sculpture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rugged scenery which serves as a wondrous setting to the marvels of the plateau . In fact , the Tetons , jutting into the Park from the south , rise precipitously for 7,000 feet above Jackson Lake , affording an imposing view unexcelled anywhere in the northern Rockies . Along the eastern side of the Park , as seen across Yellowstone Lake , the Absarokas , a chain of serrated peaks here and there mantled with snow , stand out in bold relief . By the building up of these mountains a deep-depressed basin was left behind , shut in on all sides . Long afterward came renewed volcanic activity , piling up enormous volumes of lava , not upon preexisting mountains , but on the enclosed basin , converting it into a broad , high tableland , and burying the inner flanks of surrounding ranges to an elevation of more than 8,000 feet above sea level . In this way these more recent lavas slowly accumulated to a thickness of at least 2,000 feet , constituting a well-defined region now generally referred to as the Park Plateau . This massive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , presents marked uniformity in chemical and mineral composition . Obsidian Cliff , the famous mountain of volcanic glass , and the pitchstone flows of the plateau , are merely modifications of nearly identical lavas known to geologists as rhyolite . In the geyser regions of both Iceland and New Zealand the prevailing rock is also rhyolite , and certain scientists have gone so far as to assert that for the production of geysers on a grand scale the presence of a lava as highly silicious as rhyolite is an essential condition . It is on this Park Plateau , or Rhyolite Plateau as it is sometimes designated , that all the geysers and most of the impressive hot springs are situated . It is therefore with the plateau that we have mainly to deal . Taken together , the plateau area and the adjacent regions form a broad expanse of unusual elevation , falling off in all directions . Warm , moisture-laden winds , chilled by this body , deposit rain and snow throughout the year on the steep slopes . Precipitation being relatively high , innumerable streams carry the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bounds and many exquisite falls , to the open country . Climatic conditions are favorable to luxuriant vegetation , and the mean annual temperature is lower than the semi-arid regions below . These conditions are essential for the maintenance of the distinctive scenic features found in the Park . Otherwise the aspects of nature would be barren and bleak . Moreover , were it not for this ample supply of water , it is more than probable that the geysers and hot springs might cease altogether , as they are in great measure dependent upon surface waters . About three-fourths of the plateau is timber clad . As a rule it possesses little charm , having none of the stateliness of the Sierras or Cascades . Its beauty lies in the open , park-like features , and in the grouping of its trees . Many spruces and firs are singularly full of grace and dignity . If one knows the by-ways it is possible to ride for miles in the restful seclusion of the forest , and through luxuriant meadows connected one with another by winding grassy glades ; incipient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a low growth of blueberry ( Vaccinium myrtilis ) . On entering the Park by way of Gardiner River , one is met face to face by the Mammoth Hot Springs , a stupendous mass of travertine sediments slowly deposited through long ages from hot waters . This travertine has filled a steep , shallow ravine , rising 1,300 feet above the river below . The bottom of this old ravine is very irregular ,  |p516  and probably the travertine nowhere exceeds 300 feet in thickness . It is built up in a series of broad , flat terraces , with abrupt walls , concentric in form , facing outward and stretching boldly across the valley . Looking toward the terraces from Mount Everts , on the opposite side of the river , they suggest , save for occasional columns of steam , the front of a large glacier . The hotel and military headquarters stand upon the broadest of these terraces , whose once active springs are now nearly extinct , but whose former grandeur is evinced by the still standing Liberty Cap and the cavernous pits , apparently bottomless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward Gardiner River . It is only on the upper terraces that one now finds that enchanting display of springs , with their delicately tinted basins , which have made the place so famous . These fantastic pools and basins rise one above another , filled with transparent blue water slowly trickling over the fretted rims , which are gradually being built up by fresh deposit along their margins . The manner of building up the terrace basins , and their exquisite tinting due to vegetable organisms , is well brought out in the colored illustrations . An apparently endless variety of travertine forms occur , most of them produced through the influence of plant life . One of the strangest of these , and one whose origin seems difficult to explain , suggests at first sight a tangle of highly developed plants , but really consists of a network of fibrous algw encrusted and held together by travertine . In Yellowstone Park are many strange sights , but none create more genuine scientific interest than the Mammoth Hot Springs . From the terraces at sunset one gets the most delicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twilight , clothing in mountain purple the far-away ranges outlined against a cloudless sky , affords charming views which may well be treasured amongst the pleasing bits of scenery to be found in Montana . By a well-laid-out road one ascends from Mammoth Hot Springs to the plateau . Soon after leaving the springs the road passes through Silver Gate , a chaotic mass of huge limestone blocks piled up in a confused jumble without apparent cause , but producing a wild , picturesque region . By reference to the illustration , it will be noticed ' .... w ' ? it iW that the top of the mountain in the background is capped by a well-defined rock mass . This capping consists of friable travertine , in every way similar to the huge blocks below . The most plausible theory for their occurrence is that during an earthquake shock accompanied by lateral thrust , the travertine at the south end of the ridge was thrown down the mountain slope and piled up as now seen . Coming out upon Swan Lake valley one is greeted on the left by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Electric Peak to Mount Holmes , while on the right , overlooking the plateau , stands an isolated cone deservedly named Bunsen Peak , in honor of Robert Bunsen , chemist and physicist , who first propounded the accepted theory of geyser action . After passing the mountains , the road soon reaches the forested plateau , the land of geysers and boiling springs . The thermal springs in the Park exceed three thousand , and , except those at the Mammoth Hot Springs , lie scattered over the plateau . If to these be added the fumaroles , fissures and narrow clefts in the rock from which issue steam and gaseous emanations accompanied by more or less water , the number of active vents would be largely augmented . At one time or another a large part of the entire plateau has been subject to hydrothermal action , now long since extinct . In other localities the action of underground heat is as powerful as in former times . That it has been going on continuously for a long period , even geologically speaking , there can be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifestations of heat , so puzzling to explain , that they create continued surprise to students and to tourists alike . They may seem weird , uncanny , sulphurous , and at times even dangerous , but interest in them seldom flags . Fortunately the grandest features in the way of springs and geysers are gathered together in one or two areas easily reached by customary routes of travel . From the time of their discovery these phenomenal centres of thermal action have been designated geyser basins ? the Upper Geyser Basin , Midway , Firehole , and Norris . While in a broad way they resemble one another , each possesses certain distinctive features quite its own . In all of them dark green forests come down to the ?  |p517  basin floor , contrasting sharply with the dazzling white sinter which covers the valley , and over which hot springs and steam vents lie dotted in a most irregular fashion . There are good reasons for believing that the Upper Geyser Basin is the oldest of all of them . It has gone through many phases in the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along some line of least resistance in fresh unaltered rock , to the final product seen in such perfect geysers as Old Faithful , Grand , and Giantess . It is in the Upper Basin that popular interest will always be centred ; and well it may , for there nearly half the geysers of the Park and many of its most wonderful springs are to be found . Firehole River winds leisurely through the basin , both banks lined with active , restless springs which are constantly pouring volumes of hot water into the stream . The naming of the river was an inspiration . In the accompanying picture is shown a portion of the upper basin on the east side of the Firehole , from the Giantess on the right to the Lioness and Cubs on the left . The picture represents a calm day , the many vents sending up straight columns of steam , sharply defined against a background of pine , and equally well reflected in a shallow pond . The Midway Basin covers less ground than the others , but here are situated the Excelsior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most delicately tinted sheet of water in the Park . Firehole Basin presents less that startles the imagination , and its objects of interest are too far apart for the hurried tourist , yet a few hundred yards from the hotel one comes upon the strangest group of so-called paintpots , with their quaint caldrons of boiling clays , like so many miniature volcanoes . ? In active paint-pots the contents are always in a state of ebullition , throwing up queer little puffs of blue clay in a graceful but at the same time a most uncanny way . Here are also the Fountain and Great Fountain , the latter the most beautiful of all geysers , and the one which contains more points of interest than can be seen in any of its rivals . Probably the Norris Basin has been active for a far shorter time than any other geyser area , and consequently is far less advanced toward old age . For this reason it offers a wider range of phenomena , from the newly opened vent belching forth fresh volumes of steam , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of a geyser are still in operation , and to the student the basin possesses attractions not seen elsewhere . Perhaps one 's imagination is stimulated to the highest pitch if , contrary to the usual custom , a night is spent at Norris Basin . Then , about an hour before the sun sinks behind the long , straight line of high plateau to the west , one should go alone or with a congenial spirit down to the floor of the basin . Even at this hour it is only beginning to lose its dazzling white under a gauzy gray shadow . After reaching the middle of the open space one has only to turn one 's head to the right or left to get perfect suggestions of heaven or hell . To the left is a slight upward incline . Upon it stand irregular groups of livid white trees , the ghosts of happy young pines overtaken by terrible calamity . The cause of their undoing is still raging ? a huge rift in the side of the hill , from which roars a cloud of steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of pent-up , relentless energy , overpowering . Higher up is still another and more recent vent , and across what seems to be a treacherous crust one steps with very serious thoughts of the future . Unable longer to endure the thought of human littleness , one turns suddenly to the everlasting hills , wonderful and calm , purple against a sky of primrose yellow . There , too , are ridge after ridge of tree-covered plateau , stretching back into the infinite . As night steals slowly on , the details vanish , colors deepen and then grow dull . Delicate steam jets spring suddenly into being , and still the horrid din of the Growlers keeps on and on ; but there are the hills , and one may well exclaim , in the words of the Psalmist : " I will lift up mine eyes to the hills , from whence cometh my help . " What first attracts the attention of visitors , at least those of a scientific turn of mind , is the enormous volume of highly heated waters constantly being forced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A study of these hydrothermal phenomena clearly indicates that they are originally meteoric waters , derived mainly from encircling mountains . A portion of these waters percolates down-  |p518  ward to varying distances from the surface and becomes heated by increased temperature of the earth 's crust . Other portions , permeating to greater depths , are converted under favorable conditions into steam , which , ascending through cracks and rifts , raises to still higher temperatures the waters collected in natural reservoirs . It is assumed on pretty strong evidence that the source of these elevated temperatures is to be found in the highly heated rocks below , which have never cooled since the eruption of the plateau lavas . From the original sources of these lavas there may still continue to issue volumes of steam charged with carbon dioxide and compounds of sulphur . Ever since eruption ceased , decomposition of the rock mass has gone steadily on through the agencies of superheated steam and solfataric fumes , not infrequently depositing brilliant yellow sulphur , a process taking place in several localities . Rock decomposition by such processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action may be witnessed everywhere on the plateau . The work of these superheated solutions in producing both the picturesque features and the dreary areas makes itself felt at every turn . Fumaroles , solfataras , and thermal springs may be taken as evidence of the gradual dying-out of volcanic energy . They return the meteoric waters again to the surface . They were active forces before the country became mantled by glacial ice ; they lasted through that period and still remain powerful forces in work of destruction . These thermal waters come to the surface charged with mineral matter derived from the decomposition of the rocks below . They may be classed under three heads : ( 1 ) waters carrying calcium carbonate in solution ; ( 2 ) silicious acid waters , usually holding free acid in solution ; ( 3 ) silicious alkaline waters , rich in dissolved silica . The first are found almost exclusively at the Mammoth Hot Springs , lying north of the Park plateau , the mineral constituents being derived from an underlying limestone . On the plateau the hot springs carry only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This constitutes an important difference , and marks a fundamental distinction between the waters of the Mammoth Hot Springs and those found elsewhere throughout the Park . Silicious- acid springs carrying little water reach the surface through fumeroles and solfataras , and usually indicate an early stage in the development of hydrothermal centres . Silicious alkaline springs possess far more general interest , because it is only in connection with them that the geysers and large overflowing pools are found . They characterize all geyser basins , and are the source of the highly heated waters which furnish silica for the many square miles of glittering white sinter plains . Chemical investigation of all the most important geyser and spring waters has been made under the auspices of the United States Geological Survey , and analyses show that they do not vary essentially , other than in the percentage of silica held in solution . What seems still more striking is that they agree closely in composition with geyser waters from Iceland and New Zealand . It means that the waters have derived their ingredients from the lavas of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vast volume of hot waters flowing from the geyser basins may be had by gauging certain well-defined points of overflow . Measurements made several years ago determined that Excelsior Spring , even in its most quiescent state , discharged into Firehole River considerably more than 250,000 gallons an hour , and observations since made fail to record any perceptible diminution or increase in amount . Old Faithful , which has no overflow save during times of eruption , must send forth hourly , through an orifice measuring two by six feet , more than three times the volume of water flowing from Excelsior . Each gallon of water flowing from the caldron of Excelsior ? and it may be taken as a fair sample of others ? contained 85.70 grains of mineral matter , the bulk of it , save silica , being carried away in solution ; and even of the latter only a small portion remains behind to build up sinter plains . When it is borne in mind that this represents the outflow from a single caldron , it is evident that the amount of solid matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An appreciable amount of arsenic has been determined from all these alkaline springs , that from Excelsior carrying .19 grain of sodium arsenite in each gallon of water . This means that over four pounds of arsenic is brought to the surface every hour from one outlet ; yet the  |p519  arsenic contained in the water is less than two-tenths of 1 per cent . of its solid contents . No attempt has been made to test practically what curative properties these arsenical waters possess . When flowing directly from the spring at a proper temperature , they are most agreeable for bathing purposes , possessing in a marked degree the power of pulling one together after a fatiguing day . One may drink these waters without any ill effects , but they are hardly to be recommended as potable for daily use , Naturally , many curious stories are told by stage drivers and others regarding the peculiar qualities of these waters . One of them worth preserving is to the effect that any geyser water when bottled possesses a strange sympathy with the water of the pool from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the geyser the water in the bottle becomes violently agitated unless precautions are taken to remove it beyond the Park boundaries . In one instance the cork was blown out and the bottle shattered into fragments at the time of a specially powerful eruption . A tradition of this kind is said to be held by ignorant Icelanders . Nature is a most exquisite colorist . Nowhere is her work more lovely than along the crested rims and overflow channels of warm spring pools . Tourists are seldom aware that these harmonious and brilliant tints owe their origin mainly to plant life . They are usually told by so-called guides that the colors are due to mineral matter , which tends to enhance their horror of underground waters . Alga flourish equally well in the waters of all geyser basins and on the terraces of Mammoth Hot Springs . Water boils on the plateau at 198 ? Fahr. , and rudimentary organisms appear at about 185 ? Fahr. , although no definite line can be drawn beyond which all life ceases . Wherever these boiling waters cool to the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the temperature on exposure to air still more highly organized forms gradually come in . It is said that at about 140 ? the conditions are favorable for the rapid growth of several species . The development of plant life at such excessive temperatures and on a scale of such magnitude seems a marvellous thing . Nowhere else can this be seen so well as in the Yellowstone Park . Mr.Walter Weed has studied these algous growths in their relation to thermal waters and in the part they play in the building up of sinter deposits . He has demonstrated that many forms of algae flourish within restricted ranges of temperature , and that certain species possess characteristic colors , dependent upon such temperatures . It is now possible after a little experience , upon noting the nature of the algous growths , to make a shrewd guess as to the temperature of the water they inhabit . As the water in shallow pools chills rapidly , corresponding changes in color follow . No life exists in the centre , where the water is boiling . On the outer edge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still other colors predominate . Theoretically , in channels favorable to algae there should be developed a sequence of color , due to changes in plant life . This is what Mr. Weed shows to be the case , and he thus offers the first satisfactory explanation for the marvellous concentric rings of brilliant hues and tints observed in pools flowing a uniform supply of water . In a geyser basin , the first evidence of vegetation in an overflow stream consists of creamy white filamentary threads passing into light flesh tints and then to deep salmon . With distance from the source of heat , the predominating colors pass from bright orange to yellow , yellowish green , and emerald , and in the still cooler waters various shades of brown . This of course is a simple statement of phenomena which really display highly complex conditions . No two reservoirs present precisely similar conditions either as regards flow of water or development of algae . Naturally , other factors play a part in the growth of these water plants besides temperature . Environment must aid or hinder the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants is their power to assimilate silica held in solution , and as their life is a short one , the building up of the sinter plains takes place rapidly . As these processes of assimilation are constantly going on , the algae become an active geological agent in rock building , and on a scale hardly dreamt of until recent investigations . A characteristic algae basin on a sinter plain is shown in the illustration . By processes going on in similar channels and pools much of the silica in these waters is transformed into hard rock masses of sinter , which later 520 The Yellowston  |p520  show scarcely any evidence of their origin from plant life . Algm do not find congenial ground about the orifice of geysers , owing to the frequent eruption of boiling water or of water at temperatures beyond their power of endurance . In such instances the mounds are mainly formed by the slow process of evaporation , the two processes competing with each other side by side . It seems unnecessary to burden the general reader with further details , which may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly to the bacteriologist and physician . There are about 100 geysers in the Park . No sharp definition can be drawn between a geyser and a hot spring . A geyser may be defined as a hot spring throwing with intermittent action a column of water and steam into the air . A hot spring may boil incessantly without violent eruptive energy ; a geyser may lie dormant for years without explosive action and again burst forth with renewed force . Still , there exist hot springs that may be called intermittent , the water becoming violently agitated between moments of comparative quiet . The underlying principle of geyser action may be briefly stated . It depends upon the recognized fact that the boiling point of water increases with pressure . At sea level water boils at 2I2 ? Fahr . Under a greatly reduced atmospheric pressure , the boiling point in the geyser basins is 198 ? Fahr . In a geyser reservoir the boiling point increases rapidly with pressure of the overlying column , the water remaining in a liquid state at a much higher temperature than at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cracks raises the entire body nearly to its boiling point , and no more steam is condensed . The expansive force of steam produces a welling up of the water accompanied by overflow at the surface . Relief of pressure follows throughout the length of the tube and reservoir . This causes the entire body of water to become heated above its boiling point , and a portion of it flashes into steam , when the contents are thrown out with explosive violence . Prof. William Hallock , who devoted much time to the investigation of the physics of these thermal waters , reached the conclusion that Bunsen 's theory is adequate to explain all conditions of geyser eruption . Soundings were made in many hot springs and geyser bowls , but seventy feet was the greatest depth reached without obstruction . At the Giantess geyser a series of thermo-electric observations were made throughout the interval between eruptions , with many valuable results . A funnel-shaped bowl , ending in a tube connected with a large reservoir below , furnished admirable conditions for experiment . It was demonstrated that for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle of the reservoir was hotter than at the bottom , showing that the source of heat must have been located along the sides of the reservoir . In the reservoir were many rapidly circulating currents of water at varying temperatures . Hallock found in many of the open pools and hot springs the phenomenon of superheated waters , the temperature standing over two degrees above the normal boiling point . Superheated waters have been obtained in laboratories , but this was the first recognition of them in nature . This observation is of more than ordinary interest , as it explains the highly unstable equilibrium existing in many geyser bowls and hot-spring pools . Without being aware of the cause , tourists have been accustomed to hasten eruption by agitating the water in small geysers by throwing into the pool a handful of sinter gravel . Equally satisfactory results have been achieved by lashing the waters with ropes or stirring them up with a pole . Several years ago a Chinaman obtained permission to use an obscure , quiet spring for laundry purposes . He employed a large quantity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and everyone else , the wearing apparel was thrown into the air and then scattered over the plain . A series of experiments led to the discovery that strong soap or lye produced sufficient viscosity of the water to cause eruption when in this unstable condition . Viscosity tended to the retention of steam , and in the case of superheated waters explosive action followed . " Soaping geysers " has been put to practical use in photography by producing eruptions of two or more geysers at the same moment , but this method of raising the waters has been prohibited , very properly , by Park authorities . No more curious geyser exists than the  |p522  Model , the smallest geyser on record . Its shallow circular bowl , about a foot in diameter and level with the sinter plain , is so obscure that when dry one might step into it without being aware of its presence , yet it is a typical geyser in all respects . The column of water thrown out rarely exceeds a foot in height . It is an energetic , persistent little worker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unquestionably ranking as the largest of geyser eruptions . It was not recognized as a geyser until 1878 , and the next eruption of which there is any record occurred in 1881-2 , when , after playing violently , it fell hack to its accustomed position , with the characteristics of a boiling spring . Six years later , in 1888 , it broke forth anew in a grand series of eruptions , continuing throughout the sum-  |p523  mer , when it gradually diminished with lengthened intervals . Since then it has shown none of the features of a geyser , but during all these fifteen years has presented the phenomena of a seething caldron of boiling water heavily charged with steam . The Excelsior in action presents a marvellous spectacle , surpassing all others of its kind in magnitude and power . In July of 1888 the writer was camped near by for ten days , witnessing the unrivalled display . In some respects the Excelsior suggests a water volcano rather than a geyser , in its sense of power coming from some deepseated source . Unlike a volcano , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , watching all details with a feeling of security , knowing full well its strict limitations . Its most explosive eruption threw a column of water and steam nearly 300 feet into the air , with occasional paroxysmal phases sending rocket-like jets with impulsive force to still greater heights . The intervals between eruptions averaged about seventy-five minutes . In a previous mention of Excelsior it was referred to as a spring . Is it a geyser , or shall it more properly be relegated to the class of boiling springs ? In strong contrast to Excelsior , Old Faithful stands as a typical geyser without appreciable difference in its eruptions , for over thirty years its periodic intervals averaging sixty-four minutes with only slight variations either way . It always displays the same graceful , slender column ; it always charms and never disappoints . Intervals between eruptions depend upon the flow of both underground water and steam . In no two geysers are these conditions similar , and they seldom remain unchanged for any lengthy period even in the largest geysers . Variations in eruptions are to be looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periodic intervals remain constant in so many instances . A remarkable feature of many geysers is their evident independence of one another in times of eruption , regardless of differences of level or closeness of grouping . The silicious sinter deposit from adjoining geysers may form a homogeneous plain , their tubes and reservoirs remaining distinct . A lack of sympathetic action is as noticeable in adjoining geysers as it is in those situated miles apart . @#  |p525  Nowhere is this more convincingly shown than in the case of Prismatic Lake , which remained placid and immovable throughout the terrific explosions of Excelsior , only a few yards away . Recent statements which have crept into authoritative literature assert that many geysers are exhibiting gradually less force , with prolonged periodic intervals . A resurvey of thermal activity after a five years ' absence convinces the writer that no appreciable diminution has taken place , either in the volume of hot water discharged or the force and energy displayed . Naturally , with all this surface evidence of underground disturbance , the question is not infrequently asked if earthquakes occur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and St. Vincent such inquiries are made even mere often than before . Earthquake shocks have been reported , but they are probably due to slight detonations near the surface , caused by the condensation of steam upon coming in contact with cool waters in underground chambers or channels , the explosions being heard for a distance of a mile or two , accompanied by more or less of a tremor . Within recent times there is no evidence of an earthquake in the sense of any real movement of the earth 's crust , other than that noted at Silver Gate , which bears proof of considerable antiquity . The reason for this absence of earthquakes is to be found in the presence of so many natural safety-valves furnishing sufficient vents for pent-up steam . Geological conditions similar to those that laid waste the West Indian islands prevailed during the building up of the Absarokas . It was a period of violent volcanic eruptions of muds and breccias under conditions now long since extinct . So much has been said of the vivid coloring found in the geyser basins that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention were not made of the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone , which , seen from its brink , stands out as the most brilliant and varied bit of rock coloring to he found in nature . The canyon is a magnificent gorge penetrating deeply into the volcanic plateau , with walls from Boo to i , 000 feet in height and from one-quarter to three-quarters of a mile  |p527  apart . Into this gorge the river suddenly plunges by two picturesque falls , and for five miles lies enclosed between the most gorgeously painted cliffs imaginable . Along the base of the canyon , just above the river , thermal and solfataric agencies have been at work through long ages , slowly but steadily decomposing the rhyolite . Every shade of red appears on the walls , from delicate pink and salmon to a vivid Indian red , the prevailing hue being a bright orange . Upon the buttressed walls and sculptured amphitheatres tints of green and yellow are intermingled with the red , blending with singularly harmonious effects . Here the colors are mainly due to mineral matter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ river at the bottom to the sombre green forests at the top , the abrupt walls seem aglow with color . As yet no artist has done full justice to the canyon . The Canyon of the Yellowstone , the Colorado Canyon and the Yosemite Valley deservedly rank as the three famous gorges of the Northern Cordillera . Each in its way stands unrivalled . The Yosemite is a gem , an exquisitely picturesque piece of scenery . It is an enchanting , park-like meadow enclosed between towering walls of granite of truly majestic outline . The Canyon of the Colorado , cut in horizontal beds of uplifted sea sediments , is the most profound and sublime gorge in America , if not in the world . Yet it is not the canyon alone , but rather its relations to the massive plateaus , piled one upon another and receding into the far-away distance with their long straight lines , that makes the region so impressive , so awe-inspiring . The vastness of the Colorado Canyon startles one , and vet its dimensions seem limited when compared with the gorge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently described by Norman Collie . With the Yellowstone carved out of volcanic lavas , it is the canyon pure and simple that rivets the attention . It has a charm of its own , unsurpassed by either of its rivals , and amid the scientific wonders of the Park , it is the artistic culmination of Nature 's efforts there . She held them long in her safe-keeping , until she could give them as a precious possession to a great People .                     