@@430403

 | DURING the past two or three years a noticeable amount of mention has been made of the inadequacy of the college professor 's salary and its disproportion to the demands made upon him by the social position and the standard of living coincident with his calling . While the agitation has perhaps been neither general enough nor sufficiently organized to bring about as yet any appreciable benefit to this class of wage-earners , it has undoubtedly met a sympathetic reception , and the purpose of the Carnegie Pension Fund has found general approval . But in the discussion of the professional salary in general , small note has been taken , so far as I have observed , of the particular portion of college instructors who have in reality the greatest ground for complaint ? i. e. , the feminine portion . The woman who holds a college position has generally not held it very long before she discovers herself face to face with a dead wall , often made sightly by a veil of academic ivy , it is true , but no less hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , because there is nothing for her on the other side . Only the satisfaction of having made the climb , , along with sonic scratches and bruises , rewards her for leaving her little grass plot of comfortable mediocrity . Or , in language stripped of floral decoration , the very best college positions open to women , with a few conspicuous exceptions , offer salaries which no man of corresponding scholarship and pedagogic experience would consent to accept . Even the woman who has adorned her name with all the possible academic degrees , and enriched her mind with foreign study and research , finds practically but two al ternatives open to her : a professorship in one of the few high-grade colleges for women , where the honor is indeed great but the remuneration small , or a salary similarly small and a subordinate position under some masculine head of a department in a coeducational university . Thus are all the laurels on the other side of the wall already gathered by her professional brother for the adornment of his own brow . And in conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her to emulate her gentle domestic sister , and be content with only a rose in her hair . Such . save in the case of the very few whose conspicuous executive ability has placed them in the chair of president or clean , is the reward of the women who have actually scaled the wall , who are counted as the " successful " and the " able " in the educational world . What of the large number of women instructors and professors in the colleges a degree less great , women by nature equally able , probably , hut denied thru narrow means even in their schooldays the prestige of European study ? that winning card which so far outranks all else in the game for favor with the college trustee ? Numbers of ambitious , clever , earnest young women are graduated from our colleges and universities , young women whose abilities call forth sincere recommendation from their instructors , often profound admiration . The aforesaid recommendations frequently place them at once in positions which seem , and are , remarkably flattering to a new - fledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finding herself so early , and so easily , established in a college instructorship , but mentally sees herself a student in a European university within at least three years '  | time . Where is she actually to be found at the end of ten years ? Where she bean , altho earning , possibly , an additional two or three hundred dollars annually in recognition of exceptional merit or thru promotion upon the resignation or death of a superior in the same department . And there she will be ( minus a second " raise " of salary ) at the end of ten years more , unless some fairy godmother secure her passage to Europe or . some lover persuade her to transfer her field of research to love and domestic science in an apartment house . For the universally low salary results in a correspondingly low proportion of vacancies in desirable positions . With nothing to be gained by change , women who have once secured what are admittedly the best places to be hoped for by the sex naturally hold on to them , and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That portion of the top reserved for women on the educational eminence has a very limited circumference . But supposing the existence of a desirable vacancy , the teacher who was so " promising " ten years before has small hope of reaching it , for she has gained little , save experience , in that time to make her more desired by , or better known to , another institution than in her first years of teaching . Of course , so long as no other college seeks her , her own college need not pay a great sum to keep her , and the savings out of that sum do not rapidly reach proportions suggesting study abroad . So she stands helpless at the foot of the wall . I have asked various college presidents and administrators why they did not par their women teachers as high salaries as were given to men doing the same grade of work . The first and most conclusive of all their answers is invariably : Because no other college does . Now , of course , that reply is not highly logical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finality about it which gives them a distinct advanage . However , having first by this telling stroke made you fully understand that there is absolutely no money for you in the discussion , they are generally willing , purely as an academic exercise in argument , to go on to explain why this female-teacher's-salary condition prevails . The reasons com monly given are these : Men are not necessarily more successful in the class room than women , but they are of more value to an institution , because they , either by writing or successful research , call attention to it , or they travel about , giving lectures or attending educational meetings whereby their college is favorably advertised , or they are prominent in the civic life of their own community , or they are superior to women in managing the machinery of the college itself and men have families to support . I am moved to answer the latter reason first to get it off my mind . I marvel that any reasonable man will venture to offer it to a woman even half-Tony reasonable , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the discussion . For the absurdity of it is even greater than the injustice of it , since it is a distinction never drawn between one man and another , and you do not fix the salary even of your professor of sociology 1w your knowledge whether he is a bachelor or supports his theory of eugenics by being the parent of ten vigorous and hungry children . But supposing that men 's salaries anywhere were proportioned to their real or apparent need of money , what right has any one to assume that the financial responsibilities of the professional woman are less heavy , her needs less urgent ? Few women are teaching in colleges or elsewhere who have not broken-down parents to support , younger relatives to educate , family debts to pay for the sake of the family honor . Of these women many are giving up a part of their savings , some are giving all . I know one woman . the recipient of " a good salary for a woman " and counted " successful " by her friends , who each September returns to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's board in her purse , and this by no means because she has wasted her substance in riotous living . And there are doubtless many like her , if we but knew it , but therein lies the difference between the woman and the man . He parades his infant " responsibilities , " for they mark him the " good citizen " and " unselfish " contributor to the nation 's strength , but the woman 's responsibilities are born of the failure and defeat of those she loves , and she can not lay bare  | their sores and hers even to a pitying public eye . Yet I emphatically do not claim that these , her misfortunes , furnish any just ground why she should expect a larger salary . I do wish , however , to call attention to the fact that it is very largely due to these conditions that women are got as " valuable to an institution " as are men . Practically every one of the " valuable " assets of the man professor above enumerated is contingent upon the possession of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of books and magazine articles . Even these , if of a technical nature ( and unless the teacher possess a purely literary gift independent of his specialty , they must be that to he in any way valuable ) , presuppose the expenditure of a considerable sum of money in the schools where the foundation at least of this technical knowledge must be gained , for the day is past when the self-educated , however earnest and capable , can compete with those who have had access to university libraries and laboratories . But in proportion to the number of men on college faculties the production of books from that source , save for an inundation of textbooks ? notably editions of Caesar 's Commentaries -- most of which the educational world could get on comfortably without , is not large . And a very respectable number of women teachers have produced books of acknowledged excellence . Several of these authors were among my own teachers . They are today , as they were then , on the faculty of an institution which is invariably cited as an example of the small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Evidently , being a woman is the one condition under which it does not " pay to advertise . " As to " research , " . material upon which to work is an absolute essential . Only the exceptionally fortunate of either sex ever begin teaching with so extensive a preliminary training and equipment that they can accomplish much that is really worth while in that respect without additional opportunities for study later in life . And they must go outside of their own institutions to secure it . This takes money , and no small sum . And the provision for placing such opportunities within the reach of poorer teachers is , in actual fact , most inadequate . The various fellowships offered for study abroad are almost invariably limited to women whose bachelor degree is less than five years behind them , and of those eligible under that condition many can not avail themselves of the money thus offered for their support , because during their period of study their families would be deprived of their accustomed assistance from their salaries . Again , the colleges which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher are very few , so that the only means by which the impecunious one may increase her store of knowledge is vacation study . And . so far as I am aware , the only place in the United States where serious advanced work may be done in summer time by college instructors is the University of Chicago . The fortunately central location of this great institution makes it a boon to low-salaried teachers , whose appreciation of it is strongly attested by the throngs of them who may be found there thru the summer months , but , all-ha it is indeed the traditional " half a loaf , " it is not a satisfactory substitute for a year or two of uninterrupted study . The teacher goes there tired with the year 's effort to make others learn , she leaves still tired from the effort to learn in a limited time the greatest possible amount herself , and has learned so much the less for that precise reason . And to the aspirant for advanced degrees this patchwork style of study holds out small encouragement . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by " research " ? The attendance upon educational and like meetings , the maintaining of an influence in social , and , thru that , in civic life are so obviously dependent upon the financial status of the college professor that they hardly call for argument . The " advertising " done by lectures , and the direction of the larger matters of college life are not , of course , matters governed by the pocket-book . They are , however , controlled by the same spirit which makes the sex distinction in salary . Even in colleges for women wherever both sexes are represented upon the faculty ? and there are exceedingly few colleges of first rank where they are not ? the higher powers infallibly see to it that every duty involving  | appearance in public is assigned to a male members . They never take the trouble to find out whether their women professors possess latent germs of platform oratory or executive ability . Now the reason of all this is , I suppose , that they honestly think us inferior , altho they print " Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large type as is granted to their masculie instructors . The thing quite beyond the grasp of my feminine intellect is : Why do colleges which profess to desire the best , and can pay for it , put up with inferior substitutes year after year ? ) r do they consider some chairs really less important than others ? When they employ a man professor of Latin and a woman professor of Greek , a man for chemistry and a woman fur physics , do they rank the relative importance of these subjects in accordance with the respective salaries which they pay ? It might appear so , if I had not absolute knowledge of several cases where a reversal of sex in the occupants of a chair was accompanied by an inimediate " about face " in the relation of the salaries paid . In this , as in other departments of w , man 's work , the presumably temporary tenure of position is often given as a reason for inferiority in pay . However just this may be in a general way , the college instructor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such discrimination . Her work is in itself attractive enough to her so that she is not to be easily tempted to give it up for another sort whose attractions remain to be proved , and besides she is becoming ever more imbued with the idea that if she does marry that is no occasion for renouncing her profession . Therefore , the chances upon her permanency have come to be practically equal to those taken upon her male colleague , and the danger of losing her " just when she has learned the business " may now be considered a negligible quantity . True , there are said to be some worthy gentlemen who advocate as a matter of principle the maintenance of her low wage with a view to discouraging her professional aspirations and diverting her into " her proper sphere . " This idea seems to me ? if I may be allowed the undignified phrase ? to be getting worked considerably overtime . At any rate , the working of it is time wasted . Women are not scared into matrimony nowadays by dread of starvation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcibly diverted from what she has spent her life learning how to do to a thing which she has never learned at all , would make anything but a satisfied and satisfactory wife . I would not be understood as asking for absolute equality of salary among all college professors irrespective of any other consideration than the fact of being labeled " professor . " One man in an institution may be unquestionably the superior of his fellows , tho his title be the same , and there are many possible reasons why his superiority should be given public recognition by a distinction in salary . The same conditions may and do occur in a group of women teachers , and no reasonable woman can possibly find in them cause for offense . But when the same position is sought by a man and a woman essentially alike in education , length of service , and recognized success as teachers , and the man is offered two-thirds more than the woman , when the leading women 's colleges pay niggardly salaries , when the Ph.D . forsakes her chair in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not bettered in income in a coeducational university , then , then , we begin to know from experience what is meant by " closing the door of hope . " For , after all , the mere dollars do not mean so much to us as the implication made thru their denial that , at best , we can never rise in the college world above the position of a temporary economical makeshift for the man who happens not to be at the moment available . Added to this , in the case of some , is the bitter consciousness that thru this same lack of dollars they are indeed , tho ambitious and conscientious in their work , not as valuable as the men and women who , in their undergraduate days and after , have been able to afford the exceptional opportunities for study which they themselves could only long for . It is often said that women have themselves to thank for their low wages , in that they accept with grateful meekness what a man would decline with jaunty scorn . This may be true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when your life and others depend upon  | your salary , and the men who employ you know as well as you do that there is not a place in the land where you may hope to receive more than they see fit to pay you ? I have not included the public school teacher , overworked and underpaid as she is , in this protest , because certain features of her case differ essentially from ours , and also because she possesses , with all her wrongs , one weapon denied to us ; there is something higher for which she may " strike . " The peculiar embarrassment of our present situation appears to be that we have already gone as high in our line as men consider it expedient for women to go . Is there no way of advancing our limit save by the manual laborer 's weapon of organized revolt ?                     