@@430031

 | WHEN the Triennial Convention of the Episcopal Church opens iii San Francisco , on October 2 , its delegates will find themselves in new surroundings ; for this great legislative body has not before met west of Chicago and Minneapolis , and Eastern men are looking for a new and instructive experience , while those of the far West expect encouragement and inspiration from the presence of the chief assembly of the Church . The mission boards hope that the domestic mission fields may seem more real and tangible to those who have recently passed over the prairies and mountains which separate the Mississippi from the Pacific , while the appeal from foreign lands may come with more force when the givers look across a new ocean toward lands recently opened to missionary effort . The convention will lie at least distinctively missionary in tone . The General Convention is made up of two houses , the bishops , who are members ex officio , forming one , the other being composed of elected delegates , clerical and lay , who represent the dioceses of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diocese , and having , including representatives of missionary jurisdictions , over five hundred members . Some of the ablest men in the land , ? men elected to represent parishes rich in social experience , ? will be there , and such seek always to affiliate the Church closely , through its convention , with the social needs and issues of the day . Of this type is the Rev. William R. Huntington , D.D. , whose leadership in the House of Deputies brought to a successful issue the revision of the Prayer Book and the revival of the ancient order of deaconesses , besides advancing , as has no other voice , the cause of Church unity . It has been customary to speak of schools of thought in the Church , ? it would be truer to the truth of to-day to mention only the school of action . To this belong all the leaders in the convention , among them such bishops as Henry C. Potter , whose effective work in the purification of the springs which directly feed the social life of the community needs no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is leader in the cause of the family against divorce and disintegration ; John Fulton , whose legislative ability brings light out of darkness , and George C. Thomas , whose financial management contributes to the success of the Missionary Board . Nothing human is alien to me , " is the broad message by which these men , and many like them , interpret the ancient creeds which the Church had from early saint and council to the modern world . No subject of deeper interest to the general  | public could come before any religious gathering than that indicated by the schedules as the prominent subject for debate , during the coming weeks , in Trinity Church , San Francisco . 1 n view of the fact that the foundations of society are threatened , and in many communities the sanctities of the family openly violated , the proposed new canons on marriage and divorce , the most severe and drastic that have ever been suggested by any Protestant church , are of absorbing interest . The Episcopal Church has always taken high ground in this matter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any divorced person , save in the case of an innocent party in a suit for adultery . In the canons now to lie considered , a distinct advance in stringent legislation is made . The question will come before the House of Bishops in the shape of the report of a joint committee of the two houses . In the House of Deputies , this report will be supplemented by a special one from a separate committee of its own appointment . The proposed canons , after premising that marriage must not be solemnized without witnesses , nor , in the case of minors , without adequate consent of parent or guardian , say that No minister of this Church may solemnize a marriage between any two persons unless , nor until , by inquiry , lie shall have satisfied himself that neither person has been or is the husband or wife of any other person still living , unless the former marriage was annulled by a decree of some civil court of competent jurisdiction , for cause existing before such former marriage . " It is interesting to note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of influential men in this communion since the convention of the last triennium , when these canons failed to pass . Men of all schools of thought have been expressing their change of conviction in this matter , giving the reasons therefor . They retain their belief that a new marriage after divorce is allowahle under sanction of the words of Christ in St. Matthew xix. , 9 and 10 , and acknowledge that innocent persons may suffer if the proposed prohibitory canon becomes law : and yet they conclude that for the general good the sacrifice of the few must be made . Bishop Potter 's changed attitude may perhaps be taken as significant of he progress of opinion in regard to these canons . The opponent in the Washington convention of the proposed legislation , he within a year expressed openly his altered conviction . " The whole subject , " he says , " has gained a new aspect from recent events , which have undoubtedly awakened in all sober-minded Christian people a profound sense of alarm ; and the consensus of opinion among them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarriage of divorced persons under any circumstances whatever , has greatly widened and deepened . Such a conclusion may be the wisest we can reach at present . In the face of such a danger as threatens us , the only safe course may be to prohibit absolutely that which , while it might be permissible if we could be always sure that it had a scriptural justification for it , is only wrong and evil when that justification , existing in fact , exists , e.g. , only because it has been fraudulently obtained . " " It may be that our only safe canon is one in which the Church refuses remarriage to persons divorced for any cause arising after marriage , absolutely and universally . " Another prominent churchman says that in nine cases out of ten no innocent party will , especially if there be children , emblazon on the public records the worst of charges , every instinct of propriety suggesting the substitution of desertion or other allowable excuse . If the fact that eminent jurists and publicists of the communion are said to declare all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the conclusion that this central section of the new canon on marriage will in time be passed is unavoidable . There is , however , a section on discipline which will not find ready acceptance . Persons married after divorce are not to be admitted to the sacraments , except in the case of the innocent party to a divorce for the cause of adultery . This provision would throw an appalling responsibility on the parish clergy , who are made sole judges of the facts in individual instances . Appeal , however , is allowed to the bishop , who , after inquiry , may deliver final judgment . A third section of the canon presented by the committee of the House of Deputies repeats the Levitical table of degrees of consanguinity within which , as it states , the laws of God do not permit marriage . The report of the committee of the two houses substitutes for this the English table of prohibited degrees . The clause in this which forbids marriage with a deceased wife 's sister has never found acceptance in this country . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basil , but , as a clergyman has said , St. Basil is a dead issue in America to-day , and it is impossible to convince a man that his wife 's sister is really his own . Bishop Doane , of Albany , has been among the most strenuous advisers of advanced divorce legislation in the Episcopal Church . With him have stood all those who maintain that marriage is sacramental in character and therefore indissoluble . This party will now be joined by many who have been heretofore opposed to its conclusions , and the result of their combined  | action will be eagerly looked for by churchmen everywhere . Besides these important canons on divorce , there are 21 concerning the ministry , 17 on discipline , and 19 on general subjects . There are , besides , a report , prepared by two eminent jurists , the Hon. Charles Andrews and the Hon. Robert Earl , on the establishment of a Court of Appeals , and a proposition to introduce into the Church a provincial system . The province in its simplest form is an association of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of common interest . It is proposed that the Church be divided into provinces , with synods composed of bishops , who will choose their own primate , together with five clergymen and five laymen from each diocese of the province , the synod to have a power of separate legislation , subject to the authority of the General Convention , whose overcrowded calendars would thus find needed relief . This system need not be weighted with foreign titles such as " archbishop " and ' ' metropolitan , " whose very sound proved unpleasing to democratic ears when they were suggested in the convention of 1898 , in order to prove entirely feasible and effective . In addition to all these canons , the amendments to the constitution , of which there are eleven , must come for final action before the present convention . One of these continues the present custom of the Church , which makes the senior bishop in the order of consecration presiding bishop . The health of the incumbent rarely permits him to attend the conventions , and his presidential duties must , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwise provision , and it is said that the bishops of the House are hoping to change this order . The Rt . Rev. William Croswell Doane is chairman of the House of Bishops at its present sitting , the presiding bishop , Rt . Rev. Thomas M. Clark , being too infirm to attend . The House will miss another of its ablest orators , as Frederick Dan . Huntington , the beloved Bishop of Central New York , whose voice has always been raised in the cause of social and labor reforms , will be absent . The Rev. Morgan Dix , D.D. , the elected president of the House of Deputies , has also declined to be present , and a new man must be chosen in his place . While it is believed that the majority of the dioceses are still unalterably opposed to any change of name of the Church , the proposition to strike out the terms ' ' Protestant Episcopal " from the title-page of the Prayer Book will probably be again made in the convention of 1901 . The first attempt to alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Convention in Chicago , some fifteen years ago . If the motion had carried , the official title would have been The Church in the United States , " which would , in the opinion of those who presented it , affiliate the communion more closely to Catholic usage , the titles employed for the several churches in early days being always geographical . The attempt which failed in 1889 can scarcely prove more successful to-day , but if the House enters upon the discussion the usual number of forceful and brilliant speeches in defense of the old name may be expected . Among the most important of the subjects to be taken up at this convention is an extended report on suggested marginal readings in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments . Over seven thousand of these alternatives , taken from the margins of the authorized version , from both texts and margins of the revised , and from the preferred readings of the American Company of Revisers of 1881 , with additions personally made by the present committee , amount , in fact , to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered by experts in periods of long leisure . Whether the sacred text can be otherwise than maltreated by a convention of reverent but inexpert delegates in the fleeting intervals which can be secured in crowded legislative session is matter of doubt . The General Convention has never previously given so much thought to missions . Seven of its regular sessions will be filled by the Board of Missions , who have arranged addresses representing its work in China , Japan , Haiti , Porto Rico , Brazil , Africa , Alaska , and all the domestic fields of service . There will be , in addition , a missionary mass meeting , over which the venerable Bishop Whipple , the ' Apostle to the Indians , " will preside . It will be held in the great Mechanics ' Pavilion , and addresses will be made by Bishop Potter , of New York ; the Lord Bishop of Newcastle , the Bishop of Kyoto , and Mr. Burton Mansfield . The importance of the work in the mission fields will be still further accentuated by missionary sermons in all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass meetings , at which bishops Kip , Hare , and Edsall will be the speakers , and by the triennial sermon , to be preached before the Board of Missions by the Rt . Rev. Frederick R. Graves , D.D. , Missionary Bishop of Shanghai .                     