@@474302

AGES ago , when the climate of the Rocky Mountain region was very different from that of the present day , when the annual snowfall greatly exceeded the annual loss by melting and evaporation , snow accumulated to an enormous depth along all the higher portions of the range . As the snow continued to pile up and pressure increased , it formed ice , which began to flow slowly to lower levels . The glaciers thus formed extended their icy tongues down preexisting mountain gorges , sometimes for many miles , until they reached levels where the mean annual temperature was sufficient to melt the ice as rapidly as it moved downward . The ice reached a thickness of hundreds , sometimes even thousands , of feet , as shown by perched boulders , glacial scratches and rorhes moutonnaes . These ice - streams greatly modified the valleys in which they flowed , changing their V shape , characteristic of stream-formed gorges , to the 17 shape of glacial valley topography . They rounded off angular rocks and produced on a grand scale the roches moutonnees typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well defined and having steep sides , as would be expected in a region where valleys were bordered by precipitous cliffs and material was so abundant and accessible . Then the climate again changed and the glaciers slowly retreated , until now they are represented chiefly by remnants of treve rest- ing in the arms of glacial cirques at altitudes of from 12,000 to 14,000 feet above sea-level . It had long been supposed that no true glaciers remain in the Rockies south of Wyoming , a supposition now known to be incorrect . North of Lung 's Peak two ice-fields have been described and referred to as glaciers by men whose determinations are entitled to considerable weight , though on the whole they partake more of the nature of rWve and are so considered by some geologists . This difference of opinion is entirely excusable on the ground that the dividing line between neve and glacier is indistinct , " the one passing into the other by insensible gradation . " However , explorations carried on in the last five years have brought to light an ice-stream which is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute as to its character . It has been visited by experienced geologists , mapped , photographed and thoroughly studied . Arapahoe Glacier is about a mile long , and is situated amid scenery as inspiring as ony in the southern Rockies . It occupies an amphitheatre or glacial cirque upon the east side of the Arapahoe Peaks , the peaks and their thin , sharp , serrated connecting ridge forming the semicircular rim of the cirque , the ridges running eastward from the north and south peaks forming the walls of the ancient glacial valley . The highest point on the rim of the cirque is 13,700 feet above sea-level . The glacier once extended down North Boulder Valley about eight miles , and has left in its retreat a great network of moraines to delight the student of glacial geology , and a magnificent chain of glacial lakes to please the eye of the landscape artist . Upon the banks of one or another of these lakes our annual exploring expeditions have camped in early September for a number of years , living close to Nature , surrounded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of climbing rugged peaks and picking our way through an untrodden wilderness of stunted conifers , huge boulders , high precipices , and deep canyons . At night the music of a dozen waterfalls lulled us to sleep as we stretched our weary limbs upon beds of fragrant fir and spruce boughs . Among these peaks the fauna and flora are quite different from those of lower levels , and the trees tell in unmistakable language of deep snows and continual west winds , in some cases growing fiat upon the rocks , in others holding their heads erect but throwing their branches out horizontally to the eastward , in order to oppose the least possible resistance to the wind . On the ice we find all the phenomena of well-defined alpine glaciers the world over , but the first evidence of present glacial work we noticed in the stream and lakes fed by the melting ice . The lakes most remote from the glacier were clear as crystal ; but as we approached the ice , the water took on at first a greenish tinge , gradually deepening and whitening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice - tongue we found it milky white , made so by the contained sediment or " rock-flour " ground from its granitic bed by the moving ice-stream . The next thing to attract attention was the perfect freshness of the terminal moraine . All along the valley we had passed and crossed ancient moraines from which the fine mud had been removed by the storms of centuries , but here at the present terminus is a heterogeneous mixture of wet . materials varying from the finest silt to boulders weighing many tons , looking as if the mass had just been deposited there by a gigantic steam-shovel . The lake for which it operates as a retaining dam is evidence of a recent recession of the ice front . The moraine is the omnivorous recipient of everything that falls upon or into the ice , in addition to the rock-flour and other material carried along beneath it , Another striking feature of the glacier is the stratification and banding of the ice , characteristic of all glaciers . These were once supposed to be distinct features due to two very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this may be doubted without danger of being considered a heretic . It seems quite possible that the banding and stratification , considered as a whole , simply represent successive seasons or falls of snow , first appearing in a poorly defined way in the tiv ? and acquiring better definition with the downward progress of the ice . Another feature which serves to distinguish glacier-ice from ? live is the distinct granular crystalline structure . Arapahoe Glacier is remarkable in the definite symmetry of its Bergschlund , the great semicircular crevasse extending across the face of the ice-stream and marking the point where the glacier proper , by accelerated movement , breaksaway from the niv4 . Its crevassing sys-tems , too , are very definitely outlined . Where the ice flows over a sudden change in the slope of the valley floor , yawning crevasses are opened to unknown depths by the stretch-ing of the ice . They vary from a few inches to many feet in width , and are often several hundred feet in length . In making his way amid the maze of crevasses a sudden slip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be it remembered , ice does not afford the most secure foothold in the world , so that a slip is altogether too easy . Furthermore , caverns sometimes form with but a thin covering of ice , and a heavy fall of moist snow , drifting with the wind , often covers crevasses of sufficient width to engulf a human being . Such covered crevasses are particularly apt to occur early in the sea-son , before the preceding winter 's snows have been melted back . Men have uncon-sciously and unconcernedly crossed Arap-ahoe Glacier on what they supposed was solid ice , where a few weeks later the melting of the slight crust of frozen snow exposed the Bergschlund twenty feet in width . In the Swiss Alps at least one instance is known where a man has fallen into a crevasse , and his body has been carried downward and years later de-posited on . the terminal moraine . On the terminal moraine of Arapahoe Glacier we recently found the carcass of a mountain-sheep melting out of the ice , where it had been in cold storage for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposition , in view of all the circumstances , is that it broke through or slipped into a crevasse and was carried downward to the terminus by the movement of the ice . Crevasses may open slowly and quietly , or with astonishing suddenness . The writer was once treated to a perfect cannonading upon Arapahoe Glacier , the ice cracking almost beneath his feet several times in succession , with thunderous roars , forcibly reminding him that he had business imperatively requiring his instant presence elsewhere . Another source of danger from which there have been some narrow escapes at the terminus of Arapahoe Glacier is the instability of boulders upon the fresh moraine . On ancient mountain moraines one may generally feel safe in trusting his weight upon the edges of large boulders , because they have been for ages settling into more and more secure positions . On fresh moraines , however , theyare often deposited in nicely balanced positions , or reduced to snoh condition by the washing away of the finer materials around them , so that the slightest pressure may overturn boulders weighing several tons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whenever practicable , and when forced upon them , proceed with the utmost caution . No measurements were necessary to convince our first exploring party that the ice was moving . To the student of glacial phenomena the evidence on every hand was as easily read as a printed page and as convincing as a mathematical demonstration , but it remained to determine the rate of movement . Consequently , on a later visit , we set up the instruments on the granitic north wall and placed a line of zinc tablets across the face of the ice . Returning exactly one year later , we found that the tablets had moved in amounts varying from 11.15 feet at a point 300 feet from the edge , to 27.7 feet at a point near the centre . The existence of this glacier within a few miles of civilization for so long a time before recognition of its true char- acter seems rather astounding . Hundreds of tourists had gazed upon it from the rim of the amphitheatre , late enough in the season for the melting of the surface snow to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracted attention . It may be that other glaciers in the less accessible fastnesses of the Colorado Rockies await discovery by observant explorers able to recognize them when found , and the pleasure of making new discoveries and adding to the sum total of human knowledge should be sufficient incentive for the lover of Nature whose eyes are keen , whose lungs are elastic enough for high altitudes , whose muscles are strong , and whose nerves are steady enough for hard climbing in a rugged land . Even though no new discoveries be made , what pleasure can be greater than getting away from the well-beaten paths , where everything is new and strange , and where Nature 's building has been on a grand scale ? A schoolteacher , after following the writer along the difficult ridge from the south spur to the north spur of Arapahoe Peaks , and reaching a point attained by but few of the tourists , gazed out over the awe-inspiring expanse of mountains and valleys , visihle for at least 150 miles to the north , south , and west , and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silence of the mountain solitude with the exclamation , " I tell you , it makes a man a better American to see this ! " Why should Americans go abroad to see the sights of foreign lands , who have not the faintest conception of the wonders of our own land to be found by getting away from the regular lines of travel , which naturally and almost necessarily follow the lines of least resistance , which lead them away from the grander views ?                     