@@486509

In the revision of New York 's Constitution by the Convention of 1894 , it was provided that thereafter local contests should come in the odd-numbered years , when neither President nor Congressmen are chosen , and when no State officials are chosen except members of the lower branch of the Legislature The end aimed at was thus expressed in the address to the people which the Republican majority of the Convention issued after the completion of their work : " We seek to separate in the larger cities municipal elections from State and National elections , to the end that the business affairs of our great municipal corporations may be managed upon their own merits , uncontrolled by National and State politics , and to the end , also , that the great issues of National and State politics may be determined upon their merits , free from the disturbing and often demoralizing effect of local contests " This reform has been fully vindicated during the last few weeks . The recent campaign in this city was a campaign on municipal issues solely . , All that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their local affairs . All that campaign speakers have been able to get a hearing for has been talk about the city Questions of State or Nation , al politics have cut no figure whatever . Any attempt  --  and , such attempts have been made  --  to persuade voters that they should cast their ballots with reference to the government at Albany or the Presidential contest of 1904 , has fallen perfectly fiat . How New York city shall be administered during 1902 and 1903 has been the only thing that people would consider . This is an immense and a permanent gain . If any one doubts that a compelling moral issue has been the life of this city campaign , let him mark the voices which came an Sunday from the pulpit of Greater New York . Such unanimity and high earnestness denoted something other than an impending election . They signified the approach of a moral crisis in the'city 's life . These ministers of religion , under our system of voluntary support , would never think of " preaching politics " when it was a mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided politically . They feel ' themselves called upon to speak out , as messengers of God , on the eve of an election , only when they see the devil 's messengers arrayed against the welfare of the city and the moral safety of its men and women . To these clergymen , as to all men whose hearts and consciences are not seared , the issue of this municipal struggle was an issue of life or death . Two personalities in this campaign have been living illustrations of the truth that a moral question in a great public debate will not down . In spite of Mr. Shepard 's high character and great powers of political advocacy , he has not been able to keep men from asking , " Are you for vice , or against it ? Do you defend thieves in office ? Are you for protecting crime , or for punishing it ? " And the progress of Mr. Shepard 's own campaign has shown that the fearful handicap under which he has labored has been a moral one . He has been compelled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak of them as his " coadjutors . " He has had to go about like a Roman convict chained to a corpse ; and there was almost a recognition , in his last appeal to voters , of the body of death from which he had to pray to be delivered . In a really pathetic way he asked for votes in spite of the degrading companionship in which he had placed himself . It was a striking exhibition of the power of evil to pull down a good man who consents temporarily to work through it for what he believes to be useful ends . As Mr. Shepard has shown that being on the wrong side of a moral issue fatally weakens even a man panoplied in a good repute and in all the arts of a skilful advocate , so have we seen in the person of Mr. Jerome that a just cause is better than eloquence , and a fearless stand upon fundamental morals more effective than all the skill of the cleverest politician . Mr. Jerome has done what no candidate for office in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiasm in high and low ; stirred cynical and despondent men of the wealthier classes as nothing political ever moved them before ; and made himself a sort of figure of hope , a champion at last raised up for the oppressed poor . And how has he done it ? By simple truthfulness of speech . He has not spoken of thieves as if they were honest men . To him crime has been crime , even when committed by a politician , and the Ten Commandments have not budged even for the sake of a rich corruptionist .. He has thrust his Ithuriel 's spear at sinister figures among his own supporters when occasion called for it . His very rashness , his hasty blows , have made friends for him ; people still like a man who " ai n't afeared . " And the result has been that , far and wide , all through the country as well as in this city and State , Mr. Jerome has come to be regarded as the man who has done most to lift the campaign out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compliments at each other , and very likely striking hands in the dark , and to place it just where it should be  --  on the level of plain morals . Surely his moral fervor , his intrepidity , his fighting the thing through and faltering not , will remain an inspiring memory and example to young men in New York long after the close of his great controversy . These are some of the manifestations which confirm the hopeful view for the future of non-partisan administration of city affairs indulged in by Mr. Shepard in the article on the " Political Inaugura tion of the Greater New York " which he contributed to the Atlantic Monthly for January , 1898 . In that interesting and philosophical study of conditions and tendencies in the metropolis the late Tammany candidate for Mayor pointed out certain things which must work for the coming of the day when " we shall no longer fear Tammany victories . " Having shown how the heterogeneous elements of our population and its shifting character had made New York resemble a mining camp , he asserted that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mend , " and he sustained the contention by arguments which time has only strengthened . For one thing , he urged that the population is steadily becoming more homogeneous , through the relatively smaller proportion of foreign immigrants and the Americanization of the children and grandchildren of earlier immigrants ; that the ' American politics of the Irish voters are less - dependent upon the wrongs of their native land than fortherly ; and that a settled neighborhood feeling has begun to develop in many districts . The increasing jealousy of interference in our city government from Albany seemed to Mr. Shepard , four years ago , to be rendering such interference more difficult , and the growth of the home-rule idea in the interval has been even more rapid than he apparently anticipated . Finally , there was this fundamental consideration , that " public sentiment , irregular , imperfect , sometimes unreasonable , as it is and always will be , grows steadier and more intelligent . " It is upon this increasing steadiness and intelligence of public sentiment that the non-partisan principle of municipal government is building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mr Shepard took directly after its defeat in the election of 1897 . Tliat election had proved , in his opinion , " the most signal demonstration ever known in the history of the metropolis of the growth of rational voting . " But every candid observer of the recent campaign finds evidence of still further growth in the rational manner of considering municipal contests . For example , Mr. Shepard declared four years ago that " machine politics in the United States has not received a more serious blow than the treatment accorded the Platt candidate for Mayor , although he was a man of the highest character ; of distinguished ability , and of long and valuable service  --  but for his alliance , worthy of the Mayoralty . " It is a still more serious blow , however , which machine politics has received this year , when a man of precisely the same type , who was nominated by Croker , has won to his support only a few Democrats of standing and influence outside Tammany Hall , as against the large number of Republicans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1897 . ' It is interesting also to note how fully Mr. Shepard 's prevision regarding the representative of non-partisanship in the contest of 1897 has been justified by the canvass of 1901 . Having asserted that there had never been a more creditable campaign than that of the Citizens ' Union then , and that it " rendered a lasting service to American politics , " he went on : " Ordinarily , the defeated head of a ticket has lost- his ' availability ' ; but to-day Seth Low , it is agreeable to see , occupies a more enviable position than he has ever held , or than is held by any other American now active in politics He has the deserved good fortune to stand before the country for a cause which , to the average American , is largely embodied in his person What was believed before his nomination was confirmed at the election , he was plainly the strongest candidate who could have been chosen to represent his cause He polled 40,000 votes more than his ticket , that is to say , there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Low , and no one else , or who were willing to leave the tickets of their respective machines only on the Mayoralty , that they might cast their votes for him . He has come out of the campaign far stronger than he entered it " This year we not only have had the same candidate for Mayor as four years ago , with his added personal strength , but we have had the Republican organization supporting him upon the same non-partisan platform orm upon which he stood in 1897 , and more than one Democratic organization equally earnest for his election upon his pledges that his administration , in case of his election , would recognize no obligation to any political body Meanwhile , only an insignificant proportion of intelligent men appeared blinded by the appeal to partisanship which was ingeniously made by the able advocate whom Croker picked out as the Tammany candidate for Mayor . In all this there is great warrant for hopefulness on the part of good citizens . THE WAR DEPARTMENT AND THE STATE TROOPS . In view of the many rumors as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report in regard to the State troops , an official announcement of his attitude is eagerly awaited by all concerned . It ha 's been stated , for instance , that the War Department will bend all its energies to the creation- of a body of State troops which shall stand between the regular army and the present militia organizations as a new national reserve , capable of taking the field in support of the Federal troops whenever the necessity arises . Some have believed that Mr Root will confine him'self to recommending practical methods of bringing the existing State and Federal troops into closer relations , by means of joint manoeuvres at Forts Leavenworth and Riley , or at some other army posts , and in still other ways . Finally , it is reported that the Secretary may recommend the creation of a paper force of reserves , which shall consist of men who have been honorably discharged from the regular army , and of officers who have proved their fitness for commissions in a volunteer army by passing suitable examination boards . It is altogether likely that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The events of the last few years have clearly proved , we believe , that the mass of the American people no more desire a large standing army now than at other critical periods in the history of the country . So we believe they would not favor the creation of a new body of so-called State troops to be really under the control of the National Government . The establishment of such a force would not only be contrary to the spirit of our American institutions , but would seriously conflict with State rights and prerogatives Moreover , every sensible National Guard soldier knows to-day that the building up of a new National reserve-would practically be a death-blow to the present State organization It is difficult enough now to keep the militia in any one State recruited to its maximum strength . Should they have to compete with a new force drawing from the same recruiting fields , and profiting both by the prestige of Federal assistance and by the promise of immediate employment in the event of war , the task of maintaining the existing State regiments would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altogether likely that the Secretary of War will not attempt to found a new branch of the military service , but will primarily confine himself to strengthening the ties between the two bodies which have , by virtue of tradition and an existence of over a hundred years , become a permanent part of the body politic Even superficial study of the question would convince Mr Root that the various States need their State military police for the suppression of riots and disorder . An attempt to bring these armed forces under Federal control not only would be regarded as an infringement of State rights , but would deprive the individual commonwealths of the services of many men quite capable of doing duty within the boundaries of a State , but unfitted , because of minor physical defects and social ties , to serve the United States in the furthermost corners of the republic or beyond the seas Mr. Root has already publicly stated his desire to bring about joint maneuvres of the State and National troops at convenient military reservations , and there are various other ways in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly or indirectly , and generally at slight expense He may be able to induce Congress to repeal the existing and long obsolete militia law which requires that every militia officer shall have a " spontoon and a hang er , " and every private his powder-horn , and to pass one which shall have some reference to existing conditions He may induce Congress to arm the National Guard with the rifle now used by the United States troops , and to increase the annual appropriation for the State troops . He can detail regular officers to the militia , as has been done in the past , and can insist upon their accomplishing something  --  which has by no means been the rule hitherto . He can throw open the post lyceums and the post-graduate service schools at Ports Monroe , Riley , and Leavenworth to ambitious militia officers , and even let them study at the War Colleges if properly prepared . This is but a partial list of the things that a broad-minded Secretary of War might accomplish by giving some thought and attention to the matter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The war with Spain revealed the amateurishness of the militia so strikingly that State officials are more ready than ever before to cooperate with the Federal authorities , provided that the latter 's advances are plainly in the direction of assistance , and not actuated by a desire to control or absorb . In an increasing number of States trained soldiers will be found at the head of mill -- tary affairs , just as in New York State Major-Gen Roe is in control Almost everywhere will be found a desire to approach the regular army standards In Montana , for instance , the passing of a physical test similar to that of the regular army is now a prerequisite to enlistment . As to the creation of a paper reserve , this is altogether a matter for the War Department , and particularly for the new War College and the " general staff " to be evolved therefrom . It Will require little legislation and but slight expense beyond an annual fee to be paid to privates nr reporting once a year to some officer . The work of keeping track of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the labor of a few clerks . The list of officers might comprise the following : ( 1 ) Those who have resigned from the service for honorable reasons ; ( 2 ) those who show- . ed capacity and received training with the volunteers during the war with Spain or in the Philippines ; ( 3 ) men in civil life or in the militia who have proved their fitness for the various grades in the line ' or the staff before a board of regular - officers . In the event of war the men on such a list could be commissioned at once and before the " sons of fathers " and of Senators could use their " pulls " to obtain places The making of such a list is part of the preparation for war which is properly the duty of the War Department . The absence of such a list in 1898 was one of the indictments for negligence which lay against the Alger regime . Recent significant attempts to train the larger public in the appreciation of art have brought out certain principles which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become apparent that training in art appreciation is best undertaken by institutions which are already frequented by the people . The exhibitions of the societies and of dealers reach a very limited class and one already of considerable training . Free lectures and museum talks  --  excellent , both , in their way  --  reach only those whose interest or curiosity has been already aroused . Painting and sculpture in public buildings may and should be most efficacious in creating a civic taste for art , but the difficulty is that , to avoid deplorable error and to secure decoration of a high order , all concerned must already have some instinct for the beautiful and the fitting . That this preliminary training should have very generally fallen to the great public libraries and to the more popular industrial schools was but natural , for these institutions reach first of all practically every class of the people , and , being usually owned by the people , do not arouse the suspicion which falls upon professedly philanthropic enterprises . It is because of the wise use of such an initial advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cooper Union , the Brooklyn Institute , of this city ; the Boston Public Library , that of Worcester , Mass. , and the Congressional Library at Washington  --  to mention only typical instances  --  are doing a most valuable work , which is capable of wider development . The method used in all cases is practically the same . A carefully chosen collection of photographic and other reproductions of great works of art is assembled under the care of a responsible curator . In a small room , readily accessible to the casual visitor , exhibitions are presented from time to time through the entire year . Some libraries , like the Congressional and our own Public Library , are fortunate enough to be able to show originals from their valuable collections of prints and engravings . Exhibitions like that of Japanese Color printing , - recently held at the Lenox Library , or that now on , of Rembrandt 's etchings , are of the highest educative value ; but in the main the art curator must depend upon photographs . The perfection of modern photography makes it possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting admirably , and all forms of art allequateIy . The most effective use of such a collection , however , will tax the curator 's tact and ingenuity , and here due regard must be had to local conditions . In the city of Worcester there has been for years a society which studies art systematically . The art curator of the Public Library very properly follows the course of this society 's studies in making up the exhibitions . In Boston , similarly , the curator takes advantage of literary anniversaries or current discussion in order to give his exhibitions a certain timeliness , and So the conditions vary in different places . It should be said , however , that in the exhibitions of the year several of the great schools of art , ancient and modern , should always find a place , while for obvious reasons American art should claim one or more exhibitions . The selection of the best pictures would be difficult enough , but the selection of the best pictures to show to a general public , without " showing down " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one who has not undertaken this task can imagine its difficulties For this reason , and to avoid needless repetition of labor , it is desirable that certain Standard exhibits , like the Venetian or the Florentine , the Dutch , German , or Spanish schools , should be substantially framed and exhibited from year to year . This method also opens a further field of usefulness , for such exhibits may be circulated , like the " travelling libraries " which our State Librarian has so successfully introduced This plan of circulating exhibitions was , we believe , first tried in Chicago , and more recently has proved successful in Massachusetts . It is obvious that , by the cooperation of a group of libraries in the exchange of exhibitions , the Cost of the art department would be greatly reduced to each . It will be seen also that this function of popular education does not interfere with the proper ongoing of a reference library of art . In the Boston Public Library the two needs are harmoniously adjusted . An inner room shows students poring over dusty volumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great importance to the specialist , but of absolutely no consequence to the average art lover . Outside in the little gallery there is a passing crowd which , as it enjoys the exhibition of great works especially chosen for its needs , is learning the lesson of seemliness and beauty which our rough-and-ready civilization must , sooner or later , heed . There could be no better field for private liberality than the supplying of art departments to the smaller libraries of the land . The expense would be very moderate , and in fact the only thing really difficult to attain is the skill to make such a department effective And yet there are few cities in which the services of a person of taste and discrimination could not be secured for small pay , or , often , for the mere " joy of the doing " Particularly we hope that , when the New York Public Library is formally installed in its new building , its print-room will he in a position to offer to the student of a , rt ill of the material which his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequenters an introduction to that finer vision of this world of ours which is art . AZOREAN ECONOMICS AND THE PEAS-ANTRY . To the passengers on one of the great German or Italian steamers bound from New York to Naples , the sight of the Azores ( or Western Islands , as the British sailors still Prefer to call them ) offers a delightful prospect in favorable weather , Bold rocky shores , falling steep to the blue water , run up into the mountains behind by stages of exquisite verdure , villages of white houses , with brown or red roofs , trail out at picturesque lengths over the windings of a coast-road , or cluster thick under the protection of a hill ; while the vast acreage of elaborate cultivation seems to indicate a distribution of comfort , even of prosperity That this impression does not always vanish on nearer inspection is shown in the pages of many a traveller 's book on the Azores . and in the columns of more than one " special correspondent . " There are excellent reasons Wby the Majority of visitors should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the islands , During a stay of a few weeks in a tolerably clean town , With an occasional flitting to the lovely Fumes valley , in St. Michael 's , or the Caideira of Payal , it is hardly possible to find time ror even glancing at the life of Oleos whose toil is in large measure the source of so Much bean-Li . Besides this , it is obvious that those who , without working themselves , subsist on this labor , Will Show do great eagerness to reveal the true state of affairs to an outsider -- particularly if suspected of the remotest connection with the press As for foreign residents , official or private , their comfort  --  nay , their very existence  --  in the islands depends on discretion , frond which they never depart The extreme compression Of SOCial life into so small an insular area fenders frankness impossible But beyond this , slid the added difficulty of communicating directly with peasants Who speak and understand nothing but a debased mother tongue , there exists a singular obstacle which I have never met elsewhere  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the projects , the ideas , or the views of his foreign interlocutor The collecting of simple facts is attended , ror this reason , with much loss of time and frequent failure . Statistics are almost out Of the qua-. tion , The Portuguese Government publishes no official returns of general commercial in- ' terest or agricultural importance , and the attempts to discover the " statistical clerk " result in showing that his invariable elusiveness comes from his also occupying a situation in private life In the eight huu7 dred or more pages of the ' Bibliotheca Acoriana , ' an undigested bibliographical compilation , of which the contents are not classified but alphabetically catalogued , the bewildered inquirer seeks in vain for works bearing on vital economic questions - The following impressions are therefore subject to reserve and correction It is hardly , necessary to insist , that in regard to climate and soil the Azores have been exceptionally favored . As on the ' slopes of Vesuvrus or Etna , so here the erosion of volcanic hills covers the small plains and valleys with a deposit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of warmth and moisture , produces a wonderful variety and luxuriance of vegetation . Flower and vegetable gardens in the neighborhood of the larger towns are the just pride of their owners . When one penetrates into the interior of the country , a glance from a commanding hilltop proves that the first impressions from the ship 's deck were rightly founded , a vast stretch of various harvests is spread out before one in a superb setting of sea , sky , and mountains ; midway , on the uplands of the latter , are scattered sheep and cattle in abundance , pasturing the year round on the rich and never-failing supply . And yet the peasantry are miserably , abjectly poor . Before attempting to explain the chief existing causes of this condition , it is desirable to note the elimination of factors of some importance in times past . To begin with , religious orders no longer exist here , any more than in the Continental domains of the kingdom of Portugal , but the table of contents of any of the older ecclesiastical histories will reveal the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Chap . i. , Foundation of the village of " Holy Grace " , chap . ii. , Foundation of the Church of the Trinity ; chap . in. , Foundation of the house of the cure ; chap iv. , Foundation of the Monastery of the Order of the Blessed Rood , chap . v , Foundation of the Convent of the Sisters of Santa Engracia , chap . vi. , Foundation of the Chapel of S. Pedro of Alcantara , and so on through a dozen chapters  --  all these establishments , too , in less than fifty years , for a single small village . The above is no exaggeration ; the island coasts are at many points fairly studded with the ruins of what were once flourishing religious houses , in which ( to judge from the remains ) the inhabitants must have sought to vie with their Continental brethren or sisters , as described by " Vathek " Becktord in his account of Alcobaga and Batalha . Of immediate remaining signs of this occupation , perhaps the only one is the almost obsequious fashion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stranger , in all countries under strict clerical rule this social survival is noticeable . It was so in French Canada till within a very few years . Let it be understood , however , that clerical influence Is still socially and politically strong . One example will suffice : on the arrival of the royal party at Ponta-Delgada , during the recent visit of their Portuguese Majesties to the islands , the bishop of the diocese , with the whole chapter , suddenly issued from the Church of the Matrix ( where it had been arranged that they should remain ) and planted themselves in two lines , directly in front of the ladies of the town , who were waiting to strew the way with flowers . After a brief excited colloquy , the clerical gown triumphed over the secular , but the incident called for no serious comment from the local press on the unwisdom of disappointing the Church 's stanchest supporters . Since the separation of the internal civil administration of the Azores from that of the kingdom of Portugal , it can not be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the financial connection is on a tolerably stable footing , and leads to a contribution , mostly indirect , of the islands to the general revenue amounting to about a million dollars a year  --  a more than creditable showing for a population of much less than three hundred thousand souls , most of them peasants . Consequently , whatever burdens the poorer classes have to bear must be traced to their real origin within the islands themselves . Prima inter pares , illiteracy . So far as I could ascertain , the ratio of totally illiterate adults in the islands is even higher than in Portugal itself , where it is commonly given as between eighty and eighty-five in a hundred . Definite signs of this appear everywhere The school-house , sa conspicuous in the village of New England , is a rare feature in the Azorean hamlet . Then , too , it is the exception to see the peasant reading even a newspaper , at his cottage door after his day 's work is done , though one must admit that the typical feuille de oboe issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor ideas of supreme importance . But the absence of the schoolmaster is no matter for astonishment in a country which considers its lyeee professor adequately paid with seventy-five francs a month ( in depreciated island money ) , a sum which may , in bad years , sink to little more than sixty francs . After getting visible proof of this , one has no difficulty in crediting the story that in a remote inland hamlet a rural schoolmaster was , not long ago appointed at a salary of thirty-five francs a year  --  even at that rate an expensive investment , for the occupant of the post was already fully employed as the servant of a wealthy proprietor , and was intellectually akin to his prospective pupils in being able neither to read nor to write . It is precisely this widespread ignorance that renders constitutional government a farce in such countries as this ; the only means of information open to the peasant being through the local political agent , who is chosen and directed by the chief owners of property in the district . Ignorance , fostered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is equally welcome to-day for the least acceptable of political reasons How is it possible , under such conditions , that members of the local Juntas should be truly representative of their constituencies ? This also helps to explain sweeping legislative acts in favor of the holders of power , such a one , for instance , as the extremely light character of direct land taxation , so that a productive estate of more than twenty-two hundred acres of farm and rich pasture-land may pay directly nothing more than some twenty-five dollars annually to the island revenue Or again , the travelling stranger who seeks to enter one of the islands with his faithful dog to bear him company may discover the existence of a six-months ' quarantine regulation , which , as an illustration of particularism , can hardly be paralleled , for it was passed in the interest of one resident dog who was to be protected from the chances of rabies . Dangerous dogs are nevertheless by no means a scarcity in the islands , as the adventurous solitary pedestrian soon discovers to his cost . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin countries is so proverbial that it seems super fluous to dwell on the question here . The Azores are in this respect subject to the general customs laws of the kingdom of Portugal ; and although the passing traveller meets with nothing but civility and good sense from the officials , it often fares differently with the resident importing for his own use . In one case , a young employee was taxed for an incoming bicycle , not on the cost at the centre of production as shown in the bill of lading , but on the retail price in the town where the machine was to he used , that is , an obvious inclusion of bath duty and local dealer 's profit . A rigid metal bar for gymnastic purposes was similarly estimated at twice its original shop value . I make no mention of the tract:saurus which form the inevitable running accompaniment of such transactions . It is , therefore , no ground for wonder that the Azorean peasant ( actuated , too , by the incurable spirit of conservative ignorance ) still continues to shun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the soil with the peculiar Azorean hoe , which serves him for plough , spade , rake , and harrow ; his versatile skill with this clumsy tool it is simply fascinating to watch  --  for the Azorean peasant , in the small , humble sphere of his toil , is as deft as he is laborious , and for the most part cheerful in spite of all . Although the distribution of dwellings along the seacoast compels him to walk weary miles to his work , he has generally a pleasant word for the stranger , and may be seen early and late in friendly chat with his fellows . What a useful , peaceable immigrant he may be is shown in several colonies in our own country , as well as in Bermuda , where his competing power , born of labor and thrift , is not altogether rehshed by the less practically minded negro A noteworthy proof of his saving disposition lies in the fact that in the island of Fayal , which has for generations been in close touch with the United States , American gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very great difficulty , because of the pocketful of eagles and double eagles which the home-returning emigrant likes to deposit in the local banks as the solid mark of his possessions . Yet , with this fondness for gain , general honesty is said to be so secure that the banking agent of a small village or town may safely leave his office-door unlocked on going out to his midday meal , though uncounted money is lying on his desk ; indeed , the key on the outside of the door is the sign that the owner is away . The patience and laboriousness of these people are all the more remarkable that they are , almost without exception , underfed . In such a climate meat is , perhaps , not a necessity ; but the average diet of the peasants  --  fish , corn-bread , cabbage , potatoes  --  is admittedly insufficient in kind and amount for the work that they have to do . It is an easy matter to dispose of this point by saying , with many of the well-to-do islanders , that the peasantry are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social superiors . To any one who has visited their cottages and seen the food they eat , it is obvious that for a strong man 's day 's work the vast majority can not afford the strong man 's food , this , too , in the midst of plenty . Starved-looking faces and stunted growtt are unmistakable in their significance . Exceptions may , of course , be found , as . for example , in the island of Pico , which has long been - renowned for the robustness of its peasant type , notwithstanding the disas.ter that fell upon the place several years ago in the blighting of its once famous vineyards . The corresponding damage done to the St Michael 's orange trade , through dis- ease of the trees and outside competition in ; foreign markets , has been in some measure ? remedied by the establishment of corn-spirit distilleries and the cultivation of the pine- apple ; but it is in this fertile island that peasant pauperism is most glaring Nor is it surprising that the peasants should suffer , when one learns that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm laborer according to the ' state of the labor market and not according - to a fixed rate of wages for the whole year - This wage may therefore fall as low as a - serillta per day  --  less than twenty cents  --  in bad times . However cheap provisions may be ( and they are not strikingly so in the islands ) , to describe this as a living wagec'est so moquer du pauvre monde Servants in private families can obtain as much as $3 a month in good places In a large tobab-co factory , girls rolling 3,000 cigarettes a day can actually rise to a little below twenty-five cents , the chief bookkeeper ( also a woman ) gets a trifle more , the care of the driving engine , Intrusted to a woman describable as a skilled worker , procures her the magnificent return of a little less than ' forty cents . Nearly 600 women ( unmarried girls or widows only ) are employed in the , place . In view of the amount of smoking , throughout the country , the balance-sheet - of this establishment must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , none of the cigarette-makers here follow the habits of their Sevillian fellow-toilers , the tobacco factory of Ponta-Delgada has not yet developed a Carmen . Now , given the conditions above outlined , to what social quarter shall we look for rthe fundamental causes that chiefly contribute to produce this state of affairs ? Surely , no one will doubt that most of the responsibility rests here upon what the French call les classes dirweantes Substitute individuals for classes , and the problem is solved  --  for the land in the Azores is , in a large majority of cases , the property of great owners , who exploit it through - the labor not of tenant-farmers , but of people little removed from a condition of serfdom . The analogue of the peasant-proprietor , the New England farmer or the yeoman , can hardly be said to exist in any of the islands . Naturally , it often happens that the occupant of one of the myriad lava-built thatched cottages has succeeded , by dint of industry and saving , in buying a little patch on which to grow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he can not live on it . Exception being made in favor of the island of Fayal , where something resembling the condition of small independent proprietorship may here and there be found , the most casual observation of economic distribution demonstrates the impossibility for the average peasant of ever attaining to a position from which he can in some measure command . his own existence . His ambition , like that of the equally thrifty Italian , is to possess as - his own just enough of land to keep him - decently alive ; and it is for this rea- son that so many Portuguese seek in a foreign , country the opportunities denied them at home . Stringent emigration laws have , again and again been evaded . The severity of these laws is often explained by reference to the necessity for conscription , which emigrants naturally seek to escape , seeing that the soldier 's daily-pay amounts to about eight cents , subject to deduction for the cost of the uniform , thus settled for in two years out of a total three in the service . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , along with the abstract baggage of ideas picked up in a freer country , may bring with him savings sufficient to purchase acreage for himself and his family . On the same principle the land in the neighborhood of large towns , where it can best be applied to market gardening , is kept up by combination to an exorbitant price  --  from one hundred dollars an acre upward . That the comparatively few persons who thus control the chief economic positions have ideas of their own concerning the administration of public funds and the principles of taxation , certain alleged facts would conclusively show . Shortly before my own visit to the Azores , the constables in one of the principal towns ( so I was assured on trustworthy authority ) , having received no pay for three months , disbanded for more remunerative situations in the fields . Luckily , the inhabitants are law-abiding , for during some little time no legal arrests could have been effected Again , there has for some years been much talk concerning the building of a new hotel designed to attract tourist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the event of the erection , the islanders would expect to share in the profits by the simple imposition of a tax on the passenger lift , as well as on every one making use of it Reluctance to utilize the abundant capitalized resources seems to be a marked feature of commercial and economic life in the Azores . The large pineries are , it is true , almost exclusively in native hands and under home management ; yet ' the greater profits of good sales on the London market chiefly revert to the enterprising foreigners who answer for the transshipment Even this trade also has ceased to be payingly remunerative to the grower since the crowding in of numbers allured by the hope of a speedy return . There is certainly no lack of capital concentrated ma comparatively small number of large fortunes , to which the beautiful villas , gardens , and quintas bear abundant testimony One as consequently driven to the conclusion that the surplus , instead of being directed to the furtherance of local enterprise or industry , must be housed in safe , conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall one account for the unmistakable signs of it in town and country ? If there is wealth , why , on the proposal to construct a local ten-mile railway , does there immediately follow a clamor for assistance from outside capital ? It thus appears that these " Islands of the Blest , " as they were lately described by an enthusiast , present a less Elysian impression to any one interested in the life of toil . The student who has been led to visit them through articles and prospectuses representing them as the home of a vast and interesting folklore , the repository " of countless treasures of art , " may , when these pretty illusions have vanished like the purple-gray mists that hang about the island shores . nevertheless discover in the fortunes of a misgoverned but deserving people the hu man social conditions which render any existence worthy of serious examination .                     