@@430298

 | THE Fourteenth Conference of the Interparliamentary Union , just closed , was the most important in the history of this unique organization . It was the largest in the number of Parliaments represented , in the number of persons present , in their weight of political influence at home , and it was the most progressive , both in the propositions put forward and the resolutions which were adopted . The Union now contains over 2,000 members , all of whom have seats in some national Parliament . Ordinarily speakmg , only about ten per cent . of these members attend the Conferences ; as there ere considerably more than 500 present at this session , the attendance was very unusual , and these parliamentarians came from twenty-three different nations . At the session held in the United States during the year 1904 , only fifteen countries were represented , and the number of delgates did not exceed 200 , or 250 at most . The large attendance at the present Conference was due in a great measure to the importance of the propositions which were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the events of the past two years in international politics will not need to be reminded that the Second Hague Conference was called as a result of the resolution adopted by this Union at its session at St. Louis in September , 1904 , and that Mr. Bartholdt , as president of the American delegation , at the Brussels Conference proposed the founding of a permanent international deliberative body , having the right to assemble periodically and automatically , and the granting of jurisdiction to the Hague Court over such questions as the different nations can obtain their own consent to arbitrate , instead of resorting to trial by armed forces . The reports of the two Commissions in favor of these propositions excited great interest in this London session , among all the members of the Union in all the countries of Europe . Not only does the membership of the Conference which has just closed here far exceed that of any former session , but the influence of the leading members in their own countries is greater than ever before . The French group was headed by Baron d'Estournelles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now a member of the Hague Court for France , and who was a member for France at the first Hague Conference . Baron d'Estournelles is recognized all over Europe and America as one of the foremost statesmen of our times . He was a member of the Commission on the International Congress . Count Albert Apponyi , of Hungary , is also a member of the Hague Court , and is Minister of Education in the new Hungarian Cabinet , which is now engaged in the most difficult piece of constructive political work which is being done in Europe . The Commission on Arbitration Treaty was headed by His Excellency Ernst von Plener , ex-Minister of Finance . in the Cabinet of Austria , and for many years the leader of the German ? which is the predominant ? party in the Austrian Imperial Parliament . At the head of the Belgian delegation was the ex-Prime Minister , Burnaert . Turning from Europe to America , the personnel of the delegation is found to be relatively even more influential than at former Conferences . The United . States Congress has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Interparliamentary Union , and at several others by only a single member . American Congressmen became acquainted with the Interparliamentary Union thru its action in visiting America and in causing the second Hague Conference to be convened . The result  | was seventeen members of the United States Congress appeared at its 1905 session held at Brussels . The importance of the propositions put forward at that time has resulted in bringing to this Conference at London as large and a considerably more influential delegation than that which represented the United States Congress at the St. Louis session . Heretofore the Democratic side of the delegation has been small and relatively less influential than the Republican . At this Conference the Democratic membership of the delegation is as large as the Republican , and comes nearer representing the head of the Democratic party than the Republican side does . For John S. Williams , the Democratic leader of the House , is a member of the delegation , and so is W. J. Bryan , who has twice been Democratic candidate for the Presidency . Mr. Williams being the leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Bryan being the leader of the Democratic party in the country , the only thing needed to make the Democratic side of the delegation as strong and as representative as would be possible , was the presence of Joseph W. Bailey , of Texas , Democratic leader of the Senate . On the other hand , the leading Republicans at this Conference are Richard Bartholdt , of St. Louis , and Theodore E. Burton , of Ohio . But as both of them are very strong men , and as there was absolute unity between them and the Democratic leaders who were present at this great Conference , it is plain that the United States was never before so strongly represented at a session of the Interparliamentary Union . The main points of the program at the opening session of this Conference were the report of the Commission in favor of converting the Second Hague Conference into a permanent bodl ? to convene periodically and upon its own motion ; second , in favor of the codification of the law of nations , and , third , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such classes of controversies as are included in treaties of arbitration . But immediately upon the opening of the Conference a large number of resolutions of considerable importance were introduced . At the meeting of the American delegation , which was held the day before the conference was opened , it was unanimously decided , upon motion of Mr. Burton , that the American delegation should vote solidly in favor of both the reports advocating the adoption , with slight modifications , of the original proposition put forward by Mr. Bartholdt at the Brussels Conference . But Mr. John S. Williams proposed that one of these reports should be amended so as to include in the questions to be arbitrated all questions of debt . " Mr. Bartholdt 's original proposition had inchided " pecuniary claims , " which , of course , would cover questions of debt , and might possibly be even more comprehensive than the wording of Mr. Williams 's resolution . The Commission had eliminated this clause in drawing up what they considered the best possible treaty , having good hope of general acceptance at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Williams in standing for the insertion of questions of debt into the proposed Treaty of Arbitration , and this motion was carried in the Conference without opposition . Mr. Williams moved also that the Interparliamentary Conference should declare in favor of the payment of a salary to all the members of the Hague Court , and in favor of a graduated appropriation , proportionate to the population of each country , for enabling the Hague Court to codify the law of nations and to keep properly open and operative a clerical force at the Hague , for the transaction of such business as might come before the Hague Tribunal . Satisfied that the reports of the Cornmission on his resolution introduced at Brussels would be adopted , Mr. Bartholdt presented a resolution in favor of a declaration by the Conference , that the several nations whose parliaments are represented in the Interparliamentary Union should make appropriations in aid of the work now being prosecuted by the Interparliamentary Union . Mr. Burton proposed to introduce a resolution in favor of suggesting that the Second Hague Conference should consider , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then a decrease of armaments . All of these propositions  | were unanimously approved by the American delegates , and the members of the delegation were instructed to vote as a unit for all of them . It was found impossible , in the pressure of business during the three short sessions , to get all the matters brought up for consideration . Mr. Bartholdt 's motion in favor of national appropriations in aid of international arbitration met with some opposition in the Executive Council , but was passed enthusiastically when it came before the Conference in full session . Mr. Williams 's motion in favor of the payment of fixed salaries to the members of the Hague Court , coupled with a prohibition against their appearing as counsel in any case before this court , could not come up for consideration , but the fact that it was presented by a parliamentarian of such ability and of such a commanding position in the Congress of the United States was itself a fact of considerable importance . This resolution will doubtless be pressed by Mr. Williams at the next session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the intelligence of the leading members at this Conference that its adoption at an early session is practically assured . For a couple of years Mr. Bryan has been giving consideration to the question of an international agreement binding the signatory powers to arbitrate all questions of fact , even tho the right is reserved by the arbitral agreement to appeal from the decision of the court to the battlefield in those questions which are considered as affecting the vital interest or the honor of the parties to the dispute . Upon several occasions Mr. Bryan had already expressed himself as favoring such an agreement . And when he received an invitation from the president and secretary of the British group to attend the present session of the Interparliamentary Conference , he decided to make a motion in favor of the endorsement of this idea by the Union . He was not aware of the fact that Mr. Bartholdt had proposed this idea as one clause of the treaty of arbitration which he submitted at the Brussels session . When Mr. Bryan was shown a copy of the report of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would introduce this idea in the form of a motion to amend the treaty proposed by the commission . During the discussion of Mr. Bryan 's amendment , the fact was brought out that his motion was practically to reinsert into the proposed treaty of arbitration one clause which had been eliminated by the commission . In a very simple but powerful address Mr. Bryan crystallized the thought of the Conference in favor of the treaty of arbitration proposed by the commission with this idea reinstated . When he finished his speech the whole Conference was a unit on the question of converting the Second Hague Conference into a permanent body , and in favor of a treaty of arbitration granting the Hague Court the right to try and finally to determine all such questions as are specified in the treaty of arbitration , and the right to tr'e in the first instance all questions of fact . the parties being at liberty to appeal from the decision of the court in the questions not specified as arbitrable to the ancient method of trial bv a force of arms . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only worth while , but an important factor in tIn progress of the world . But , in addition to these important acts of the Conference , another resolution , which is considered by some as being of equal importance , was adopted upon the motion of Baron d'Estournelles , which is as follows : " The Interparliamentary Conference believes that the increase of naval and military expenses which already weighs heavily upon the world is universally recognized as intolerable . and therefore expresses the wish that the question of limitation of armaments be placed on the program of the forthcoming Conference at The Hague . " The Conference decides , further , that each country taking part in the Interparliamentary Union will seize the earliest possible opportunity to bring this resolution to the attention of its Government . and to press upon the Parliament to which it belongs the idea of instituting immediately the national investigation of this question , which seems necessary to the success of an international discussion of it . " Personally . I have very much greater confidence in the success and in the value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfecting the power and authority of the international judicial body which already exists  | than I have in the results of either national or international consideration of the question of limiting or decreasing naval and military expenditures . I agree with Mr. Bartholdt that these expenses are a symptom , and that when we remove the cause the symptom will disappear , and that the cause of these armaments will be removed by the organization and proper development of an international deliberative body , supplemental to the international judiciary which we already have . But whether the advocates of immediately proceeding to a discussion of limitation of war appropriations will be disappointed at the result obtained or not , the very passage of the resolution with such unanimity proves that the parliamentarians of the world are fully aware of the fact that the size of the world 's military establishments constitutes a grave malady , and that some remedy must be found without delay . If it be found , upon examination , that the nations will refuse to limit their naval and military expenditures without some guarantees that their rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very fact will lead to an early agreement between all the nations of Europe that they will hereafter respect all those rights which it would be right to defend by force . When this is done , certainly the people of the various nations will decline to spend vast sums of money unnecessarily to preserve rights which are already safeguarded against loss by the attack of powerfully armed neighbors . I have thus far spoken only of the acts of the Conference itself , but it would be a serious omission not to lay great emphasis upon the remarkable address of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman , the British Premier , in welcoming the delegates to this Conference . No Prime Minister of any country has ever gone further in advocating international arbitration than was clone by Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman in this historic address . - When it is recalled that he is the Premier of not only the greatest , but of the most powerfully armed , nation in the world , it is easy to see that his declaration in favor of arbitration without restriction , and in favor of an arrest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance . In his address Mr. Bryan stated that there were a number of statements in this memorable address by the British Premier , any one of which would have made this assembly not only worth while , but very important to the progress of the world . Count Albert Apponyi was appointed by the council to reply to the address of the British Premier , and in doing so he pointed out that this address was historic and important , not only in the sentiment which it expressed , but in the fact that it brought from the King of the country in which the Interparliamentary Union was holding this session , a message of sympathy for its aims , prior to any request by the Conference that he would take note of and give effect to these aims . Said Count Apponyi : " Heretofore the Rulers of those countries in which our Conference has held sessions have taken no notice of our assembly until we advised them of our presence and our purposes . Now , for the first time , the Ruler of the greatest country in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advise him of our presence ; he has immediately assured us of his active and profound sympathy with the object which has called us together . "                     