@@473204

IN a preceding article I have hinted at the fallacy of attempting to measure the real effects of alcohol by experiments in which small quantities are taken for a short time , and only its nutritive action is tested . No one who has observed a drunken man whose brain and nerves have been so affected that he can no longer think clearly or walk straight , or who has seen the destruction of . health and character which is wrought by alcohol , can fail to appreciate this . That alcohol serves as nutriment , there is no reasonable doubt . But its nutritive effect may be , often is , counteracted by its ulterior action . The following statement by Sir Michael Foster , the eminent English physiologist , brings out the distinction between the direct dietetic action and the indirect effect of alcoholic beverages ; The value of the various articles of diet does not depend by any means solely on their ability to supply energy ; we have seen , for instance , that salts , which supply no energy , are nevertheless of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a somewhat similar way alcohol and other substances may influence and direct these changes . Whether that influence is beneficial or no will depend upon many circumstances , and certainly upon the quantity taken . We have many illustrations that a substance taken into the body in a certain quantity will produce one effect , and in another quantity it may be quite an opposite effect . There is no doubt that a certain quantity of alcohol is injurious and interferes with all the functions , and ultimately brings about various diseases , but it does not follow from this that in a smaller quantity it may not be harmless or even beneficial . Alcohol produces its most marked effects on the vascular and nervous systems . It leads to a dilation of the small blood-vessels of the skin , and so to a larger flow of blood to the surface of the body ; this , while it produces a sensation of warmth , leads to an increased loss of heat by radiation and perspiration . If the amount of alcohol taken is excessive , the loss of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alcohol is then of no service as a preventative against cold .... The limit up to which any beneficial effects are produced by alcohol is soon reached , end beyond that it only does harm . This limit is not the same for all individuals ; a quantity good for one may be injurious for another , and a large number of people find that strictly moderate quantities of alcoholic beverages do them no harm , while others find that similar amounts impede them in their daily work. ? Foster and Shore 's Ph.ysiology , p. 156 . EFFECT OF ALCOHOL UPON THE NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR SYSTEMS . This is a very complicated subject , which perhaps ought to be treated fully or not at all , and which I hesitate to refer to because it is so much outside the specialty of the physiological chemist . As regards the influence upon the nervous system , the following statement summarizes , as well as any such brief statement can , the views which , so far as I have learned from reading and personal conversation , are held by the investigators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small amount of alcohol may promote the action of the central nervous system , and often appears to quicken the rapidity of thought and to excite the imagination , but more usually , and always when taken in any but small quantities , it diminishes the power of connected thought and judgment . It also diminishes the power of receiving sensory impressions , and at the same time blunts all the special senses . Since it reduces the sensibility to cold and fatigue , and allays mental pain and worry , it is often resorted to , and then with great danger. ? Foster and Shore 's Physiology , p. 157 . The muscles are regulated by the nerves . Alcohol affects the nervous system , and in so doing it may affect the muscles also , as shown by the staggering and weakness of the drunken man . How much alcohol it takes to cause such disturbance , or how much disturbance a given amount of alcohol will cause , depends a good deal on the man . Some are affected by a very little ; others will stand a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the drinker is not conscious of it at all . A great many laboratory experiments have been made by different investigators for studying the effects of alcohol upon voluntary muscular power and muscular fatigue . For instance , tests are made by lifting weights with one finger , apparatus being provided for measuring and recording the results . The results of such tests made under ordinary conditions are compared with those made after the subject has taken alcohol , The methods and apparatus are very ingenious and interesting , and the information- gained is decidedly valuable . While all investigators agree that any large quantity is injurious , the results with small doses are conflicting , and are often rendered doubtful because the conditions of the experiments are not known and controlled with sufficient exactness . The most reliable testimony seems to me that of experiments on a large scale with men who are subjected to muscular strain under ordinary conditions . The results of the experiments and observations by Parkes are of especial interest . In one experiment of several days ' duration with strictly regulated diet and routine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart and shortened its period of rest , with the result that the subject became fatigued more easily than when no alcohol was given . A number of practical experiments with marching soldiers , as well as the observations made during several military expeditions , were generally unfavorable to the use of spirits by soldiers in times of great muscular exertion . Many of the men who are most successful in athletic contests arc most rigorous abstainers . Miller , the famous bicyclist , is an illustration . In a study of his diet and that of other contestants in a bicycle race in the Madison Square Garden , New York , in which he rode from twenty to twenty-two hours per day , and covered a distance of 2007 miles in a little less than six days , we found that he used no alcoholic beverages . His trainer , Mr. John West , himself an athlete and very successful in the training of other athletes , expressed to me his judgment that alcohol in any form or amount is injurious rather than beneficial where endurance is required . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A late study of the diet of Sandow , " the strong man , " whose feats of muscular strength are phenomenal , indicated that he was in the habit of taking about two quarts of beer daily . Ale is very commonly included in the diet of English athletes as students in training for rowing contests . Judging by these examples , it would seem rather presumptuous to infer that this practice is entirely unwarranted . Personally I am inclined to believe that alcoholic beverages , even in moderate quantities , are for most people more of a hinderance than help to muscular activity , but Tam unable to find any warrant for positively affirming that very small quantities of alcohol are of necessity harmful in their effects upon muscular work . ALCOHOL AND DIGESTION . The effect of alcohol on digestion is very complex , and naturally the views held about it are varied and conflicting . One hesitates to pronounce upon it briefly , since there is so much that is still unexplained , and almost any definite statement needs qualification to fit it to what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help or hinder digestion . In large quantities it retards the action of the digestive juices . In small quantities it often favors their secretion , the effect apparently continuing after the alcohol is itself absorbed ; and it may favor their action after they are secreted . A careful and extensive study of the subject has lately been prosecuted by Professor Chittenden and associates in the laboratory of physiological chemistry of Yale University , under the auspices of the Committee of Fifty for the Investigation of the Liquor Problem . These emphasize the twofold action of alcohol in aiding and retarding digestion , and help to explain the details . The following statement by Professor Kiinig expresses a common view of German physiologists rcg ; Irding the action of small quantities of alcohol upon digestion . The statement regarding the diet of the poorer classes would , however , be less applicable in this country , where they are much better fed than in Europe : Taken in moderate quantities in such forms as cognac , brandy , wine , beer , and other beverages , alcohol is likewise an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the like , are thereforefavorite remedies in disturbances of the bowels and stomach , and this helps to explain why the poorer classes , who often live upon a wretched diet of the less digestible foods , such as coarse bread and potatoes , have a craving for strong and stimulating alcoholic drinks . It is the improper and excessive use of alcoholic beverages which makes them a scourge to man , by weakening his digestive apparatus and undermining his general health . At the same time it should be said that sugar and alcohol , until they are absorbed by the system , hinder , temporarily , the actual process of digestion , at least in the stomach . After their disappearance from there , the digestion goes on more vigorously than if they had not been taken . LARGE VS . SMALL QUANTITIES OF ALCOHOL . A frequent cause of confusion in discussing the action of alcohol is the failure to distinguish between the effects of large and small quantities . There is no doubt about the danger of excess , or the advisability of temperance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the alcohol habit , and are intensely in earnest to oppose it , are inclined to take the effects of large quantities as a measure of what a little will do , forgetting that excess of even the most healthful food is harmful . The difficulty is that we can not toll where is the line between useful and injurious quantities . We are also very likely to overlook the extent of the harm that comes from excess , and the tendency to that excess . Temperance is well if we only remain temperate , but some people can not drink in moderation . With them the choice is between abstinence and drunkenness . In this fact , and in the power of example , it seems to me , are to he found the real arguments for abstinence . IS ALCOHOL FOOD OH POISON ? The answer to this much-vexed question depends mainly upon our definitions of food and poison , and the quantities of alcohol we arc talking about . As to the definitions , persons naturally disagree , and it is not worth while to quibble about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more to our present purpose to note the facts of experiment and the opinions of authorities . Of the two chief functions of food , the forming of tissue and the yielding of energy , alcohol performs only the latter , It can not build up the bodily machine or repair it as it is worn out , but it can and does serve as fuel . Just how it compares in fuel value with the fats , sugars , and starches , or just how these latter compare with one another in fuel value , are questions as yet unanswered . Another very important difference between alcohol and ordinary food materials is that it has an action upon the nervous system , and through that upon the hotly and the mind , which ordinary foods do not exert . In consequence of this , only comparatively small quantities of alcohol can be taken without serious derangement . And while its nutritive action is in some eases very important , especially with aged people and in some forms of disease , people generally do not take it for the sake of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A large enough close is fatal . Used habitually in smaller quantities it may not only injure health but cause death , Whether it is beneficial or harmful depends upon the person , his bodily condition and the amount taken . If we define a poison as any substance which , when taken into the body in sufficiently large amounts may be injurious or fatal , alcohol will come under this definition , But using the word in the sense in which it is commonly understood , namely , as applying to substances which are deadly or always injurious in their ordinary effect. , alcohol in small quantities can not properly be called a poison . I can not now recall an instance in which alcohol in small quantities is called a poison , in this sense , by any specialist who is generally regarded as an authority . What I wish to show , in this and the preceding article , is that the results of the most reliable research and the opinions of the leading physiologists of the world unite in saying that alcohol may act as food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that whether it acts as the one or the other is largely , though not wholly , a matter of quantity . OPINIONS OF LEADING PHYSIOLOGISTS . At the meeting of the International Physiological Congress , held in Cambridge , England , in September , 1895 , an attempt was made to obtain an expression which would indicate the consensus of opinion of leading physiologists regarding this especial subject , and the following statement , drawn up by Sir Michael Poster , the president of the congress , was presented and offered for signature : The physiological effects of alcohol , taken in a. diluted form , in small doses , as indicated by the pnpular phrase " moderate use of alcohol , " in spite of the continued study of past years , have not as yet been clearly and completely made out . Very mush remains to be done , but , thus far , the results of careful experiments show that alcohol , so taken , is oxidized within the body , and so supplies energy like common articles of food , and that it , is physiologically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a substance which can only do harm and never good to the body . Briefly , none of the exact results hitherto gained can be appealed to as contradicting , from a purely physiological point of view , the conclusions which some persons have drawn from their daily common experience that alcohol so used may be beneficial to their health . The occasion was particularly favorable , for although the number present was not large , it included some of the most celebrated physiologists of the world , and many were well-known investigators . A very few members objected Lo the phraseology of the statement , and one , although believing it to be correct , refused to sign it because he feared . it might be misused by liquor-sellers . A large proportion of those to whom it was submitted expressed their approval by their signatures . The number and character of the signers are such as warrant the acceptance of the statement as the opinion of the leading physiologists of the day . The following , by Dr. Parkes , whose experiments with soldiers were cited above , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be inclined to lay a little move stress upon the principle that in health at least alcohol is superfluous or worse , and to urge the importance of general abstinence from its use . The facts now stated make it difficult to avoid the conclusion that the dietetic value of alcohol has been ninth overrated . It does not appear to me possible at present to condemn alcohol altogether as an article of diet in health : or to prove that it is invariably hurtful , as some have attempted to do . It produces effects which are often useful in disease and sometimes desirable in health ; but in health it is certainly not a necessity , nod many persons are much better without it . As now used by mankind , it is infinitely more powerful for evil                     