@@486792

Mr. Cleveland has lived long enough at Princeton to acquire something of the " iron heel " which Dr. Holmes associated with that academe ; and he set it heavily down upon current Republican pretences on Friday evening . The remarkable enthusiasm which marked his first public appearance in the campaign was not more a personal tribute than a bearing witness to the sound political doctrine for which he stands . Grover Cleveland is the man above all others to resent and riddle the Republican assumption of a , monopoly of the public virtues . What hypocritical tongues are now saying of the inability of Parker and the Democratic party to give the country good government , was said by them just as positively of Mr. Cleveland in 1884 . His eight years of office should have laid that calumny forever . On the tariff question , Mr Cleveland 's speech sought out again the Republican sore spots which he knows so well . Bred in a clergyman 's family , he knows how to hurl the Scriptures at an opponent ; and his characteriiation of the tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crumbs which fell from his table , was as effective as apt . The whole speech , in fact , with the demonstration that Mr. Cleveland 's peculiar hold upon the confidence and honor of the business interests of New York is undiminished , can not fail to have a stimulating effect upon Judge Parker 's canvass . Again has Judge Parker shown that it is not entirely safe to hurl challenges at him . " Where are you going to begin economizing ? " demanded President Roosevelt . " Do you dare to talk about reducing the army ? " " Certainly I do , " replied Judge Parker on Friday . And , what was still more unkind , he proceeded to give excellent reasons why it should be reduced . It costs more than twice what it did seven years ago . Then we were at peace ; now we are at peace . Nobody said the standing army was not big enough then ; the burden of proof is on those who maintain that it ought to be larger and twice as costly now To say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous to reduce it , is to say that Grant and Hayes and Garfield and Arthur and Harrison , their own Presidents , were guilty of imperilling the country by keeping the army so small . As Judge Parker forcibly says , if we are to have a policy of militarism at home and adventure abroad , the army is not too big  --  is not half big enough If , however , we are to walk in the old paths of peace , there can be no doubt that the swollen army estimates offer themselves invitingly to the pruning-knife . And he was equally convincing in his references to that catch-all , " miscellaneous expenses . " A multitude of sins of extravagance lie covered there . Senator Knox trod on delicate ground last Thursday when , at the Union League Club , he undertook to praise the present Administration for creating a Federal department for the supervision of corporations . As the ex-Attorney-General explained , the head of the Department of Commerce and Labor had power " to gather such information and data as will enable the President to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compel the giving of testimony and the production of such books and papers and the making of such reports as may be necessary for the purposes of investigation " Now we presume that Republican orators would not be " pointing with pride " to the new Department unless they believed it to have been efficient . If it is efficient , it has collected a great deal of " information " about the inside workings of corporations . Yet all the information which that Department has gathered has been and is in the possession of the gentleman at present holding a position one of the customary and legitimate duties of which is to collect a campaign fund . The more efficient the Department has been , the greater the impropriety of the ex-Secretary 's present position . We are entirely willing to believe that in his dealings with the heads of corporations Mr. Cortelyou has taken scrupulous care to " speak softly . " None the less his former colleague 's praise of the Department of Commerce and Labor means , if it means anything , that its head possessed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . " Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem , and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished " ? this is the motto adopted by most campaign orators " Victory , " they cry , " is already within our grasp . At the polls we shall be proved innocent of the crimes of which we are accused . " Elihu Root , however , is the enfant terrible of his party . He has frankly told the members of the Union League Club that " there is a serious question about the election of Governor , " that he fears the ticket is in grave danger . In behalf of Lieut. - Gov . Higgins Mr. Root protests . " His nomination came to him unsought . He is no man 's man ; he is his own man . It is a very hard and very cruel thing that he should be borne down by unjust aspersions . " The aspersions to which Mr. Root obviously refers are the charges that Mr. Higgins is Odell 's man , that he represents the Administration which is now appealing for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Higgins is Odell 's man is such a terrible injury to a virtuous and independent candidate , why not strengthen him , the rest of the ticket , and the whole Republican organization in this State by retiring Benjamin B Odell , jr. , from the leadership ? At present the Governor-Chairman is worse than an old man of the sea sitting upon the neck of his party . Mr. Root 's fears that the load may prove too heavy are only too well founded . In his address on October 19 Mr. Elihu Root quoted Judge Parker 's question whether the Republican party would give tariff regulations to the Filipinos " under which they can exist . " He then replied by asking the Judge whether he had examined the Philippine Tariff law , enacted September 16 , 1901 , by the concurrence of Filipinos and Americans , " enacted with sole reference to the interests of the Philippine people , imposing tariff duties lower than they had ever had in the islands before , " and approved by Congress without criticism-or objection by any Democrat . This is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice for a long while . What Judge Parker meant admits of no doubt . His question related not to the tariff adopted for the islands by the Philippine Commission , but to the high customs duties which keep Filipino goods out of the United . States . This dodging of the real issue is all the more interesting since it was this same Elihu Root who , as Secretary of War , in his annual report for 1902 , " earnestly urged " that the duties levied in the United States upon Philippine products be reduced to 25 per cent . of the Ding-ley tariff rates . He added that the " ills which have recently befallen the people of the islands call urgently for active and immediate measures of relief . " A year later this same Elihu Root " earnestly renewed " this recommendation , saying : " As matters stand at present , we have practically deprived the Philippines of their Spanish market , and we have so arranged the tariff laws of the two countries that American consumers are making money at the expense of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason why the people of the Philippines should not be treated with some fair approach to the advantages which are awarded to the people of Porto Rico and the Hawaiian Islands . " On February 27 , 1903 , President Roosevelt himself sent to the Senate a special message in which he " very earnestly " asked that " this matter receive the immediate attention of Congress , and that the relief prayed for be granted . " He asked for action on the tariff " not merely from the standpoint of wise governmental policy , but as a measure of humanity , in response to an appeal to which this great people should not close its ears . " Included in this message was a cablegram from Gov . Taft , which said : " Necessity for passage House tariff bill most urgent . The conditions of productive industry and business worse than in November , and growing worse each month . . . . All political parties , including labor unions , most strenuous in petition for tariff bill . Effect of its failure very discouraging " ? But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the slightest heed to the appeals of Root . Taft , or Roosevelt , of whom it is so proud . The tariff Shylocks refused to let any considerations of humanity prevail . Since his party thus stands condemned by the words of its own leaders and by himself , it was a piece of peculiar effrontery for Mr. Root to stand up and convey the impression that , thanks to its wise management , conditions in the Philippines are little short of millennial . " Independence is their cherished ideal , " said Dr , Frederick W. Atkinson . ei-superintendent of public instruction in the Philippines , at Lake Mohonk , on Thursday , " and that they may ultimately realize the ideal is , I believe , the unexpressed purpose of those who have undertaken the tutelage of these peoples . " This , according to the rules laid down for political discussion by the Republican party , is about as far as an American citizen may go without crossing the " treason " line . He is privileged to say , as Dr. Atkinson does , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a desirable thing in the indefinite future . He must not say , if in any official position , that he favors it himself , nor that any other person in authority has put it into words . We ourselves think that Dr. Atkinson 's address is on the danger line Parker 's speech of a fortnight ago is now being read by every bloodthirsty Moro and Igorrote . These Orientals are notoriously adept in black and occult arts . Is there not danger that they may read by a sort of clairvoyance some of - these " unexpressed purposes " of the authorities , and thus become " unsettled " ? If our splendid colonial structure is so delicately balanced that , like an Alpine avalanche , a single word spoken aloud will topple it over , people who even think " independence " ought to be carefully watched . Wherein , after all , has the Republican policy changed since Mr. Dooley wrote : " It is our purpose give them a government suited to their needs , which is small , and generally to do as we blame please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along " ? The Republican National Committee has now given to Gov . La Follette of Wisconsin the most complete recognition . When a famous spellbinder is sent into the State , not only will he speak under the auspices of the La Follette faction , but he is also expected in his peroration to couple the name of the Governor with that of Mr. Roosevelt . By implication , the latest order requires also that the speaker shall be silent as to the services of the two Republican Senators , Messrs . Spooner and Quarles . The National Committee began the campaign with a unanimous decision for the Stalwart faction ; next declared its intention to remain strictly neutral ; and now throws all its influence on the other side . The party which gives aid and comfort to Addicks in Delaware because he can marshal more votes than the other side , can not , however reluctant , refuse to help out the cause of a man who gives such fine promises of " delivering the goods " as La Follette . Yet this decision by n'o means makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it affronts the Stalwarts more grievously than the June decision did the La Follette men . Before the announcement that the National Committee would lend a hand in the election of La Follette as well as that of Republican electors , the Milwaukee , Sentinel , the chief Stalwart organ , observed that " the La Follette following , made up as it is of all sorts and conditions of men , 45 per cent . of whom are not Republicans and never will vote for Republican Presidential electors , will not suffice to keep Wisconsin in the Republican column . " By biding his time and employing Pinkerton detectives , Governor Heyward of South Carolina has bagged five out of the six white men charged with lynching a negro at Eatonville , South Carolina . One of them is the town marshal of Eatonville , and the others are farmers . All of them are now in the State penitentiary to prevent an a at rescue . We do not think that there will be any This was a peculiarly . atrocious case , described by the CharleSton . News @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slight provocation . " As a matter of fact , there was no provocation at all . The negro had merely threatened to spank one of a crowd of drunken whites . For this he was arrested , fined $5 , and locked up for safe-keeping . That night he was taken from the jail and killed , his body being horribly mutilated after the manner of the Sioux and Apaches . There were sixteen wounds inflicted before the victim was thrown into the water  --  all inflicted because he threatened a low white man ! It is to the credit of the South Carolina press that it vigorously denounced the crime and supported the Governor in his efforts to punish the guilty , On Monday a Federal grand jury , in response to Judge Jones 's charge , indicted several alleged members of the mob that lynched Horace Maples in Huntsville , Alabama , on September 7 . The jury stated that Maples 's color alone made his killing possible , as he would not have been lynched had he been white ; and declared - that punishment must be inflicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this section feel that they owe a duty to the negro race . " All this is very gratifying , though there must be very considerable differences of opinion as to the legal right of the Federal grand jury to interfere . The jury itself seems to have had doubts , for it admits that its action may be regarded as " outside interference , " but explains that something had to be done . At Statesborough something is likely to be done at last , for Judge A. F. Daly , in charging the grand jury of Bullock County , declared that the lynchers were murderers as much as their victims , the only difference being that the lynchers were the bolder slayers . Coming after - the cashiering of the militia captain whose cowardice , or worse , made the lynching possible , it really begins to look as if the chief offenders might meet with the punishment they deserve . Each building trade here has its own union and its own contractors ' association , between whom working agreements have existed for years . The general arbitration treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these numerous sub-agreements shall continue in force . In the last year we have had several glimpses into these sub-agreements . In the bricklayers ' strike , for instance , it was shown that the local workmen had for years pledged themselves to put in fireproofing only for employers with whom they were already affiliated . The purpose was to give the mason builders a monopoly , and especially to keep out of New York a corporation operating in other large cities . The recent decision of Magistrate Ommen in the cut-stone case has an important bearing upon this point . He found that the workmen and the employers had entered into a conspiracy to control the output . The masters employed only specified unions ; the unions worked only for contractors who were in the combination . Any outside contractor was promptly forced in by strikes , or otherwise . The Cut-Stone Employers ' Association by this means so controlled the situation that they combined on all competitive contracts . The prices charged were so high that the " successful bidder " was able to turn back 10 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was shared equally by unions and employers . " The representative of the journeymen , " the decision reads , " testifies that the journeymen considered it to be their duty to protect the interests of their employers against unjust competition and the cutting of prices ; that the higher the prices the employers received , the higher the wages were . I suggested that these high prices affected the public , who had to pay them ; to which he answered that Commodore Vanderbilt had once said something about the public . " Weinseimer 's conviction on the charge of extortion is another triumph for the District Attorney 's office . His trial adds little to our knowledge of labor unions . So long as there are contractors willing to make " presents , " there will probably be rascally walking delegates ready to accept them . The unions , however , make a better showing in the Weinseimer than in the Sam Parks case . Parks , it will be remembered , became a greater hero the more the indictments piled up against him . He still maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor-day parade after his conviction for extortion ; was paid honors of state at the Kansas City Convention of his International Association while waiting a new trial . He was not deserted until , a confessed blackmailer and a consumptive wreck , he was taken away to die in Sing Sing . Weinseimer , however , from the day his guilt became apparent , was abandoned by his union associates . Apparently , the unions have learned that public confidence is a valuable asset , and that to win it they must eliminate - walking delegates with $80,000 bank accounts . This is a gain ; and it is to be hoped that building employers will , on their part , make a needed progress towards better methods . The statement that Mr. Alfred Hertz , the conductor of " Parsifal " and the other German works given at the Metropolitan . Opera House , is to be forced to join the Musical Mutual Protective Union , calls attention once more to the impudent and tyrannical methods of that union . It is difficult to see much difference between these methods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case a man 's life is threatened and in the other case his livelihood , if he does n't pay up . Perhaps the law will interfere in time , when the offenders , emboldened by their success , shall carry their system to its logical conclusion . There is really no reason why the singers should be allowed to escape blackmail when all the players and conductors are levied upon . Why not point the pistol at the prima donnas , the tenors , baritones , and bassos ? Why not boycott all the living composers who dc not promptly pay up and wear the badge of slavery ? Why not refuse to play for any manager who does not put a union label and pay a union tax on every ticket he sells ? And why- not leave in a body whenever a critic entersa theatre or concert hall who has not paid his " initiation fee " of a hundred dollars ? The possibilities of earning an honest penny in this way are limitless , and the Musical Mutual Protective Union is making but a. bungling use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect another rebuke within a few weeks . A general election will be held in Canada on November 3 . There was a time when Mr. Laurier ( he was not then Sir Wilfrid ) had altogether too much time for closet study . Certain speeches on free trade delivered both before and after he became the leader of the Liberal party would indicate that the came under the enervating influence of experts . He appears to have been quite incapable of " thinking Imperially " or of realizing that expediency and opportunism are all-sufficient . Eight years ago he took office as Prime Minister of the Dominion , and since then friends whose activities are not by any means confined to the closet have widened his Lerspective . Now he thinks Imperially , sees Imperially , and , as many a grateful corporation will testify , he does things . He was elected on a platform so distinctly academic that its principal plank was one demanding radical reform of the high protective tariffs im -- prosed by ' Ma opponents . For a time the closet counsellors were confident . The oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reductions , incidentally of reductions of majorities at the next election . About this time Sir Wilfrid , Laurier saw the great light of expediency . The tariff on woollens was raised , and the steel manufacturers were given not only higher duties , but bounties as well . It may be mentioned in passing that the workers in one of the large steel plants which had benefited largely by bounties , advanced ? the ridiculous plea that , as competition from the United States had been shut out , and as a portion of the taxes which they paid had been given to their employers in bounties , they had a right to expect wages more nearly approaching the scale obtaining in Pittsburgh . They promptly received protection  --  from a body of Government militia . How far Sir Wilfrid has advanced during these eight years may be judged from the fact that he proposes that any future modification of the tariff shall be made by the friends of the protective system . In his opening speech of the campaign he said : " There shall be no revision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration has been given to every class of the community , to the producer and to the consumer . All classes of manufacturers will be heard and Will give their advice , ISOthat the Government will have the best possible advice . " The leader of the Conservatives , Mr. R. L. Borden , puts forward his tariff proposals in two words , which , while they would doubtless seem indefinite to the cavillers of the closet , are sufficiently suggestive to all who do things . " Adequate protection " is his slogan . It is distinctly good , as containing much of possibility and not too much of promise . Even the Pope was surprised at the great majority which Premier Combes obtained in the Chamber in support of his anti-Clerical policy . It portended a speedy movement to abolish the Concordat altogether , and this very week we are to have the text of the proposed measures for the separation of the Church and State M. Combes made a skilful appeal to national feeling as against outside meddling , even by the Supreme Pontiff . The attempt had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both a Frenchman and a Republican , by a tribunal - which the laws of France did not recognize . He also made much of the alleged departure of the present Pope from the policy of Leo . Such Parliamentary and political tactics , combined with the feeling against the Church which exists to a certain extent in France , may easily lead to the strange spectacle of a Catholic country supporting its Government in cutting loose from the Holy See .                     