@@485040

President McKinley has let it be known that he is " especially pleased " with Senator Hoar 's attitude in this campaign , and that he thinks the Senator 's Concord speech quite the quintessence of eloquence and wisdom . This is the speech in which Mr. Hoar declared that he had nothing to take back of what he had said about McKinley 's Philippine policy . That is to say , he still considers it , as he described it in his Senate speech , " a policy of ruffianism , " in violation of our laws and Constitution and dearest - traditions . Yet for the beloved author of this policy Senator Hoar means to speak and work , and he hopes that , after the Presidenthas been rebuked by being triumphantly reelected , he will repent him of the evil which he hath done , and give the Filipinos their independence . This benevolent innocence naturally " pleases " the President ; the effect on others is to excite smiles , if not laughter . Secretary Long , for his part , rather cruelly writes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his dread lest we have vassals and serfs , that they are " ridiculous , " and refers to his fellow-citizen of Massachusetts as an " honest but timid soul . " This , too , may please Mr. McKinley , but we do not see how it can appear amusing to Senator Hoar . The Senator persists in telling the truth about the mistaken course of the Administration toward the Philippines . In a speech at Northampton , Mass. , the other evening he discussed this question very frankly , beginning with the remark that " I propose to take the bull squarely by the horns , " and proceeding as follows : " I differ from the President and many of my friends I think a great mistake has been made by the country and the Republican party When now they say to me that the Philippine Islands are ours , I must say that the Philippine Islands belong to the Philippine people I say that the people are entitled to such a government as they desire When anybody tells me that you should not haul down the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down in Pekin , and that you are going to haul it down in Cuba . There is one thing more sacred than the flag , and that is the sacramental wine , emblematic of the blood shed for mankind , and the man who would use the American flag in order to retain possession of a land and its people would for the same reason use the sacramental wine for a debauch . " Mr. Hoar went on to say that he considered the men who had thought otherwise in this matter as conscientious and desirous of doing their duty as himself , and , of course , he could find in the conduct of the Administration no reason for refusing Mr. McKinley his hearty support . But the Senator 's reaffirmation of his opposition to the Imperialistic policy inspires the hope that he will continue his fight against it in the next Congress , while the fact that the passage above quoted drew " great applause " from a Republican meeting , shows that he will have plenty of support in such action from his constituents . Gov Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippine learning about profusely . He brought out again in Ohio on the 16th inst. his dear little " tribe " theory of the situation . Did his hearers know that there were eighty tribes in the Philippines ? Only two of them are " against us . " Think , then , of the absurdity of sacrificing seventy-eight tribes to two ! But Roosevelt 's friend , Professor Worcester of the Philippine Commission , threw a good deal of light in advance upon this absurdity , as if for the Governor 's special discomfiture . In his book on the Philippines he says , referring to the number of the tribes , that it is easy to fall into " an exaggerated idea of their importance , " since " many of them are numerically insignificant . " Professor Worcester proceeds to say that it is with " the five millions of civilized natives " that we must chiefly reckon , and adds that " they belong for the most part to three tribes , the Tagalogs , Ilocanos , and Visayans . " And it is two of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only two , " he says . This is much as if he should say of Switzerland , only the German and French elements are against us , and should boast that the 9 per cent . of Italians are for us . Gov . Roosevelt might as glibly say , only the Germans and Hungarians of Austria are against us , and the Poles for us . Against all his furious ignorance on the subject of the Philippines , we have only to set the calm words of Professor Worcester , written before any thought of trouble ? " I think that the civilized natives show sufficient homogeneity to be treated as a class . " Monday 's dispatches from Manila refer to the active investigation by the Taft Commission of the Friar question . The evidence obtained indicates the firm purpose of the Friars to hold their ground , and the determination of the Filipinos to get rid of them . For the time being , the politics of the Philippine question are dominant in the American view of the situation . No opportunity is lost by the supporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clerks and enlisted men upward , who will say that the defeat of Mr. Bryan will be promptly followed by the c , o1- lapse of Filipino resistance . The determination of the election will eliminate this purely political factor , and all thoughtful American people will then see that the Filipino struggle is the outcome of a deeply seated purpose . Again and again within the present century have the Filipinos risen in protest against their obnoxious and oppressive ecclesiastical system . Unbiassed observers fail to see wherein the election of Mr. McKinley as President of the United States will serve as a , perfect substitute for that which the Fihpinos have so long desired , and for which they have fought so many times . Some day it will be seen that for every acceptable secular priest of the Roman Catholic Church established in Philippine parishes , an American garrison may be withdrawn , and that for every hated Dominican , Franciscan , or Augustinian who may be returned to his parish , reinforcements will be needed . Some day it will be realized that , while the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure Catholic votes for Mr. McKinley , it will prove more effective in prolonging resistance to American rule than will all the arguments of the Anti-Imperialists . So , too , will the peregrinations of Archbishop Chapelle , in company with members of the hated orders , do more to encourage the Filipinos in their resistance than will all the utterances of William 3 . Bryan . Senator Tillman of South Carolina has been on the stump out West , and haS spoken with his customary honesty and recklessness as to the effect of what he says . He is the man who read the " consent-of-the-governed " plank in the platform with so much unction at Kansas City last July Now he tells the people of the North how intolerable the people of the South found the application of this principle . Speaking of the rule by the negro majority , he said that the whites stood it eight years , then " rose up as brave men and overthrew it , " and , as part of the process , " we stuffed the ballot-boxes , and shot them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this in comparison with the " coon ' government which we had been suffering , by which we were at the mercy of the negroes , who did not know enough to go to the market-place and back ? In our county the negro majority was 2,000 , and we beat them by only 3,800 votes . The conditions demanded it of us . Now make the most of it . Are we to allow you people of the North , with your fanaticism on the subject , to make us submit to that which degrades us to the plane of mongrels ? No , we 'll see you in hell first . " John Sherman 's title to fame will rest upon his leadership in the resumption of specie payments after the civil war . The historian must always rank this as one of the greatest achievements in national finance since the establishment of the Federal Government . Mr. Sherman enjoyed the extraordinarily good fortune not only of carrying through Congress the act providing for resumption , but also of putting that act into operation as Secretary of the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the most influential Republicans in both branches of Congress became convinced that some explicit provision must be made for the resumption of specie payments at a fixed date in the future , Mr. Sherman took the lead at the first conference which was held to consider the subject , and was made Chairman of the committee of eleven Senators which was appointed to formulate a bill . At the first meeting of this committee the divergence of opinion was so great that an agreement seemed almost impossible . After other differences had been composed , a rock still remained upon which the party appeared likely to split  --  the question whether United States notes which should be presented for redemption and redeemed could be reissued . Mr. Sherman finally solved this difficulty by a device characteristic of his nature and his political methods . It was agreed by the committee that he should report the bill without making any mention of the reissue of notes , and without committing either side ; and he carried it through the Senate without breaking silence on this vital point . It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such evasion was considered essential . As Secretary of the Treasury , however , Mr. Sherman did not shirk any responsibility in carrying out the act , and the measures which he successfully pursued to this end need no excuse or defence . After criticism has said all that justly may be said of some steps taken in the path to resumption , the salient fact remains that he devised , carried through Congress , and executed what must be considered on the whole the most important financial act since the days of Alexander Hamilton . The achievement of specie payments will always preserve his fame . Three conspicuous and even painful instances of vacillation must be recalled . When , after the close of the civil war , a hue and cry was raised for paying the bonds with greenbacks , he bent before the storm and wrote a letter virtually endorsing that destructive policy . When the Bland Silver Bill was pending in Congress in 1877 , he , being then Secretary of the Treasury , expressed the opinion to the Senate Committee on Finance that a silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specie payments , and it was reported soon afterwards that , as a member of President Hayes 'S Cabinet , he advised against the veto of the act . His share in the passage of the Silver Act of 1890 is still well remembered . That futile and ill-starred measure carried its own punishment , since it has passed into history bearing his name . The death of ' William L. Wilson is a sad loss to the country . He was the best type of " the scholar in politics " that we have had in recent years , his service in Congress and in the Cabinet having been in every way most creditable to himself and inspiring as an example to others . The part which he took as Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means and leader of the House , in securing the repeal of the Sherman Silver Act in 1893 , will give him a paramount place in the country 's history . As a public man who had returned to the academic purstiits which he abandoned for a few years , he should long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commanding figure in the development of high ideals among our educated youth . The sudden death of Charles Dudley Warner removes a notable figure in American letter 's . His was a striking instance of a consistent literary career reaching a perfectly normal and legitimate success . Warner was a fore-ordained man of letters . The best magazines were already open to him as an undergraduate , and with few interruptions he wrote successfully from the point of view of art , and profitably from that of gain , to his death . General recognition came to him in early middle life , after which period he gradually built up the high reputation which he came to have . Whatever recognition he obtained was gained in his quality of man of letters . He allied himself with no " movements " or passing fads , and there have been made in our time few reputations so genuinely literary . Personally interested in all good causes , charitable , as the very manner of his death showed , he preferred the writer 's fame to any other . In his broad culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and letters , he recalls his illustrious predecessor , Washington Irving ; in his strong local attachments and in his activity as humorist , novelist , and social philosopher , he ran a parallel course with his older contemporary Holmes . That his eventual place in American letters will be a little lower than theirs it would be safe to predict  --  safe also to predict that the author of ' Being a Boy ' and ' The Golden House ' will not lightly be forgotten . A patent upon an article , according to Judge Adams of the United States Circuit Court , does not constitute a Trust , nor does the Anti-Trust Law forbid a patentee to regulate the price of an article patented . In granting privileges to an inventor , the Court rules , the Government intends that he shall for a term of years enjoy a monopoly of the thing produced by his brain , and shall take all the profit arising from it . The case brought before Judge , Adams , , however , in which this decision was rendered , was complicated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been sold to two companies , manufacturers of stoves , which were under contract to meet once a year to regulate the price of stoves in which the patent was used . One of the companies undertook to disregard the contract on the ground that any combination to regulate the price of an article ? was illegal . On this point the Court ruled that the companies to which the right to use the patent had been sold must be regarded as one person , and that they enjoyed all the privileges enjoyed originally by the patentee . The Judge added that , if persons owning several individual patents similar to each other , were to combine for the purpose of regulating prices , they would commit a breach of law . The Anglo-German agreement in all that concerns the final settlement in China is easily the most important step yet taken by diplomacy in the whole tangled affair . Lord Salisbury does not appear to have been so soundly asleep , after all . As the far-sighted Anglo-German agreement of 1898 may be said to have determined the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive in China . If Germany and England pledge themselves to maintain the territorial integrity of the Chinese Empire , and practically serve notice on other Powers that none of them will be allowed to take selfish advantage of the present complications , it is certain that we shall not see that dismemberment of China for which so many have been clamoring . The United States can but adhere gladly and instantly to this Anglo-German policy . A restored China , open to the trade of the world , is what we have wanted and all we want . Nor is Russia likely to interpose any overt objection . Her " esparances ultdrieures " are in a fair way to be gratified in Mantchuria and the Liao-Tung peninsula , by the sole process of time . Lord Salisbury has already acknowledged the reasonableness of her ambitions in those regions , and can not now mean to block them . Japan , too , is almost certain to be satisfied with the new arrangement ; and the other Powers will have to be Of course , the immediate future in China is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather , to an ultimate settlement after the present troubles are adjusted . But so far-reaching an announcement of distant plans will be an enormous help in disposing of the questions which lie nearest at hand . The German Emperor changes Chancellors with no more to-do than he does uniforms ; and an event that naturally should have aroused the keen interest of the German people and put all the Chancelleries of Europe on the alert , passes almost without comment , so ' convinced is everybody that the Emperor intends to be his own Chancellor . Of course the absolutism of the Kaiser is generally admitted , but it should not escape remark that the new Chancellor , Von Billow , may well strengthen his master 's hands As Secretary for Foreign Affairs , Von Billow was fully in the tradition of the " New Diplomacy . " Aggressive towards England , repressive in the matter of the Belgian-Chinese Legion , he is fully in accord with the Emperor 's policy in China , and for the future we may expect to find Germany even more prominent in international politics-than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Emperor , there are signs of revolt against the constant prosecutions for lase-majeste . A case in point is that of Harden , editor of the Zulninft , who has commented on the Kaiser 's inspired utterances in a spirit of irreverence . The unlucky man was out only a few months from a six months ' incarceration for such an offence when the Kaiser made the " no quarter " speech to the troops who were leaving for China . Another six months of fortress life stared Harden in the face , but he could not withhold the " Attila " article that fitly named the Kaiser 's oration . A trial in camera , another six months of fortress , the destruction of the Zulainft which contained the offending article , were Herr Harden 's portion . This roused the protest even of the official organ itself . Recounting the numerous condemnations of poor workmen , including one deaf and dumb man , for having their fling at the Emperor , the Vossiselte Zeitung regretted particularly that the Harden case had-been tried behind closed doors ; and observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ win for the Emperor ridicule rather than respect . It is , indeed , hard to see why a ruler who has all the facts of power should show a parvenu sensitiveness which leads him to compel respect by process of law . But that is Wilhelm II . " all over . " On all hands the Conservative victory in England is accepted as Mr. Chamberlain 's personal triumph . He made the South African war , he dissolved Parliament in the nick of time to get a vote while the war sentiment was still strong , and he has now got his overwhelming endorsement . Yet it is accompanied by renewed and virulent attacks upon his personal character , such as have been directed against no Dnglish statesman of his prominence in this century . One charge relates to the financial interest which his immediate family has in Government contracts . There is a confessed want of delicacy in this , though no one accuses Mr. Chamberlain of personally profiting . Indeed , he could not- legally , as an Act of George III . provides that no member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Government , or derive benefit therefrom . But it certainly is not pleasant to see the Chamberlain family figuring as the majority stockholders in companies that furnish army and navy supplies  --  a Jingo indelicacy . More serious is the allegation , openly made by responsible men , that Mr. Chamberlain was blackmailed into making his famous speech in praise of Cecil Rhodes 's " honor , " after he had signed a report condemning that gentleman-pirate in the severest terms . Mr. Philip Stanhope offers to prove in a court of law that Mr. Chamberlain whitewashed Rhodes under duress ; that a member of Parliament stood by with letters in his pocket implicating Chamberlain in the Jameson raid ; and that the threat had been made to read these letters out unless the Colonial Secretary gave Rhodes a clean bill of health . All this Mr. Chamberlain has angrily , though rather vaguely , denied ; but there stands the offer of his responsible accusers to prove the truth of their libel . The Spectator characteristically hopes that Mr. Chamberlain will not accept Mr. Stanhope 's challenge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and " poison the political atmosphere " ! The truth or falsity of the charge is , of course , a secondary consideration . Mr. Bryce 's return from South Aberdeen , though by a reduced majority , is , like John Morley 's from Montrose , a proof that the Scotch have not ceased to honor intellectual eminence . The success of these two Liberals , both strong opponents of Chamberlain and of his fire-brand diplomacy , is the more notable in view of the fact that Scotland , as a whole , swung from her Liberal moorings in the last election . A comic incident of Mr. Bryce 's canvass was the use against him of G. W. Smalley 's ferocious and unfounded attacks upon him in letters and telegrams from New York to the London Times . You see , gravely said the Tory agents , this " great American authority " discredits your member , says that the Americans have found him out , and that his attitude on the Boer question alienated from him all sympathy in the United States . This was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in when we think of the London Times lending itself to the airing of grudges in the guise of news But for its name and prestige , a surgical operation would have been necessary to get it into the heads of Scotchmen that Mr. Smalley is entitled to speak for American opinion of Mr. Bryce . Of that gentleman it is little to say that his public utterances about the South African war have- but confirmed his friends in this country in their belief that he is , as- Dr. James Martineau wrote of him years ago , " marked out for eminence within our small class of true statesmen . " In opposing the appointment of Gen. Weyler as Captain-General of Madrid , disaffected members of the Silvela Cabinet merely grasped at the first pretext . A change of Ministry was inevitable ; for in the twenty months of its administration the Government had set before itself a policy of violent reaction which could end only in disaster . It is a question whether in any case the Cabinet would have dared to present its own programme to the Cortes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by jury ( in particular the assignment to military courts of libel cases where the army is aggrieved ) , repression of all liberal movements , whether in politics or in education , a return to the ruinous policy of naval and military expansion  --  these were some of the ambitious plans of the ' Silvela Ministry . Upon them , in the face of Liberal and Socialistic opposition and the revival even of Carlist agitation , the Government must have failed . Seiior Silvela was , morally , receiver for a state in economic and political distress . It was clearly his duty to take account of stock and liquidate old obligations before incurring new . Failure to realize this duty was rapidly undermining him when the Weyler incident turned up to justify a timely retreat . That blood is thicker than politics is shown by the enthusiastic response of the South and Central American ream ) ) , lies to the call for an Ibero-American Congress soon to assemble at Madrid . It is as if Spain had chosen the time when , her American possessions gone , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and reassert the more strikingly her moral and intellectual leadership over the Latin-American nations . The movement should inspire rather sympathy than distrust among us . Commerce is doing the work of Americanizing the Latin republics steadily and irrevocably . It would be a distinct misfortune if the change should mean their denial of the tradition of culture under which they have grown . In Europe there is just complaint of the little Parises that spring up everywhere . And South America would be the loser if , in running to little New Yorks , Liverpoals , and Homburgs , she forgot the racial tradition by virtue of which she is herself , and not the United States , England , or Germany . Should it be said that Spain was at best - only a stepmother to these republics , so much the more-praiseworthy the loyal instinct that calls their delegates to Madrid .                     