@@486876

On October 25 , the Senate of the University of Cambridge adopted a plan for thorough reform of the Mathematical Tripos , which had been prepared by the Special Board of Mathematics The first part of the proposal was a rearrangement of the mathematical requirements for a degree , and the second part abolished the traditional ranking according to merit in Part I , of the Tripos , and with it the Senior Wrangler This last change meant the surrender of the chief glory of the Tripes , as the prestige of the Senior Wrangler , which goes back more than a century , has been . world wide It is no wonder that the greatest opposition was to this part of the reform The leaders of the forces against the change consisted for the most part of the older mathematicians and honor men who had gone- into other kinds of work , while for it were the mathematicians and scientists who are actively teaching mathematics and kindred subjects and who had great influence because they were best prepared to know present conditions . Every one , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago the whole of mathematics taught here , beyond the most elementary subjects , was centred around the Mathematical Tripos ; but since then the number of candidates for the Tripos has fallen off about half , while those in physics and engineering have increased largely . It is hoped that the new plan will improve matters , not by restricting pure mathematics , but by bringing about a closer relationship between pure and applied . So absorbing is the preparation for the Mathematical Tripos examinations , that the candidates have little time or inclination to study scientific applications On the other hand , as mathematics is not classed in the Science and Engineering Triposes , lectures in it are rarely or never elected by students in the Science Tripos , who certainly need a moderate amount of higher mathematics That is , study in pure mathematics now ends with most students of physics when they enter the University Fortunately , this evil is diminished by the fact that the schools are prepared to carry their scholars through the calculus The examinations , since 1882 , of candidates for honors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Part I are graded according to merit , with the Senior Wrangler at the head . Then those who have obtained sufficient honor are eligible to that " nightmare of examinations , " called Part II . In this there are four examiners , and generally about as many candidates who have been found willing to go through the ordeal . So special and difficult are the questions that it is pure chance if a brilliant student answer one of them completely . Nor does the Senior Wrangler of Part L have any surety of being able to get even a place in the first class of Part II The proposed change is a relatively easy Tripos , taken after one or two years of residence , which shall be called the Mathematical Tripos Part I In this , difficult analytical developments will be omitted , and stress will be laid on fundamental physical and mathematical conceptions Candidates will then pass on , either to physics , engineering , or mathematics proper It is believed that in this way more men will pass through the Mathematical Tripos , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the old level , a result to be desired in the interests of research For the mathematical students who are to be teachers and investigators there is to be the Mathematical Tripes , Part II The tripos will contain some elementary questions , so that , as heretofore , the man whose mathematical ability is not of the highest and who will make a successful schoolmaster , can obtain his degree in honors For the rest , it is a compromise between the " second four days " of the present Part I and the present Part II . There will be no Senior Wrangler in Part I with its elementary subjects . The plan seems to be eminently reasonable Cambridge since the time of Newton has about monopolized the teaching and writing in mathematics in England , and today students from all parts of the world come here to carry on this tradition . That the best mathematicians here , Prof.s Sir Robert Ball , Sir George Darwin , Forsyth , Hopkinson , Larmor , and .12 , J. Thomson , are responsible for this reform , argues much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bower Organtsias By H S Jennings New York . The Macmillan Co . The tenth volume of the Columbia Biological Series , entitled " The Behavior of the Lower Organisms , " by Prof H S Jennings , brings together some of the most recent results in a subject known to the older naturalists as the study of instincts Behavior , as understood by the author , includes instincts as well as simple reflex movements , and also the so-called tropisms or orienting reactions shown by the lower forms of animal and plant life Two opposed theoretical points of view are held at present by workers in this field . On the one hand the animal is described as turning directly away from or towards a stimulus , hence as orienting itself positively or negatively This is the point of view of the tropism theory , advocated by Loeb especially , who follows the earlier botanists Opposed to this interpretation is that maintained by Jennings , who shows by many closely followed experiments that the orientation takes place from the " selection of overproduced movements , " that is , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one of the lower - animals may be compared to that of a blind man who runs mto a wall , backs away from it , turning at the same time a ' little to the right or left , towards " a structurally defined side , " and then advances again only to run into the wall at a different point . He reacts again in the same way , and strikes the wall at a new Point In , time he either finds the end of the wall and passes by it , or the turning may suffice to start him off in a new direction , when he continues to move forward in a straight line until he runs foul of another obstacle While the earlier writers looked upon , external stimuli as the cause of movements , Professor Jennings looks upon the movement as a necessary consequence of the " metabolic changes " that take place in the animal From this point of view external stimuli only prevent continuous movement forward in the same direction . Another general point of view emphasized by the author is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower organisms depends on their " physiological states " Each motion or change of motion , may in itself induce a change in. the " physiological state " of the animal , so that a second time it behaves differently to the same external stimulus This is only a general recognition of the familiar fact that a man after a square meal behaves differently from the same man hungry , Applied to the lower organisms the idea appears to unlock many of the vagaries of their behavior The older tropism theory looks upon the behavior of the lower animals and plants as stereotyped and regular , but Professor Jennings 's observations emphasize the differences rather than the similarities of behavior . " The life habits of aniceba , and paramosmum are treated in minute detail in the opening chapters , other infusoria fill the remainder of the first part . Part II . deals with the ' behavior of the sea anemone and its allies ; Part III deals with the results described in the preceding chapters in somewhat more general terms Conflicting theories are weighed and analyzed . The closing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points out that the experiences acquired by the individual may be transmitted directly to the descendants , wherever the descendants arise by direct division of the parent 's body ? a common method of reproduction of the protozoa , The wonder is , If such transmitted experience is possible , that these organisms have learned so little throughout the ages , and that still , after all their experiences , they go blundering ahead with their overproduced movements As though appreciating this objection , the author accepts the theory of natural selection as a more probable hypothesis of the origin of the behavior than the inheritance of acquired characters , that kind of behavior of the individuals that is most conformable with survival being selected . It is assumed that " random movements " offer a better ' solution of the complexities of existence of the organisms than definite turning movements However this may be , the fact remains that the animals continue their overproduced. movements despite the experience of each generation tending to short-cuts and to the selection ? of more definite modes of reaction Professor Jennings 's admirable presenta-tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most attractive field of study *111 ap-peal to professionals and laymen . The style of the book is clear , straightforward , and convincing . Some repetition of state --  ment seems necessary , and may serve ' to emphasize the main points . The American Association for the Advancement of Science will hold its fifty-sixth meeting in this city December 27 to January 1 , with Columbia University as the place for most of the sessions In addition to , the American Association , about twenty affiliated societies will hold meetings here at the same time Among them are the American Society of Naturalists , the Astronomical and Astrophysical Society of America , the American Physical Society , the American Chemical Society , the Geological Society of America , the Botanical Society of America , the Society for Horticultural Science , the Society for the Promotion of Agricultural Science , the American Society of Zoologists , the Association of Economic Entomologists , the . American Society of Vertebrate Paleontologists , the Society of American-Bacteriologists , the American Physiological Society , the Association of American Anatomists , the American Anthropological Association , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first general session will be held at 10 o'clock Thursday morning , December 27 , when the retiring president , Prof. C M Woodward of Washington will introduce the president of the meeting , Dr. William H. Welch of Johns Hopkins University . At night the retiring president will deliver an address , and the trustees of Columbia will give a reception . Friday evening is reserved for dinners and meetings of special societies and groups . On Saturday afternoon , in the American Museum of Natural History , will be the unveiling of ten marble busts of pioneers of American science , presented to the institution by its president , Morris K Jesup rn the evening there will be a reception at the New York Academy of Medicine , with an exhibition of scientific progress by the Academy , including demonstrations and short addresses . In the course of the session meetings will also be held at the New York Botanical Garden , the Rockefeller Institute of Medical Research , and the College of the City of New York The Anierican Association is divided into ten sections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting are as follows : Section A , mathematics and astronomy , Dr Edward Keener , New York , B , physics , Prof W. C. Sabine , Cambridge , Mass , C , chemistry , Cliffdrd Richardson , New York ; D , mechanical science and engineering , W. It . Warner , Cleveland , 0 ; E , geology and geography , Prof A C Lane , Lansing , Mich ; F , zoology , Prof E G Conklin , Philadelphia , G , botany , Dr. D T MacDougal , Washington , D C , H , anthropology , Prof Hugo Munsterberg , Cambridge , Mass. , I , social and economic science , Charles A Conant , New York , K , physiology and experimental medicine , Dr Simon Flexner , New York . The official speakers will be Section A , W. S. Eichelberger , United States Naval Observatory , Washington , D. C. ; B , Henry Crew , Northwestern University , Evanston , Ill , C , C Mabery , Case School , Cleveland , 0 , D , F W McNair , Michigan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William North Rice , Wesleyan University , Middletown , Conn , F , H B Ward , University of Nebraska , Lincoln , Neb , G , ' Erwin F United States Department of Agriculture , Washington , D. C ; H , George Grant MacCurdy , Yale University ; I , Irving Fisher , Yale University ; KaWilliam T. Sedgwick , Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Boston . One of the most important ethnological expeditions sent out from Harvard University in recent years is being organized by the Peabody Museum for the object of collecting information about the little-known Indian tribes- located on the eastern slopes of the Andes Mountains in South America . The members of the party , which is to be absent about three years , will be Dr W. C. Farabee , instructor in anthropology , who will head the expedition ; Louis ed. de Milhau , ' 06 , and J. W. Hastings , ' 05 . A physician will also be included . The headquarters of the expedition will be at Arequipa , Peru , where Harvard has its South American astronomical observatory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headwaters of the Amazon and Parana This region has never been traversed by American scientists , and the reports upon it by Europeans are meagre and relate to only a small part of the territory A complete report ? tithe German expedition made under the leadership of Dr. Rosen to Abyssinia , is to be published in the near future under the title " Eine deutsche Gesandschaft in Abestinien , " with about 160 illustrations The expedition , consisting of nineteen Europeans , traversed some 2,000 kilometres , visiting , among other places , the Gala districts , the headwaters of . the Blue Nile , and the ancient Aksum The International Commission of Scientific Aeronautics held its fifth conference at Milan during the first week of October The members visited Pavia , where M Gamba conducted them through the observatory , and liberated ? two ballons-sondes . At one of the sessions Dr. Erk urged the necessity of making ascents near or among the Alps , in order to study local phenomena , such as the Fohn . In a discussion of the relative value of ballons-sondes and kites for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balloons were strongly urged by Professor Hergesell , while kites were considered as far preferable by Gen. Rykatchew and M Berson A paper on American ascents of balions-sondes was given by Prof. A. Lawrence Rotch , director of Blue Hill Observatory . 111 Teisserenc de Bort gave an account of the expedition to equatorial regions of the Atlantic , organized by Mr Rotch and himself , from which exceedingly good results were obtained In the - upper air far lower temperatures were recorded over the Equator than ' at corresponding heights in temperate latitudes , a result contrary to expectation Future conferences will be held every three years . The recently published report of Prof H. H. Turner of the Oxford University Observatory for the year ending April 90 , 1906 , directs attention to the fact that the working staff is chiefly busy with proof-reading of the Oxford section of the " Astrographic Catalogue , " and little new work has been attempted . The catalogue will consist of eight volumes , of which the first is now practically ready , and its printing begun It contains the measures of 66,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contained in the seventy-third annual report of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society , is a verbatim , account of one of Sir Norman Lockyer 's lectures , " An Early Chapter in the History of Cornwall . " He explains that ? the work he has inaugurated with reference to the mysterious stone circles and other stone monuments has but just begun Yet evidence seems to him already conclusive that their erection depended upon the utilitarian necessity for regulating the calendar by observations of celestial timekeepers . In his opinion , Cornwall researches amply confirm similar conclusions resulting from the study of Egyptian temples . Photographs of the principal circles , " The Hurlers " and " The Merry Maidens , " are shown in lantern slides , and maps and tables prove the ' wonderful similarity of purpose in the sight-lines , even when , owing to local conditions , their directions are dissimilar J. Philippe Lagrula , of the University of Lyons , has been appointed by the Ecuador Government as director of the observatory at Quito One of the most important questions now before chemists is the procuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an essential element in a fertilizer At present there are three sources of nitrogen for agricultural purposes : first , natural deposits of nitrates , such as those in Chili , which are insufficient for future need ; second , organic waste , blood , tankage , fish or meat scrap , ordinary stable manure , and sewage , enormous quantities of which are recklessly thrown into the ocean  --  a waste of Just what , with chemical change , the world needs , and , third , the nitrogen of the air , which in special cases is made available by certain bacteria that live only on pod-bearing plants , such as garden peas For years chemists , aware of this yearly depletion , have striven to draw on the inexhaustible supply of atmospheric ? nitrogen It must be combined chemically to make ammonia ( NH3 ) , which bacteria convert into a form suitable for plant life ; or it must undergo some other chemical change producing the same result The problem , therefore , has been to convert the nitrogen of the air into ammonia or into nitrates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is now believed that practicable methods of using the nitrogen of the air have been discovered Two important papers were recently read on this subject . The first by Professor K Birkeland , before the Faraday Society in London ; the second , by Professor Adolph Frank , before the International Congress of Applied Chemistry in Rome The first paper was on the Birkeland-Eyde process in Norway , in which nitrate fertilizer is made by electric arc discharges through - the air The combinatidn of the nitrogen and oxygen of the air , together with water , makes the nitric acid , and that in turn is easily converted to calcium nitrate , available for plant food The second paper was on the cyanamide process in Italy , in which nitrogen distilled from liquid air is passed over calcium carbide in an electric furnace , forming calcium cyanamide ( CaCN2 ) Inns , with water , yields ammonia ? gas ( NH3 ) , in which the nitrogen is indirectly available-for plant food By an extension of this process the oxygen of the liquid air , which distils at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oxidize the ammonia to nitric acid . This method of making the acid is claimed to be- more efficient than the Birkeland-Eyde process . It has been reported that there is one drawback to the cyanamide process , for recent experiments show a detrimental effect of the cyanamide on seed germination This fact makes it undesirable to employ the cyanamide directly on the soil . Edmund Howd Miller , professor of analytical chemistry and assaying at Columbia University , died last Thursday of typhoid fever . Born in 1869 , he graduated from the Columbia School of Applied Science in 1891 ; in 1892 he received the , and two years later the Ph.D . From the position of assistant in chemistry he rose rapidly to a full professorship in 1904 He had complete charge of the department of analytical chemistry since Dr Rickett retired seven years ago He has written several ti'eatises , the most important of which is " Quantitative Analysis for Mining Engineers " He was chairman of the New York division of the American Chemical Society , and he was also a member of the executive committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    