@@465303

RADIUM , the element giving out perennially light and heat , has passed from being a nine-days ' marvel into one of the permanent wonders of the world . The new property it exhibits , radioactivity , has in an incredibly short time given birth to a new science , which , sweeping all before it , now advances to a position from which it throws a flood of new light upon some of the most fundamental relations which exist between man and the environment by which his physical life is circumscribed . Its conclusions are of considerable general interest , and if they are to be reached at all in an article of this character and length it is necessary to deal only with the broader outlines of the subject and to leave the reader to obtain more detailed information from other sources . Missing links in the chain of reasoning in this narrative are unavoidable simply for reasons of space , but those lay readers who have the time and inclination to pursue the subject may be referred to a recent book by the writer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentials of the subject . The scientific student may be referred to one of the standard treatises , such as , for example , Professor Rutherford 's Radioactivity . The whole phenomenon of radioactivity can be epitomized by the statement that the radioactive elements ? in the case of radium quite obviously ? are giving out energy continuously from themselves . At first sight they are in the true scientific sense perpetual-motion machines giving out an unceasing supply of energy , capable of performing mechanical work , without any external source or stimulus , and without apparently undergoing change . It is true that the constancy of the supply of energy and the unchanging character of the source are only apparent . Over verylong periods of time , far beyond the limits of a single life , the radioactive matter will become exhausted and the supply of energy will gradually diminish and ultimately cease . Nevertheless , over a single lifetime , or even over a long period of history , radium is for all intents and purposes a practical perpetual-motion machine . This qualification preserves the fundamental laws of energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an impossibility ; but , for all that , the new discoveries have profoundly altered the significance of these laws in their applications ? unconscious for the most part , but none the less effectual ? to the problem of existence in its most general form . The property of radioactivity has revealed to us the existence within matter in general cf a vast amount of energy previously quite unknown and unsuspected . Of the importance of energy in the business of life there is little need to speak . Thus chemistry to - day synthesizes for us ? that is to say , it puts together atom by atom , element by element , as a child builds a house of bricks ? the particular molecular structures which make our dyes and our drugs . To-morrow there is no reason why our food itself will not be made " by machinery . " A native in the south of France , asked by a tourist what had become of all the madder plantations , replied that they made the dye now " by machinery . " At the present time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fate . The tourist had his question answered more truly than he knew . The chemist recognizes more clearly perhaps than any one that the commodities he synthesizes or manufactures from their primitive constituents are not made up only of materials . Each molecule represents a store of the fundamental commodity we call energy , and that energy must be put into it somehow and must be derived from some source , such as fuel , which is consumed in the process . Indeed , a very considerable and interesting step forward toward the artificial production of food is even now in progress in the processes that are being developed for the utilization of atmospheric nitrogen , for the manufacture of artificial fertilizers . Nitrogen is an essential constituent of food , and four-fifths of the atmosphere is elementary nitrogen . Fertilizers contain combined nitrogen , and act by supplying to the plant in a combined form the nitrogen which it is unable to get from the air directly to any important extent . Why ? Because the plant requires energy as well as nitrogen , and before nitrogen will enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemist gets the energy perhaps from a waterfall , converts it usually into electrical energy , and , with this energy at his disposal and control , in one way or another be converts the elementary nitrogen into compounds , possessing a store of energy , which are capable of being assimilated by the plant . True , he is only as yet making the work of the plant easy and causing it to bring forth more abundantly than it would provided it had to fend for its energy entirely for itself . But , for all that , the energy that before ran to waste over the waterfall is in part now moving the bodies of human beings . The illustration serves to show how much science can do provided energy is obtainable . Without it , on the other hand , all the wealth of dead material and all the science of the world can avail absolutely nothing . Physical death , uniform stagnation of motion and temperature , would be the necessary fate of any world from which the supply of energy were cut off . What are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but nevertheless it is true , that science up to the close of the nineteenth century had no suspicion even of the existence of the original sources of natural energy . With a few exceptions of relatively little importance the source of all the energy employed in daily life was referred to the sun , the heat and light from which were either stored up in the earth as coal , etc. , through the agency of vegetation during bygone ages , or are being now received , producing waterfalls and winds . This led inevitably to calculations as to how long the sun might be expected to continue to supply us before it was exhausted . At once arose a sharp controversy between certain physicists who held that the sun could not possibly continue to supply the earth with energy at anything like its present rate for more than ten or fifteen millions of years at most , and the geologists , who held that they had indisputable evidence that the earth had in the past existed in much the same physical conditions as at present for many hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was discovered and the mysterious energy which flows out in an incessant stream from the radioactive elements was traced to its source that any real reconciliation between these rival views became possible . Then it became clear that the primary fountains of energy in the universe had till then remained hidden . Just as energy may be stored up in certain kinds of molecules and given out when these are changed into new kinds possessing less energy ? as , for example , when coal is burned ? so we have recently learned that energy is stored up , but on an almost infinitely grander scale , in the atoms ? the foundation stones of the universe , as Clerk-Maxwell called them ? the primary units of elementary matter which have resisted every attempt that has been made to change or transmute them . Although we can not change them , these atoms in the case of certain elements ? the radioactive elements ? are changing spontaneously , usually with excessive slowness , and radioactivity is the result of these changes . In these new changes elements possessing a lesser store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the steady outpouring of fresh energy from radioactive matter . In order to make it clear that the energy which is given out in these radioactive or transmutational changes of atoms is almost infinitely great compared with what is produced in the ordinary chemical changes of molecules , let us contrast the heat given out by radium with that given out by the burning of coal , since the latter process furnishes the vast proportion of energy used in the world 's work to-day . The heat generated every hour from radium , if not permitted to escape , would suffice to raise a mass of water equal to the mass of the radium from freezing - point to boiling - point . Now in the burning of coal the total heat evolved is sufficient to raise a mass of water about eighty times greater than the mass of the coal from the freezing-point to the boiling-point . Hence in eighty hours , or three and a'third days , radium evolves the same amount . of energy as can be obtained in the complete combustion of the same weight of coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radium is practically constant and continuous , radium evolves more than a hundred times as much energy as can be obtained from coal . It would take us too far into details to consider the reasoning by which it has been determined how long radium will continue to evolve its energy , but this is known with tolerable accuracy . It has been determined that in a year only 1-2500th part of the radium changes , so that the total amount of energy that would be given out before the radium was exhausted is 2,500 times that given out in the course of a year , or about a quarter of a million times as much as is given out in the combustion of an equal weight of coal . Yet in the combustion of coal , taking also into account the oxygen used up , one obtains almost as much energy , weight for weight of matter involved , as in any other change previously known . In this calculation we have altogether ignored one of the most remarkable features of the process . The heat evolved from radium is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called " rays . " Almost every detail of this new process has been made clear by numerous investigations . A small definite fraction of the total number of atoms of a radioactive element suddenly explodes . Certain fragments of the disrupted atom. ? constitating the so-called a-rays ? are projected outward , like the projectile from a gun , with all but a few per cent . of the total energy of the explosion . These particles have been proved to travel with a velocity which varies with different radio-elements from 6,000 to 12,000 miles a second . That is to say , they travel with a velocity hundreds of times greater than that of the fastest moving material thing known in our whole experience of nature It has been definitely proved by a long series of beautiful experiments , of which space forbids the mention of more than the final conclusion , that the a-particles , from whatever radio-element derived , are atoms of the element helium , the second lightest element known . Since the velocity of the a-particle is many hundreds of times greater than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its energy , which is measured by the square of its velocity , must be many tens of thousand times greater . Indeed , means have been devised by Rutherford whereby the expulsion of a single a-particle ? that is to say , the disintegration of a single atom of radium ? can be made to record a clear indication on a suitable measuring instrument . It is this unique feature to which our whole knowledge of radioactivity is due . In the well- known spinthariscope of Sir William Crookes an unweighable quantity of radium on a needle-point is placed near a suitable phosphorescent screen which can be examined by a lens in the dark . The whole screen then appears like nothing so much as a swarm of shooting stars . Bright momentary flashes of light fill the field of vision , and it has been proved that each of the flashes of light is due to the bombardment of the phosphorescent screen with the a-particles projected from the radium . Each flash is the result of a single a-particle striking the screen , and the instrument reveals to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter . Without these new methods of detecting infinitesimal quantities of radioactive matter it is safe to say we should know no more to-day than was known twenty years or , for that matter , twenty centuries ago . It is easy with a few well-chosen experiments , even with only a small fraction of a grain of radium , to demonstrate to an audience that it is a most wonderful kind of matter . But remember that a grain of radium represents in concentrated form the greater part of the radioactivity of nearly a ton of pitchblende , the mineral from which it is derived , and nobody before Madame Curie in 1898 suspected the existence of any remarkable new element in pitchblende . Just as a swarm of meteors in the heavens might remain all unknown and unsuspected until a few found their way into our atmosphere , producing a brilliant display of shooting stars , their kinetic energy rather than themselves revealing their presence , so the kinetic energy of a single atom of a radioactive body actually disintegrating suffices to reveal its presence , although the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be so small that it could be detected by none of the older tests . For many years past several workers , including the writer , have been engaged in measuring quantities of radium not exceeding a million-millionth of a grain distributed among several pounds ' weight of other materials , to a degree of accuracy of perhaps the twentieth part of this small amount . This leaves the best that can be done with the spectroscope far behind . It is because radioactivity has such delicate and accurate methods of measurements that it has made such strides . The doctrines it teaches are novel , but so also are the field it explores and the quantities with which it habitually deals . These discoveries have thus revealed a new and hitherto unsuspected store of energy in nature , resident in the structure of the elementary atoms themselves , which is many hundred thousand times greater than the stores contained in the most energetic kinds of matter previously known . The old laws of energy , which deemed a perpetual-motion machine an impossibility , have been upheld , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio-elements , not to the operation of a permanent and unchanging mechanism , but to a process of slow continuous change which involves the diminution in quantity and ultimately the complete disappearance of the radio-element and its transmutation into other elements , possessing less energy . It shifts the focus of interest from the superficially apparent features of radioactivity to the strangely novel underlying process of subatomic rearrangements and transmutations of which the emission of rays is but the consequence and nianifestation . Transmutation of the elements , so far from being an impossibility , is going on continuously in nature , now our eyes have been opened to see , and the recognition of this has roiled back the boundaries of knowledge in many directions . In one important point , however , these naturally occurring transmutations bear out the orthodox views of chemists with reference to the subject . The chemist denied the possibility of transmutation because all his attempts to effect it , even with the most powerful engines of modern research , had met with failure . In this sense transmutation is still as far from accomplishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements are naturally and spontaneously undergoing transmutation , but this process and the rate at which it is going on are absolutely unaffected by the most powerful influences that can be brought to bear upon it . Numerous and varied as tho attempts made have been , by no means known is it possible to affect the rate at which the radio-elements are disintegrating . Transmutation becomes more real-. ly than ever a feat impossible to accomplish at the present time , now that we can study actual examples of the process in radioactivity without being able to influence or affect in the slightest degree the natural course of the process . The practical significance of this feature of the subject will appear as we proceed . It must not be supposed that radium , because it is , from the point of view of its radioactivity , a novel and almost unique form of matter , is abnormal in any other way . Viewed simply as chemical elements , radium , thorium , and uranium , the three best known of the radio-elements , are quite ordinary . Their entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their atomic weights . Both chemically and in the characteristics of its spectrum , radium is entirely analogous to the other members of the same family of elements in the Periodic System ? barium , strontium , and calcium ? but none of the latter shows the slightest detectable radioactivity . Thus barium , strontium , and calcium possess the not very common property of imparting brilliant colors to flames . The green and red fires of the pyrotechnist are compounded respectively of barium and ? In the case of radium , the energy is given out sufficiently rapidly to produce very remarkable effects quite capable of being turned to useful account , pEovided we could obtain it in considerable quantities . Rut here we touch another fundamental aspect of the recent developments . Radium is an excessively rare substance because it is changing relatively rapidly . Indeed , it is changing so rapidly that , however great a quantity there might originally have been in the earth , in the course of a few tens of thousands of years practically none of it would remain . It would all have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time is due to the fact that it is being continuously reproduced as fast as it disintegrates , being formed as one of the products in the disintegration of the element uranium . Recently , after six years ' continuous work , direct experiments have demonstrated the production of radium from uranium . On this fact , since uranium changes into radium , expelling several a-particles with their tremendous energy in doing so , is ' based one of the arguments that uranium must contain all the energy contained in radium , and more . One of the consequences of the parental relation between uranium and radium is that there must always exist the same ratio between the quantities of uranium and radium in the world as there is between their periods of average life ? or , in other words , for every grain of radium that exists there must exist about four hundred pounds of the parent element uranium . So that any hope one might entertain ever to find radium in any large quantity , sufficient to furnish a practical source of energy , is doomed to disappointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new sources of energy are barred to us at present on all sides that they are on that account of no practical importance . Nature , as we know , does all her grandest works by slow , imperceptible processes operating continuously over endless periods of time . Radioactivity is essentially one of the processes after Nature 's own heart . One of the most significant applications of radioactivity has been in the science of geology . It has been shown that radium , in spite ofits excessive rarity , is a very widely distributed element , and it , together with the necessary quantity of its parent uranium , is a constituent to an almost infinitesimal extent in all the common igneous and sedimentary rocks which go to make up the earth 's crust. * The quantities of radium are , it is true , only to be expressed in million-millionths of the whole . But , for all that , on a world-scale the energy given out by it is sufficient to render necessary a complete reconsideration of all the questions connected with the age of the earth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its interior . ? A most ? interesting example may be cited of the intense practical importance of radioactivity in some of the problems of modern engineering . It will be recalled that at one period the success of the Simplon Tunnel operations was jeopardized by the unexpectedly high temperatures met with by the workers in their progress into the mountain . From a careful examination Joly concluded that the high temperatures were probably connected with the fact that the rocks encountered in some parts contained an unusually high percentage of radium . Thus , if this view be well founded , the presence of a few million-millionths of radium in the rock came near to wrecking a mighty engineering project otherwise faultlessly planned and superbly executed . If the whole earth contains throughout the same average proportion of radium as is contained in the surface-rocks , the heat given out from the radium is more than enough to balance the whole loss of heat from the earth by radiation into outer space . It follows , if this be so , that this planet must actually be growing hotter rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy resident in the elementary atoms of which it is composed . We may quote an interesting conclusion from Professor Joly 's book , based upon the assumption that there are two parts per 1,000,000 , - 000,000 of radium distributed throughout the entire earth ? a proportion much below what he himself found as the *compare Radioactivity and Geology , by Professor J. Joly . ( Constable &; Co. , London , 1909. ) average for a large number of representative rocks he analyzed . " Before the hundred million years had run their course the world with such a constitution must become once again a heated mass throughout . We possess really no assurance that such a consummation does not await the future , nor evidence that such has not more than once been an event of the past . " Truly it may be said that only in the present century have we become cognizant of the major forces of the universe which rejuvenate it perennially and which guide and control its destiny and ours . The vista which has been opened out by these new discoveries admittedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The struggle for existence is recognized in the first instance as a struggle for fresh energy . Provided only that this energy is forthcoming in unlimited amount , science has advanced far enough to be able largely to ameliorate the more brutal aspect of the struggle and more and more to wrest from Nature the control she still exerts over the conditions of our existence . But the world 's demand for energy is ever increasing and will continue to increase , while the available supply of fuel is ever diminishing and must continue to diminish , There is only one conclusion . Sooner or later man must gain command of the newly recognized internal stores of energy in matter and control them for his own purposes , or he must lose so much of dominance as he has already attained . On the other hand , if he succeeded in tapping these primary sources of energy , the future would bear as little relation to the past as the life of a dragon-fly does to that of its aquatic prototype . It is clear at once that this problem which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oldest scientific problem which has attracted the imagination of man from the earliest times . It is simply the transmutation of the elements . Radioactivity is the manifestation of a slow natural process of transmutation which we can not as yet accelerate or influence in any way . To draw upon the internal energy of uranium , for example , and make it evolve in a reasonably short time the energy which naturally it spreads over thousands of millions of years , wemust be able to transmute it artificially and at will . We must be able to do for it quickly what it is doing for itself so leisurely and imperturbably . Put in this way the problem appears far from insoluble , but it is dangerous in such a new field to draw any analogy . We are accustomed to consider the powers we already control as sufficiently formidable , but here we are one step nearer to the fundamental entities , and what a difference it makes ! These primal processes of radioactivity are as little affected by the most formidable forces known to us as a telegraphic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wire . In radioactivity we have crossed the boundary , and for the first time have passed within the atom ? a very great step and one which hitherto has been attempted in vain . Possibly it is the most difficult step of the journey . But by so doing we have left behind the old sciences as though they no longer existed . Heat , light , gravitation , thermo - dynamics , chemistry , possibly even electricity , play no part and have no meaning in the new world that has opened out inside the atom . Science has now to begin all over again right at the alphabet . The very simplicity of the process of atomic disintegration is one of the chief difficulties in the way of further advance . Given any number of radioactive atoms of one kind , independently of their previous history or present environment , a certain definite fraction of the whole disintegrates in each unit of time . It does not make any difference whether the particular atoms chosen form the remainder which have survived disintegration out of a much larger number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all already existed a considerable period , or whether they have all just been formed from their parent element and therefore are all newly born . The fraction disintegrating per second is the same for each . This is perhaps the first letter of the new alphabet , for it shows clearly that the period of past existence of the atom can have nothing to do with its disintegration . The latter is not the culmination of a gradual process of evolutionary change which is at work in the atom all the time . Chemistry on the whole is also against any gradual evolution of the elements in this sense . Each atom carries within itself some sort of independent clock which explodes it at the appointed time . Indeed , it has been suggested that the period of average life of a radio-element furnishes a means for the absolute measurement of time free from the secular variations which vitiate the existing methods based upon the sequence of astronomical events . In the course of , say . a thousand million years uranium , for all we know , will still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronomical day and year ? that is to say , the periods of rotation and revolution of the earth from which we derive those units of time ? might conceivably , as is now the case with the moon , have become identical . If we are to escape the fate that the future holds for our successors , when the increasing demands for energy can no longer be supplied from existing sources . we must be able to get at these internal atomic clocks and regulate their movements to suit ourselves . At present the keys are securely hidden . In the treasure-house of the future , if one may quote the beautiful conception of Maeterlinck , they may be the plaything of some as yet unborn child of discovery , destined to bring them with him when he comes . Till then the struggle for existence will increase in keenness , while all around , in the common materials of the earth 's crust , sleep the potentialities of life and sustenance in inexhaustible abundance , beyond our reach . 