@@486504

Senator Lodge 's speech in favor of reciprocity before the Middlesex Club on Saturday has given the country a surprise  --  to us an agreeable one . It is not that Mr. Lodge has been heretofore hostile to reciprocity per se  --  he says at the beginning of his remarks that he has always been in favor of reciprocity as a policy ; but he has not seemed to be in favor of it as a practice . At all events , he did not seem to be in favor of it in a practical way at the last session of Congress . Perhaps the erroneous impression as to his position was derived from looking too closely at the treaty with France , and too little at his action in other treaties . However that may have been , the most common belief , even in his own State , was that he would be an obstacle in the way of the ratification of any treaty with France , or with any other country which admitted goods at reduced rates of duty if any considerable interest , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , it was generally assumed that he would construe all doubtful and debatable points against reciprocity . Yet the tone of his speech seems to be quite the contrary of this view . He alludes to the objections advanced by the knit-goods manufacturers - and others in Massachusetts to the French treaty , and says that " they may be right or they may be wrong , " and that Congress will , no doubt , give careful attention to the question whether the wages of working-men in those trades will be unfavorably affected by the treaty . His argument in a general way runs in favor of ratification and in favor of freer trade with foreign countries . He says that he agrees fully with all that the late President McKinley said in his last speech at Buffalo on this subject . Probably the accession of Theodore Roosevelt as Mr. McKinley 's successor in office has had even greater influence in determining Senator Lodge 's course than any speeches of Mr. McKinley . A new Daniel has appeared in the person of Representative Grosvenor of Ohio , who feels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the immutable tariff policy of the future . " There is no more chance , " declares the ingenuous Grosvenor , " that the Republicans in Congress will attempt a revision of the tariff than that they will revise the Ten Commandments . " Mr. Grosvenor points out that the Ohio campaign was conducted " squarely on the proposal to change the existing tariff law . " The Democrats were defeated , the Ohio oracle has spoken , and " the lesson to lie derived from the results is apparent . " Certainly it would need a prophet or the son of a prophet to draw such conclusions from the Ohio election . The issue of the campaign was the question of endorsing or disapproving the McKinley tariff policy . Apparently Mr. Grosvenor thinks it was the Congressman of ten years ago that was vindicated , and not the President who could say at Buffalo : " The period of exclusiveness is past . Reciprocity treaties are in harmony with the spirit of the times . If , perchance , some of our tariffs are no longer needed for revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why should they not be employed to extend and protect our markets abroad ? " It was unfortunate , too , that the new interpretation of the Ohio election should have been sent out at the same time with an expression of opinion on the same subject from Senator Foster of Washington . While the latter was certain that there would be no " tariff tinkering , " he was " not so sanguine " concerning reciprocity . Perhaps it was only by accident that he referred to a recent conversation with the President on tariff qUestions . The latest shift of the " let-the-tariffalone " faction in the Republican party is to suggest that all questions of revision of duties , with all reciprocity arrangements , be turned over to a Commission , which is to report to Congress in 1902 or 1903 . If it never reports , so much the better in the thought of its promoters , since they undoubtedly intend their plan as a kind of slow murder for the whole matter . Royal commissions and Congressional committees have , in their time , done famous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not really wish to take up , but which they dared not openly slaughter . At the same time , even a tariff commission has its dangers for the monopolists . It will have to grant hearings and to bring out facts . The result may be to kindle , instead of to smother , popular agitation , and even to convert the commission itself , as the Tariff Commission of 1882 was converted . That body was chosen as a band of trustworthy protectionists , yet was compelled by the testimony presented to it to recommend a reduction of the tariff by an average of 20 per cent . ad valorem . A dastardly attack on-the memory of President McKinley is made in the Bulletin of the American Iron and Steel ' Association . It deliberately asserts that he made his reciprocity policy " more radical than that of the Republican Na tional Convention of 1900 " ; that he " conspicuously aided the free-traders " ; that he " proposed a revision of the Dingley tariff , " forgetting that protection " needed his continued help to strengthen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not with their elders . " It is all very well for the Bulletin to say that it is " painful " for it to have to expose Mr. McKinley 's recreaney to protection , but the question is whether its talk is not essentially anarchistic . President Roosevelt has distinctly undertaken to carry out his predecessor 's tariff policy , and is not an attack upon that an attack upon him ? According to the doctrine laid down immediately after the President 's assassination , the Bulletin should be suppressed and its editor put in jail . He merely provokes us to laughter , but how does he know that he is not provoking some protected ironmaster to murder ? The report just issued by Mr. Chamberlain , the Commissioner of Navigation , shows him an adept in the art of making a silk purse out of a sow 's ear . Mr. Chamberlain points out that the past fiscal year has been " the third successive year of notable prosperity and growth in American shipping , " and that even greater development may be expected . Our total tonnage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would think that these facts ought to be conclusive proof that Government aid to an industry already prosperous is not necessary The Commissioner , however , seems to think otherwise , for he regards a large part of the growth in shipbuilding as " presumably resting on anticipated legislation by Congress . " American investors must have become suddenly trustful if they could interpret the attitude of Congress at its last session as justifying them in building ships with the expectation of a bounty . Mr. Chamberlain complains that the American fleet is still much smaller than that of many other nations , and he seems to regard it as a special source of regret that much of the increase in tonnage has taken place on the Great Lakes , rather than on the ocean . His figures , however , themselves furnish ample reply to his specious arguments . The absurdity of passing any subsidy bill was never more clearly demonstrated than by this report . The annual report of the Commissioner of Pensions reveals anew a discreditable state of things which the Commissioner himself is powerless to remedy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total of 997,735 , the greatest in the history of the Bureau . It is thirty-five years since the close of the civil war , and yet last year 39,674 new civil-war pensions were granted . On account of the Mexican war , pensions are paid to 8,109 widows , and 7,568 " survivors " are on the pension list . With this latter figure it is interesting to compare the statement in the Army and Navy Journal for October 26 that " of the 110,000 American soldiers who participated in the Mexican war , only about 5,000 are now living . " Under the present law , Commissioner Evans is almost powerless to prevent the wrongful granting of pensions . Such a minimum of reform as to make widows ' pensions run from the date of application , not of the husband 's death , and the right of disciplining rascally pension attorneys , Congress should grant him . immediately It is a standing disgrace to us that , as things now are , it is practically impossible to tell fair claims from fraudulent . Senator Hanna , in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the case of President Roosevelt At first blush it might seem as though the difference in temperament between the two men was too great to permit of a mutual understanding . Simon Magus , who represented commercialism in religion , it will be remembered , once undertook to enlist St. Paul in the quest of the main chance , and got only the retort that his money and presumably his doctrine might perish with him . Evidently Mr. Hanna , whatever Mr. Roosevelt 's personal inclination may have been , got a softer response to his effort to guide the President in the paths of Republican peace and profit . " He is doing the best any man could do , " says the Senator . " He is honest , sincere , and determined to do that which will be for the greatest good of his country . He , lace myself , places his country before anything or anybody " Mr. Roosevelt 's patriotism , though enthusiastically recognized , has lacked this final eulogy and certification , that it is the same as Hanna 's or " equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to observe that Senator Hanna did not leave his laudation of the President right there , but proceeded to retract somewhat . " It would not be fair , " he felt , " to compare him to McKinley " ? Mr. Hanna was unwilling to subject Mr. Roosevelt to that supreme test of conformity to the Hannaesque standard . This might have passed , but when Mr. Hanna admitted that there would probably be some disappointment over the President 's " distribution of patronage , " he shattered the comparison he himself had set up ; for it is plain that if the President 's patriotism is identical with Hanna 's , its - works will be very different from his . President Roosevelt has served notice that Federal officials must observe the Civil-Service Law or suffer punishment by removing the Collector of Customs at El Paso , Texas . This official was charged with having received contributions for partisan purposes , and with having caused questions in an impending competitive examination to be supplied to favored applicants The charges were investigated by the Civil-Service Commission and found to be substantiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention , he took it up , and , having satisfied himself of the Collector 's wrongdoing , applied the penalty by depriving him of his office . The action not only is important in itself , but also will serve as an impressive warning to other officials  --  and there are not a few of them  --  who have been " monkeying with the law . " The Democratic victory in Virginia , where Montague was elected Governor by about 25,000 majority , and his party will control both branches of the Legislature by an overwhelming vote , will put to rest some very troublesome doubts . The work of the Constitutional Convention has all along been hampered by the fear of what might happen in the November contest , and the reports of many committees have been held back pending the close of the campaign . Had the Republicans gained any ground , it might have been expected that they could at least have brought a moral pressure to bear in modifying the action of the Convention , but their utter rout leaves that body free to act its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proclamation of the Constitution , in place of its submission to the electorate . Of the two suffrage provisions now before the Convention , that supported by the majority of the Suffrage Committee gives far more latitude in excluding prospective voters than does the minority report , and it will beyond question be accepted . With this provision adopted by the Convention and the new Constitution proclaimed , the poor white may for the most part retain his ballot , but the negro will as a rule be disfranchised . That this result is expected may be gathered from the report that the negroes last week very generally refrained from voting . This inaction does not indicate , as some dispatches have it , a lack of interest in the outcome , but rather the knowledge that their vote was not likely to be counted . One good result of the Democratic victory will be the speedy termination of the work of the Constitutional Convention . ' While it is to be regretted that Philadelphia could not have matched New York in a triumph over corrupt politics , neither the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the reform forces . Both in the city and in the State the machine wag ' evidently too strongly intrenched to be routed in the first assault , but there is encouraging evidence that it has been weakened . Throughout the State the Republican machine majorities have been greatly reduced , and there is reason to believe that in Philadelphia the majority for the machine candidate for District Attorney is the result of police-protected fraud at the polls , rather than the expression of the honest vote of the citizens . That city is the stronghold of the Quay machine , and to overthrow it there will be the first step towards its overthrow in the State Good preliminary work to that end has been done . That Tammany can not only be beaten , but kept beaten , is demonstrated by comparing the results of the elections four years ago and this year in the Twentieth Assembly District , which is a tenement-house district on the East Side , and used to be a Tammany strong-hold : Here we have a district in which Tammany four years ago polled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year , on a larger poll , the Tammany lead on the Mayoralty is reduced to only 718 . Nor is this all , or the best . For District Attorney more than 200 Democrats who accepted Shepard repudiated Unger , and nearly all of them supported Jerome , who received 3,923 ballots , against 4,248 for the Tammany nominee , reducing the Tammany lead to 325 ; while Tammany was beaten for the office of Alderman , polling only 3,991 votes for the President of the present Board , running for reelection , against 4,168 for the Fusion nominee . The realization on the part of the press , of a number of clergymen , and of the most prominent social workers in the city that there must be a revision of the existing liquor laws and an abolition of the Raines-law hotels , is the most gratifying development since the election . We believe that many of the new . ly chosen Assemblymen from this city will also be found to favor a Sunday opening . All who have in any way looked into this question feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police force and permanent good government than the taking of the saloon out of politics . As long as the present law remains on the books , the moral welfare of the community is doubly menaced , since to the Raines-law hotels must be laid a large part of the menacing growth of the social evil under Tammany rule . That there will be opposition from country legislators to ' any general Sunday-opening law is to be expected , and it may , indeed , be war. , ranted by social conditions in the rural communities of the State . But with a practically united press , and such men as Messrs . Charles Stewart Smith , J. P. Faure , W. H. Baldwin , jr. , and Drs . Parkhurst and Rainsford ready to back Justice Jerome up in his efforts to bring about a change in the law , a local-option provision should not be beyond reach , under which New York city might vote on the question of opening the saloons on Sunday . The subject is one which demands a calm consideration of the issues involved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even prejudices , of all concerned . There are , however , some signs of heat in the local discussion of it . The adoption of the Marconi system of wireless telegraphy by the London Lloyds can hardly fail to prove the beginning of a change which will eventually revolutionize seafaring conditions . Steamships may have as ready communication with shore stations and other ships within a radius of a hundred miles as though they were connected with an electric wire . Sailing vessels , while their power to communicate would be limited by their small supply of electricity , would , if fitted with the Marconi system , be able to report a disaster to all similarly equipped vessels within a like radius The universal introduction of the wireless telegraph on ships  --  a consummation towards which the marine insurance companies , captains , and shippers will undoubtedly press urgently  --  should greatly reduce the number of casualties at sea . Even in the case of sudden and complete disaster , it would usually he possible for a sinking ship to report her latitude and longitude and the intended courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduction of wireless telegraphy on ships opens up need not be dwelt upon . One need only imagine ship bound to ship on the ocean as town is to town on land by the telephone , to perceive the probable significance of this commercial experiment . In a more imaginative aspect , the idea of an ocean over which a thousand messages vibrate is not without its mooted . Bug : ' gestiveness- - An unexpected and gratifying result of American industrial competition in Europe is the French-American school of industry which the Socialist Minister of Commerce proposes to found in this country . M Millerand , establishing a headquarters for the school at Philadelphia or Chicago , will seek the cooperation of our Government and of our great manufacturing companies . The movement is the highest kind of tribute , not only to the " audacity , inventive genius , and marvellous organization " of our great industries , but also , indirectly , to those technical schools which early realized that there was room for a distinct educational organization to mediate between pure science and rule-of-thumb . The plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the exaggerated proclamations of industrial war which amateur economists now particularly affect . The French Government evidently does not regard our skill and our recognized superiority in certain lines as a menace to its own industrial prosperity , but assumes that we are willing to share some of our special knowledge and accumulated advantages . Such an attitude shows a prevision of that future comity of nations which we have always held that a normal industrial competition should promote rather than imperil . The prompt and complete settlement of the Franco-Turkish dispute has lent little comfort to the sensation-mongers . It has confirmed the confidence of those who believed that the naval demonstration of Admiral ? Caillard was made with the full knowledge and advisement of all the chancelleries . France comes out of the matter with full satisfaction of all her claims for damages , and , beyond the original stipulations , a general permission for the present schools , monastic establishments , and hospitals under the charge of France to make for five months such alterations and extensions as they desire  --  a facility which has formerly been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful handling of the whole affair must inevitably reflect credit upon the Waldeck-Rousseau Ministry , for the call to arms is ever popular . The Ministry has won , besides , the more genuine prestige of finally shattering the superstition that the Ottoman Empire is exempt from the penalty of its chronic malfeasance . That this changed attitude of the Powers is fully recognized by the Parte , is indicated by the news that , hard upon the French settlement , long-standing Austrian claims against Turkey have been satisfactorily adjusted . A new argument against the Continental sugar-bounties has been advanced by -a Dutch- writer . He complains bitterly that they are helping England pay the cost of the Boer war . This leaves France and Germany and Belgium and Holland , countries where the South African war is most vehemently denounced , in the lamentable position of taxing themselves to pay the interest on the British war debt . The reasoning is not without force . In 1890 , for example , France and Germany paid on sugar exported to England bounties amounting to $18,000,000 . That sum was then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to put it , other nations had the sugar industry , but Eng land had the sugar . Since the war tax on sugar was laid , however , a part of the bounty goes directly into the British exchequer . The British consumer is , of course , worse off by so much , but imagine the feelings of Continental England-haters when told that they are , in effect , taxing themselves to aid in putting down the Boers . They will think it a fresh evidence of Albion 's perfidious slyness . What they ought to think is , of course , that it is a convincing proof of their own stupidity . It is possible that this new phase of the matter may open their eyes at last , and that the forthcoming Congress at Brussels to consider the abolition of sugar bounties may decide to end the whole system . The death of Li Hung Chang emphasizes the uncertainties of the Chinese situation , while it does not essentially alter the present condition of things . For some years past he had been transferred from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was called in only to settle complications in the making of which he had had no part . It was thus that his influence was preponderant in the Japanese settlement and in the negotiations with the European Concert now recently completed . It was this mediatorial office which Li Hung Chang exercised from the first . During the time when his association with Gordon and Ward , in the Taiping rebellion , was rais- - mg him from a minor position in the civil service to a generalcy , he came to know the Western temperament , and to foresee that mixture of peril and of advantage for China which lay in her inevitable contact with Western civilization . It was his part to guard his people against aggression , and even more to guard them against the excessive indulgence of their own anti-foreign prejudices He was naturally hampered in this effort , and frequently , when anti-foreign influences prevailed at the court , was in virtual disgrace But every time there was a treaty to be negotiated with a foreign Power , Li Hung Chang was the only thinkable representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curiously , never had full official recognition , was rather remarkable for his astuteness in keeping his nation out of- trouble , and in mending the mistakes of other men , than for any definte constructive policy of his own . The advance of Russia to the Yellow Sea was made , it was generally believed , with his connivance ; and whatever of good or ill is to come from the annexation of Mantchuria is probably to be laid in part at his door . Although he lacked the prestige that tangible success brought to Grant and Bismarck , his patient and wholly Oriental wisdom in a time of hesitation should make him equally memorable with them ; while for interest of a personal sort the inscrutable viceroy yields to no statesman of modern times .                     