@@485001

SIR : Will you kindly permit me to state a few facts in regard to the army canteen , and to point out some errors which have apparently led you into a disapproval of the institution incomprehensible to those acquainted with its origin , objects , and working ? It is conceded on all hands that the one thing which , above all others , shakes the discipline and paralyzes the effectiveness of any military organization , is drunkenness . Officers whose professional reputation depends upon the sobriety of their men , 0 . c , chiefs of companies and higher units , have , therefore , the strongest possible motive for putting down this vice , more or less prevalent in all armies . During the existence of the sutler and post-trader systems , our military service especially was noted for payday orgies , which , as regards the extent to which on occasions they affected entire companies and even larger bodies , beggar all description . Both the trader 's establishment within the post , vicious in the extreme on account of its debauching effects in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impeachment trial , and the vile haunts outside of the post limits , defied the efforts of company and higher commanders to prevent their soldiers from indulging in gross excesses Exposed , as the soldiers were , to the hardships incident to frontier service , and subsisting on a monotonous and at times insufficient diet , nearly all felt the occasional need of relaxation , which , in the lack of a resort affording rational and innocent recreation , they sought in the barroom of the trader-store or the low dives grouped about the post . The introduction of the canteen , which in foreign ( notably the Swedish and German ) armies had proved a potent instrumentality for promoting temperance and discipline , appeared to be the only-remedy for this most serious evil . After thorough inquiry into the subject , this was the conclusion , early in 1889 , of Secretary of War Endicott , and a few months later of his successor , Secretary ( now Senator ) Proctor ; and particularly the latter , once convinced by experiments at a few posts that the canteen , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , made him a more temperate , reliable , and efficient soldier , became its champion , and took the necessary steps for bringing about the gradual extinction of the post-trader system , now happily accomplished . As in the case of every contemplated reform , violent opposition to , the change arose , not only from the post-trader and liquor interests on the one hand , and from well-intentioned but badly informed temperance people on the other , but also from a part of the army itself , some of the older officers of which , always slow to approve innovations , honestly thought the canteen would prove ruinous instead of beneficial to the service . The War Department , however , remained firm in its support of the canteen , in the face of the clamor against it from all sides . And it speaks volumes for the institution that now , after the lapse of twelve Years , during which it has been tested under war as well as peace conditions , the army is practically unanimous in testifying to its great merits , and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in the United States The declared purpose of the canteen , officially known as the " post exchange , " which combines the features of reading and recreation rooms , a cooperative store , and a restaurant , " is to supply the troops at reasonable prices with the articles of ordinary use , wear , and consumption , not supplied by the Government , and to afford them means of rational recreation and amusement . " The sale or use of ardent spirits in any branch of the exchange , and in any encampment or fort or on any premises used for military purposes , is strictly prohibited , but , on the recommendation of the exchange council , the commanding officer may permit beer and light wines to be sold at the canteen by the drink whenever he is satisfied that giving to the troops the opportunity of obtaining such beverages within the post limits will prevent them from resorting for strong intoxicants to places without such limits , and tend to promote temperance and discipline among them . Your remarks on the canteen in the Nation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding of the subject . You speak of the soldiers drinking " Government " beer ; intimate that army officers who are unfavorably disposed towards the canteen hesitate to express them opinion , owing to the obvious bias of their superiors and the fear of having their communications pigeon-holed , point out that the trend in navies the world over is to discontinue the grog ration , and suggest that indulgence in light beer , to which the canteen ever tempts the soldier , stimulates his desire for stronger drink . An entirely different view of the matter is taken by army men of all ranks , the exceptions being so few as to be an almost negligible quantity They know that the beer dispensed in canteens is not provided by the Government , but by an association of the companies comprising garrison , whose members are the sole beneficiaries of profits realized on beer-sales , they contend that , unless a person in civil life may be properly restrained by law from drinking a glass of beer at his home or club , the same privilege can not rightly or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his post of duty ; they point to the large decrease , since the advent of the canteen , in the number of desertions as well as of all military offences traceable , directly or indirectly , to drunkenness , also to the marked reduction in the sick rate , as proofs positive that the canteen makes for sobriety , good morals , and good discipline ; they show that , admitting , for argument 's sake , the injurious effects of beer-drinking , even in moderate quantities ( the excessive use of beer in canteens is forbidden ) , soldiers on land can not be prevented from taking intoxicants , as may be the crews of war-vessels while at sea or even in port . Whatever sins may be laid at the door of the War Department , it can not in justice be charged with undue bias towards or the suppression of official criticisms concerning the canteen . From 1889 to the present time it has been at constant pains to keep itself informed of the details of canteen operations , and its refusal to sacrifice so beneficent an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gratitude of the army and country . Of course , " the law is supreme " ; and should Congress in its wisdom decide to put an end to the canteen , neither the War Department nor the army will seek to evade the decision , however deplorable may be its consequences . THEO . Sony-AN . ST . PAUL , MINN , December 17 , 1900 . LYNCHING . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : It would have added to the interest of Mr Lawton 's letter ( Nation , December 20 ) if he had cited some case of real lynching in theFar West " after the war of the rebellion . " His remark that , " for protection , people took the law into their own hands . " suggests that his allusion is to some procedure very different from lynching . Lynchers de not take the law into their hands . The extemporized courts that administered " frontier " justice gave every accused man a fair trial , and such were never molested if acquitted But lynchers hold no trial , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of their mad-dog passions . An enraged mob wants somebody to kill , and cares not whether it has the guilty man or not Apologetic reporters usually add ? " The man confessed his crime , " presuming , with too much reason , on popular ignorance and unreason . Usually the reports of confession are false , but in no case would a confession under such circumstances be of legal value unless legally proved to have been freely given , in unmistakable terms , and without any suggestion of possible clemency to be gained thereby Lynching will not cease until educated and conscientious people recognize in the lynchers mere vulgar murderers , particularly mean and cowardly murderers , who would fly like hounds if they knew their proposed victim was well enough armed to lay low his first assailants . MONCURE D CONWAY . NEW YORK , December 22 , 1900 THE SUCCESS OF THE PARIS EXPOSI-TION . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATioN SIR : In the Notion of October 11 , page 281 , you speak of the failure of the Exposition , IS not your explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Exposition has not been " an artistic and industrial success , " but " rather that the multitudinous holders of bonds secured by tickets to the Exposition will never get their money back . . The failure to pay the bonds will consequently bring disappointment to thousands of thrifty families which imagined that they were combining a conservative investment with a gambler 's chance . " By the terms of the bond , the price was to be refunded only if the Exposition did not take place . The purchaser acquired the right to twenty entrance tickets , a reduction of 25 per cent . in the entrance fee of every private exhibit , or a round-trip railway ticket at a reduction of one-third ; and the " gambler 's chance . " All of these contracts were fulfilled Of the sixty-five million tickets issued , about eighteen millions remained unused Had the Exposition been wholly ready when it was opened , on the 15th of April , more tickets would have been Heed , in which case the holder of a bond might have reso 'd his twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they may be said to have cost . Was not this also , however , a " gambler 's chance " ? Of the thirty million tickets issued in 1889 , more than 5 per cent were left uncancelled , and their price fell from twenty to ten cents , although the twenty-five-franc bond of that year is to be repaid in 1964 , the year in which the last drawing takes place . Is there not a confusion between the two issues ? A writer in La Nature of the 7th of April predicted that the number of entrances to the Exposition would be about fifty millions , basing his calculation upon ' a discovery that , since 1855 , the entrances at the succeeding Expositions had increased in a geometrical progression , of which the ratio was 178 . The following table explains his system . deleted table His conclusion was that the number in 1900 would not vary much from 5 x 1 784 , or 50 2 . At his request , B Picard , Commissioner-General of the Exposition , has Just given him the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , as 50,860,893 This approximates very closely to 50 2 millions A READER FOR MANY YEARS Pitexon , December 10 , 1900 