@@430338

 |p926  POLITICS in Utah nowadays differ but slightly from that feature of national life as it exists in the Northern States generally . There are the great national parties , with occasional political outgrowths from local causes , all finally adjusting themselves to the national line-up , preliminary to a recurrence of the outbreak . The distinction I have referred to in the case of Utah is where individuals having in view certain personal ends , and being unable to secure and retain political power with either of the national party organizations , have utilized an existing religious antipathy to attain ulterior purposes , for which otherwise they would gain little support . The strong prejudice which has prevailed in the minds of many people against the Latterday Saints , or Mormons. as they are commonly known , has made it comparatively easy for venal combinations to make of the anti-Mormon feeling a strong weapon . of war , no matter how unjustifiable may be a resort thereto . The conditions permitting this have received pliability in the fact that prior to 1890 there had been practically no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being composed chiefly of Mormons , the non-Mormons lining up with the Liberal party , and religious views being dragged into the conflict as political issues . Upon the formation of national party lines in Utah . in the early nineties , there was a general drift to the Democratic ranks , largely because of the national trend then prevailing in that direction . As the discussion of political issues became general , however , a readjustment followed , and in 1894 and 1895 Utah developed into a Republican State . This latter attitude was as natural as is the Republicanism of Pennsylvania , for , as  |p927  in the Keystone State , the dominating material issues are in favor of a protective tariff , so also are they in Utah . The great wool and lead industries , and the manufacturing interests , so important and potential the State , looked to the Republican protective policy for defense and encouragement . Hence it may be said that in the absence of any specialiv paramount issue operating to another result , Utah is logically a Republican State , tho the contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paramount issue swept the State into the Democratic procession in 1896 . The free - silver wave took in nearly every Western State ? some of them in more pronounced form than Utah . Against the free coinage of silver as a political battle-cry , the Republican party in Utah had barely one-sixth of the ballots cast in 1896 , and the first electoral vote of the State went to William J. Bryan . Again , in 1898 , the freesilver cry carried the Democrats to victory in Utah ? the Republican fight was hopeless so far as electing a candidate on e State ticket that year ? but the Democratic ticket had less than one-eighth of the majority it had in 1896 . Next , in the special election of March , 1900 , the Democrats won , but their majority was again cut away by more than two-thirds . The State was returning to the Republican fold , just as were the other States which had been caught by the " 16 to 1 " slogan . So it was that in the election of November , 1900 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign , the McKinley electors in Utah were successful by 2,000 plurality . In the elections of 1902 , 1904 and 1906 the Republican vote was farther augmented by the popularity of President Roosevelt 's administration . The Democratic Legislature chosen in 1898 failed to elect a United States Senator , and left Utah with only one representative in the Upper House of the national legislative body . Thus it came that when a Republican Legislature was chosen in 1900 a Senator was to be elected for the remaining four years of an unexpired term . There were a number of candidates , among them ex-Senator Arthur Brown , William S. McCormick , George M. Cannon , Arthur L. Thomas and Thomas Kearns . I had strong supporters for the place , and two years before had received the complimentary vote of the Republican minority in the Legislature for United States Senator , but I declined to be a candidate for the unexpired term . A vigorous contest was carried on by those who were candidates ; thru the support of prominent friends , some of them Mormons and some not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kearns secured 19 votes , a majority of the caucus , and was accordingly elected . Most of the people acquiesced quietly , but there was exhibited considerable dissatisfaction , especially among the nonMormon element of the population . These expressions of dissent grew more vehement as time wore on , so that two years later there was a strong antiKearns feeling among the non-Mormon citizens , causing a large defection in the Republican vote in 1902 , tho not sufficient to defeat the party in the State . In the . spring of 1902 I announced my candidacy before the Legislature to be elected that year as successor to Senator J. L. Rawlins , if the Republican party 928 THE INDI  |p928  won ? which I , like every other active Republican worker , hoped it would do . There were no other openly avowed candidates on the Republican side , as there were none on the Democratic side except Senator Rawlins . But there was much talk of candidates under cover , and of a scheme by Senator Kearns to turn , at a critical moment , his official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my being a Mormon as a weapon , in the interests of a candidate of his own . One such reputed candidate tinder cover was Perry S. Heath , then manager of the Salt Lake Tribune , and secretary of the Republican National Committee , a man recognized as of much greater ability , reliability and respectability than Senator Kearns : another was David Keith . Mr. Kearns 's business partner , president of the Salt Lake Tribune Company , and wealthy ? accredited with some attainments superior to those of Senator Kearns , yet having less force and cunning , and consequently subservient to him . When a Republican Legislature was assured the war against me began . on the matter of religion , just as my friends had anticipated and prepared for . There also were efforts on the part of Senator Kearns to draw in the Chief Magistrate of the nation , as assuming to defeat me and dictate the election of a Senator from Utah . Yet . absolutely without undue influence or pressure , or anything in the slightest degree of questionable propriety . I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Utah , being the undoubted choice of the people of the State . Then came the campaign for my unseating , religious prejudices being aroused against me to a remarkable degree of intensity for this age ? and all thru the most glaring misrepresentations and vilification by Senator Kearns 's defeated machine . The result is known to the world ? that the United States Senate was not swayed from its high and honorable position by the narrowness of . misguided religious intolerance or the malevolence of a defeated political aspirant for supreme power , whose repudiation by his State came in the election of 1906 , when a non-Mormon representative citizen , Senator George Sutherland . vas chosen to succeed ' Senator Kearns . This brings me to a further brief explanation of the distinction noted at the beginning of this article as existing between politics in Utah and other States . The effort to engraft this distinctive feature upon national politics was defeated conclusively and for all time by the vote of the United States Senate on February 20th , 1907 . The work now remaining ? and nearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accord with the national sentiment . It was introduced there in late years by means of the wealth of Thomas Kearns and the influence he had attained thru being honored by election as United States Senator . Failing in his effort to dominate without let or hindrance the politics of Utah , he began a campaign to bend or destroy some of those who , not bowing to his will , preferred to exercise freely their rights as American citizens . Being unable to gain control of the Republican State Convention in Utah in 1904 , and thus to insure his re-election to the United States Senate , he organized a new political party , to which he gave the name American , tho it was utterly unAmerican in its intolerant and improper aims and dishonorable methods . It was hoped by its sponsors that the new organization would cause such serious defections from the Republican party as to give the State to the Democrats : but it slid not do so , and therein was its first failure . In the municipal campaign in Salt Lake City in 1905 there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and American . By a long period of bitter calumniation thru a once-powerful newspaper ? the Salt Lake Tribune ? there were gathered into the ranks of the last-named party all whom the voice of bigotry and anti-Mormon antipathy could reach ; many comparatively new residents of the city , having come from the Eastern sections of the country during recent years . were imbued with a dislike for Mormons , and not being thorolv informed , were beguiled into the new camp ; that class of political hangers-on which looks upon office as a means of graft also was lined up therein . This three-cornered contest resulted in the so-called American party slipping between the Republicans and Democrats  |p929  and electing its municipal ticket . Its administration has been one of woeful incompetency , as that of hybrid organizations usually is its unsavory policies have made those well-meaning but misguided citizens who once supported it pay clearly for their whistle , and they are anxious to bury it and all memory of its noisome exhalations . It made an effort in 1906 to capture the county in which Salt Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attempt to seize the Salt Lake City school board machinery , but the people jolted it with defeat . It came into existence thru the circumstances stated , and by its destruction , which of necessity is close at hand , there will be removed the only feature which can be interpreted as having made Utah politics appear different from the politics of other States . The elimination of this distinction being already practically assured ? and that chiefly thru the beneficial influence of the United States Senate 's action herein referred to ? politics in Utah and politics in the various States of the Union generally are henceforth in perfect accord . Utah is hand in hand with the nation at large . As to the relative prospects of the great political parties in Utah , they are about the same as in the nation as a unit . The Democratic outlook does not appear to have an exhilarating influence upon the adherents of that party ? at least not at present . As for the Democrats of Utah , however , I am impelled to the conclusion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rank and file among them are possessed of keener political insight and a greater degree of wisdom and independent judgment than appears to be exhibited by their party associates in some of the older States . The Republican party outlook in the State is encouraging ; its officials are giving conservative , energetic , economical and generally good administrations . Sometimes it has made the mistake of electing men who , when inducted into office , have felt themselves too exalted for the humble citizen to approach ; but the man who imagines that the honors of office make him greater than the merely representative citizen he was intended to be , would better hie himself to some other than the field of politics in this land where the people rule . just as the Republican party keeps in touch with the needs and wishes of the people ? the great body of the commonwealth ? and thereby retains their confidence and esteem , the brightness of its prospect for continued control will be determined . The electorate of Utah is forceful , thoughtful and independent . This is true of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for in Utah women have the franchise . and exercise it freely and intelligently as do their brother voters . The Australian system provides a secret ballot ; but apart from this the people are as frank , open and independent in expressing their views thru the ballot box as are the inhabitants of any commonwealth in the Union . They can not be coerced ; nor does any one try it . There is no effort at influencing them except such as may be found in every State along purely political lines . Mormons , Jews , Catholics , Episcopalians , Congregationalists and other religionists , and professors of no religion , are candidates and are elected to and hold office without discrimination , except in the one city administration which is controlled by the so-called American party , where a religious test bars Mormons and some other good citizens ; this intolerant element is vanishing . however , before the broad and en- . lightened spirit of true Americanism. which everywhere condemns religious disqualifications for office . Thruout the State there is a free and fair field for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have something to say about politics . This condition is probably more directly applicable to the non-Mormon organizations than to the Mormons , for there have been so many assaults made upon the latter that silence on political matters , in church meetings , has become the rule . But I am not a believer in closing the mouth of the preacher , whether he be for or against me. , I think he is often a poor politician , and a poorer statesman , by reason of the fact that he is too apt to look at questions exclusively from the standpoint of his creed . But all are not so narrow ; and often there come from that source suggestions of paramount importance . Besides , it is better for the preacher to speak right out with as per-  |p930  feet freedom from restraint as any other citizen . Then his expressions receive just the weight they are entitled to as coming from the citizen . But let him be muzzled so he has to express his views under his breath , or in mysterious utterances , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen to one of greater or less occult force , according as certain questions may disturb his congregation . So let the preacher have and express his opinion the same as every other citizen , while he seeks to be decent and truthful . That I find to be be the common sentiment in this State , as I am informed it is elsewhere . The people of Utah are not " dumb , driven cattle . " They are devoted to schools . They think . They are uniformly sober and industrious . They are owners of their own homes to a larger extent than the people of any other State . They are as highly cultured as any other commonwealth in the land . They are ambitious for material progress . They foster education and the arts . They have developed character and American manhood . They compare in morality and material results with any people on the continent . All this makes them good citizens . In the field of politics they are a fit and worthy part of the great republic . They have laid the foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brother Americans in other parts of the country to join with them , and hand in hand work out its great destiny as a bright star in the glorious galaxy comprised in the American Union of States .                     