@@430413

The third volume of the Publications of the Champlain Society maintains the high standard of excellence established by the preceding ones . As these successive volumes appear , the regret on the part of the book-buying public will increase that the Champlain Society does not reserve a few of each issue for the public market , so that separate volumes may be purchased without the necessity of subscribing to the entire series . In the case of publications so unique as the present work , it should be quite possible to dispose of a few hundred copies to students who find the annual dues of the society almost prohibitive . The conception of the present volume arose from the fitness of the editor to produce such a work , rather than from the reverse process , more usual in societies , of deciding to publish a volume and then selecting an editor . The result is that this collection of documents is the product of a mind well trained for the work , and not the customary assemblage of illustrative material of slight coherence , bound within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well written Introduction , and in the selection of documents , Professor Munro has presented to the public a unified picture of Canadian Feudalism in all its essential aspects , from its inception to its abolition in 1854 . The . editor has already published the results of his researches in this field in his monograph on " The Seigniorial System in Canada , " in the Harvard Historical Studies . We should not expect , therefore , and do not and , much that is new in the Introduction ; in fact , the aim has been to illuminate the printed documents rather than to make a study of the problems presented by Canadian Feudalism . Hence there is sufficient justification for the moderate use of footnotes and the avoidance of monographic style in the volume . Professor Munro may be counted among the adherents of the " new school " of American historians , if the movement among the leaders of our younger historians may be dignified by such a name . The scholars of this movement are not distinguished from their predecessors so much by a difference in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new facts in American history , as by their point of view and the facts which they select for emphasis . In the present case , the comparison between Parkman 's interpretation of Feudalism and that of Professor Munro is inevitable . Although Parkman 's " Old Regime in Canada " appeared in 1874 , it has held its place among scholars , and on our college reference-shelves , as the final word , for English readers , on Canadian Feudalism , until the present time . So much is this the case that it is a common saying among Canadian historians that no important work on their history has been done since Parkman . There can be no question of Parkman 's industry in collecting the material for his studies ; for anyone who has followed him closely realizes that very little escaped him , and that the facts of the subject were well known to him . Nor can there be a question of his honesty . After collecting his material he has tried to give a judicious interpretation ; and it is here that he has failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation lie those New England experiences which had become so much a part of his consciousness that they were never dispelled by his travels . His judgment is provincial , not cosmopolitan . To him , French Canada spells absolutism , ecclesiasticism , and feudalism ; and out of these have developed the institutional history of the northern province . Professor Munro , on the contrary , sets himself the task of discovering the causes of the peculiar institutions of Canada , and what were the elements of strength which made them fitted to survive in the primeval forest . He does not find in the conquest of the French colonies by England a reason for condemning their institutional system ; but rather is he interested in the " remarkable defensive vigour of New France , " the reason of which was this : " New France derived advantage from the homogeneity of her population , her unity of interest and purpose , and her policy of diverting all political , social , and economic development into those channels which were considered most conducive to military efficiency . " This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory which she was attempting to control , wherein the conditions were not unlike those existent in Western Europe during the ninth and tenth " centuries . " A comparatively small body of French colonists , surrounded on all sides by active enemies both white and red , unable at any time to rely upon aid from without , and dependent for their very existence upon their own military efficiency , might well have found in a system of feudal organization an institution well adapted to colonial conditions . " ( Introduction , pp. xvrii. and xtx . ) Starting with this new view-point , Professor Munro has been able to make a new interpretation of Canadian Feudalism . When the selection of documents to be published has been so carefully made as in this volume , the reviewer should be cautious in criticizing . The mass of materials passed under review has been enormous , and the final choice of those to be printed was reached only after a due consideration of the needs of various classes of students . The omission of certain documents is therefore easily defended . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chosen to include some of the decisions in lawsuits handed down by the Intendants or the Superior Council . In these , the existing system is better displayed than in charters , edicts , dispatches , or instructions , such as have been selected . This is peculiarly the case in the economic relations of the seigneurs to their habitants , a phase of the system that has been somewhat neglected by the editor in this volume . The institutions of Canada were not always what the French government desired , nor what the magistrates of New France chose to describe . For the actual workings of Canadian Feudalism , therefore , it will be necessary to supplement the study of this volume with careful research in documents of a different kind , which are easily available in printed form , a fact which may justify their omission here . Professor Munro has not attempted to translate the French documents , since " a perfect translation would tax the knowledge of a trained jurist as well as the literary skill of a historical scholar . " It seems to the reviewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than an excuse for its omission . The special knowledge of the editor would have then been available for the interpretation of these extremely technical but valuable documents . and would have justified the extension of the work to two volumes if necessary . These criticisms are , after all , due to a difference of opinion , and in no way touch the scholarly method of the editor . The volume is an excellent example of American scholarship , bound and printed in a dignified style ; and the Champlain Society is to be congratulated on the success of its undertaking . Should succeeding volumes reach the level of scholarship of the first three , the society 's publications will form one of the most important collections of source material issued in America .                     