@@486581

Secretary MacVeagh was certain to be attacked by the straiter  --  not excluding the crookeder  --  sect of Republicans , and rumors of the coming fray are already heard in Washington . The Secretary 's low-tariff speech at Boston is his latest offence . Just fancy having a man in a Republican Cabinet who does not believe that the Payne tariff is a blessed finality ! This is sad enough , but Mr. MacVeagh goes from bad tariff doctrine to worse principles of administration . Senators grow purple with rage as they say to each other : " Why , the man is trying to run the Treasury just as if it were a first-class business house ! " He is making his own appointments , and making them , what is more , on the ground of efficiency , and with cool disregard of the politicians . The grossest outrage of which he has been guilty consists in selecting an Assistant Secretary who comes from Boston , and in neither consulting nor notifying the Massachusetts Senators . This is almost enough to make Lodge lose faith in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his discredited State machine a necessary part . We presume that the fight on Secretary MacVeagh will not be so open or ferocious as some of the Washington correspondents are Predicting , but the mere threat of it shows what a red rag to the standpatters is any programme of reform . Not long ago , an Ohio Democratic committeeman wailed in this city over the lost opportunities of Gov . Harmon . With Republicans still in appointive. offices all over the State , and hungry politicians of his own party unfed , what hope could there be for Democrats in the elections of next year , or what chance that he could control the delegation of Ohio in the next national convention ? But the people of Ohio have just found out how their Governor has ' been using his time . The grafters who have been filling their purses and paying political debts through the manipulation of State funds have discovered in ' Gov . Harmon an official whom they can neither deceive nor frighten . He now has in his office safe incriminating documents which legislative committees had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds carried on the books as in the vaults of the treasurer 's office , the payment of private commissions to officials purchasing supplies for the State , and other frauds upon the people .. No Ohio Republican with a reputation to preserve is any longer scoffing at the demand for a complete exposure of recent Republican Administrations . To carry the State against Gov . Harmon in 1910 would be no easy task under the best circumstances , but to go into the campaign under the burden either of a denial of the frauds which he has established , or of an attempt to impede further disclosures , would mean the sure sacrifice of Republican hopes in Ohio for years to come . Attorney-General Wickersham 's speech at the Pennsylvania Society 's dinner , in New York Saturday night , contained this interesting passage : As the statutes of the United States vest in him complete control over all such prosecution , he is constantly importuned to interfere with indictments or prosecutions , particularly in cases where proceedings are brought or threatened against persons of high social standing or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not bi Properly influenced by considerations of the wealth or position of the offender is of course , axiomatic . Mr. Wickersham 's reference to the requests to keep his hands off , because of the social or political position of the parties concerned , piques curiosity . Which Trust has indulged in " importunity " on this broad ground ? The Attorney-General may have had the Sugar Trust in mind ; or he may have been dropping a quiet hint to certain other projected combinations of which the plans were awkwardly upset by last month 's Circuit Court decision , and which may have been fishing for assurances of immunity from interference , if they go ahead with their undertakings . To describe the argument for ignoring such appeals as " axiomatic " is to put the case , from the Department 's point of view , about as plainly as could be done . It means that there are no arguments on the other side to which intelligent men will listen . Last Friday 's estimate on the cotton crop of 1909 by the Department of Agriculture was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 000 bales , was virtually down to the level of the crop of 1903 , which was itself inadequate for the spinning trade 's needs of that period  --  this in face of the fact that the estimated " world 's annual requirements " of American cotton are to-day nearly 2,000,000 bales larger than in 1903 Not only was this estimate lower by half a million to a million bales than had been generally expected , but it was a quarter of a million bales below the personal estimates previously given out by the leaders in the cotton market 's " bull speculation , " who had every motive to spread belief in the lowest possible figure . But hardly less surprising than the estimate itself was the cotton market 's reception of it . When the estimate appeared , cotton had been selling close to 15 cents a pound , and speculators had been excitedly predicting 17 to 20 cents . But instead of rushing up sensationally on the news , the cotton market , after a brief advance on Friday , actually declined next day . This could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the abnormally high existing price had " discounted " very much in the way of low estimates , and , secondly , that the Government 's figures were distrusted There is some reason for distrusting them  --  quite apart from the fact that they fall so far below virtually every other forecast . For one thing , the Agricultural Department almost invariably underestimates a cotton crop , and its errors have of late years been very large . Its estimate of last December ran a million bales below the subsequently ascertained crop ; in 1906 it was also a million bales below the facts ; in 1904 , a million and a half ; in 1901 , a million . In 1907 and 1903 its guess was fairly accurate , but those were conspicuous exceptions . - In the present instance , there is reason to look skeptically at the Government figures on other grounds , particularly because of the small yield which it allots to cotton States on the Atlantic seaboard , where the damaging weather influences which impaired the crop of the Gulf States and the Mississippi Valley did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole is actually short , nobody doubts ; and the state of the cotton trade is difficult enough without any overemphasizing of gloomy calculations . Had the stock of cotton on hand at the opening of the season been so low as it was in 1903 , and had foreign producers , such as Egypt and India , done as poorly this year as then , conditions would be disastrous . Fortunately , supplies of old cotton were this year nearly a million bales above those of 1903 , and foreign crops appear to have turned out exceptionally well . James J. Hill 's continued warnings about our failing food supply are really a plea for scientific farming . Intensive culture and the utilization of every ounce of energy stored up in food , must make up for the increasing pressure of population and the diminishing areas of cheap and unoccupied land : This subject was touched upon in the presidential address delivered before the Society of Animal Nutrition at Chicago last month , and just printed in the last number of Science . A strong point was made of closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm . Just as the miner seeks to work low-grade ore , so will the farmer of the future endeavor to prevent the waste of " available energy contained in oat hulls , corn cobs , and the like . " It is somewhat anomalous to have such minor savings urged upon us at the very time when , as the President assures us , the country is in a " high state of prosperity . " But the true moral is that upon which Mr. Hill insists , namely , that no prosperity can long endure which depends upon exhausting the soil and ignoring the applications of science to agriculture . It has for years been the rule in the event of a crime in certain portions of the South , to arrest the nearest negroes , and examine them afterward , if they are not previously lynched . But we do not recall , outside of Russia or Turkey , any happening similar to that in Savannah , where two hundred negroes have been rounded up and placed in jail merely on suspicion that they might be connected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injury to a third . The injured woman lived long enough to accuse her own husband of the crime and the evidence against him is multiplying . This , we must say , leaves the Savannah officers of the law in a singularly unfortunate position . If colored persons had in the courts there the standing to which they are entitled , there would be many suits for illegal arrest and imprisonment of innocent persons . But being only " niggers , " the injured know full well that this redress is denied them ; they can take satisfaction only in the fact that they are still unlynched and that the superior race is itself indicted . The necessity of a law making it a criminal offence , subject to heavy penalty , for the driver of an automobile to run away after knocking down a human being is once more brought out by a distressing occurrence , when a faithful trolley switchman , who had been in the employ of the Brooklyn company for thirty-five years , was killed at his post of duty . The chauffeurs , fortunately in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police force , have been caught ; and their explanation , so far as the running away is concerned , is that they were too frightened to stop . That is just where a proper law in the case would come in ; it would make them too frightened to run away . It should provide a punishment of a long term of imprisonment for that act taken in itself , and irrespective of the seriousness of the injury inflicted on the victim . Then there would be some hope that what common decency does not effect would be accomplished by fear of consequences . Of course , this is not all that needs to be done . Real punishment for violation of the speed laws is imperatively demanded ; and there must be more effective regulations to enable people to identify swiftly-moving automobiles , especially at night . Cornell 's ultimatum to the football magnates that the game must be reformed or abolished , coming as it does on top of a similar decision by the twelve Eastern Jesuit colleges , must send cold shivers down their spines . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so determined . The old absurd theories that this is not a matter for faculties and presidents to meddle with ; that a college could not afford to do away with football for fear of driving its students elsewhere ; that the risks of football enhance its value and are inseparable from any manly sport , have entirely lost their utility in misleading the public . Cornell , like the rest of the university world , has seen Columbia flourish without football . Its faculty is , moreover , wise enough to see that , bad as the evils on the playing fields are , they are no ? worse than the physical and mental idleness among the students who look on , and the false standards of what is really worth while set up among the undergraduates . The Jesuit colleges have at last found their voices to denounce the recruiting of students expressly for athletic purposes , and the other evils of professionalism . They could have pointed them out years ago . But we who have so long called for this uprising against football would not now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that what we are really witnessing is the long-desired awakening , not so much of the public as of the collegiate governing bodies . It is gratifying to find that in the Nobel prize distribution for 1909 , the names of people well-off in worldly goods are not over-plenty . William Marconi , who gets half the physics prize , could probably get along without the twenty thousand dollars , and the Baron d'Estournelles de Constant , who receives , and deservedly receives , the peace prize , is described as fond of yachting and automobiling . The other beneficiaries are two German professors , a Swiss professor , and a Swedish authoress , none of whom is apt to be rolling in wealth even when the persons in question are of such international repute as Wilhelm Ostwald , or of such wide European fame as Selma Lagerldf . The latter is the third woman to receive the Nobel prize since its foundation . Bertha von Suttner won the peace prize a few years ago , with her anti-militarist novel , and Mine . Curie shared the annual physics prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who is known in this country by a volume or two of short stories , the prize for idealism in literature goes more appropriately , perhaps , than to some of the men of far greater reputation upon whom it has been bestowed , Kipling or Sienkiewicz , for instance . Her studies of peasant life in her own country have the glow of patriotism and piety which seems essential to give a writer national rank By the will of the late Francis Lathrop , the Metropolitan Museum gains conditionally a new department . His Japanese prints and wood-block books Mr. Asquith 's Albert Hall speech is a ringing manifesto of the Liberal Party 's rights and purposes . It does not err on the ground of timidity . It does not hesitate , for instance , to come out strongly for self-government for Ireland . It disclaims any intention to do away with the House of Lords , but makes it very plain that its survival is to be conditioned on repentance and good behavior . The supremacy of the Commons is no longer to be left to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down in black and white into an act of Parliament . The Liberal Premier 's speech contains the ready answer to Mr. Balfour 's argument that such action as the Lords have taken on the budget is the nation 's only resource against the tyrannies of an unbridled Lower House Mr Asquith asks that the life of a single Parliament be restricted to five or even four years . A House of Commons that runs wildly counter to the will of the people can thus be brought to speedy ac-count . It remains for the Liberal ora-tors to drive home the point Mr. As-quith insisted on Monday night , that under present circumstances no Liberal Minister can assume the burdens of government without assurance that his will not be nullified by the There is a beautifully mathematical simplicity that is almost un-English about the first forecasts of the kind of tariff the British Unionist party will enact , if it is successful in next month 's elections . All imports not regarded as raw materials will be moderately taxed ? a 5 per cent . duty on partly manufactured goods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more advanced stage of completion , a 15 per cent . duty on completely manufactured goods . Now we come to specific instances . Foreign wheat will pay a duty of two shillings a quarter or about six cents a bushel ; from which we gather that wheat under the new tariff dispensation will take on the nature of a partly manufactured commodity . Other imports , partly or completely manufactured , that will pay duty , are flour , bacon , and maize . Inasmuch as , under the present system , tea , coffee , sugar , tobacco , dried fruits , and wine already pay a tax , it is quite apparent how tariff reform is going to put more bread and meat into the mouth of the British workingman . The way of all tariffs is uniform . They set out to create a dozen blessings and do away with a dozen evils , and their end is always that the daily pursuit of bread and meat and clothes for the masses of the people grows arduous to the point where . the cry for relief can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , or in " protected " America . The first speech of the new German Chancellor in the Reichstag bore out the indications of his policy that he had privately intimated Herr BethmannHollweg announced tha . he would not attempt government by party  --  meaning , of course , groups of parties He declared that the Empire needed steady and consistent policies which would be impossible if the Government had all the while to be making arrangements with shifting parties in order to get its measures adopted . This must not be taken as too serious an assertion of absolutism on the part of the Kaiser and his Ministers It is , indeed , a definite turning away from the bloc strategy of Von Billow , but the practical question remains , " How is the Government to get its majority in the Reichstag ? " We are not speaking now of a vote of confidence or of a responsible Ministry  --  both as yet out of the question in Germany ? but of obtaining supplies . Neither its taxation nor other schemes can the Government carry without somehow rallying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes to do it , we shall probably find the new Chancellor forced to adopt the party bargaining from which not even Bismarck could escape . The latest step in the Russian Government 's campaign against Finland is the appointment of the Grand Duke Nicholas , one of the firmest pillars of Russian reaction , to the supreme control over affairs in that land . Under him will be the governor-general and the crowd of military officials whom the Czar 's Government has foisted upon the people of the Grand-Duchy precisely as in Von Plehve 's day six years ago . The conflict has been raging for some time , and the Finns have shown their usual courage and resourcefulness . ' I heir diets have been dissolved three times in four years ; their Senates have resigned rather than play into the hands of Russia , and it may even be that in the last resort the people will venture to try their strength against the Cossacks . At the same time , the Government at St. Petersburg , flushed by its success in stifling a revolution and taming a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The right of the Czar 's Cabinet to legislate on matters of common interest to Russia and Finland is now to be extended so as to include not only the army , posts and railways , and customs , but the maintenance of public order , the regulation of judicial procedure , and all legislation affecting the rights of association , freedom of the press , and public meeting . Russian " order " and " freedom of speech " for Finland would mean the extinction of the last spark of liberty in the Czar 's domains . 