@@485059

official guilty would abound , and meanwhile the Chinese empire itself would be in a state of unrest , awaiting the decision . The situation would be one of the greatest delicacy  --  one- whichooiight by all means to be " avoided . Assuming that the Chinese Government would refuse such a preliminary condition , and that war would- follow , the conclusion of it Would almost ! certainly be a partition of China , or at all events of the Chinese coast line , among the Powers . That this would not be unwelcome to Germany we may infer from the ' teps she took at Kiao-Chau Bay , and the reasons she assigned for it . She said , through the mouth of her Minister of Foreign Affairs , that while she did not desire a partition of China , she was determined , if it should-come , ' CO. have a strategical position which would enable her to exercise a decisive influence . Looking at all that has gone before , it is hardly to be doubted that Germany put forward her proposal for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasten the event which she contemplated when she seized Kiao-Chau Bay . The United States ha 's no interests looking that way . Our po , licy is that of the open door , not half a dozen doors that may be opened or shut according to the will of half a dozen Pow= ers . For these reasons the answer of our Government , courteously declining the German proposal , should be , and we think will be , sustained by all parties at home . The chorus of disapproval of our answer which comes from Europe ( except Russia ) ought to strengthen our purpose , and cause us to adhere to it more firmly than ever . It is said by our foreign critics , including Englishmen , that we are detaching ourselves from the concert of the Powers , thus weakening it , and , as one Berlin newspaper remarks , " increasing Chinese presumption and insolence . " Detaching ourselves from the concert of the Powers , after accomplishing the rescue of the legations , is simply reverting to the policy of George Wash- ' ington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World . Althougli4'we have done some despite to the early and safe traditions which proved so salutary in the first century of our existence , every opportunity to revert to - them ought to be embraced . In the present instance we are invited to join in a demand which can not be sustained in the forum of public law , a demand which points to war with China and possible complications with other Powers . No fairer occasion than this could be conceived for paying homage to the teachings of the fathers of the republic by retiring as speedily as possible from China , and in general minding our awn business . We have made a great deal of money by following this policy , and we have lost muclat during the past two years by neglecting it . If itbe said that ' this is a sordid way of looking at great questions of national import , that we have missionaries to protect in the interior of China , etc. , let it be remembered that we forfeit nothing on that score by declining the ' German proprosat and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A CONTRAST . The morning newspapers of a week ago contained a fine piece of irony in the juxtaposition they presented of two telegrams from Manila . One was an official communication from the Taft Commission representing the fading condition of the " rebellion " in the Philippines , together with , assurances that if Mr. McKinley were reelected , the insurgents would disperse and peace and quietness would reign within sixty days . The other was an Associated Press dispatch saying that during the past seven days there had been a distinct increase of activity among the rebels , " particularly near Manila , " , and that an engagement took place on the previous Monday between ninety of our soldiers and one . thousand of the enemy , in which we lost twelve killed , twenty-six wounded , and five missing , who are supposed to be dead Aniong the killed are Capt . David D. Mitchell and Lieut . George A Cooper of the Fifteenth Infantry , well-known officers , who had just arrived in the Philippines with the men of their regiment . The telegram stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were rumors of a fresh attack on the railroad , that ref agees were arriving from the country , that several garrisons and outposts had been attacked , the telegraph offices had been destroyed , the village of Rosario burned , a convoy of provisions attacked , the wagons burned , and five of the escort were missing . This report was officially confirmed by Gen. MacArthur , who adds the comment that a loss of thirty-three per cent . of the men engaged is profoundly impressive . It appears that in this instance the enemy 's loss was less than our own , and that our men were forced to withdraw . It is a long time since we have had such a bloody and disastrous record . Of course we usually gain the victory , the insurgents are put to flight , and the dead arecovered with glory . The condition of the island of Luzon , as here depicted , is strikingly like that foretold by Mr. Foreman in his late article in the National Review , on . which we commented last week . We will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign document . It was drawn out by a cablegram from Secretary Root , dated August 17 , which called for a report by cable on several things . Among others it requested a report on " the probable continuance of guerrilla warfare , - and the influences operating to prolong it . " This was as plain a hint as could be given , and it was promptly responded to . The answer was cabled from Manila on the 21st of August . It had been in Washington month , and was made public at this time for its influence on the election . The whole scheme is betrayed in the follow ? ing paragraph : " If election confirms present policy , remnant of insurrection will disappear within sixty days by surrender of leaders and fading out of rank and file . " This confident prediction is preceded by a rather glowing account of the soothing effects of the recent amnesty proclamation on the temper of the Filipinos . We are told that on the 21st of August the insurgents , who had not actually surrendered , had divided up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent leaders had been captured or had voluntarily taken the oath of allegiance , and that " all northern Luzon , except in Nueva Ecija and Balucan , is substantially free from insurgents . " This halcyon condition of the 21st of August is now proved to have been an entire misrepresentation . A force of one thousand men can not be considered a guerrilla band . The destruction of life and property chronicled by3Ithe Associated Press under date of Septerabgt 19 is entirely inconsistent with the peaceful and submissive state of the Filipino mind which Judge Taft and his associates found existing on the 21st of August . Yet we are bound to believe that these gentlemen honestly believed all that they said . They were simply deceived by appearances , which have misled so many officials in civil and military life before them . In other words , they have not had the personal knowledge which Mr. Foreman has had , gained by long residence and observation . They have not had the experience which the Spanish officials had acquired from time immemorial . They have hazarded an opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was printed . Mr. Foreman said , in his article in the National Review , that unless the members of the Taft Commission were familiar with the Spanish language , they could nat obtain any real knowledge of the situation which they had to deal with . It is needless to say that Mr. McKinley 's political prospects will not , be advanced by the dismal contrast presented in the two cablegrams from Manila . If the American people were to vote this year on the situation in the Philippines , without reference to things nearer home , this attempt to work the Taft Commission for political ends , and the refutation of their report which the press dispatches bring in letters of blood , could not fail to be disastrous . We do not anticipate any considerable change of votes now . Mr. McKinley will be reelected , if this be his destiny , in spite of his Philippine policy , and not in , consequence of it . We do not believe that the so-called rebellion will cease in consequence of his reelection any more than we believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for that/reason . Their opposition is based not solely , not chiefly , on sympathy with a distant people fighting for liberty , but upon their apprehensions of the deadening influence of Imperialism abroad upon American principles , thoughts , habits at home . Since the reelection of Mr. McKinley will not change the character and consequences of this ill-starred and bloodstained adventure , they will not cease their opposition to it . By and by the nation will grow sick and tired of the expense , the suffering , and the bad example that we offer to the world ; and when it is discovered , as it surely will be , that there is " no money in it , " that all the visions of wealth which have been dangled before our eyes ( for the thousandth time in the Taft " report " itself ) are unreal and delusive , it will not be regarded as such a dreadful thing to haul down the flag from a place where it ought never to , have been raised . - LESSONS OF THE CENSUS . The present indications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country on the let day of last June was a little less than 75,000,000 . The increase during the last decade in the 127 cities which had been reported up to the middle of last week was 4,424,000 , as against an increase in the same places during the ten years preceding 1890 of 4,479,000 , or about 55,000 less . In 1890 these 127 cities contained about two-ninths of the entire population of the country , which was then 62,622,250 . At the same ratio , the gain in population for the entire country will be about a quarter of a million less than the 12,466,467 between 1880 and 1890 . If the same ratio of increase , as compared with the decade from 1880 to 1890 , which is shown for the places thus far counted prevails throughout the rest of the country , the total population will be somewhere between 74,800,000 and 74,900,000 . Of course , if it shall turn out that the smaller towns and the country districts have grown more rapid : - ly in the last ten years , relatively to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended in 1890 , the population may be larger than the present returns indicate . On the other hand , if the increase in the rural and semi-rural districts has been less rapid in comparison with the cities than formerly , the total population of the country on the 1st of June will prove to have been not so great as now seems probable . Apparently the region beyond the Missouri River , exclusive of Oklahoma , has increased very slowly ; in ? population during the last decade . The figures for thirteen of the large cities of that sec tion have been made public by the Census Office . They are Topeka and Kan : . sas City , Kan. ; Omaha , South Omaha , and Lincoln , Neb. ; Denver and Pueblo , Vol. ; Salt Lake City , Utah ; Portland , Ore. ; and San Francisco , - Oakland , and Sacramento , Cal . In 1890 these places were returned as having an aggregate population of 880,178 . In 1900 they are reported to have 1,029,318 ? an increase of 149,140 , or at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their rapid growth from 1880 to 1890 makes the present figures the more striking . Twenty years ago these thirteen cities had 432,661 inhabitants . The increase during the next ten years , if the census figures of 1890 were accurate , was 447 , - 517 , or at the rate of about 103 per cent . The truth is that undoubtedly in Omaha , and possibly in other places , the census of 1890 was fraudulently inflated . There can , however , be no question that from 1880 to 1890 the growth of the trans-Missouri cities was very rapid . Indeed , as it has turned out , it was too rapid . Many , of them were " boomed " beyond an reason . In the then state of the development of the resour'c'es of the tributary country , there was not sufficient permanent employment to support the people who flocked to them . When the inevitable collapse came , it was , of course , felt in exact proportion to the extent of the previous expansion . There was a sudden transition from every appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This state of things contributed greatly to produce the enthusiasm ' for the free coinage of silver which was so general and intense in that region four years ago . Next to the cities west of the Missouri , . those of the States which made up the Southern Confederacy have grown most slowly in the last decade . From thirteen of them the census returns are now availableRichmond and Norfolk , Va. ; Charleston , S. C. ; Atlanta and Augusta , Ga. ; Jacksonville , Fla. ; Mobile , Montgomery , and Birmingham , Ala. ; New Orleans , La. ; Galveston , Texas ; Little Rock , Ark. ; and Nashville , - Tenn , filen years ago the aggregate population of these cities was 739,550 . It is now 896,518 , an increase of 156,968 , or at the rate of about 21 per cent . In the preceding decade they lad added to their population 193,293 inhabitants , or at the rate of 35 per cent. , so that there has been a marked falling-off in their growth of late years . The figures for 101 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Missouri have been made public . In these the increase has been at the average rate of 33 per cent. ; in the twenty-five New England cities , 32 per cent . Unless , as does not now appear probable , the figures for the comparatively few cities not yet counted materially change the situation , it would . seem that the urban population of the South has grown but little faster than the rural , while in the North the proportion of city dwellers is steadily and rapidly increa ? ing . How great the contrast is in this re , spect between , some portions of the North and the South , as a whole , appears from a comparison between Massachusetts and the eleven States which made up the Southern Confederacy . Those States have about ninety times the area of Massachusetts , and had in 1890 about seven times its population . Ten years ago they contained seventeen cities , each of which had a population of 25,000 or upwards . In Massachusetts there were sixteen such places , but these cities were on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater than that of the seventeen Southern cities . During the last decade these sixteen Massa. chusetts cities have grown 30 per cent . in population , while the Southern cities thus far reported have grown but 21 per cent . In spite of the great extension 01 manufacturing in the South , the disparity in the proportion of rural to urban population between it and the North seems tending to increase rather than to diminish . - THE TRADE-UNION CONGRESS IN ENGLAND . The yearly assembly of trade-unionists in England , the thirty-third annual Congress , has just been held in the town of Huddersfield . The Mayor and Corporation of the town , the borough member of Parliament , and a large number of inhabitants assembled to give a welcome to 388 delegates of organized labor , representing 140 different trades and labor organizations , and about a million and a quarter of trade-unionists . At these annual meetings for deliberation and conference , the representatives of organized labor in England have for a generation prepared their industrial programme of action and declared their articles of faith They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but have year after year agreed upon a goodly number of issues which have long been identified with the trade-union movement . The character of this year 's deliberations may be inferred from the highly creditable discussion , in the President 's opening address , of the scientific and philosophical aspect of the trade-union movement . He entered upon a lengthy argument regarding the struggle for existence in animal and vegetable life , and also among primitive men , quoting freely from the writings of Darwin , Spencer , Lubbock , and Huxley , and speculating upon the probability that the regime of collectivism , if it should be instituted , would suspend the struggle for existence and occasion ultimately the degeneration of mankind . Such an addrese delivered before an assembly ofworkingmen is certainly calculated to strike Americans with surprise . This year again the old dissension has broken out , mildly but unmistakably , between the trade-unionists and the cooperators The old charge was brought against the cooperators that they had attempted to defeat the just claims of the trade-unionists , and that they did not maintain trade-union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade-union movement as a sort of advertisement for exploiting labor . " The reply made to these charges by one delegate is significant of a great change of sentiment which has been taking place among trade-unionists since the days when they went about smashing tools , and organizing riots against those employers who undertook the introduction of labor-saving machinery . It was boldly asserted that the kernel of the whole affair was that the tailors were objecting to the introduction of the factory system , and they were advised to follow the example of the compositors and " get a hold of the machine . " It is interesting to note that the Congress took occasion to express its mind upon the war in South Africa , judged from an industrial point of view . While it was not unanimous in its opinion , the following resolution was carried by a small majority : " That this Congress regrets that the Parliamentary Committee has not referred to the disastrous effect upon the trade and industry of the country which has resulted from the cruel and unnecessary war now being waged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppression of these two independent states , at the dictates of cosmopolitan capitalists , as a blow against the independence of South African labor and those principles of national freedom which have characterized the history of the closing century . " One of the American delegates to the Congress improved the occasion to declare that he did not believe that Americans had any business with an army in the Plulippines , that under the Constitution they had no right to hold subject peoples , and that doing so meant the opening of the doors of America to the low standards of civilization of Asia  --  an event greatly to lie deprecated The Congress placed itself on record as unanimously in favor of old-age pensions , declaring that the only legislation which will solve the problem presented by age and poverty in modern industrial life is that which recognizes the pension as a civic right , which may be claimed by any citizen on reaching a given age The chief objection to such a scheme , said Mr Steadman , M.P. , was its cost . It has been ascertained , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme would be only ? 10,300,000 per annum , and " surely a Government that could raise sixty , seventy , or eighty million pounds in a few months to fight a foreign country , was in a position to find the ways and means for such a benefident Tiork as taking care of the agedpoor . " This was no " harum-scarum resolution , " but a practical proposition , and he appealed to the working classes not to be led astray at the coming general election by " khaki demonstrations . " Another matter which has been agitating the labor world a great deal of late  --  the advisability of compulsory arbitration  --  received due consideration . The motion was made to urge upon Parliament the passage of a compulsory conciliation-arbitration act , and the appointment of a court with authority to enforce awards by fines and imprisonment This called forth an interesting discussion of New Zealand legislation , in the course of which it was very sensibly observed that what might be all very well for New Zealand ' might not work at all well in old England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Further , objection was made to the idea of putting the affairs of trade-unionists in the hands of the courts , and the motion was lost by a vote of nearly four to one Of course , the eight-hour question came up for consideration , and the Congress declared itself strongly in favor of an eight-hour working day in all trades and occupations in Great Britain , on the ground that the foreign-competition argument against the institution of an eight-hour day was a " bogey " to keep down wages , and that real competition for Lancashire operatives came from countries where hours were shortest and wages highest , not from the half-starved , overworked laborers of China and Russia . Resolutions were introduced regarding the housing of the working classes , the employment of women and children , workmen 's cheap trains , amendments to the factory acts , and other matters of local or passing interest . Upon all these questions the deliberations of the delegates were characterized by a moderation and intelligence which will command the respect of all readers  --  a contrast , indeed , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an organization exists primarily for the purpose of ordering and conducting strikes , and where " deliberation " commonly gives way to passionate , unintelligent denunciation of capital . THE LATE MR . HENRY SIDGTVICK . Py the death of Henry Sidgwick , till lately Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Cambridge , England has just lost one of her finest thinkers , and the two ancient English universities one of their brightest ornaments His books are so well known in the United States that some account of their author , a man even more remarkable than could have been gathered from his books , may be valued by our readers . Henry Sidgwick was born at Skipton Yorkshire , on May 31 , 1838 . His father , who died comparatively young , was a clergyman and ( we believe ) the head-master of one of the ancient grammar schools of England , and the family belonged to Yorkshire The son was educated at Rugby , and went thence to Trinity College , Cambridge , where his career was a brilliant one . He came out in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classical student of the year ) , and was speedily elected a Fellow of Trinity . Though admirably fitted by his mastery of language and the delicacy of his taste to make classical scholarship his career , he was soon drawn off to the study of what are called in Cambridge the moral sciences  --  metaphysics , ethics , and psychology , and he became first a College Lecturer and then ( in 1876 ) a University Prmlector in these subjects In 1883 he was appointed Professor of Moral Philosophy . The selection was all the more creditable to the electors because he had , in 1869 , resigned his fellowship , on the ground that he could no longer subscribe the Thirty-nine Articles of the Church of England , the acceptance of which was , until 1871 , still required by law for the tenure of a fellowship . In May last the symptoms of a fatal malady appeared , and he at once resigned his chair , fearing he would be no longer able ( although he had been encouraged to hope for some more years of life ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lively interest in educational questions , and was much occupied in particular with matters affecting the curriculum and administrative work of the University , the main business of his life was teaching and writing . Three books stand out as those by which he will be best remembered by the learned world  --  his ' Methods of Ethics , ' his ' Principles of Political Economy , ' and his ' Elements of Politics ' All three have won the admiration of those who are experts in the subjects to which they respectively relate , and all three bear alike the impress of the peculiar quality of his mind . It was a mind of singular subtlety , fertility , and ingenuity , which applied to every topic an extremely minute and patient analysis It was never satisfied with the obvious view of a question , and seemed unable to acquiesce in any broad and sweeping statement . It discovered objections to every prevalent doctrine , exceptions to every rule . It perceived minute distinctions and qualifications which had escaped the notice of previous writers These qualities made the books somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask what , after all , was the conclusion to which he had been led by an author who showed him the subject in so many lights , and added so many minor propositions to that which had seemed to be the main one But the student who had already some knowledge of the topic , and was aware of its difficulties , gained immensely by having so many fresh points presented to him , so many fallacies lurking in currently accepted notions detected ; so many conditions indicated which might qualify the trend of a general proposition The method of discussion was very stimulating . Sometimes it reminded one of the Socratic method as it appears in Plato , but more frequently it was the method of Aristotle , who discusses a subject first from one side , then from another , throws out a number of remarks , not always reconcilable , but always suggestive , regarding it , and finally arrives at a view which he delivers as being probably the best , but one to be taken subject to the remarks previously made . One often feels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aristotle 's , that one would like to be left with something more definite and positive ; something that can be easily delivered to learners as an established truth . But one also feels how much one is benefited by the process of sifting and analyzing to which every conception or doctrine is subjected , and perceives that one is really far more able to handle it afterwards in one 's own way when one has had pointed out all these distinctions and antinomies which would have escaped any vision less keen than that of such an author . Sidgwick 's attitude toward the Benthamate system of Utilitarianism illustrates this habit of mind He called himself a Utilitarian , just as in mental philosophy he leaned rather to the type of thought represented by the two Mills than to the Hegeliarusm of his friend and school contemporary , the Oxford professor , T. H. Green . But the system of Utility takes in his hands a form no much more refined and delicate than was given to it by Bentham and James Mill , and is expounded with so manyqualifications unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing , and is scarcely , if at all , assailable by the arguments which moralists of the idealistic type have brought against the oilder doctrine . Something similar may be said of his treatment of bimetallism in his book on ' Political Economy . ' He assents to some of the general propositions on which the bimetallic theory rests , but he points out many difficulties in the application of that theory to the actual conditions of currency which its advocates have usually ignored , so that the assent he gives can not really be cited as a deliverance in favor of trying to apply it . It ought to be added that his ingenuity and subtlety are always restrained by practical good sense , as well as by the desire to reconcile opposite views His arguments , though they often turn on minute distinctions , are not fine drawn , but have substance in them . He is candid against himself , never omitting to set out what militates against the view he is disposed to accept as on the whole nearest to the truth . This tendency to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doctrines easy to comprehend and repeat , though it sometimes perplexed the more hasty readers of his books , did not affect his literary criticisms In this field his fine perception , his cultured and discriminative taste , had full scope Very few of his contemporaries equalled him in it . No one surpassed him in catholicity and reasonableness , in the power of delicate appreciation , or in an exquisite precision of expression . These literary essays , which appeared occasionally in magazines , were few , but it is much to be wished that they should be collected and republished , for this age of ours , which is so largely occupied in talking about literature , has produced comparatively little literary criticism of the first order of merit . Sidgwick did not write swiftly or easily , because he weighed carefully everything he wrote . But his mind was a quick one , alert and nimble in the highest degree . Thus he was an admirable talker , seeing in a moment the point of an argument , seizing on distinctions which the rest of the company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question might be re . garded , and illumining every topic by a bright yet sweet and kindly wit . Wit was , indeed , one of the characteristics by which his friends were most charmed , though he did not often indulge himself with it in his books . And the effect was often heightened by a hesitation in his speech which forced him to pause before the critical word or phrase of the sentence had been reached . When that word or phrase came , it was sure to be exactly the right one . Though very fond of arguing , he was so candid and fair , admitting all that there was in his opponent 's case , and obviously trying to see the point from his opponent 's side , that nobody felt annoyed at having come off second-best , while everybody who knew what good talk is , went away feeling not only that he knew far more about the matter than he did before , but that he had enjoyed an intellectual pleasure of a rare and high kind . There is only one branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , viz. , the part he took in promoting the university education of women . In or about the year 1868 he joined with the late Miss Anne Jane Clough ( sister of the poet Arthur Clough ) in establishing a course of lectures and a hall of residence at Cambridge which grew into the institution called Newnham College . It and Girton College , founded by other friends of the same cause about the same time , were the two first institutions in England which provided a complete university training for women equivalent and similar to that provided by the two ancient English universities for men , together with residential accommodation . Henry Sidgwick was , from the foundation of Newnham onwards , the moving spirit and the guiding hand among its university friends , the spirit which inspired the policy and the hand which piloted the fortunes of the college . Its success and its usefulness have been very largely due to his assiduity and his wisdom . He had married ( in 1876 ) Miss Eleanor Mildred Balfour , sister of Mr. Arthur Balfour ( First Lord of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , she took up the principalship of Newnham after Miss Clough 's death , he and she transferred their residence to the college , and lived thenceforward at it . In all the movements that have been made for obtaining a fuller admission for women to university privileges , he bore a leading part , and well deserves the gratitude of Englishwomen for the unceasing efforts he made on their behalf . The obscure problems of psychology had a great attraction for him , and he spent much time in-investigating them , being one of the founders and remaining a prominent member of the English Society for Psychical Research , which has investigated these problems so diligently for the last twenty years . It was characteristic of him that he never committed himself to any of the bold and sometimes rather hasty conclusions reached by some of his fellow-workers , while yet he never was deterred by failure , or by the discovery of attempted deceptions , from pursuing inquiries which seemed to him to promise ultimately valuable results . The phenomena , he would say , may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are false , it will be a service to have proved them so . Science ought to take them out of the hand of charlatans . An eminent man is known to the world at large by what he gives them in the way of instruction or of pleasure . A man is prized and remembered by his friends for what he was in the intercourse of life . Few men of our time have had a wider or a more de-Voted circle of friends than Henry SidgWick . He had the highest sense of the duties of friendship ; and never failed to respond by way , either of counsel or of syrapathy . Hig'sthres of knowledge , his acute criticism , were always at the service of fellow-workers . In many points he seemed to reproduce one of the pluldSophers of antiquity His life was almost ascetic in its simplicity . He was free alike from vanity and from ambition , and went on the even tenor of his way in a single-minded pursuit of truth for its own sake . He seemed to have neither prejudices nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chose the least cutting words in which to do it . It was related , as an instance of his sense of public duty , that at a Parliamentary election which-raised an issue - he thought momentous to the welfare of the country , he travelled all the way from Davos , in the easternmost corner of Switzerland , to Cambridge to record his vote , although there was little doubt as to how the election would go . In an English university , where , though the society is very large , everybody known everybody else , such qualities as his naturally gave him immense influence , and won affection as well as admiration for him It was a model life , in which the spirit of philosophy seemed to have its perfect work ; a life of single-minded devotion to truth and duty and friendship ; a life serene , gentle , unperturbed by the ordinary desires and objects of ambition , and viewing with a calm fortitude those great problems of man 's future on which his mind was always bent . It was a life which has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University where his life was spent . This generation has seen no more beautiful CIVIL-SERVICE REFORM . Before returning to these columns , I have been thinking a good deal about a subject which occupied many years of my life , and which was known to the country as " civil-service reform . " ' It had first attracted my attention in the year after the war , because no one who had not been born under the " spoils system " could think of this system as a possible means of governing a great community . The spoils system as I had known it in England , was the division of places in the public employ among a small number Of rich people , who were known to be responsible for the use they made of their patronage , and were really a little ashamed of each other when they did things unusually disreputable . Moreover , the tenure of office was for life , and the pay was pretty good . It was therefore worth the while of even the most ill-qualified appointee to fit himself for his place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The system was full of scandals , nevertheless , but the scandals were kept down by the comparatively- small number among whom the patronage was divided , and by the desire of the appointee himself to make his office seem respectable . The Foreign Office clerks , for instance , in London , and in fact the Government clerks generally , were kept in some degree reputable by the fact that they had to be persons fit to figure in what is called " society . " Under the " spoils system " as it was known in America after Jackson 's time , everybody had qualifications enough for any office he could get , and the getting of office depended upon Services to the party in power . After the suffrage had become universal ? thatis1 ? i about 1848nmost parts of the ledge , deigned to notice the civil-service-reform movement as a thing of practical imPortance . In fact , until nearly our own time , the politicians have never even grasped the name of the reform . To most of them it is still known as " civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Prussian whimsy , with which some foolish young men were occupying themselves . In 1865 a bretkfast was given by one of them , then resident in Washington , to a few of those interested in the movement , to which One or two Senators and members of the House were invited . I was deputed to enlighten one of the Senators , who still sits in that august body , as to what was meant by " civil-service reform . " They clearly considered it a harmless folly to which the American people would never give any countenance . This feeling found expreision in after years among Politicians- through dubbing it " snivel-service reform , " and the persons engaged in promoting it as " Miss Nancys " In their eyes it bore about the same relation to " real politics " which croquet bears to baseball or football . Rotation in office , with " spoils " for the victors at elections , was the manly way of playing the game , any other way was considered too silly for dismission . Besides this , it was freely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a hideous and ' widespread attempt " to establish caste in America . " I was Etruck at that time by the disappearance ' from the minds of political men of the idea that party contests were intended in any degree to promote the public welfare . The theory that the elections were simply games of poker , intended to transfer the offices and salaries to the party which could get most votes , had taken firm hold of the political mind For long years politicians favored the reform , but denounced " this particular measure . " Since that period the new system under which offices are awarded for merit , to be ascertained by an examination , has made considerable progress , at least in the Federal service . It is no longer considered ridiculous to ascertain a man 's fitness by examination . But even President Cleveland , who owed a good deal of his support to his supposed friendship for civil - service reform , showed after his first election that he had not fully grasped the reform idea . The civil-service reformers in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Postmastership of that city , a position which he had reached by repeated and deserved promotions under Republican Administrations . I went to Washington to see Mr. Cleveland about it , in company with the late Mr. Dorman B Eaton . Mr , Cleveland was civil to us , and cheerfully acceded to our request fd-Mr . Pearson 's appointment , but it was quite clear , through a conversation with him afterwards , that he accorded us this favor , not so much because he thought the reform was a good thing , as because he considered us entitled to something for supporting him at his election . In fact , the reform has , from the first moment , been dependent on the President 's good will , and the good will has been largely dependent upon what its promoters did to help him get his office . The thing that has most plainly appeared in the history of the reform is that it has owed such success as-it has achieved , not to the belief in it of Congressmen , but to the fear entertained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the polls . In other words , it has never been the result of clear national policy . On the President has been thrown the responsibility of enforcing the law . EveryPresident has met this responsibility by consulting his own electioneering needs in various parts of the country . Hardly in any two great offices has the law been enforced with equal rigidity . The great obstacle in the way of the re-form is neither American nor English , is simply human . All that we know , by past experience , of the attempts of man to provide himself with a government , makes it most unlikely that an effort , repeated every four years , on the part of one hundred millions of people , to elect a single officer as the chief of a state , should succeed It seemed reasonable enough when the Constitution was , framed for 3,000,000 of people , leading a simple agricultural life . All democracies of which the world has had any experience , have been small , and the thinking of the same things about the republic has been an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power " out of the Federal machine is a fiasco , full of shame and disappointment . One thing alone would suffice to prevent its success , even if there were no others , and that is the power lodged in the person nominated for the office to secure his election , or reelection , by the distribution of an enormous patronage . This attempt has to be repeated or promised every four years , and of course every repetition increases the tide of corruption . I do not need to point out the differences between McKinley 's career and that of one of the early Presidents in this respect . Our Presidential election is almost a disgrace to human nature , so flagrant are the abuses by which the contention as carried on , on both sides , and so absurd the arguments by which the claims of the respective candidates are advocated . As an illustration , McKinley 's principal claim to the support of thousands of respectable people is , that he is not as bad as Bryan . The selection of a third man from the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural human thing to do , is considered impossible . Federal America is to-day , in the last resort , ruled by a small knot of " bosses , " of the mental calibre and education of Platt E. L. G. THE BREACH BETWEEN RUSSIA AND CHINA . STRETENSA , SMERIA , August 6 , 1900 . Up to the first of July the relations between the Russians and the Chinese seemed most cordial . The treaty which gave Port Arthur to Russia and permitted the building of the Chinese Eastern Railway through Mantchuria , provided that the President of the road should be a Chinaman , that at the expiration of a hundred years the Chinese Government should be permitted to purchase it , and that the protection of the road should be jointly secured by Chinese and Russian troops The flag of the company is a combination of the Chinese and the Russian . When I passed through Mantchuria along the line of the railway in June , perfect harmony seemed to prevail ? The guards sent along vyith us were part of - the time Chinese and the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upper SUngari River spoke in special praise of his Chinese soldiers . Our Cossack guards always seemed on the most cordial terms with the Chinese along the way , especially with " the children . The news which we brought of the disturb-knees along the railway near Pekin and Tientsin , caused no alarm , since these roads were controlled by English and German companies , and it was thought that the opposition was chiefly against the English . Still , there were some ominous signs . At Teling , near Mukden , the engineers , about the middle of June , received a telegram from Pekin saying that no more laborers could be procured on account of the revolution . At Quan-Chen-tse we learned that there was , much feeling against the road , arising from the ill-treatment of the workmen , so that for some time no Mantchumans had beenovilling to labor , for the company . Many were prophesying that the road would never be completed . So far as we could learn , however , the cause of complaint lay with the Chinese contractors and not with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over these . The work of grading was let out to Chinese middlemen , who hired coolies , whom they squeezed and cheated to the extent of their ability , which is second to that of no other people in the world . The coolies were all imported from the vicinity of Che-Foo and Tientsin . Probably 200,000 were at , work along the line when we were there . When we emerged from the region the last of June , no fears were entertained by the Russians at Harbin . A few days after , however , everything was changed . The families of the engineers were compelled to seek safety in flight . We found a number of them in Blagovestchensk a month later awaiting opportunity to ascend the Amur to find railway transit home . Troops in great haste were gathered from every quarter , and hurried to Harbin for the protection of the property . In this effort Blagovestchensk was left defenceless , and was soon besieged by the Chinese . There was a general conscription of horses all along the border , with the mobilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steamers on the river for their transportation . Instead of having escaped from danger in ascending the Amur , we had run directly into it . The northern part of Mantchuria is mostly mountainous and sparsely inhabited . From the mouth of the Sungari River to Blagovestchensk there are but few settlements on the Illantehurian side of the Amur . Above that city for five hundred miles , the Chinese settlements are equally scarce . But the valley of the Nonni extends from the centre of Mantchuria well up to the vicinity of Blagovestchensk , and is thickly studded with villages . This line of settlements is continued to the Amur , and through it the Chinese in large numbers had overflowed into the valley of that river , not only settling on the Mantchurian side , but living in great numbers in peaceful relations with the Cossacks on the Russian side . A fort was built by the Chinese many years ago at Aygun , about twelve miles below . To a great extent the Russians were dependent on the Chinese for labor in the mines up the Zeya River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese are specially succedsful in raising . , That the Russians should 1itive been so oblivious to the danger from an attack at this point is one of the most striking evi dences of the cordiality of relations supposed to exist between the countries . But in the twinkling of an eye all this was changed . As soon as the Russian troops went down the river on transports ( July 14 ) , the fort at Aygun began , without warning , to fire upon passing steamboats , and , on the 15th , fire was opened upon Blagovestchensk , - and some Russian villages were burned opposite the fort . The actual injury inflicted by the Chinese was slight ; but the terror caused by it was indescribable , and it drove the Cossacks into a frenzy of rage . The peaceable Chinese , to the number of 3,000 or 4,000 , in the city were expelled in great haste , and , being forced upon rafts entirely inadequate , were most of them drowned in attempting to cross the river . The stream was fairly black with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in the water . In our ride through the country to reach the city on Thursday , the 19th , we saw as many as thirty villages and hamlets of the Chinese in flames . One of them Was a city of 8,000 or 10,000 inhabitants . We estimated that we saw the dwellings of 20 , - 000 peaceable Chinese in flames that awful day , while parties of Cossacks were scouring the fields- to find Chinese , and shooting them ; down at sight . What became of the women and children no one knew ; but there was apparently no way for them to escape to a place of safety On our way up the river for 600 miles above the city , every Chinese ' hamlet was a charred mass of ruins . The large village of Motcha was still smoking , and we were told that 4,000 Chinese had been killed . We do not mention these facts to excite prejudice against the Russian authorities or against the Cossacks . This work of devastation has not been ordered by those high in authority . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promoters of lynch law in the Southern States , or , more nearly , such as has from time immemorial animated the pioneers in America against the Indians . The wholesale destruction , both of property and of life , was thought to be a military necessity . The wives and children of the Cossacks were in terror . I shall never forget the night spent in one of these villages a few miles below Aygun , three or four days after hostilities began . Every household was packed up in carts and removed in the middle of the night to the prairies in the interior . The guards were insufficient , and the only way , as they thought , to protect their own families was to'arike terror into the hearts of all the Chinese . And so the work of destruction has gone . on . Since we left , we hear that Aygun has been taken amid a great loss of life to the Chinese . Work in the mines is paralyzed and the laborers driven out . Peace between the Russians and the Chinese , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an end . Years can not wipe out the enmity engendered . The Chinese Eastern Railway extends for 1,800 miles through a country that must remain hostile . The American Indians were so few that they could be exterminated or absorbed . The absorbing capacity of the Chinese is fully equal to that of the Russians . Yet these nations are now brought into contact along a line 2,000 miles m extent . The prospect is not pleasing . Can the breach be healed ? Can time erase the memories of the last two weeks ? , It seems impossible . G. FREDERICK WRIGHT . 