@@486882

Advocates of Government ownership of " the means of production and transportation " are getting excellent object-lessons these days . The failure of the Government at its Brooklyn navy yard to build the battleship Connecticut as rapidly as her sister ship , the Louisiana , was constructed in private yards  --  despite most unusual exertions  --  has been widely commented on . Now , after fourteen years of experimenting , the Government has awarded to a private concern the contract for printing postage stamps . This has been done at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing , whose bids were regularly below cost This fact led many people to believe that the work was being done far more cheaply by the Government than it could be by a private concern . But these people failed to note that every year Congress made up the difference by a special deficiency appropriation . As soon as Congress compelled the Bureau of Engraving to compete with private firms on a fair basis , the American Banknote Company walked off with the business . Some clay this country may decide to own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be because the evils of private ownership it seeks to alleviate are less endurable than an inferior and a costlier service , to say nothing of the political danger of placing a million or more employees on the Government payroll . A bill taxing educational institutions is pending before the Massaehsetts Legislature . President Eliot , G Stanley Hall , and other prominent university men , have appeared before the Committee on Taxation to oppose it Dr. Eliot showed that in Cambridge the tax rate was lower than in places where there was no university . The town has $25,000,000 of exempted property , with a tax-rate last year of $19 , whereas Lowell , with only $3,000,000 of exempted property , has a tax rate of $20 20 President Hall said that Clark University had no income from the students , and if the bill were passed would have to c , irtail its work . Those Western States which support their own universities seem ignorant of the great discovery of Massachusetts statesmen , that the way to faster education is to tax it . An example of the efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where $4,000 was paid out last year to the students for working at the school itself . The entire class of 1907 has already been engaged by the president of a Chicago iron company to work on his plantation in Mexico , upon which there are 1,000 cows , a dairy farm , and 1,000 hogs to be looked after , 40,000 acres of land to be irrigated , and 130,000 acres to be cultivated . Thomas Jefferson was the first American to urge the importance of such schools . Writing in 1803 , he deplored the overcrowding of the trades and of the learned professions He recommended that a professorship of agriculture should be established in every college . " The same artificial means , " he wrote , " which have been used to produce a competition in learning may be equally successful in restoring agriculture to its primary dignity in the eyes of men . It is a science of the very first order . " In hoping that the subject would one day have an honored place in the curriculum , he thought that-more men might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He would have been confirmed in this opinion if he could have foreseen the vast expansion of the West . If the project for consolidating the art collections of John G. Johnson , William M. Elkins , and P. A. B. Widener is carried out , Philadelphia will possess a museum superior to anything in America , and inferior only to those of the European capitals Since the contents of the proposed museum are already amply provided , and the is lacking merely a proper site and building , we can not doubt that these will be promptly furnished The quality of these great collections should make an irresistible appeal to public spirit . One can hardly imagine such a gift being declined . If it were , as many American cities would strive for this great gallery of paintings as Grecian towns for the honor of claiming Homer as son . Since there is no published catalogue of the Johnson collection , the largest of the three , and the catalogues of Mr Widener 's and Mr Elkins 's pictures are some years out of date , any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort . Reckoning the pictures at twenty-five hundred , about half of which were painted before the year 1800 , we shall be on the conservative side But numbers give very little impression of the value of the gift In the Early Flemish school there will be such a notable series as the two Van Eycks , Van der Weyden , Memling , Gerard David , Old Breughel , Teniers , Rubens . and Van Dyck In northern Italian painting will be represented the Vivarini , Mantegna , Crivelli , Giovanni Bellini , Moroni , Moretto of Brescia  --  all by fine examples English painting is exemplified by important canvases of Reynolds , Romney , Gamsborough , Turner , and Constable . Dutch painting will afford the most remarkable display . One may mention several portraits of Frans Hals 's best , the landscapists Ruysdael and Hobbema , a long series of the little masters , including the rarest , Vermeer of Delft , and , finally , something like a dozen Rembrandts , all fine , and representing him in nearly every phase of activity . We must pass over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very important pictures of the modern schools in all three collections . Suffice it to say that the suggested museum will have several of Puvis 's small studies for his best mural paintings , and will not ignore BOcklin . In short , from an art-historical standpoint , there will be no serious gaps , except in the Early French school and in American painting This mere outline of the new gallery suffices to show how fortunate Philadelphia is in a benevolent triple alliance of enlightened art collectors . The newest Concert of Europe , so the dispatches affirm , is to be an alliance to prevent the exportation of its best art to America . The Kaiser is given as the unofficial patron ; Dr. Bode of the Berlin Museum , who in times past has not a little aided in the exportation of fine pictures from Europe , is said to be actively enlisted in the movement . What will be the practical method of embargo , is not stated . One can hardly imagine the Pacca edict extended to all Europe . Even the plan mooted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in case of sale giving the Government a right of purchase at an official appraisal , seems hardly likely to prevail . As a matter of fact , we judge that the movement will simmer down to an organ-mod expression of defiance to the American millionaire collector  --  a personage who hardly deserves such rough treatment . He has bought thousands of putative old masters at top prices , for every genuine example he has snapped up Toth the aid of his moneybags . For his f2W triumphs he has paid dearly . - On the whole topic much nonsense is talked . If we have had collectors of the grade of H. 0 Havemeyer of this city , ehn G Johnson of Philadelphia , and Mrs. John L. Gardner of Boston , no American collector has had the same fortunate combination of money , taste , and opportunity that has gone to make the galleries of Dr. Ludirig Mond in London or of the late Rodolphe Kann in Paris . Moreover , if many fine pictures have come over here , so have many returned to Europe The late W C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealer ; Joseph Jefferson 's fine early Rembrandt went back to Holland ; many other good canvases  --  one recalls particularly a Van Dyck of the Genoese period  --  have been resold abroad . In short , a kind of equilibrium is establishing itself , and American collectors have sufficient cause for self-congratulation without accepting themselves quite at the valuation of European alarmists . That a-tax on art should be rejected in France is less surprising than that it should be proposed . When M. Poincard suggested a rate of 20 per cent . on importations of art objects produced before the nineteenth century , he was undoubtedly driven to such an expedient hy the difficulty of balancing the budget . It is noteworthy that there was no thought of protection in the plan The French collector was to be allowed to prefer Zorn , Mancini , or Zuloaga to the painters of Paris , without being mulcted for his taste . But even as a revenue measure the scheme has evidently seemed abhorrent , for the budget committee has rejected it . If the French Ministry is unwilling to profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal grounds , what shall be said of ourselves who retain the medieval schedule , although it is relatively unproductive and the surplus grows apace ? The unfavorable vote in the House of Lords , Monday , on a section of the Education Bill is the beginning of the struggle between the Liberal Ministry and that body It is upon the Peers that the Conservatives rely to block the measures of the Campbell-Bannerman Government , and it will take all the skill and patience of the Prime Minister to overcome the obstacles in his path without resorting to vigorous coercive measures , such as the creation of a large number of Liberal Peers for the express purpose of putting through the legislation for which the House of Commons has voted . Besides the Education Bill , four others are awaiting the action of the Lords . They are of comparatively small importance , since they relate to the sale of intoxicating liquors in Ireland , marriage with foreigners , marine insurance , and notices of accidents in mines , factories , and workshops . A very important measure that has passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , which makes trades-unions a favored class in the eyes of the law It is causing so much resentment among certain Liberals that - they are as eager for the opposition of the Peers to its progress as they are zealous for the passage of the - Education Bill . But that the Ministry will have its way in the end seems certain ; meanwhile , outsiders will be interested re , see just how far the agitation against the House of Lords , led by such radical Liberals as Lloyd George , will go . That gentleman persists in irreverently calling the Lords " old iron that ought to be scrapped . " The woman suffragists , whose rowdyism was the scandal of the opening of the English Parliament , are doing their cause a vast amount of harm . To appeal for the power to participate in the government of the country is eminently within their right , but the appeal should at least be accompanied by some proof that the petitioners set store by that law and order which is the basis of every government Every such outbreak  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chagrin those leaders who deprecate the resort to violence . Yet even this disturbance illustrates clearly how great is the desire for the extension of the suffrage Every London newspaper contains news of the campaign now being carried on with extraordinary fertility of resource and determination Not a week goes by without its important meetings . Indeed , were there one-half the enthusiasm and vigor displayed by the advocates of woman 's suffrage in this country , the issue would be so pressing that politicians could not afford to dodge it . The latest triumph of the English agitators is to obtain an audience for a deputation with the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Asquith , who , next to Mr Bryce , is the strongest Cabinet opponent of woman 's suffrage - The question whether men or women have the higher sense of honor has been under discussion in the National Union cf Woman Workers in England One of the speakers  --  men were not allowed in the debate  --  accused her sex of a tendency to cheat at cards , to make false boasts concerning their home affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters . A representative of Newnham College held that the public expected a lower sense of honor in women than in men . But psychologists say that it is not the sense of honor which is lacking in women , in comparison with men It rather , emotional equilibrium and self-restraint . This is illustrated by the fact that hysteria is far more common among women than among men . It has been recently shown that this nervous affection is analogous in its expression to the imaginative games of children , being a morbid form of playfulness with no deliberate intention to deceive . Doubtless , in the past , so little responsibility has been put upon women  --  if we except that early incident in ' Eden  --  that it is difficult for them to keep their feelings-out of matters where feeling is out of place . The problem of dealing with the unemployed has been . solved at a stroke by two borough councillors of Lambeth . Let the borough laborers work , instead of eight hours , four ; pay them the same wages as before ; thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's comfort . Evidently , the process oaia be carried out indefinitely , until the Borough of Lambeth hires all the labor and pays pretty much all the wages in the United Kingdom . No one has yet raised the sordid consideration of merely supplying the money . Indeed , the thought is sacrilege . The city fathers of Lambeth are absolutely single-minded . They will take care of the unemployed , and somebody else must provide the means The-principle of the right of employment at a living wage has seldom been advocated with such simplicity . Edmund Gosse 's inaugural address before the London Library Assistants ' Association contained much good sense . After a word of caution respecting the danger lest the librarian become a merely mechanical classifier and arranger , he spoke of the dignity of books , and the care of them which was demanded . During the Middle Ages strict library rules were enforced to prevent injury and defilement of paper and binding . It ? , vas forbidden to cut pages with knives . which had been used at the table , and also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . It is inexpedient , he continued , to be too magisterial in the choice of library literature . Bad books ' will not prove to be attractive ; as a rule they are " false , dull , sentimental , and claptrap " But the managers of-libraries should not flatter readers too much , especially by giving out statistics as to authors most in demand , and books most often asked for . Thus bad ' taste is disseminated It still seems hard to determine what shall be done with apparently useless books . Mr. Gosse thinks with the late Sir Leslie Stephen , that they should be destroyed or that special libraries should be instituted for them It is , however , difficult to-make a just discrimination . What is. called - " the general reader " is a capri-ions animal , and " the special reader " is one whose habits and eccentricities no-librarian can fathom or be sure of meeting . The slight excitement caused by the-retirement of a veteran Foreign Minister like Count Goluchowski is a fine-testimonial to the stability of Austrian foreign policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many respects it is strange-that there should be comparatively so-little interest in the politics of the-pivotal state of Europe . For this in --  difference one may account partly by the fact that the internal dissensions of the Dual Monarchy have been absorbing , at the expense of international concerns . In any case , the only substantial contribution of Austria-Hungary to internationalism , since the striking pacification of Herzegovina , has been the alliance with Russia for preservation of stability in the Balkans . As judged by its practical effects in Macedonia , this chtente can not be called a brilliant success . It is , however , at least a more responsible guarantor of future peace than that concatenation of inactivities miscalled the European Concert . One may assume that Count Aehrenthal will , like his predecessor , maintain a pacific and rather negative attitude towards Western Europe , while reasserting , as occasion offers , the ulterior claims of Austria in the Balkan Peninsula The Spanish Ministry has introduced a bill providing for " cult associations " after the much-discussed French type . This is the beginning of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the movement , subject to the uncertainties of politics , is to include religious education , the marriage and burial questions , and the control of the religious orders  --  in fine , a general subordination of the Church to the State The attempt is of especial interest , because its reception by the Vatican will reveal the true attitude of the Pope towards the similar movement in France The Spanish Government and the Vatican are in continuous diplomatic relations , and presumably each stage in the revision of the laws concerning the Church will be thoroughly discussed If the Pope , then , should countenance the Spanish cult associations , it would show that his opposition to similar bodies in France was due not to any canonical principle , but to a sense that his ecclesiastical dignity had been slighted . The Encyclical of August was vague , and if The deadlock between France and the Vatican is of a personal sort , there may yet be hope of an adjustment . M Clemenceau should be able to find ways of soothing the offended sensibilities Mean- , time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in doubt . The anti-militarist agitation in France finds an echo in Germany , at a time when the accession of Clenaenceau is regarded as rendering relations between the two countries more difficult A writer in the Berlin Vorwarts has calculated that of the three million men comprising the German army on a war footing the Socialists may claim one million . The truth of this assertion has been challenged by a good part of the German press . These newspapers draw a ' distinction between mere - weak sympa thizers with Socialism , whose numbers are admittedly large , and actual adherents of collectivist principles , fanatic to the extent of braving military law and trial for high treason . No doubt , so runs the argument , at the call to arms , such new-fangled ideas as " internationalism " will be swept away by the old spirit of soldierly obedience , that Treuheit which is the pride of the Teutonic race . Isolated cases of disloyalty may occur , but the authorities will undoubtedly be prepared to deal with them as they arise , or , rather , true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little before they arise . It is not impossible that the proper cells and jailers have already been designated for Messrs . Bebel , Singer , and Kautsky . But though the press may be right in holding that the claims of Socialists as to influence in the army are exaggerated , their power for harm can not be denied , once the possibility of el en partial disloyalty is admitted . The . stiength of the German army is in its mechanically perfect , organization and discipline . If doubt of the absolute coherence of its parts do but enter , that splendid engine must lose , if not in actual effectiveness , certainly something in prestige . The course of reform in Russia , as observers have noted , is thwarted by a too vivid consciousness of the French Revolution . Recalling Mirabeau , Dan-ton , and Robespierre , the leaders of the Duma feared to achieve less than their illustrious exemplars ; while the Czar , we are told , refuses to make the obviously necessary concessions because he bas before his eyes the fate of Louis XVI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples . Tyrannicide is recrudescent in Russia , and Farmodius and Brutus are its avowed patrons . The feeling is illustrated by an incident which fell under the eye of a special correspondent of the London Times . Having occasion to examine the albums of many students , he found them usually made up of portraits of assassins . Here is the " Pantheon " of a young girl of seventeen : On the first page was a photograph of -a painting which was entitled " Prove thyself worthy , " and which represented a girl thrusting into the hands of her lover a revolver with which he was to go forth and  --  assassinate . The second page was adorned with a sketch of a Roman in whom I was supposed to recognize ? Brutus ' Then followed photographs of Kalayeff , who assassinated the Grand Duke Serge ; of Sozonoff , who assassinated Plehve , and of many others  --  assassins all ? " of whom the time ' would fail me to tell " ; and the mece its resistance was the photograph of a modest maiden ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in English : Lives of great cues all remind me I can make my life sublime . ' Evidently this girl is ready for tyrannicide of the classical type as an exalted public duty . Writing on " Exchanges in Social Life , " M. Paulhan in the Revue Philosophique , considers sentiment and its expression as commodities . He discusses the question whether a material value can be put definitely upon emotions , so that they may be compared in terms of money It is plain that sensations have a real value , as may be seen by the prices charged in restaurants , Esthetic emotions also have a money equivalent , for we pay to hear music or to see pictures . To a certain extent , higher emotions than those caused by a satisfied appetite are thought to be worth paying for . Good health , which makes life easy and prosperous , may depend not only on the advice of a doctor , but on his interest and sentimental earnestness in the case . The pecuniary worth of certain friendships is also easily estimated . Even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have an appreciable value , although a shifting scale of charges for such things would have to be made , if they were included in the bill . An excellent example of emotional exchange is furnished by the arrangements of married life Compromises , arrangements , plans of agreement , even quarrels , lead up to an adjustment not unlike a trade-bargain . Many of these " affective " exchanges are subordinated to social interest in general , as , for example , in patriotism , where services are rendered in return , for the benefit which is derived from belonging to a certain nation . There is , however , danger in this kind of nice calculation , lest good-will , good words , and good acts come to be regarded as marketable commodities . The old complaint that Americans abroad are indifferent linguists is echoed by our consul at Venice Even the college graduate who knows the literatures of European nations is seldom able to speak their languages . The consul callS attention to the Royal School of Commerce in Venice , where , after a year 's study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak it fairly well . Among American graduates there are , we believe , more who could give a list of Goethe 's plays , or explain the origin of the French language , than there are who could read with ease the German and French newspapers , or carry on a simple conversation in a foreign tongue Yet for one man who needs a knowledge of philology and the history of literature , there are hundreds who would be the better for acquaintance with colloquial French and German . It was Charles V. of Spain who said that to know an additional language was to be a new man .                     