@@486781

SIR : Though in the late election we stood on , opposite sides , you ought to be as glad as myself at the phenomenal majority given to Mr Roosevelt in the thirty-four 1Slates outside of the Southern Confederacy ? altogether over nineteeen hundred thousand , his carrying Maryland and Missouri , and thus breaking up the solid South , while in Kentucky he loses by only ten thousand , and even thus only by reason of two acts which you approve as much as I do  --  the lunch with Booker Washington and the stand he took - as to the Indianola post-office . These overwhelming figures are proof of one thing ? the victory was not bought , either with the money of the Trusts or with any other money There was one election in which money laid out in bribing voters played an important part , namely , that of Garfield and Arthur in 1880 . The efforts of the Republicans were centred on the Indiana October contest , the aim was to overcome the majority of between six and seven thousand given to the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was attained , but not without filling the whole country with an outcry about " blocks of five " and about new , crisp two-dollar bills . If anything of the kind had been done this year the country would have known it .. Or , again , we had in 1896 an exhibition of what the British call the legitimate influence of wealth  --  that is , the managers of all the railroads and great Industries , particularly the iron industries , told their workingmen very emphatically . " Boys , under the secret-ballot law- , we can never find out whether you vote for Bryan or not , but we can tell you , if Bryan is elected , we are bankrupt and we shall have to shut down " This course of the great captains of industry had its effect ; but in this year there was nothing of the kind seen or heard of in any State of the Union . Coming back now to the returns of this year 's election , Roosevelt runs ahead of the Republican candidate for Governor every'where  --  by 150,000 votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rhode Island , 100,000 in New York , 50,000 in Michigan , more than 100.000 in Minnesota , 40,000 in Missouri , 20,000 in Colorado ; also in Michigan and in Washington , but the exact figures in these States are not yet at hand . Bribed voters do not scratch , they put straight tickets into the box . It could not be bribery of any sort which led to these wide preferences within the party for the Electoral over the State ticket . Again , if the - campaign committee had been furnished with millions for buying voters , directly or indirectly , why would it put its money into States like Maryland and Missouri , which were not needed , or like Iowa , Minnesota , Ohio , Pennsylvania , which would have chosen Republican electors without the outlay of a single dollar ? There is no doubt that the colossal majorities . which in every State that was carried ran far beyond those for McKinley in 1900 , were as much of a surprise to every man on the Sepublican campaign committee as they were to the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their approval of MT . Roosevelt 's policy , but they certainly were not bought , and it is very unfortunate that such a proposition was ever injected into the campaign which has just come to an end Respectfully , L. N D. LOUISVILLE . KY , November 10 , 1904 , To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION ' - SIR While in sympathy with President Roosevelt 's indignation at Judge Parker 's charge concerning the funds of the Republican National Campaign Committee , we must bear in mind that the Judge was doing what he could to discredit the Republican Committee , while the President , although in part defending himself against accusations , was doing what he could to discredit the Democratic Committee Neither was making a judicial inquiry nor acting in a judicial frame of mind . It is not a question ' whether any pledge or promise or understanding has been entered into as to future benefits to be conferred in consequence of contributions from " Trusts , corporations , associations , combinations , partnerships , " etc The real question is , Why do these business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes to the committees of both parties , and why do they keep them secret ? Of course , such contributions are not purely gratuitous People do not engage in business and make contributions to political committees " for their health " They are engaged in business to make money , and they pay money to political committees because they expect to get back more than they pay out . They expect to do this through legislation that will favor their particular business interests There is no need of any understanding , implicit or explicit . The thing takes care of itself , for the successful political party , whichever it may be , knows that these contributions will cease unless the parties making them get what they want , at least approximately All payments thus made for the purpose of procuring the election of men who will secure legislation that will favor such business interests , are wrong and should be stopped The first step towards stopping them is pub/teal/ . The sources of supply of both our . great political parties are now carefully kept secret , and ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions and those receiving them are doing wrong , and know- they are doing wrong Of course there are legitimate campaign expenses , such as printing , postage , hall and ' office rents , clerks , stenographers , typewriters , stationery , telegraphing , translating , travelling expenses , expenses of speakers , etc , etc. , - but there is no reason for keeping them secret There are also legitimate contributions , and there is likewise no reason for keeping them secret , It may be ' accepted as a general rule that all receepts and all expenditures of political committees that are kept secret , - are- illegitimate and - should be prohibited by law . The remedy lies in legislation requiring all committees of political parties to make sworn statements showing their receipts and disbursements in detail , , and they should be required to be verified by competent auditors of recognized ability and high character of the ! opposite party . . That this suggediton is not utopian is proved by the fact that one political campaign committee has done these things , and this without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1884 , the National Committee of Republicans and Independents published their treasurer 's , report , showing their receipts and their exPenditiires , which report was certified to be correct and true , after examination of the subscription-list , account-books , and vouchers by competent auditors , and the subscription-list was kept open to all subscribers . No national campaign committee , either Democratic or Republican , has ever followed this example , and it is safe to say none will follow it until compelled by law . Too many secrete would come to light that have no right to be secrets The very fact that no campaign committee challenges its opponent to do this , first publishing its own treasurer 's report , is convincing evidence that both are engaged in doing what is wrong to do , and therefore does not want to have known . . This issue was not met by either President Roosevelt or Judge Parker . Yours truly , A. M. E. PROVIDENCE , Ii L , November 11 , 1904 . OND ELEMENT IN THE MASSACHU-SETTS VOTE . To THE EDITOR OF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election of the Democratic candidate for Governor of Massachusetts has not been sufficiently emphasized . Mr. Douglas received the support not only of many Independents who supported Mr. Roosevelt , but also of straight-out Republicans who took this means of showing their disgust for Senator Lodge and the Republican machine . The Republicans are growing more and more restive under his boss-ship , and if it had been possible to vote directly for or against him last Tuesday , he would have been repudiated by a larger majority than that which buried Gov . Bates Massachusetts did indeed repudiate Lodge 's anti-reciprocity policy , and Lodge , like the coon , promptly came down . We may henceforth expect him to pose as the " original " champion of reciprocity. - That he and his machine understand the meaning of Tuesday 's vote is evident from the fact that there is already talk of shelving Lieut - Gov . Guild ( whom the machine had slated for Governor after Bates 's third term ) , and of putting forward ex-Gov . John D. Long , who , but for the intrigues of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Senate Lodge sent Mr. Long to the rear and had himself elected Senator ; that in his preshnt plight he should even hint of appealing to Mr Long to redeem Massachusetts  --  and , incidentally , to repair Lodge 's machine  --  shows how quickly our RepUblican boss has learned the lesson of the election SPECTATOR . - BOSTON , November 13 , 1904 . CANDIDATE AND VOTER. - - TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION . ? SIR : What Prof. H. Morse Stephens , discussing the French-Constitution of 1791 , rather aptly calls the " mania for election " is beautifully illustrated in a certain county containing a large city not a thousand miles from the head of Lake Michigan . In order that the citizens of this beloved county may be allowed to enjoy the manifold blessings of life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness , they are called upon this November to fill some one hundred and six offices , , legislative , executive , and judicial The population of the county is about two million souls There are seven tickets in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some seven hundred candidates These are the facts , let us now consider the theory . Theoretically , these seven hundred candidates are the best qualified persons for the various positions in the Government Practically , we know that these seven hundred ( or whatever the correct number may be ) are most of them men who have succeeded by hook or crook , rather than by special fitness , in getting themselves nominated . Theoretically , these nominees are the spontaneous choice of the people Theoretically , too , the voters know personally all the available candidates for each office , except perhaps local representatives , and , theoretically , the voters have selected from the fulness of such knowledge of the mental and moral qualifications the men best suited to govern the county and city Practically , the average voter knows not one-tenth of the candidates he is called upon to decide between . Practically , the average voter , even if he were personally acquainted with the seven hundred nominees , is absolutely unfit to pass judgment on the candidates ' qualifications for the office in question . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in order to select a fit man for a given position , the person who selects must know thoroughly both the duties and responsibilities of the office and the personal qualifications of the person applying for the position . No mercantile or manufacturing business could possibly be successfully conducted on any other basis Yet it is inconceivable that any sane man , however much he may admire representative institutions ; would for a moment maintain that the average voter has such knowledgd of the duties of auditor of public accounts , recorder of deeds , clerk of the various courts , or county surveyor . It is conceivable that a small fraction of the-voters may have become acquainted , by sight at least , with the various nominees for the Superior Court , but it is hardly probable that such persons have sufficient knowledge of law to decide as ' to the mental and moral equipment of such nominees , while the mass of voters know absolutely nothing about the office or the candidates . ? As an example of our " mania for electibn , " the student of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while studying the selection of ' a county surveyor by an electorate , the vast majority of whom could not at sight tell a theodolite fiom a cream separator . Of the seven candidates for this position , two occupy " clerical " positions in " mercantile establishments , " and one ' is a negro teamster . Among other curiosities are the nominations of a machinist and a janitor for recorder of deeds , a machinist and a cap-maker for Circuit Court clerk , a cigarmakei for the Superior Court clerk , a newspaper peddler for coroner , a knifegrinder for the Board of Review ; a cigar- maker , a collector of a butcher , and " a student who has read law " for Superior Court judge . " A sailor who has travelled in many parts of the world " is a nominee for president of the County Board , while tinsmiths , house painters , bricklayers , and plain laborers are other nominees for county commissioners . These nominees , it should be observed , are not poor boys starting life under adverse conditions , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have presumably now reached the station of- life for which their natural ability fits them . Without impeaching their personal honesty , it is patent to most judges of human nature that they are no more suited to the offices they aspire to than they would be as captain of a war vessel , director of an astronomical observatory , or principal of a young ladies ' seminary . The present mania for election is undoubtedly a heritage from not very remote frontier conditions , when each man knew his neighbor , when life was simpler , and when there was no submerged tenth of city population . The significant feature of the present situation is the total lack of serious understanding on the part of a minority of the electors regarding the duties and responsibilities of public office and the necessity of special aptitude in candidates . Somebody has evidently been putting too literal an interpretation on the glittering generalities of the Declaration of Independence . E. L. C. M. HENRY GEORGE NO SOCIALIST To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sin : Your Sydney correspondent , in your issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward Bellamy , Laurence Granlund , and Henry George purveyed the Socialist policy which New Zealand and the Australian States are carrying out " - What this policy is , your correspondent makes plain , and I admit that it is Socialistic ; but no part of it has ever been taught by Henry George . I have heard him speak and have read his books . He condemns the very things your correspondent mentions as the policy of the Labor party in Australia . It would have been repugnant to him to ' have the Government purchase land , operate mines , and control tobacco factories . He would have the Government keep its hands off from private industry . He was such a radical free-trader that he advocated the abolition of custom-houses His theories are oppoed to arbitration laws , factory-inspection laws , and Government regulation of wages . He wanted all taxes to fall upon land values , because he believed that such values belong to all the people . He could see no way out of our troubles with the railroad corporations other than to have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his disciples who believe that it would be sufficient for the Government to own the tracks and highways and permit competition in carrying goods and passengers over them That is the extent of Henry George 's Socialism .. He was a great stickler for the rights of property , after a true ethical line had been drawn between mine and thine . His " single tax " rests upon what he considered a true theory of private and public property . He should be classed as an individualist rather than as a Socialist , for he believed that his plan of taxation would give a freer field for individual liberty and initiative than we now enjoy . H. M. HOLMES DETROIT , November 11 , 1004 THE PLEASURE OF POETRY TO THE ED/TOR OF THE NATION : ' SIR An article an " The Primary Function of Poetry , " printed in the Nation for Novemiber 3 , presents a view so attractive that one is vexed to find one 's self unable to unite assent with sympathy I have often . been plagued , by the use of the word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Mr . French so warmly reprobates its presence ; I can feel no joy ' in defining the end of poetry by a term whiclh might be used with equal fitness to designate the end of bonbons , dominoes , and parlor magic A term which two people out of three are sure to misconceive is infelicitous even when it as exact , and poetry may suffer , in the minds of those whosa sympathy is valuable , from the unmerited odium annexed to this unlucky substantive The term itself , if rightly grasped , is innocent enough When we reflect that every instinct , high or low , can both enjoy and suffer , at as plain that the range of pleasure and the range of feeling are conterminous , and that poetry Is free to minister pleasure to our instincts of worship , aspiration , heroism , and self-forgetfulness . The highest in us can be pleased as well as the lowest , and the arts which subserve pleasure as they rundown to meet the grossness of human natureat. one end , run up to meet its sanctities at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function of poetry to reveal , to teach , to exalt . But this can not , constitute the whole definition of the function of poetry ; in that case , sermons and homilies , if sincere , would be poetical . ' Nor can it even constitute a factor in the definition , in that case the " Ode to Psyche , " which ' is voluptuous , would have far less claim to the title of poem than the " Ode on a Grecian ? rn , " which is thoughtful and didactic . Yet who can hesitate eves the " Ode to Psyche " ? Who can hesitate over the Sapphic and Anacreontic lyrics , the odes of Horace , the songs of the Elizabethans , the work of Herrick and Carew , and countless other poems which would find it no easy task to demonstrate their edifying quality ? The source of the confusion seems to lie in the effort to - make the distinction between the higher and lower forms of poetry identical with the distinction between poetry and other things . Let us grant , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poetry lifts and teaches  --  nay even that it aims toe ? 1. ft and teach ( see Matthew Arnold in relation to truth and seriousness as the groundwork of the best poetry ? ' Essays in vol ii. , ' The Study of Poetry , ' pp 21 , 22 ) , still , even here we have a differentia , not of poetry itself , but only of the highest poetry . It is obvious that a definition which must be common to all the individuals of a class , can not be based " on the peculiarities of its better specimens Love , insight , magnanimity are the weighty and- the priceless things in human nature , the things which make it worth one 's while to be a man ; yet neither magnanimity , insight , nor love can find a place in the definition of humanity We can not turn our diameter into a circumference ; we can not circumscribe a genus by a line which merely separates its parts . All poems please , and the greatest edify ; but for purposes of definition the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we assert that the end of poetry is pleasure , we concede that the poet may have other ends These ends may be higher than pleasure , may be dearer to the poet himself , but they do not stamp the work as poetry . A man may write a history or an essay with more zeal to amuse than to instruct his audience , but , nevertheless , it Is his wish to instruct that entitles him to the name of an essayist or historian Half , and the best half , of the world 's humorists from Aristophanes down to Mr Dooley have sought to instruct and reform mankind by ridicule , yet all this does not gainsay the plain fact that the end of humor as such is to excite laughter , and that the addition of either and better ends may raise its rank , but can not fix its nature The means to one end is liable to become at any moment the instrument of some other and higher purpose , but this has no effect on definitions I present an opera-glass to a friend as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opera-glass is not benevolence , but observation . May we not , then , affirm that the end and mark of all poetry is pleasure , but that the highest and most lasting poetry is distinguished by the inclusion of other functions  --  functions which have nothing to do with its poetical essence , but which have everything to do with its poetical supremacy ? Even here we must bear in mind that delight and welfare approximate as they ascend  --  that the best poetry circulates in an air in which pleasure ' is benefit no less assuredly than benefit is pleasure . End . and means coalesce , and prophet and poet are blended in the common sates. 0 W. FIRKINS MINNEAPOLIS , MINN November 8 , 1004 . GADDESDEN 'S TREATMENT OF SMALL-PDX . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION SIR The late Prof Niels R Finsen of Copenhagen , in an article on " The Influence of Light on the Skin , " published in a medical journal in 1893 , asserted that smallpox could be cured by putting red curtains at the windows of the sick-room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the following year during the epidemic in Copenhagen . It is interesting to recall the fact that this method , like many others , was not an absolutely new thing , but was rather a re-discovery John of Gaddesden , the illustrious fourteenth-century physician , who probably furnished the ' original of Chaucer 's Physician , treated a son of Edward I .. doubtless Thomas of Brotherton , Earl of Norfolk and Marshal of England , for smallpox , by wrapping him in ' scarlet cloth and putting him in a bed and room with scarlet hangings . The result was entirely satisfactory . In Gaddesden 's own words , " Est bona cura et cUraV1 eUM in sequenti sine vestigio variolarum " ( Rosa Medteince , ed Venice , 1516 , p 41a ) . That Gaddesden could give a rational explanation of the phenomenon may be doubted ; yet let us not dogmatize too far . Dr. Norman Moore gives further interesting details of Gaddesden in the Dictionary of National Biography ; see also Prof. E. E. Morris 's interesting contribution to the Furnivall volume , ' An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which rightly belongs , to Fineen will be evident to any layman who reads Dr Foster 's article on smallpox in the latest edition of the ' Reference Handbook of the Medical Sciences , ' vol. vu ( 1904 ) , in which no direct mention of Finsen 's work or theory is made. ? Yours truly , CLARK S NOIeTnUP CORNELL UNIVERSITY , ITHACA , N. 7 ( , November 8 , 1004                     