@@486690

Emperor William 's exceedingly bad quarter of an hour in the German Parliament last week , has its outstanding personal aspects , It also means much for constitutional development in Germany Personally , it was without question the deepest humiliation whIch the Kaser has had to undergo during all his reign . In the house of his friends , he was abandoned to his enemies . Not one voice was raised in his defence . Parliamentary immunity itself was strained in heaping reproaches upon him . His minsters sat silent while representatives of all groups attacked him . When the very Chancellor of the Empire came - to speak , it was in an apologetic tone , without enthusiasm , and with the distinct intimation that the Kaiser must Mend his ways or the government could not be carried on , whether by the present ministry or any other And in the interview which Von Billow had with the Emperor on Tuesday , the latter was compelled to approve the position taken by his Chancellor The Kaiser heeds public opinion , and will meddle no more in foreign affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as William II , all this must cause a mortification beyond words . But his feelings , after all , , are of less account than the attitude of the German people , They are plainly thinking , not so much of the - rebuff to a blundering Emperor , as of the duty of asserting their r'ghts , and securing a better control of their own government . For the present , the insistent demand is that the Emperor leave the conduct of German diplomacy to the responsible officials in charge of the Fore gn Office This demand is , we see , already conceded . But behind that point lies another  --  that the rule of personal whim must cease , and that the responsibility of the Ministry to the Reichstag , rather than to the Kaiser alone , must be obtained and established . It is in this crew of the case that the proceedings in the Reichstag take on their deepest significance The break with the divine-right theory could not be more absolute . We shall hear no more speeches from William II maintaining his old favorite theme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with Germany what they please . Only eleven years ago , at the dedication of the monument to William I at Coblentz , the Kaiser spoke of his grandfather as one who " ascended the throne as the chosen instrument of the Lord " ; and then he went on to give his own ideas of " kingship with its heavy duties , its never-ceasing , ever-active toils and labors , its awful responsibility to the Creator alone , from which no mere man , no Chancellor or Minister , no popular Parliament , no people , can absolve the ruler and prince " One could cite a dozen more such expressions of medieval notions from the public utterances of William II It is safe to say that he will not repeat them for some time to come True , in 1892 , he assumed an heroic pose in referring to " fault-finders " and " grumblers , " and declared that lo all their complaints he would " reply calmly and firmly . My course is the right one and I will continue to steer it " ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany to-day . Historically , we think that a great deal of the present trouble can be shown to be due to Bismarck He always posed as the servant of the Kaiser , not of the ReicIstag . It was his custom to refer to his " old master " ; and he lost no occasion to exalt the Imperial prerogative But this was only a convenient fiction for the Iron Chancellor As between himself and the aged Emperor , he knew perfectly well which was master . In all important matters , William I did as he was bid by Bismarck . It was the Minister , not the King , who ventured on the policy of creating the Prussian army without the consent of the Parliament ; it was Bismarck who dictated the terms of peace with Austria much against the royal will ; it was he who altered William 's Ems dispatch so as to make war ' with France inevitable ; and it was Bismarck who , as Chancellor of the Empire , imposed his policies upon the Emperor , under the guise of being an obsequ:ous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a weapon in Bismarck 's powerful hand , has not worked well with weaker Chancellors and a more heady Kaiser The result is the confusion and sense of national humiliation with which Germany is filled , and from which the only sure escape is the creation , sooner or later , of a Ministry responsible to the people through their representatives in the Reichstag . Even in domestic affairs , Ministers bolding office at the pleasure of the Emperor have not been able to get on well Instead of a new Ministry , in the event of failure to command a majority in the Reichstag , the only remedy has been to get a new Reichstag , or to intrigue with the groups in the old one This method has led to unnatural and unhappy political alliances ; to concessions now to the Catholics , now to the Junkers ; and has made a , stable policy almost impossible As Bismarck frankly said in the Reichstag in 1881 : " There are times when we must govern in a literal spirit , and times when we must rum dictatorially . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moonsistency , that follow from a system by which the Ministry is forced to makeshifts like Von Bulow 's " block " policy , instead of submitting itself to the expressed will of the people through their elected delegates . Those can not be wholly wrong who predict that Germany will date fi cm the agitations and humiliations of this year a movement to mile her government more truly a constitut lonal monarchy THE BEREA COLLEGE DECISION . The Supreme Court 's opinion that the Kentucky law forbidding the co-education of blacks and whites is Constitutonal , is of minor significance , so far as it affects a single institution . or even the educational system of a State What is important is the establishment of a principle that , under stress of popular passion or prejudice , may be invoked in defence of the gravest injustice . Forty years ago no American would have dreamed that the Supreme Court would make it illegal to teach colored children and white under the same roof . Yet that is the effect of this decision in Kentucky and elsewhere . Berea College was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whites ; but when it reopened after the war , both whites and blacks were admitted . Yet the institution grew and flourished and became the most important influence in uplifting all the inhabitants of the region . No scandal ever attached to its work ; children of both colors studied together in harmony . But in 1904 the Kentucky Legislature decided that this arrangement savored too much of social equality , and passed a law forbidding the education of blacks and whites within twenty-five miles of one another by the same institution . It is credibly reported that many of the legislators who voted for the bill did so only under the threat that every man who did not " would have the ' nigger ' question brought up against him in all his future career . " In short , the sole excuse for the law was sheer naked prejudice . Naturally , the authorities of Berea appealed to the courts . The endowment fund had , in part at least , been contributed with the express understanding that it was to be used for the benefit of both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the testator 's interest in the colored people . Hence it was held that the Kentucky law forced upon the college the violation of contractual obligations . The college officials argued , further , that the law invaded " the sanctities of personal liberty and , if allowed to stand , would curtail the inalienable rights and liberties of whites and colored alike " ; and that their struggle was " one for the liberty of every citizen . " The Supreme Court of Kentucky having upheld the law , recourse was had to the Federal Supreme Court . But this tribunal has generally managed to evade any direct judgment upon the various discriminations against the negro in the Southern States ; and in the Berea case , as in others , the decision rested upon technical points . As read by Justice Brewer , it deals entirely with corporations as affected by the Kentucky statute , and  --  so runs the press report ? " did not consider its applicability to individuals . " Justice Brewer , for the majority of the court , construes the Kentucky law as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then Says : It is undoubtedly true that the reserved power to alter or amend is subject to some limitations , and that under the guise of an amendment a new contract may not always be enforceable upon the corporation or the stockholders ; but it is settled that a power reserved to the Legislature to alter , amend , or repeal a charter authorizes it to make any alteration or amendment of a charter granted subject to it , which will not defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant , or any rights vested under it , and which the Legislature may deem necessary to secure either that object or any public right . . . . We need concern ourselves only with the inquiry whether the first section of the Kentucky law can be upheld as coming within the power of a State over its own corporate creatures . We are of opinion that it noes come within that power . - In short , the judge is chiefly anxious lest the right of a State to control one of its corporate creatures be impaired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kentuckian at that ? Justice Harlan points out that in safeguarding the State 's control over corporations , the door has been thrown open to many an abuse . He wishes to meet the real issue squarely , not to dodge it ; he insists that the court should decide " whether it is a crime , under any conditions . to educate white children and negro children under the same roof " He will not concede that it should be so regarded . Have we become so inoculated with prejudice of race that an American government , professedly based on the principles of freedom and charged with the protection of all citizens alike , can make distinctions between such citizens in the matter of their association for innocent purposes simply because of their respective races ? Further , if the lower court be right , then a State may make it a crime for white and colored persons to frequent the same market places at the same time , or appear in an assemblage of citizens convened to consider questions of a public or political nature in which all citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other illustrations might be given to show the mischievous , not to say cruel , character of the statute in question , and how inconsistent such legislation is with the great principle of the equality of citizens before the law . These words go to the root of the matter . If the Kentucky statute is Constitutional , a law might be passed forbidding the education of Jews and Gentiles in the same college , no matter what the desire might be of the individuals concerned . Such an enactment , opposeil as it might be to the American theory of government and the fundamental ideals of this republic , would not be more contrary to the spirit of our institutions than the Berea decision . If that ruling is good law , it is bad morals . PUTTING THE MARINES ASHORE . By one stroke of his pen last week , President Roosevelt removed from all ships of the navy the marines who have formed a part of the complement of every vessel of any size since the first American man-of-war went to sea . In accordance with the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Statutes , he decreed that hereafter the Marine Corps shall be used only ( 1 . ) To garrison the different navy yards and naval station 's , both within and beyond the continental limits of the United States ( 2 ) To furnish the first line of the mobile defence of naval bases and naval stations beyond the continental limits of the United States . ( 3 ) To man such naval defences and to aid in manning , if necessary , such other defences as may be erected for the defence of naval bases and naval stations beyond the continental limits of the United States ( 4 ) To garrison the Isthmian Canal Zone , Panama . ( 5 ) To furnish such garrisons and expeditionary forces for duty beyond the seas as may be necessary in time of peace To say that this order is revolutionary , is not to say that it is unwise ; it will be hailed by the bulk of the line officers of the navy as a great victory for progress . To the officers of the Marine Corps it will come as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Corps in Cuba and the Philippines since 1898 were supposed to have averted the danger of such action One of the first acts of the Continental Congress relating to the navy was that passed on November 10 , 1775 , before a single warship had been sent to sea , raising the " First and Second battalions of American marines . " The custom of having marines was copied from the English service , with the exception that the Continental Congress required that the marines , especially the officers , should be good seamen . But the real function of the marines in both services was to act as police . The English navy , which then impressed its men mostly from the gutters of Portsmouth , Chatham , and Gravesend , was compelled to maintain a sea-soldiery in order to keep in order the desperate , unwlling ruffians who so frequently manned the ships of war . Indeed , only the rifles of the faithful marines prevented many a mutiny from coming to a head . Even in the great mutinies at Spithead , the Nore , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Exmouth , with his marine guard , fought down the crew of the Imp6tueux , and as a result of this and similar displays of fidelity the title of " Royal Marines " was bestowed in 1802 This honor did not , of course , at all lessen the bitter hatred between the marines and sailors which is nowhere better illustrated than in the novels of Capt . Marryat . In our own service the marines did well in all the early battles of the navy ? indeed , they have always acquitted themselves creditably . In action they have been employed as riflemen , while the sailors have fought the cannon . As policemen , they were , in the first half of the nineteenth century , of great usefulness Indeed , when Commander Alexander Slidell Mackenzie of the brig Somers was tried for having hanged at sea , on December 1 , 1842 , three sailors , for an alleged attempt at mutiny , he defended his extreme measures by saying that , as " the Somers had no marines , a body of men distinct irom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary ships of war , the police and discipline greatly depend , and who form a counterpoise and check to the turbulent spirits of the common seamen , " he was compelled to adopt severe methods . He thus admirably summed up the functions of the marines . But as time passed and the morale of the crews improved , more stress began to be laid upon the purely military as opposed to the police functions of the corps . In the civil war the marines were chiefly serviceable - for shore attacks , although even here they fought side by side with the sailors . With the final passing of sailing vessels and the arrival of our modern floating fortresses , the opposition to keeping the marines at sea came to a head . Thus , in 1896 Lieutenant , now Commander , W. F. Fullam published in the November issue of the Proceedings of the Naval Institute an article advocating the precise action taken last week by President Roosevelt ; and thereafter the two branches of the service were at swords ' points until , in the excitement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's strongest argument for his action is the fact that all the more important European fleets , except the British , do not use marine infantry to police their ships , but rely upon their own sailors Indeed , it is hard to see why this should not be the rule everywhere . Moreover , the disappearance of the fighting tops , and of the rifle as a weapon of offence  --  since ships in action never come within small-arms range of each other nowadays  --  makes it hard to find a raison ( Tare for the marine . . Whett er the change in the duties of the marine 's will lesSen their iingorfence , time alone will show . They will doibtless be'flubbed " now the " navy-yard police , " - and will be contrasted to their , diSradVantagewith the artily. - A-  move ment to affiliate them with the regular troops will doubtless appear . The versatility of the , officers and the mobility of the corps will probably suffer also . CHINA AND HER RULERS . Europeans in Peking believe that the death of the Emperor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbance , though there may be various small outbreaks . China has the advantages , as well as the disadvantages , that come from great bulk . The death of a monarch can not work the same effect on four hundred million Chinamen as on five million Portuguese Chinese rulers especially , even when they reveal so strong a personality as that of the late Empress Tsu-Hsi , are largely swallowed up in their own august role . To the average Chinese taxpayer any Emperor will do , if he is only a son of heaven and remains properly concealed from his subjects . In the elevation of a new Emperor and the appointment of a Regent , the laws of blood and of the imperial succession seem to have been strictly followed ; so on that score trouble is remote . Rumors of foul play , based on the almost simultaneous removal of Kwang Su and the Dowager Empress , were certain to be put into circulation ; but thtrs far there is no evidence to sustain these reports . If the late Empress was the virtual autocratic ruler of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered from the limitations that rest upon all autocracies The despot who is seemingly so all controlling , is largely in the hands of the petty local tyrant who represents him . Russia is a standing example of the way in which a despot tries to do everything everywhere himself , and succeeds only in appointing so many scores of governors , who in their own provinces do what they please . Particularly in China , where the principle of provincial self-'government has practically legal recognition , the power for good or evil exercised by the -- sovereign at Peking , is greatly circumscribed . When , therefore , the Empress Tsu-Hsi is - spoken of as having held back China 's advance in the ways of the West , or when her death is looked ? uP as ushering in a period of rapid reform , we exaggerate both the . importance of Chinese -- -sovereigns and the rate ' of =speed at which the-Chinese people is capable of travelling . That rate has little commensurable relation with the output of imperial edicts at Peking . The long ascendency of the Dowager Empress was interrupted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspiration of radical advisers , startled China and the world with a rapid shower of reform edicts . The edicts began in the spring . In September there was a palace revolution ; Kwang Su retired into his earlier obscurity ; and the old Empress made a speedy end of reformers , reforms , and edicts . These events have been described as another instance of progressive movement and triumphant reaction China is no exception to the laws of political progress ; but it is to be remembered that the Empress had on her side the most powerful factor that reaction in any country can rely on  --  the danger of foreign aggression , Whether real or imagined . It may have been mere coincidence that the game of European land-grabbing in China should have started about the time when the young Emperor began his personal rule . But , in any case , it was unfortunate that Germany should have determined to seize ICiau-chau in the winter of 1897 , that Russia should have occupied Port Arthur , Great Britain Wei-hai-Wei , France Kwang-chau-wan , and even Italy should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here was dismemberment threatening the Empire with the Emperor busying himself , in addition , by turning things topsy-turvy at home . The national interest , therefore , was supposed to demand the removal of Kwang Su . But Empress Tsu-Hsi , though she set her face against the reformers and lent countenance to the reactionary elements , unwittingly helped the cause of progress . In fomenting the exasperated feeling against foreigners which culminated in the Boxer uprising , she only helped to bring about that closer contact with the Western world which she was presumably anxious to avoid . Dearly though China may have paid in blood and treasure for what the Boxers did in 1900 , it is clear , nevertheless , that she has profited by the series of developments which have been the sequel to the Boiter upheaval . Russia 's advance into Manchuria and her struggle with Japan hayp resulted in the present equilibrium in which China is reasonably safe from territorial aggression . To the EuroIvan nations which participated in the grisly Boxer carnival , that incident has proved also something of an awakening . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissection has almost disappeared . The disposition to recognize that the Chinese people have rights other than that of buying Western print goods and illuminating oil , is perceptibly growing . China 's new infant Emperor will probably attain a ripe old age before the much-talked-of national " awakening " is complete , but conditions in the Far East indicate that China will , at least , be given a chance THE NEW INDIA . On the first of November fifty years ago the Calcutta Gazette published Queen Victoria 's proclamation to " the princes , chiefs , and people of India . " The document outlined a policy of English suzerainty , which , so far as words go , was definite and lofty : We desire no extension of our present territorial possessions , and , while we will permit no aggression upon our dominions or our rights ; . . . we shall sanction no encroachment on those of others . . . . It is our earnest desire to stimulate the peaceful industry of India , to promote works of public utility , . . and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resident therein . Reviewing the half-century during which this policy has been followed , King Edward declared a fortnight ago , in a message to the Viceroy : " We survey our labors with clear gaze and good conscience . " Nevertheless , at the very same moment , Calcutta was being terrorized by " political criminals " ; public meetings were prohibited throughout the presidency ; the government of Bombay was forbidding schoolboys to bring newspapers to school or to attend political meetings ; assassins were attacking the lieutenant-governor of Bengal ; and press censors from Simla to Ceylon were sitting up nights . This suggests a difference of opinion as to the success of English government ; and the deference which Parliament and ministers are now showing toward the Indian Nationalist movement indicates at least the power , if not the reasonableness , of those who are seeking deliverance from a benevolent tyranny . King Edward 's confession , in the message cited , that " the time has come when , in the judgment of my Viceroy and Governor-General , . . . the principle of representative institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spite of its diplomatic hedging . To new India it signifies that her masters are at last aware of the impossibility of continuing their rule save by making concessions to that passion for self-government which their own schools and missionaries have been forming through the slow process of education . It also means that the humanitarians who have been acquiring such political influence in England are beginning to ask that the ryot receive the same consideration which is demanded for Irish tenant and Whitechapel laborer . How soon , the Nationalist wonders , will this changing attitude bring home rule ? English Socialists and kindred spirits are addicted to statistics , which they take very seriously . It is hard to believe that they will not turn to the India Blue Book some fine day and catch fire from the appalling figures there with which the Indian government calmly indicts itself . Physical conditions in tropical India and temperate Great Britain are so different , we grant , that comparisons of wages and expenses of subsistence are difficult and often misleading . But how can an Englishman who fights for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian tax rate , which , according to the latest statistics , averages about ; 2 per capita , or one-third of the annual average income of each Hindu ? How can he cry out against exploitation of slum-workers at home and keep silent on the unhappy native weavers driven by the thousands back to wretched farms ? The increasing cost of living in London excites him ; will the declining income and increasing cost of living in India be passed over ? Official estimates show that the Hindu earned four cents a day in 1850 ; three cents a day in 1882 ; and , in 1900 , after English rule had been given nearly a generation in which to prove its inestimable advantages , less than two cents Not all the outward signs of railways , street lamps , municipal buildings , and schools , can hide the fact that these improvements have left the mass of the population whose taxes have created them still hungry and angry . It is hardly surprising that reform programmes are being drafted . Parliament , as the Calcutta Englishman cornplains , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great dependency ; but a change is coming over English opinion . The old story about Oriental incapacity for self-government is no longer gospel ; Japan has sadly damaged it . Army officers and statesmen here and there are making bold to say that the Tokio Parliament is not a whit better than a Hindu one might be . And the conservatives , who love to quote " East is- East and West is West , " are being shaken in their faith by the discovery that the Indian States under native rule are more prosperous , better educated , and quieter than the others . If such things are stirring consciences in England , how strongly must they be felt by 15,500,000 educated Hindus , who have seen China , Turkey , and Persia move toward freedom while they themselves have lagged ? BURDENS OF UNIVERSITY PRESI-DENTS . Discussing the impending retirement of President Eliot , one of the most prominent of the Boston alumni writes : " The governing boards and the alumni will understand better in six months than they do even now what a void Eliot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Eliot towers above all other college presidents and is so distinguished as a citizen . The magnitude of his office is such that it would be most difficult to fill , were it held by a man of far smaller intellectual calibre . The administrative work alone would tax the ability of our greatest heads of corporations , while the planning and steady maintenance of an academic policy that is liberal and progressive call for educational statesmanship of the first rank , Time was , of course , when the president of Harvard , like the heads of our smaller colleges , could variously raise money , manage the funds , oversee expenditures , supervise the faculty , discipline the students , and guide the scholastic polity as well . But when an institution has grown to the size of Harvard , its president really needs a cabinet like that of the President of the United States . And what we here say or Harvard applies , mutates mutandis ,  - -  to YaIe , Columbia , Cornell , Michigan , Chicago , and indeed , all of our larger universities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is entrusted to deans ; a recorder or secretary supervises the complex labor of controlling the students , recording their absences , illnesses , and marks in examinations ; a treasurer takes actual charge of the investments , and under him a bursar may deal with some of the details , such as the collecting of tuition fees . But even with these executive aids , the pressure of work upon the president is enormous . He presides at the meetings of seven or eight different faculties and many committees and boards He is compelled to give much time to public utterances ; to make long journeys in order to keep alive the interest of the alumni and secure their steady support ; and on proper occasions he must present interestingly and convincingly the general and special needs of the institution . If he obtains a building , or a group of buildings , he must consider with some minuteness the architectural designs . He can not wholly leave to the treasurer all financial questions , for his annual budget must be drawn up with a view to a rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Harvard , he is dealing with a capital of some twenty millions , with a yearly income from investments of about one million , to say nothing of other income , and he must be familiar with a treasurer 's statement covering 148 printed pages . And every newspaper or magazine in the country thinks itself entitled to hear from him on public questions  --  if he is not giving a course of lectures in Berlin or serving on a commission at ' Washington or Tokio . But this is not , all . President Eliot 's own report last year covered fifty-six printed pages and touched upon nearly fifty separate subjects , some of them of high importance , such as excess in athletic sports , admission with conditions , entrance requirements , the distribution of scientific students , and the moving-of Andover Theological Seminary to Cambridge . The reports made to President Eliot from the various departments of the university , his own summary of the year , and the treasurer 's statements make up a volume of no less than.500 pages . In President Eliot 's case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs , have been borne at the expense , we are almost tempted to say ; of the students themselves . By this we mean no censure . It is a fact , however , that to the undergraduates he has often been a stranger , . or at most a great name . Close relations with the students have been humanly impossible ; all one could ask was the necessary intercourse with the leaders of the teaching staff of 566 persons So when one of the undergraduates was asked by a reporter the opinion of the students as to the president 's retirement , he naively answered that " few of us know him , but all regret the change . " True , Mr. Eliot has for some years past met each newly entering class with one of his admirable addresses of counsel and inspiration . But beyond that the influence of his lofty personality has penetrated to the undergraduate hardly more than to the general public throughout the country . This has been a grave loss , for the moulding of character is , after all , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no man has been better fitted than President Eliot to display , in close and intimate relations with youth , a noble example of unselfish service to a great cause . Then there is the faculty . It takes a wonderful general to inspire 566 teachers ; to recruit their forces , to recognize the worthy and discard the drones or the inefficient ; to lead them or over the breastworks of tradition to new fields of honor and of service . That alone would seem a sufficient undertaking for any one man . And so we confess to some surprise on learning that not long ago a majority of a joint committee of the Overseers and the Corporation , including President Eliot himself , found , after inquiry , that " the president of the university does not need to be relieved of any function that he now performs ; but that he ought to be relieved of details in many directions , and to have more assistance than he now has . " Would they have been able to render the same report with any one else as president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient promise is phrased : As thy need so shall thy strength be . THE NEW COPYRIGHT CONGRESS . The International Copyright Congress which opened its sessions in Berlin on October 14 , has just adjourned . Though its committee labors were in private , and the full text of the amendments which it has recommended to the Berne Convention for the protection of literary and artistic property has not yet been published , enough is known to make it sure that this congress has gone beyond that at Paris in 1896 . There little was done beyond giving expression to pious wishes ( welts ) , which the gathering at Berlin has endeavored to fulfil No less than thirty-five countries have been represented by some eighty-five delegates . The dispatches speak of " the American delegates , " but , strictly speaking , there were none . The United States has not adhered to the Berne Convention . We have preferred to take our position with Turkey , Rumania , Ecuador , and other outside barbarians , though Japan has acceded to the Berne Convention , as one proof more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still remain aloof , we were not entitled to representation at Berlin , and our " delegates " there must have been admitted only as friendly observers and reporters . The chief purposes of the Berlin Congress were set forth by Prof. Albert Osterrieth , in his address at the first formal session . Lingering difficulties , ambiguities , and inequalities of copyright were to be discussed and , if possible , cleared up . The root idea of the Berne Convention was to give an author or artist the same protection for his property hi a foreign country that he might have enjoyed as a native thereof . But in some cases this would mean a certain inequity . France , for example , grants copyright for the life of the author and fifty years thereafter . Hence an Englishman or a German , would get a more generous protection in France , than a Frenchman would in England - or Germany , where the term of copyright is shorter . A similar inequality might arise as between Germany and England The latter gives copyright for forty-two years from publication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thirty years after his death . It is not necessary to show what intricacies would present themselves in the copyright relations of all these countries , say , with Belgium and Italy . There has been a growing feeling that the Berne Convention , noble as it was in aim , did not guarantee justice to all the parties . Hence , the movement to make copyright laws uniform in all civilized nations , so that there might be perfect equality of treatment . The arguments for such a course are set forth by Louis Delzous in the Revue des Deux blondes of October first . But it was with simpler matters that the Berlin Congress principally concerned itself . They may be grouped under the general head of " Art applied to industry . " Here belong all the questions relating to photographic reproductions of works of art ; to the mechanical production of music ; to the appropriation of the plans of architects . The Germans , French , and Italians made also a special proposal for the protection of newspaper articles . It was admitted that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or translation , without permission , was , it was contended , a violation of sound rules of copyright . The decision of the congress , it is stated , was to recommend that the use of polrhcal articles be permitted , unless expressly prohibited by the newspaper in which they appear , while scientific , historical , or literary articles should not be reproduced without express permission . On the question of the reproduction of copyright music by mechanical instruments , it is reported that a compromise was reached ; everything already in use is to remain untouched , but new compositions can not hereafter be taken without the consent of the copyright proprietor . Naturally , all these changes will have to be made , if at all , by legislative or diplomatic action on the part of the countries involved . One object , or hope , of the Congress was to complete the c.rcle of civilized states agreeing to the Berne Convention . Three great Powers have stood apart , all these years , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and the United States . Professor Osterrieth alluded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations to the position which the other leaders of civilizat:on have adopted . M Delzons emphasizes the same point in his article in the Revue . And the dispatches say that the American delegates at Berlin agreed to recommend to their government that the United States join finally in accepting the Berne Convention . We wish heartily that this might be done . There is no other ultimate solution to the problem of international protection of the property made by men 's brains But we are bound to say that we see no hope of Congress being brought to so rational a step to remove our reproach among the nations . It could not even be got to deal fairly with the moderate measure of copyright reform urged upon it during the past two years . And if any man asks the reason why , the answer lies on the surface . The theory of our tariff laws is that the foreigner is not to be maintained in his rights , but to be attacked and pillaged We must keep out his goods , or steal them if we can , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even in the slight concession to decency , which was made in our international copyright act of 1891 , it was necessary to introduce the odious phrase , " manufactured in this country , " in order to placate the protectionists . It is the American protective system which has steeped the minds of the people and Congress in the notion that we must do nothing to the advantage of the foreigner , even if it be demonstrably to our advantage also . That spirit is it which has prevented , and will long prevent , we fear , the American Congress from approaching the question of international copyright in an enlightened way . Russia may go in with the rest of the civilized world , and Austria may ; but the United States will continue , while our protectionists have their way , to line up with Turks and Montenegrins in the treatment of literary and artistic property . A LITERARY MOVEMENT . IN THE PHILIPPINES . One of the most striking features of American occupation of the Philippines has been the stimulus given to native literature  --  using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong collateral evidence of the birth of a new spirit of nationality . For this result America may fairly claim a share of the credit ; because , though the first phase was seen in the insurgent periodicals of 1898 , they made their appearance atter the Americans entered the city of Manila , and the old Spanish censorship of the press had broken down The development of the Filipino periodicals since 1901-1902 has been notable Almost to the end of Spanish rule , the printing-press was confined to Manila , though Cebd , Iloilo , and one or two other provincial and diocesan capitals saw the beginning of its work before 1898 . During these past few years small peri odicals have been started in over a dozen other provincial towns , and some have managed to keep going . The ablest and most independent of Filipino periodicals is El Renacuniento , a Manila daily printed in Spanish jointly with its Tagalog version , Ang Mining PagsiZang ( a title which likewise means " The Rebirth " or " The Renaissance " ) It has prospered so as to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , moreover , is a noteworthy sign of the times , as regards the passing of Spanish and the entry of English in the Philippine Islands ; for the leading minds of El Renacimento , men of Latin education and ideals , and in part also of Spanish blood , have been from the first hostile to " Americanization " and suspicious of our educational programme . It would seem , then , that our plan of building up the schools and extending the use of the Engl:sh language is making appreciable headway But the literary movement is by no means confined to newspapers and periodicals . A Tagalog version of Schiller 's " William Tell " Las just been published , the text used being a hitherto inedited translation made by Jose Rizal when he was a student in Germany , over twenty years ago . Rizal 's idea was , of course , to put within reach of his humbler fellow-citizens who could not read Spanish , the text of this drama of freedom  --  a work ' which , if accomplished , would have been another count in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manuscript has been in the possession of Mariano Ponce , who is the editor of the little volume now published This is the first of a series to be called the Filipino Popular Library  --  the project of some eight subscribers , including a German and an American ( Dr. David J Doherty ) , who have form ? ed a society for the publication of works for general reading among the Filipinos . The second volume , " Poor Richard 's Sayings , " is now being translated into Tagalog What would Franklin have thought could he have foreseen this translation and the conditions under which it is printed ? The publishing house is the Libreria Manila FilaMica , which issues the " William Tell " at a cost of only 30 cents Philippine currency ( 15 cents gold ) . There are also two recent novels in Tagalog , published by the same concern ; " Pinaglahuan , " by Faustino Aguilar , and " Anino which are put out in paper covers at a price of 60 cents Philippine currency , have considerable circulation , coming next in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evidence in another direction of the effort among the Filipinos to create a national literature is to be found in their making the most out of what has been done by their compatriots in the past . Every scrap by or about Jos ? Rizal , whether valuable or not , is brought to light in the Filipino periodicals with a great surrounding apparatus of apparent erudition . The traces of writings by Filipinos in the earlier periods of Spanish rule , traces meagre enough and of little significance , are strung together to create the appearance of a " literature " that would be pitiful , were it not that the endeavor has its meaning and promise for the future . One of these earlier pieces of writing , however , which is not without merit , is the so-called poem in Tagalog , the " Florante " of Francisco Baltasar , a Tagalog versifier of ' the first half of the nineteenth century . His version of the Spanish fairy tale and knight 's tale combined that goes under the name of " Florante " in the Philippines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other version of the story , and has been called by competent Tagalistas , such as Jos ? Rizal , Marcelo del Filar , and others , the best piece of Tagalog poetry in existence . Baltasar 's memory has been revived in the Philippines of late , and he is being put in the post of " father of Tagalog literature . " A new edition of his " Florante , " with some of his other poetical writings in Tagalog and a study of his life , prepared by Hermenegildo Cruz , has been published by the Manila Filat  --  lica under the title " Kan sino ang Kumathl nang ' Florante . ' " Yet , as we have said , the significance of all these publicatirms is less in the actual achievement than in the prompting impulse . It is the ambition for intellectual progress , the honor bestowed upon things of the mind , the search for light that really - counts . For it is as " New Poems " appeared with an American imprint , that the name of Francis Thompson began to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At least that was the year in which he swam into my ken , in the form of a request to write some account of the new apparition . I was puzzled , I know , even a little baffled , by this " star-weary , over-warred " genius , and excused my inability in his own words : Put here my lips are still until You and the hour shall be revealed , This song is sung and sung not , and its words are sealed . Now , at last , the seal may seem to have been removed . Since his death last year at the age of forty-eight his two kindest protectors and warmest admirers . Mr. and Mrs , Wilfrid Meynell , have brought out a selection from his three books of poems , with a biographical note , and . at the end of the volume , a number of appreciations * Well , shall I admit that I am still a little perplexed ? I feel much in him that is greal ; I see him in the appreciations placed by eminent critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wordsworth and Spenser and Milton ; but I hesitate . Even in this residue from which all the dross of his work has supposedly been drawn off , there is still so much to harass the ear and tease the mind  --  uncouth words that simulate oracular frenzy , jagged edges of rhyme , harsh inversions , and gaping ellipses ; so often his tortured language sounds like the beating on the ground of wings that can not rise He is of the wrestling but not of the triumphant spirits ; of those upon whom the vision comes as an enemy , and who never , even when the victory is theirs , like the champions of Pinder , " go about the loud circle of applause , beautiful in youth and fair from fairest deeds . " It may lie that I am misled by the fallacy of carrying his life into his work . Of that broken life the main events are told by Wilfrid Meynell , with hints of its darker aspect . Francis Thompson was the son of a Lancashire physician and was himself trained for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , and , like De Quincey , he went to London , carrying for all his wealth " IEschylus in one pocket , Blake in the other . " Like the ? Selected Poems of Francis Thompson New York ? John Lane Co el 50 net - Opium-eater , he carried also the taste that made his life in London 's streets a visionary terror ; and like him he met a strange and innocent rescuer : Once , bright Sylviola ! in days not far , Once  --  in that nightmare-time which still Both haunt My dreams , a grim , unbidden visitant ? Forlorn , and faint , and stark , I had endured through watches of the dark The abashless inquisition of each star , Yea , was the outcast mark Of all those heavenly passers ' scru-tiny , Stood bound and helplessly For Time to shoot his barbed minutes at me ; Suffered the trampling hoof of every hour In night 's slow-wheeled ear ; Until the tardy dawn dragged me at length From under those dread wheels , and , bled of strength , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; like thee , a spring-flower , but a flower Fallen from the budded coronal of Spring , And through the city-streets blown with-ering She passed , -0 brave , sad , lovingest , tender thing ! And of her own scant pittance did she give , That I might eat and live ? Then fled , a swift and trackless fugitive The story thus hinted at has never , I believe , been told in. print . It " surpasses in romance , " says Mr. Meynell , " that of De Quincey 's Anne , and might , indeed , for a moment , reverse Rossetti 's just indictment of the life ' of Jenny ' ? ' It makes a goblin of the sun . ' For this ' flower fallen from the budded coronal of Spring ' took root and flourished , even in London mire , and again the fragrant petals unfolded and the greenery grew . " But the true help for Thompson came from Mr. and Mrs. Meynell themselves and was more far-reaching than the modesty of the biographer permits him to record . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their child daughter were written the poems , wistful with jealousy of the future , when only by the remembrance of these verses he should share the possession of her heart with the destined lover : But on a day whereof I think , One shall dip his hand to drink In that still water of thy soul , And its imaged tremors race Over thy joy-troubled face , As the intervolved reflections roll From a shaken fountain 's brink ; to his adored benefactress were dedicated the lines " Before Her Portrait in Youth , " in which all the ravages and abstinences of a dispossessed life unite in a passionate claim upon the past : So I. in very lowlihead of love , Too shyly reverencing To let one thought 's light footfall smooth Tread near the living , consecrated thing , ? Treasure me thy cast youth . 