@@430052

It has become somewhat difficult to picture to ourselves the conditions which surrounded the work of higher education iq the United States in 1876 . Wonderful as the industrial advance of the country during the last twenty-five years has been , it is not at all more striking than the educational progress  | which has carried us far from those provincial conditions . It is easy to quote figures : ? four hun . dred graduate students ( in arts ) in 1875 , six thousand in 1902 , - or those sums of money invested which the newspapers use as the ready and exact measure of academic greatness . But there has been a change of spirit , or at any rate of attitude and emphasis , which statistics can not adequately express . In 1876 the phrase " higher education " usually meant college education ; now , when it is used by a careful speaker or writer , it is likely that he means an education which begins where the college leaves off . In that year , while it had lately ceased to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in Germany , it was still true that those who desired and could afford to have it under favorable conditions went there to obtain it . Now , the ratio of those who are pursuing it in America to those who are pursuing it in Germany is as fifteen to one . Many teachers devote themselves to this sort of training exclusively . Men who have not received it , in some measure , can not hope for employment in colleges , can hardly hope for places in the best schools . The great public draws somewhat definitely the line of distinction between university and college , and shows already a high appreciation of the methods and achievements of the former . The professional schools intended for the education of doctors and lawyers and ministers have been elevated and broadened by the same impulse , and by the example of the graduate schools of letters and arts . It is because of the singularly important part which the Johns Hopkins University has played in this remarkable movement that the celebration of its twenty-fifth anniversary has been regarded in the academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation ago a rich Baltimore merchant resolved to devote his fortune , in substantially equal parts , to the foundation of a university and of a hospital . Neither he nor the trustees to whom in his life-time he entrusted the former project had much knowledge or experience of universities and their management ; but they had the sagacity to choose and to follow wise advisers , and the courage to approve and sustain a novel experiment . At the tenth anniversary the president of the board of trustees told the remarkable story of the choice of a president for the contemplated institution . They wrote to the presidents of six of the leading universities of the country , asking them who was the best man for the post . All six gave the name of the . same man ? Daniel Coit Gilman , then president of the University of California . No one doubts that they were right . Most persons would agree that nobody but Mr. Gilman could have created in Baltimore the Johns Hopkins University that we know . It is his monument ; and it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the celebration of February 21 and 22 , though he resigned the presidency last autumn into the hands of Dr. Ira Remsen , whose formal inauguration occurred on the second day of the recent festival . Mr. Gilman and his trustees resolved , not to add to the educational system of the country one more college just like the rest , but to cap it with a university in which graduate instruction , elsewhere faintly beginning , should be the main object . Training in original investigation , and the publication of important researches in scientific journals supported by the university , were to be its constant task . Professors were to be chosen who were great investigators , and were to be given every facility to continue their researches while teaching . The chief investment was to be in men . Expenditure on buildings was to be kept at a minimum . Sylvester discoursed on the Abelian and Theta functions , Gildersleeve began the training of a generation of Grecians , Rowland conducted his researches into the mechanical equivalent of heat , in modest oldfashioned Baltimorean dwelling-houses . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so to speak , for it was to teach the teachers of America . It all seems obvious enough in 1902 , Columbus having long ago balanced the egg ; but to us of 1876 it was a revelation . Entrance into the atmosphere of the Johns Hopkins was , to those who went there in its earliest days , like the opening of the Pacific before the eyes of Balboa and his men . Here were no dated classes , no campus , no sports , no dormitories , no gulf between teacher and student where all were students , no compulsion toward work where all were eager . Moreover , the intellectual freedom was such as befitted a university having the admirable motto , " Veritas vos liberabit . " As time has gone on , other universities , with enlarging resources , have developed their graduate schools , while the Johns Hopkins has had a period of pecuniary difficulties ( now apparently ended by the generosity of its Baltimore friends ) ; and has felt obliged , besides supporting a medical school of the highest class , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nevertheless , the concourse of representatives of other universities at the recent celebration , and the tone of the addresses which some of them made , showed that the Johns Hopkins , past and present , still holds a high and indeed unique position in relation to the most advanced work . Hundreds of enthusiastic alumni , all of them young of course , yet many of them already distinguished in science , testified to the fruits of the Johns Hopkins experiment ; it is a rare college , in whatever part of the land , that has not at least one Hopkins man in its faculty . And the citizens of Baltimore showed , by their presence , their enthusiasm , and their hospitality , how cordially they appreciated the school and the occasion . On the evening of February 20 there were reunions of the men who had worked in particular  | laboratories or departments . The pupils of Professor Gildersleeve commemorated his quartercentury of service by a dinner and the presentation of a memorial volume made up of contributions to classical philology written by divers of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the midst of a memorable storm , the formal exercises began . The President , the President Emeritus , Cardinal Gibbons , and a long train of trustees , university presidents , delegates , guests , professors , and alumni marched in , in imposing procession . Mr. Gilman , in a most skilful and comprehensive address , reviewed the history of the last twenty-five years , and set forth once more those Hopkinsian ideals which he has so often before expounded on Commemoration Day , and which he has done so much to make the common property of educated America . Then Professor Woodrow Wilson of Princeton , the most eloquent of the alumni , in their behalf presented to Mr. Gilman a beautifully illuminated address commemorating with gratitude and affection his labors for the university and his services to education , ? services , it was justly said , " not surpassed by those of any other American . " The address was bound as a volume with the autograph signatures of 1012 alumni ; its presentation was accompanied by a demonstration from the audience which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but be very grateful to Mr. Gilman , many as are the honors and commendations which he has received . After this , there were short addresses of felicitation by Principal Peterson of McGill University , Montreal , President Hadley of Yale , President Dabney of the University of Tennessee , and President Harper of the University of Chicago . In the evening , there was a brilliant reception in the principal hall of the university . Saturday was President Remsen 's day . The morning 's exercises began with an address of welcome by the governor of the State of Maryland , who had been unable to be present on the preceding day . Governor Smith expressed forcibly and even eloquently the pride of Marylanders and Baltimoreans in their university , and declared with an emphasis which his position made significant his conviction that the state should , as of late it has been asked to do , assist pecuniarily in the maintenance and development of the institution . This duty , by the way , was eloquently enforced upon the minds of the alumni , at the dinner in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities , President Angell of Michigan . President Remsen , in his inaugural address , studiously avoided predictions and declarations of policy . But his description of the proper spirit and aims of the university 's work , and his cheerful confidence in its future , left no doubt of his high success , ? certainly no doubt in the minds of those who know his serene and genial temper , his honesty and good sense , his intellectual breadth , and the devotion he has shown to the university during his twenty-five years ' service as professor of chemistry . After the conferring of honorary degrees , President Eliot of Harvard , who from the first foundation of the university has been its faithful friend , made a brief but impressive closing address . He frankly declared the obligations of all other universities to the Johns Hopkins , saying that it had lifted all to a higher level ; and he warmly praised the work of its young medical school . The rest was social : a luncheon at the Johns Hopkins Hospital , and in the evening the alumni @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over by Professor Josiah Royce of Harvard . Here the President Emeritus described in general outline the present plans of the Carnegie Institution , of which he has just been made president , and Dr. Remsen gave a description , very interesting to the alumni , of the beautiful Homewood tract of land , at the north of the city , which by the munificence of a few citizens has been given to the university as a site for its future home . The inauguration of a new president marks always a new point of departure in the history of an American university , especially since it became customary to lodge preponderant power in the hands of one man . But in the present case there are still other , and manifest reasons for expecting a new era in the development of the Johns Hopkins . Removal to the new site will no doubt soon take place , and will make a difference that it is hard to estimate . There will be more room , greater quiet , the influence of beautiful surroundings , a better opportunity to foster the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , the heart of a great city is in some ways a better place for a great university than its outskirts , and graduate work in some departments must suffer at least until the library has become so far developed that remoteness from the Peabody Institute has ceased to be important . It is also evident that , however generous the people of Baltimore are disposed to be toward the university of which they have become so proud , the city is not rich enough to enable it to maintain , in comparison with uni ' versities planted in wealthier towns , the preeminence in graduate work which for several years it enjoyed . Let us hope that they will enable it to remain in this respect an equal , though doubtless with a constituency less national and more largely Southern , than in its first years . But there were phases of the Johns Hopkins celebration which suggested also the close of one era in the general life of American universities at large , and the opening of another . In the making of doctors of philosophy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come first an era of competition , a competition not ignoble and not without public utility , yet marked by some regrettable excesses . The reaction has already set in . The first and most important influence exerted in restraint of excessive competition has been that  | of the many national scientific societies , in each of which , at their annual meetings , the professors of many colleges join in discussing the matters of their common Each and in laying plans for its advancement . They meet as friends , and immerse themselves for the time in concerns which transcend those of any particular college or university . When they go home , the sense of these wider interests abides in their minds ; and they can be relied on to uphold them . All universities have members ? presidents or others ? who are veritable academic Chauvins , consumed with myopic zeal for their own universities . They are growing fewer . The set who attend scientific meetings are holding them in check . Again , the most potent source of what is called commercialism in American universities is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( assumed to be identical with the intellectual ) aggrandizement of their own institutions . Against this evil also the most effective counterweight has been the zeal of professors for larger and loftier interests , which must be harmed by vulgar competition , but will be signally forwarded by inter-university friendship , cooperation , and dependence . This broader spirit has grown rapidly in recent years . The university presidents themselves have joined in an association for the annual discussion of common topics . The age of mutual combination is displacing that of competition . Of the " outward and visible signs " of this new and most welcome stage of progress one of the most agreeable is the cordial enjoyment and fraternalfeeling with which all the universities join in the celebrations of any one among their number ; for , in the profoundly Christian phrase which President Eliot used with such happy effect , " we are all members one of another . "  |                     