@@473908

NEVER did romance come later into a life than in the case of Monsieur Jacques Marie Rouzet , professor of law , of Toulouse , To live to the age of fifty , a quiet , respectable member of the bourgeoisie , with strung repnblican views , then to he inspired with an undying passion for a royal princess , to have that passion faithfully returned , to follow her through adventure and vicissitude , to die a grandee of Spain , and to be the first to lie in what has become the burial-place of princes ? these are not commonplace turns of the wheel of fate , but they are those which came to Jacques Marie Rouzet . The French Revolution was fertile in surprises , and few that it produced were more curious than that which led tothe building of the mausoleum of the house of Orleans in the quaint old town of Dreux . Sent by his fellow citizens as deputy to the Convention , Rouzet arrived in Paris in September , 1792 . Like many others who sat in that fatal assembly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future of France and humanity . Now that the King had been dethroned and a new authority was to be set up , it seemed to Rouzet an excellent opportunity to combine antique republican simplicity with English constitutional liberty . As a scholar , a philosopher , and a professor of law he was willing to be one of that choice band of spirits who should evolve for France an ideal government , founded on what was best in both human wisdom and the past experience of mankind . Unfortunately , Robespierre had other views . Eighteen months later Rouzet found himself , with many of his more moderate colleagues , in the prison of Les Carmes . He had refused to vote for the King 's death in January ; in June he had signed the protest against the arrest of the Girondins ; in October his name was on the list of deputies to be haled before the Revolutionary tribunal : it was not strange that the March following should find him in a cell . There was but a step between the worthy man and the guillotine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor . That is to say , they were so far in his favor that he was allowed to retire to Charonne , to the maison de sante of Robespierre 's friend Dr. Belhomme . This establishment ? something between a prison and a sanatorium ? was one of the many similar institutions that flourished in or near Paris during the Terror . In them the wealthy or influential prisoner , by paying liberally , could escape the horrors of the Abbaye or the Salpetriere and provide himself with some of the comforts to which he had been used . Of all such places of refuge , the house of Dr. Belhomme was the surest and the most expensive . As the suburban villa of the Marquis de Chabanais , its appointments were in the good taste of the time , while to its inmates the garden offered peace and seclusion from the storms that raged without . It is still to be seen , dignified and yellow , though passing into slow decay ? the only one of all the prisons of the Revolution that remains just as it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pretty neighborhood of villas , convents , and parks ; it is one of the busiest streets of the populous industrial quarter between Pere la Chaise and the Place de la Bastille ; but it bears still some traces of what it was . The villa of Louise de la Valhere stands in its integrity , decorated in the sumptiious Louis Quatorze style , but now given over to base uses . Behind the high walls of the convent with which we are familiar in the last act of Rostand 's play is the chapel where Cyrano de Bergerac lies buried . Here and there carved portals and sculptured facades tell of the time when rich Parisians were content to come to the heights of Charonne for the air and coolness they seek now at Trouville or in Switzerland . As a retreat for people trembling for their lives nothing pleasanter than Dr. Belhomme 's house could have been found in the near vicinity of Paris . Its proprietor used his influence with the Revolutionary authorities to secure immunity for those under his protection , and as long as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay no longer they were obliged to go , to the certain danger of their heads . Thus the Duchesse de Gramont and the Duchesse du Mikelet , being unable to meet Belhomme 's increasing charges , went forth to seek a cheaper refuge , and a few days later perished on the scaffold . " Death from false economy " was Belhomme 's verdict on this tragic end ; but among the surviving inmates of the house at Charonne there was a closer drawing together , in common fear and for mutual protection . This sense of sheer human dependence on each other , natural to those who live in daily peril , was perhaps the starting-point of Rouzet 's romance . Belhomme 's register records the arrival of Citizen Rouzet from the prison of Les Cannes on the 4th Vendilmiaire , and , a few days previously , that of Citizeness Louise Marie Adelaide Penthievre . This lady was no other than the Duchess of Orleans , widow of Philippe EgalitC . As the daughter of the Duke of Penthievre and the granddaughter of the Count of Toulouse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and Madame de Montespan . To her had descended almost the whole of the immense fortune bestowed by the Grand Monarque on his illegitimate family , so that at the time of her marriage the was the most considerable heiress in Europe . It is largely through her , indeed , that the house of Orleans is in possession of its important means at the present day . On entering the house at Charonne , the Duchess was probably relieved at arririug there at all . It was a contrast , doubtless , to the splendors of the Palais Royal and the beauty of her villa at Pussy , but it was clean , well ordered , and well served . Moreover , it was safe ; and she had come through so many terrible experiences that the humblest refuge would have been welcome . A loveless marriage had , in her case , been followed by an unhappy wedded life . Her husband had been a renegade to his order , and had voted for the death of the King , his kinsman . Now the King had gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had followed them to the scaffold . Of her two sons , the elder , afterwards King Louis Philippe , was a refugee in Austria , while the younger was in prison at Marseilles . Without family , without friends , with only a pittance out of her vast means allowed to reach her , and all the life she had known reversed from its very base , it is not to be wondered at that the lonely lady should have been glad of any shelter and touched by any sign of friendship . Though at this time forty years of age , she was still in the prime of the sweet , serene beauty that looks down on us from the walls of Versailles . Her character was one of those that are rendered strong by ? a devout and cheerful resignation . Into the life at Charonne she brought the courage inspired by a patient , buoyant nature that no trial can embitter . She worked , read , prayed , and bore her great ills with a gentleness that upheld those around her . From the very beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the secluded life at Charonne there were none of the arti-. ficial distinctions demanded by court etiquette . Social intercourse was easy even between a deputy to the Convention and a Bourbon princess . The common danger had put every one on a common footing , to a greater extent than the Revolution had done it in the world of liberty , equality , and fraternity outside . Some of the prisoners bore the noblest names in France ; others , like Rouzet , were of the bourgeoisie ; while there were others , like Mademoiselle Lange and Mademoiselle Mezeray of the Theatre Francais , whose claim to distinction was in the realms of art . It was a notable little company , and , like the ladies and gentlemen in the Decameron , it did its best to entertain itself even though deadly peril was at the gates . There were cards , books , and music ; there were a well - furnished salon for evening re- unions and the garden for pleasant walks and talks . The unusual circumstances created special friendships , and those who in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other . Thus it was with the grave , elderly scholar from Toulouse and the sweet , sympathetic Duchess . iletween his seriousness and her serenity there was much in common . It was natural to his high-minded chivalry to be eager to serve her ; it was equally natural to her princely ignorance of every-day things to accept service as a matter of course . Into his devotion Rouzet put a delicacy and tact which the Duchess returned with grace and gratitude . The friendship between them ripened rapidly and gave zest to the conversation of the lookers-on . It was soon whispered that the Duchess and the deputy were in love . So they were , as the sequel proved . They were at the beginning of an idyl as pure and tender as any to be found in the pages of romance . The attachment between them was one which they were at no pains to hide . With maturity of years and elevation of principles on both sides , they were not afraid to be candid as to their mutual regard . They were at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broken up and all previously existing conventionalities at an end . It was as if the world were beginning over again and anything was possible . The wildest hopes might be realized , the strangest dreams come true , and the most unusual course of conduct . could be justified . Among those who had lived through the frightful shocks of the past two years sentiment was in the air . The mere fact of having survived so many calamities created sympathies and comprehension where there might have been criticism or condemnation . The attachment between Rouzet and the Princess may have caused a smile ; it never , then or later , raised a word of scandal . He ie. his chivalry and she in her gentleness remained through life above suspicion . Thus , in spite of all sufferings , the weeks at Charonne brought to both a certain happiness . It was with regret that they saw at last the doors thrown open and the deputy allowed to go forth free . Never was prisoner less glad of liberty ; for , while he took his seat in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Rouzet could do was to work in her interest among his colleagues , till his efforts were crowned with an equivocal success . By order of the Directory the " Widow Orleans ' ' was released from prison , but only to be deported beyond the boundaries of France . At two o'clock on an autumn morning the exiled lady , escorted by a body of soldiery , was conducted out of Paris on the long and tedious journey towards Spain . Rouzet was not permitted to accompany her , and the two friends parted in despair . But the journey was fated to be an eventful one . The Duchess , like a true princess of the old rergime , knowing nothing of practical affairs , could not imagine herself travelling without the suite to which she had been accustomed . Vox .. evirr. ? rto , 647. - 97 She took with her ladies in waiting , a physician , valets , and maids . Several of the huge coaches of the former court were required to accommodate her train , and the convoy was eighteen days in crossing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was necessary for the travellers to present their passports . In order to verify them , each person was obliged to descend and be identified . It was found then that one of the party was without papers . He gave his name as Jacques Marie Rumen Then the truth came out . The good man had remained a week in Paris , until he could bear his loneliness no longer . Travelling post-haste , night and day , he had started after his dear friend and had overtaken her not long before the frontier was reached . The circumstances were explained to the French officials , who cruelly refused to let the deputy proceed . It was in vain that he implored and the Duchess wept . Rouzet was carried off to the fortress of Bellegarde on the steep rock just above them . The Duchess refused to cross the frontier without him , but her protestations were of no avail . By and by she dragged herself on foot up to the castle and sew the governor himself . Finding him not to be moved by either tears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of her loss of consciousness , her attendants then carried her over into Spain . But Rouzet , t hough nearly heart-broken , was not yet at the end of his resources . He wrote to the Convention itself , took his five hundred colleagues into his confidence , and begged their sympathy . It is clear that his case must have touched their hearts , for in the end his papers were accorded him and he was able to go on . He joined the Duchess at the Villa Sarria , near Barcelona , and from that time till the day of his death they were never parted again . In the little court he took the office of Intendant . That is , he claimed the right to watch over his adored friend in every way , to administer her small revenues , and protect her helplessness against those who would otherwise have preyed upon her . At her request her kinsman , Charles IV . of Spain , conferred upon him the title of Count de Folmon , and , to please her , Rouzet bore the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isles , before the Napoleonic invasion ; and from there they returned together to France at the Restoration in 1815 . Once more in possession of her former means , the Duchess established herself in the Chkeau d'Ivry , not far from Dreux . At Dreux there had been an ancient church , which the Revolution had destroyed . In the crypt of this church had been buried the parents of the Duchess , but their remains had been east out when the royal tombs were destroyed in 1794 . The very site of the church had been confiscated and sold ; and one of the first cares of the Duchess on her return to France was to get it into her own possession . There . in 1817 , she began the construction of a small chapel , over the spot where her parents ' bodies had lain . In the centre of this chapel she erected two tombs of white marble , exactly alike and near together , for herself and the friend who had served her so faithfully . In 1820 the crypt of the chapel was finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed him and was buried by his side . it is not to be supposed , however , that this final arrangement was satisfactory to the restored royal family and their friends . The romantic attachment that had passed without comment during the Terror was regarded otherwise twenty-five years later , when more conventional ideas had resumed their sway . Later still , when Louis Philippe himself was on the throne , the two white marble tombs at Dreux were a cause of something like offence to those who had a right to an opinion . It was the King himself who found the way out of a delicate situation . Over the little chapel his mother had built he raised the large Gothic Renaissance church of the present clay ? a mingling of all styles , but not without something dignified and picturesque . The pavement of the new edifice was high above that of the old . To the new level he raised the tomb of the Duchess ; that of Rouzet was left down below Thus the friends were separated after death , and all trace of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , swept away . It was a questionable act , for it is safe to say that none of those who have been laid there since that time have brought lovelier memories to the spot . And they do not lack much that is noble ? these Orleans men and women , who lie splendid in marble above the place where Rouzet is hidden in the dark . If Louis Philippe himself is not an imposing Personage , Marie Arnelie ? niece of Marie Antoinette ? is a touching figure as she kneels meekly by his side . Around them are their children ? those who died as belles , like Mademoiselle de Montpensier ; those who went in youth , like handsome Orleans , father of the Comte de Paris , and Marie , the lovely Duchess of Wiirtemberg ; and those who lived to be old men , like Aumalr , Joinville , and Nexnours . They are all imposing in death , as most of them were excellent in life ; and yet , as one moves from tomb to tomb admiring the painting , the sculpture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one stands beside the sepulchre of the noble Helen of Mecklenburg , who stretches her hand towards her husband from the tiny Protestant chapel in which she lies , ? or beside that of the Duchesse d'Alencon , who , when urged to save herself from the fire of the Bazar de la Charite , six years ago , replied , " T must he the last to leave , " ? or beside that of Henri d'Orl ? ans , the intrepid young traveller brought back from his last voyage to lie down here , ? as one thinks of the honorable record most of these members of the Orleans family have left behind , ? nevertheless one feels that . the memory which more than any other gives poetry and consecration to their princely resting place is that of the honest bourgeois Rouzet , with his unpretending chivalry and simple , pure-minded love . 