@@486114

NEW YORK , THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 20 , 1900 The Week . There is no end of noble sentiments in the instructions of the President to the Philippines Commission last April which Mr. McKinley , still on the defensive , deems this the proper time in the campaign to make public . The casual reader who should glance hastily through the columns which it occupies , might be inclined to think that the policy laid down seemed very liberal to the natives . The substitution of civil for military government is what everybody desires , and here apparently is the promise of it , but a careful examination shows that it is only in appearance that any radical change is made . The supreme control is really retained in the military government . Take , for example , those " inviolable rules " which the President says " must be imposed upon every division and branch of the government , " and which are copied from the Bill of Rights - of the Federal Constitution  --  as that no person shall be deprived of life , liberty , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be a speedy and public trial of offenders . It was only a few days ago that the dispatches from Manila reported the arrest , imprisonment , and release of a leading Filipino without the observance of any one of these inviolable rules . The truth is , that the government of the Philippines under the Taft Commission is practically as arbitrary as it was before the members of that Commission left the United ' States . On minor matters , we observe more adrbitness than principle in . Mr Bryan 's letter of acceptance . He outbids McKinley in the matter of pensions , saying that " The pension laws should be construed according to the generous spirit which prompted their passage . The platform very properly reiterates the position . taken in 1896 , that the fact of enlistment shall be deemed conclusive evidence that the soldier was sound when the Government accepted him . A certificate given now to the health of a person forty years ago , even if easily obtainable , should not have as much weight as the certificate of the medical officer who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for army service " One of the things to be put to the credit of McKinley is that he kept in office a Commissioner of Pensions who construed the laws according to the facts before him , and not according to the " generous spirit which prompted their passage , " if anybody knows what that was . On the subject of the Nicaraguan ' Gana , Mr Bryan goes much beyond the present Administration in the way of disregarding the rights of other Powers interested in the navigation of an Isthmian waterway , and he especially condemns the Hay-Pauncefote treaty because it seeks to conform to existing international obligations This is not the language of statesmanship , but rather that of a candidate who is not very particular what he says if it will bring him the support of unthinking voters Gov . Roosevelt 's letter of acceptance comes out strong on the savagery and general " cussedness " of the Filipinos . It is really a painful thing to see an educated man , of gallant and generous impulses , thus take up a railing accusation against people concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to Apaches and the Boxers He indulges , in fact , in just such sweeping revilings of an enemy as would fall naturally from the lips of an Apache or Boxer . But they are out of place in the mouth of a brave soldier . Gov . Roosevelt - has been studying seventeenth-century literature . He ought to remember Selden 's rebuke of braggart soldiers who abuse an enemy . The worst of it is that the Governor sets up his own unsupported authority against the men who do know the Filipinos He is wiser than Dewey and the other naval officers ; than Foreman and Worcester and Schurman . The New York State campaign has opened in the lifeless way which was to have been expected after such a convention as the Democrats held last week . The minority party might have made it one of the most interesting and exciting canvasses for the Governorship which New York has seen in many years , if it had nominated the candidate whom the majority frankly admitted that they dreaded . But when Groker " turned down " Coler and imposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken out of the Democratic campaign . Mr. Stanchfield , Croker 's choice for the Governorship , betrayed his own sense of the weakness of his candidacy when he devoted his opening speech to the Trusts , and neglected State issues entirely . Meanwhile there is a notable lack of enthusiasm on the other side Mr. Odell is very popular with the professional politicians of his party , but he is not a man to stir the masses if he were to take the stump , and he will not . The Republicans have the issue made for them by the attempt of Croker to control the government of the State as well as that of the municipality , and it is hard to suppose that the Tammany boss has not given them an easy victory after a dull campaign . Mr. Stanchfield 's address at Lyons on Friday ( his first appearance since his nomination ) will not commend him to voters who do their own , thinking . It was wholly devoted to Trusts , department stores , and other combinations of capital . The usual picture of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but no remedy was proposed , except for those which are protected by the tariff . Certainly , department stores are not of this class , nor is the Bicycle Trust or the Tanning Trust , which were particularly mentioned . He was easily answered by Mr. Woodruff , who followed him , and who denounced Trusts as volubly as Mr. Stanchfield himself , and who brought forward the Tammany Ice Trust as a familiar to quo quo . There may be a certain amount of prejudice in the minds of the agricultural class whom Mr. Stanchfield was addressing , available for campaign purposes ; but unless it can be shown that the Democratic party has a remedy for Trusts and department stores which can be put in force by legislation , no man of sense will cast his vote for a Democrat rather than for a Republican on account of them . All talk about the virtues of competition is idle unless you show how to bring it about . The only remedy for Trusts that Mr. Bryan has committed himself to is a law providing that no corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other State unless it receive a license from the Federal Government , and that this Federal license shall be issued only on condition that the corporation is not a monopoly . This may be considered the Democratic plan of dealing with Trusts , but even this would not reach the department stores . Mr. Stanchfield 's speech at the Wayne County Fair was mainly claptrap and not of a very good kind . It is on a par , however , with the " full dinner-pail " that figures so largely in the Republican campaign . It is an interesting and significant fact that the Republican Congressman in Maine who made the best showing in. the race for reelection , was the one who opposed Imperialism so stoutly in the House of Representatives during the last session . Mr. Littlefield , the new member from the Lesviston district , who has leaped into national prominence by his bold displays of independence at Washington , received a merited reward from his constituents in running ahead of his party 's ticket . Moreover , he was easily the most effective orator on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profited much from the speeches of Representative McCall of Massachusetts , who led the movement against the Porto Rican tariff , and Senator Hale of Maine , who has opposed the whale 220 The Nation . Vol. 71 , No. 1838 : Expansion movement ever since he voted against the treaty of peace and was defeated by Bryan 's successful efforts to secure its ratification . The fact that Hale , McCall , and Littlefield were still supporting the Republican party , helped it more than all that was said by the whole company of Expansion orators who went up and down the State . The cry for the initiative and referendum has been raised again this year , and there seem still to be a good many people who believe that a large part of our ills could be cured by their introduction . The advocates of the change , however , always fail to explain why they should expect voters to take an earnest interest in the referendum as a regular thing when they pay very little attention to the institution as a special thing . At the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constitution establishing the office of State Auditor . There had been considerable discussion of the question , and a good deal of opposition in the farming towns , because it was feared that another ex. pensive department would be saddled upon the State , to do the work which the Governor 's council is employed to do in auditing State bills . The proposition was defeated , but the significant thing is that very little attention was paid to the matter . Penobscot County is probably a fair illustration ; out of 15,000 men who voted for Governor , only 3,536 had interest enough in the auditing question to mark their ballots either way . If the average man will not improve the opportunity of the referendum when it comes rarely , it is difficult to see why he should be expected to bother himself about the matter when a host of questions are submitted to him . - Delaware , which went for McKinley in 1896 , has been generally thought likely to go- for Bryan this year . The Republican party has been split into two factions  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who have been fighting the gas speculator for years. - Each faction has nominated a State ticket of its own , and the leaders of the Regulars have been inclined to make na - concessions , but their State Committee met on Friday and agreed upon a-compromise ticket which seems likely to be accepted by the Unionists . In 1896 McKinley carried Delaware by nearly 4,000 plurality , and when the two Republican factions united on a candidate for Congress- in 1898 , they elected him by about 2,500 plurality . Two Senatorships are to be disposed of by the Legislature which will be elected this fall , and Addicks is bent upon getting one of them . - If he can come to terms with the Regulars , and all hands will then support the State and national tickets , - McKinley should stand the better chance of carrying the State . Addicks has a double motive for putting out his money this year , since he not only has - the chance of buying a Senatorship , but also needs to carry the State for the Republicans on the Presidential issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizing " him at Philadelphia . Gov . Roosevelt on Thursday made public his decision dismissing the charges brought against District Attorney Gardiner , and thus retaining Mr. Gardiner in office . The accusations made numbered no fewer than eighty , and the specifications rose to about 2,000 . It was inevitable that a great amount of time should be consumed in the hearing , if it had been pressed with all diligence and no unexpected causes of delay had arisen . As it was , one thing after another occurred to drag the case along , with the result of cooling public interest in the matter . The selection of a Commissioner to hear the charges , too , was not happy . Mr. Wilcox not only refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the evidence justified removal , but virtually acquitted the District Attorney on every count , so far as any serious misconduct was concerned , in many cases dividing the responsibility between him and the judges . Gov . Roosevelt would have made a grave error if he had not dismissed the charges upon the Commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's removal is entirely justified by the evidence of his misconduct which has been brought out . On the other hand , Gov . Roosevelt must have been glad to avoid displacing a political opponent , since his motives might easily be misrepresented . The incident shows the inherent weakness of the law invoked against Gardiner . ? President Mitchell and Organizer James of the United Mine Workers are active in their efforts to force out the men who are operating the Jeddo collieries . These men have an agreement of long standing with their employers , according to- which all differences are submitted to arbitration . The men have made certain demands , and haVe given their employers- ten days for consideration . At the end of this period , according to the standing agreement , any matters which have not been satisfactorily settled are to be submitted to a board of arbitration , made up of two arbitrators , one chosen by the men , one by the employers , and a third chosen by these two in case they themselves fail to agree . The officers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to operate their collieries , may break the force of the strike , and the Association is eager to get them out . In doing this the United Mine Workers are giving another instance of that irresponsibility and disregard of contract agreements with employers which has brought trade-unionism and labor organizations into general disfavor all over the country . The Jecldo men are working under an agreement to-settle all differences through arbitration , and this is exactly the sort of agreement which the Mine Workers ' Association is urging upon all the operators . It is the cardinal principle upon which . the-miners have insisted in organizing the present strike . But if an agreement of this sort with employers is to be followed only when it pleases the miners to follow it , and disregarded when they choose to disregard it , operators generally are not likely to accept the principle of arbitration on those terms . in view of the coal strike here , it is interesting to note the condition of the coal-mining industry in England during the last year and a half . In sharp contrast to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in a very flourishing condition , and the colliery companies have been taking profits and declaring dividends freely . One company , with a capital of a million pounds , wisely distributed only 20 per cent . on the ordinary share capital , placing ? 100,000 to reserve fund and devoting about ? 20 , - 000 to other purposes , while keeping in hand undivided profits - amounting to ? 25,246 . Another company reports that its profits for the year ending March 31 amounted to ? 111,498 , by far the largest ever earned by the company in any one year , the next largest being ? 74,766 in the year ended March 31 , 1894 . Other coal companies report equally great profits . These ample dividends have in some instances occasioned a rise of 150 per cent . or more in the capital value of collieries . There is every evidence in the present situation that this long-continued heavy profit-taking on the part of the mine-owners has become an embarrassing tax upon British industry , The . operators themselves realize that they are enjoying abnormal prosperity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of coal gra-tuitously In putting up the price of coal as high , as the market allows , the mine-owners have acted in accordance with a -well-recognized business principle . It does not appear at all that they have manipulated prices , or attempted to " bull the-market . " No charges of this sort are brought against them . They have not even limited their output in order to sustain prices . On the contrary , it appears that the collieries have been working to their fullest capacity , and not the least perplexing feature of the situation is found in the fact that at the present high prices  --  prices considered to be ruinously high for British industrythe coalSept. mine operators have been literally swamped with orders which they have been unable to fill . Manufacturers have found themselves caught as in a vise between the rising prices of coal at home and the downward pressure of foreign Competition in the markets where they must dispose of their commodities . They have felt generally a narrowing of the margin of profits in. consequence of this double movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiencing pretty keenly of late the pressure of American competition . In American markets the price of pig-iron and of steel billets has been and is still steadily declining . At the same time stocks on hand in American warehouses have been increasing , and American producers have been watching European markets eagerly , ready to take advantage of any price movements which should enable them to dispose of their superabundant supplies abroad . The Supreme Court of Massachusetts has handed down an interesting decision in a case arising out of the struggle for supremacy of two labor unions of the same craft . One union undertook to boycott the other by serving notice upon the " bosses , " through its official agents , that members of the rival organization were non-union men . This was understood to be a covert threat that the union serving the notice would order a strike against bosses who should continue to employ members of the other union . The Court enjoins such action , whiCh it characterizes as " intolerable and inconsistent with the spirit of our laws , " " malicious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But there is a radical difference of opinion among the judges . Chief Justice Holmes stoutly dissents from his brethren on the bench , and declares that , in his opinion , laborers may lawfully employ such means to secure the unity of organization which is necessary to make the contest of labor effectual . He believes it lawful for a body of workmen " to try by combination to get more than they are now getting , although they do it at the expense of their fellows , and to that end to strengthen their union by the boycott and the strike . " Galveston was a city of some 40,000 inhabitants built on an island something . like the sand spits that skirt the Great South Bay of Long Island . The land on which it is situated is from five to ten feet above tide level . It is exposed to the full force of the winds and waters of the Gulf of Mexico . Being near the mainland , it is liable to be submerged whenever a wind of great strength and duration banks up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by such dangers before , and it was supposed that the worst that could happen by reason of its exposed situation had already happened This , it seems , was an erroneous conclusion . The-storm of September 8 proved to be . a West India hurricaneof the most appalling description . The force of the wind appears to have been greater than that which devastated Porto Rico last year . It swept the waters of the Gulf westward and piled them up against the coast . It submerged the foundations of the city to the depth of ten feet in many places . It filled all the wells and cisterns with salt water , and saturated the ground itself with salt . The wind blew down houses and filled the air with their debris , killing and wounding men , women , and children who had escaped drowning . It is impossible to picture the calamity in its awful dimensions . It is needless to say that a great part of the means and implements by which the inhabitants gained their bread have been swept away . The warehouses , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goods , the animals , the railroads ( in part ) , the clothing and utensils are gone , and must be replaced . What had been accumulated by the toil and foresight of half a century for man 's comfort and necessities has been engulfed by the waters or shattered by the winds . The returns from the Cuban elections thus far received show that eleven Nationalists , eleven Republicans , and only one representative of the Democratic Union , the party of annexation , have obtained seats in the coming Constitutional Convention . The list of names includes those of some very able men , among others that of Diego Tamayo , one of Gen. Wood 's cabinet , and makes it certain that the protestants against the McKinley plan of having the Convention settle the island 's relations to the United States will be well represented , if not in control of the new body . The presence of Gen. Rum Rivera and of the fire-eating Gen. Jose Aleman will insure some plain speaking , and as a whole the selections will strengthen the widespread expectation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do McKinley 's will . That theprotests against the unheard-of requirement that a Con-stitutional Convention shall settle the most important foreign relations of the Government which it is called upon to create , are steadily increasing , . is made plain by every mail from Cuba . These protests , as well as the orderly elections , are striking testimony to the ability of the Cubans to govern themselves The friends of free and independent Cuba might well begin to despair if its people calmly submitted to the " recommendations " of the Military Governor , even though these recommendations are made by a mayor-general commanding the only troops in the island , and therefore smack of despotism . - . ? - Negotiations , now formally concluded , for the placing of a $20,000,000 loan of the German Government in New York , again direct attention to the extraordinary change in this country 's position in the world 's finance . The floating of these obligations , which appear to be similar in character and maturity to the recent Exchequer bond issue of Great Britain , follows similar accommodation extended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , and creates a wholly new factor in our investment markets . It must be kept carefully in mind , however , that as yet nothing in the nature of a general movement of small investors to put their money into European Government bonds has developed . Securities of the kind , already floated in our money markets , are not bought and sold on the Stock Exchange . There is , as yet , in Wall Street 's phraseology , no " open market " for them . Up to the present time , such European Government bonds as have been placed in the New York market have either been taken by banking-houses , to be disposed of later in the most profitable quarter , or have found their way into the investment fund of the large insurance companies . Even the savings banks , which are among the largest buyers of United States national and municipal bonds , are unable under the law to include foreign securities in their assets . Large , therefore , as is the sum of capital already invested or pledged to these European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German issue , not falling much below $70,000,000 ? it can not be Said that it represents as yet a permanent change in the general investment movement . But the entering of a new field by the large investing corporations is usually an initial step towards distributing similar securities among private hands . It is , therefore , not at all unlikely that before many months the obligations of European states will be bought and sold on American stock exchanges , held in the strong-boxes of small American investors , and quoted daily in the stock lists of the newspapers . President Loubet of France , as arbitrator of the boundary dispute between the republics of Colombia , Costa Rica , and Nicaragua , has rendered a decision which has an interest for this country . In lieu of Colombia 's extreme claim to the entire eastern coast line of the two northern republics , she gains by the arbitration a scant hundred miles on the east coast and nothing on the west . This rearrangement straightens the Colombia-Costa Rica line , which now runs nearly north and south along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nicaragua Greytown , the proposed eastern terminus of the Nicaragua interoceanic canal . If it had been turned aver to Colombia , which is interested already in the Panama concession , the Nicaragua scheme : might have been blocked .                     