@@486841

" I think the whole course of this investigation , " said President McCurdy last week , in his astounding lecture to the Insurance Committee , " is entirely outside of what was in contemplation by the Legislature when the Committee was constituted . " There can be no doubt - whatever that the Committee 's course is just what the insurance magnates who have so long purchased the legislatfires of this country did not expect . If there had been any question whether Mr. Hughes 's inquisition is really getting behind the scenes , Mr. McCurdy 's attitude and words must have answered it for all time . No one has cut quite such a discreditable figure as did the head of the Mutual Life . Of the honest , straightforward man , conscious of rectitude , and ready to lay all before properly accredited inquirers , there was no more trace than of the dignified , able , and courteous man of affairs one expects to find at the head of a great trust . Mr. McCurdy has deprived himself of every remaining bit of sympathy any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have blushed for him as they read his involved , evasive answers , his sullen defiances , or his impertinent reference of the simplest general questions to his actuary . Such an exhibtion would seem incredible were it not attested in black and white . Some of the insurance questions which President McCurdy was apparently unable to answer , were of such a nature that igr orance about them would have shamed a $25-a-week clerk . Yet , despite the witness 's dodgings and twistings and refusals to answer , Mr. Hughes has obtained no better results in a single session than he did on this occasion . The whole system of legislative corruption is now bared to all who care to read it . Newspapers have hinted at it , reformers have denounced it , and the general public has long felt that the responsibility for the deterioration of our political life lay at the doors of the great corporations . But proof was lacking until Mr. Hughes found the slimy trail of Andrew Hamilton . On October 17 his inquiries into the activities of Andrew C. Fields enabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finest ramifications . With complete oblivion of his own party allegiance , Mr. Hughes exposed Mr. Fields 's Democratic and Republican alliances ' without discrimination , and thereby brought ? out once and for all the non-partisan character of the legislative corruption in which the insurance companies have been engaged . After this revelation not even Mr. McCall can have the face to portray insurance presidents as saviours of the finances of the nation . They care not a whit what party succeeds , what principles control , whether democratic institutions are sapped , so long as they are " protected . " But the truth does not stop here . It was made apparent that both parties share equally in the spoils so freely distributed without an accounting of any kind . Mr. Andrew C. Fields , who is too ill to leave ' California to defend his reputation , and whose whereabouts is unknown to Mr. McCurdy , has been for some years head of , the Mutual 's supply department . Curiously enough , the duties of that office seem to terminate with the legislative session , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his other summer residence at the Thousand Islands . When in Albany , where he spends a large portion of the months from January to March , Mr. Fields occupies a house with four or five others  --  his share paid by the Mutual . Naturally , Mr. Fields , being kind-hearted and philanthropic , finds ready employment for the politicians of his party  --  the Democratic  --  in Westchester County . Mr Charles P. McClelland , for instance , Mr. Fields 's near neighbor , and known also as an able lawyer , received from December 17 , 1900 , to March 31 , 1902 , for legal services , $8,947 32 , in return ( Mr. McCurdy asserts ) for foreclosing mortgages . On his reelection to the State Senate in 1902 , Mr. McClelland was wisely enough put upon the Insurance Committee . So , too , was one of Senator McClelland 's predecessors and townsmen , Senator Graney  --  representatives from Dobbs Ferry are always insurance experts . But Mr. Fields 's kindness did not stop there . There was Louis F. Murray , also a Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " legal services . " And for John J. Cunningham of Dobbs Ferry , who formerly drove for Mr. Fields , there was a position as examiner with the State Insurance De*partment . But the Mutual 's benevolence extended to Republicans as well as Democrats , and so we find Mr. William Barnes , sr. , a lawyer of standing , one of the best-known octogenarians of Albany , and , cidentally , father of William Barnes , jr. , Republican boss of Albany , receiving an honorarium from " Andy " Hamilton , We regret to note , however , in this connection , Mr. Barnes 's published statement that his connection with the Mutual Life vas only " slight . " This further appears from the fact that one of the Mutual 's checks dtie Mr. Barnes , sr , was so long overlooked that Barnes , jr , had to write and ask for it . The Mutual 's affection for retired Republican insurance superintendents is really touching when one considers how stony-hearted corporations , are supposed to be . Besides Mr. Barnes , the Mutual long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany , not , of course , for any services rendered by Mr. Pierce at Albany , but Merely out-of regard for a highly canscientious official left to starve by an ungrateful republic . From all this it will be seen that the non-partisan idea in politics , has had no warmer supporters in fact than our insurance companies . Those of us who have hitherto doffed our hats to the Citizens ' Union and other reformers as the leaders in this cause , must now admit our error . In national politics , of course , Mr. McCall and Mr. McCurdy have taken care of the ship of state and steered it clear of Democratic rocks . But in the State a broader policy has been followed . After all , should not a State , like a city , be run solely in a business way to benefit business men ? The Mutual and its allies evidently thought so , and , as the first step in making the government at Albany a government by business men , for business men , inevitably enlisted the leaders of thought from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be simpler ? What more practical ? " FRIENDS OF THE INDIAN . " At last year 's " Lake Mohonk Conference of Friends of the Indian and Other Dependent Peoples , " Mr. Bonaparte quoted a naval officer as once declaring that " the service would never be worth a until all the well-meaning peo-ple in it had been hanged . " He hinted that something of the same tenor might have been said with equal justice of the activity of champions of the Indian who are merely well-meaning . Knowledge and discretion in those who have undertaken unofficially to influence the conduct of Indian affairs would have tempered their zeal usefully in the years when service was most needed ; and , though little fault can now be found with the methods and personnel of the Indian Rights Association and similar bodies , there is still a too noticeable tendency to . let good intentions evaporate in earnest , purposeless talk . That " court of final appeal , public opinion , " has been appealed to so often that the last advocate must needs be silver-tongued indeed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service , bad as it has been at times , has accomplished more for the disappearing natives than it , has been credited with in the popular mind . It would have done still more if its critics had been inspired by accurate information and good judgment . Suppose some well-informed , persistent friend of the Pimas in Arizona had taken up the matter of white encroachment on the tribe 's water rights along the Gila River eighteen years ago . Is it conceivable that he would have advised the poor Indians to take the matter to the Department of Justice ? If he had done that , he would have gone contrary to the teachings of history . He might have foreseen exactly what happened last year when the district attorney in charge of the case recommended that the suit begun in 1886 be dropped on the ground of the excessive costs of pushing it to a favorable conclusion , and the impossibility of enforcing a decree " because of the varied interests involved . " The moral of Indian litigation against the invading settler could have been read as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Indian , ' not taxed , not voting , " has no real standing in the courts organized by and for the American people . The " varied interests involved " was a phrase ii2 common use long ago to explain away apparent miscarriages of justice . Those 960 white settlers using the water from the Gila River which ' for generations had irrigated the Pimas ' wheat fields , were as confident of holding their ditches when they built them as it is in human experience to be . Why , then , did the Indians go to court and patiently watch their fields revert to desert land while the proceedings dragged along for half a generation ? Simply because some well-meaning , unhanged friends advised them that they had a good case . It is not the despairing cynic who advises the Indian , " For God 's sake , get the ballot in your hands as soon as possible . " Thirty years ago , a Commissioner of Indian , Affairs , commenting an the twenty-five years ' struggle of the Cal , forma Mission Indians to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems forcibly to illustrate the truth . that no man has a place or a fair chance to exist under the Government of the United States who has no part in it . " It is such elementary considerations as this that have been overlooked by the friends of the Indian . In Congress , the final court where the cause of a dependent people is decided , the white invader has representation , and the Indian has none . Bishop Whipple , in 1863 , said : " I submit to every man the question whether the time has not come for a nation to hear the cry of wrong , if not for the sake of the heathen Indian , for the sake of the memory of our friends whose bones are bleaching on our prairies . " In 1877 , the white settlers of the Northwest prevailed upon their representatives in Congress to remove the small Ponca tribe of Indians from their old home in southeastern . Dakota , where they had built comfortable houses and opened farms , to the Indian Territory , where in a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted for those troublesome Sioux who were keeping the go-Id-hunters out of the Black Hills The nation " heard " the try of wrong , as uttered by Bishop Whipple ; but Congress drove the Poncas from the Niobrara in obedience to the demands of a handful of constituents in Iowa , Minnesota , and Nebraska . On the whole , the Auchibon movement has succeeded better than that to proteat the Indians Bishop Whipple and those who meet annually at Lake Mohonk have insisted , and do insist , that the Government deal with the Indians as with human beings whose rights are co-extensive with those of the whites . - Theoretically , their attitude is correct . Public opinion has approved them and applauded their sentiments Practically , they have plodded along without accomplishing as much as could an obscure Western member of the House of Representatives with a vote on a harbor-improvement bill to trade for a vote to dam Salt River and irrigate Grass Valley . The Indian , until he is absorbed and enfranchised , is not a " person . " That was settled " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribes . Treaties and agreements with ' Indians may be abrogated at the pleasure of Congress . That was finally and formally decided by the Supreme Court in the Lone Wolf case , two years ago . The attitude of the settler , at whose request every Indian removal has been made and every tribal reservation extinguished , has been plain and consistent from the beginning . It has been equally plain that the settler , with a sympathetic and industrious representative in Congress , would decide the attitude of the Indian Department . The need for friends with discretion and detailed knowledge of the economic and political history of the tribes is , of course , obvious at this day . It should be just as obvious in the case of the other " dependent peoples " whose welfare under the guidance of our Government is becoming more and more the subject of friendly ' discussion at Lake Mohonk . The promoter of an inter-island steamship line for the Philippines has his champion in Congress , while Secretary Taft has no vote to trade , and can only offer a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on imports from the islands THE QUESTION OF ARMY MORALS . The annual reports of the various generals commanding army departments are , as usual , full of appeals for the restoration of the post canteen . The unanimity with which they give a large Part of their space to this subject does not betray an indifference to the well-known wishes of the War Department . At the same time we would not for a moment deny that most of them sincerely believe that to put back the canteen would make a vast difference in the discipline and conduct of the army . All who study this question should give due weight to their opinions . Yet it is proper to point out that the believers in the canteen , both in the press and in the army , are going to ridiculous lengths in advocacy of its restoration . o read their statements one might believe that the supplying of beer and light wines to single men ' in barracks would at once make them- not merely " plaster " but genuine saints , and that , prior to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of drunkenness and immorality . That daily or hourly beer at home is better than occasional bad whiskey abroad , may be the correct view . But this should not lead to the claim that the only opponents of the canteen are the liquor-sellers and the W. C. T. U. Let us look at some of the facts . It is undeniable that conditions in the army are not as satisfactory as they ought to be . No less than 2,529 soldiers , or the equivalent of three full regiments of infantry , were sentenced to dishonorable discharge in the last fiscal year , the total force aggregating during this Period 60,139 men , according to the returns of the Military Secretary . During the same time the number of desertions has increased enormously , there being no less than 10 per cent . of the entire force , or 6,000 men , who took French leave-5,000 more than in 1904 . Of those dishonorably discharged , 1,470 were convicted of desertion . It must be remembered , however , that the annual report of the Judge-Advocate-General , so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does not concern itself with the summary courts-martial . It is only serious offences requiring a court-martial with which these figures deal . Minor infractions of discipline and intoxication are punished by a single officer sitting as a " summary court , " and it is beyond doubt that the number of these police-court trials has also increased , as well as the general courts-martial . Even more illustnaltive of the low tone of the army is the statement of the Surgeon-General that no less than 715 men , or nearly a whole regiment , were incapacitated for service every day in the year by diseases resulting from immorality  --  a large increase over previous years . No less than 9,157 men were treated for this cause , or almost one in every six  --  a terrible fact , which might well have given Secretary Taft pause when he reluctantly replied to the criticisms of a German . newspaper . Six thousand deserters and 9,157 syphilitic patients are not to be disposed of by Mr. Taft 's or Gen. JChaffee 's denial that there is something radically wrong with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honorably , few of them desire to remain in. the army after the expiration of their service . This is particularly true of the Artillery Corps , where the discontent is so serious that Major-Gen . Wade devoted a good part of his report to recommendations for ' changes in pay and conditions to counteract the dissatisfaction among the men . To cite ' only one example , the One Hundred and Twenty-second Company of Coast Artillery , comprising 105 men , has now only ten men who were with it in Octioher , 1902 . As one of the sergeants of this company recently wrote : " With the continual Movement in and out of a company , it is impossible to keep up that esprit de corps which is the very essence of discipline " ; and he added significantly , " Every few months new men are grafted upon the parent stem , " and " the ? first problem a recruit struggles with is how much time must elapse before he can get his discharge , some-tines he discounts it . " In the Third Cavalry recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave upon promise to reenlist and accompany their regiment to the Philippines for a full three years ' enlistment . Not one of these men kept his word . Obviously , if the mere application of beer and wine in homoeopathic or allopathicdoses will heal these undeniably unsatisfactory conditions and reduce de , sertions and immorality to a minimum , the advocates of the canteen have a strong case . But let us see what actually happened under the canteen . In 1894 the strength of the army was not-over 25,000 . Yet 2,054 men were convicted by general court-martial , 518 every ode hundred soldiers ; in 1896 it was slightly larger . The total trials ; were smaller in- both these years , being 1,712 in 1895 , at which time , however , the Judge-Advocate-General pointed out that the large decrease in trials for desertion ? was due to the increased number of successful deserters . To return to the present , it muSt be plain that other considerations than the failure to supply beer to the soldiers are responsible for the present unhappy army conditions . Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ? coast . Secretary Taft points out that the greater rewards in cavil life are a temptation to desertion . Col. Duggan , commanding the Department of the Lakes , attributes the desertions , not to lack of beer , but to a lax public sentiment " which favors the deserter . " Gen. Sumner thinks the causes which led no less than I.W2 per cent . of his men to desert " were generally as indeterminable as in past years " The increased immorality is partly due to conditions in the Philippines  --  one of the curses of our colonial adventure . It is by no means wholly attributable , as Gen. Grant argues , to the absence of the canteen , the lack of which an his opinion drives the soldiers into vile resorts . Still other important facts are that the character of the enlist . ed men is very , considerably lower than that of the picked 25,000 who were in service in April , 1898 . ' Filename is unfortunately true of many officers who have been foisted on the service owing to political inktences- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to accept the revelations of the Taggart trial as typical of the army to feel that the old sergeant wino presented a prisoner by saying : " This man is the most troublesome man in the army . He goes out when he likes , comes in when he likes , and gets drunk when he likes ? in fact , he might be a horficer , " would have some justiteatioin for his Comparison were he to make it to-day . In the face of all these facts we submit that the proclaiming of the canteen as the panacea is ridiculous . - Whether it Should be restored remains a matter for argun ent . " IMMEDIATE " OWNERSHIP IN CHI-CAGO . New York 's Municipal Ownership League will not , it is safe to say , hold up Mayor Dunne of Chicago as an exemplar of the way the thing can be done . No tale could be more discouraging to the enthusiastic voter in search of a panacea than the failure of the Dunne " immediate municipal ownership " programme . Those who " winked the other eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the voters of Chicago to give him the opportunity to throttle the arrogant traction monopoly , may be forgiven for laughing at the present comic significance of the adjeCtive " immediate . " They are not wasting their opportunities , be it said . Another class of citizens , however , are not so well provided with material for mirth . These are the pat rens of Chicago 's street railways , who , while not expecting a revolution from the success of Judge Dunne , were confident that the passing of Carter Harrison meant a vast improvement in the car service . But the truth is that nothing has been done , and the possibility of any material change is growing more and more remote As a pioneer of the municipal-ownership idea , Judge Dunne went into the city campaign with characteristic Western enthusiasm . " Immediate " was the - ? , .. ord that won for him over Mr. Harlan . Once in office , Mayor Dunne published his plans . The city must obtain control of the lines directly , either by purchase or by condemnation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the corporation tracks , and , by its more efficient operation and honest administration , drive the monopolists out of business . In order to make sure of his ground and strengthen public approval , the Mayor asked Manager Dalrymple of Glasgow to come over and give advice . A Chicago newspaper hurried a trained correspondent abroad to cable descriptions of the operation of city-owned street railways in Europe The scoffers were silent , and the ordinary fare-paying citizen was hopeful . Mr. Dalrymple 's astonishing failure to appreciate : the Mayor 's splendid plan , and his bluntness in suggesting that Chicago would find it impossible to divorce business and politics , marked the beginning of the scoffers ' innings . It seems probable that they will not give way to the triumphant municipal-ownership advocates until long after Mayor Dunne is a- mere memory . Effective as a campaign appeal , the word " immediate " was never spoken seriously after the election . When two or three vague radical propositions had been discussed , and the Scotch expert had returned to Glasgow , Mayor Dunne proposed a municipal-ownership plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Harlan , Dunne 's opponent at the election of April 4 , had made to solve the traction problem . This plan , known as the " contract plan , " was to grant to a new company the right to lay tracks and operate cars upon the two hundred miles of streets where franchises have already expired , under an agreement that , whenever the voters so elected , the property should be transferred to the city . A fair constructors ' profit and interest on the investment were to be allowed on taking over the roads . But the City Council would have none of the scheme . The " contract plan " was buried in committee , and the street-railway people began the game of submitting counter propositions . Week before last the Mayor ordered his own plan out of committee , and had the satisfaction of seeing it sidetracked to oblivion by a vote of 45 to 18 There yet remains the Mayor 's alternative " city plan , " by which the municipality might build its own lines , disregarding the presence of the privately-owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any possible Council can be got together to approve it , and even Mr. Dunne is not convinced of its wisdom . Meanwhile , the railway company has submitted a twenty-year contract plan , giving the city the right to purchase after the expiration of three years . But this is not taken seriously , either . Chicago critics point for proof to the final section of the proposed agreement providing for a referendum , " requiring a majority of all voting at next spring 's election to vote against the ordinance in order to invalidate it " Already the Mayor has published a list of thirteen serious objections to the proposal , and it is certain that the majority necessary to pass the ordinance over his veto can not be secured . The Council 's transportation committee has prepared a modification of the City Railway 's plan , but the change is concerned merely with the referendum clause , making it necessary for a majority of the voters to approve an ordinance before it becomes operative . There is little hope that anything will- come Of it ; Certainly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Mayor , and could not be passed over his veto . In a speech at the Chicago Commercial Association 's dinner to Mayor Dunne a few days ago , Franklin MacVeagh placed the blame for that city 's inefficient street-car service where it properly belongs . " The efficiency of the existing city service , " he said , " has long been to all intents and purposes broken down by the weight of city politics , and no new or added city service of any sort , and certainly not one of the magnitude of a transportation service , could be established under present conditions with hope of possible success . " If Chicago must change its leopard 's spots in order to make municipal ownership and operation of street ears possible , is it not fair to suppose that New York will have to drop a tiger 's stripe or two be fore the taxpayer will welcome the city as his purveyor of light and transportation ? THE BURDEN OF THE COLLEGE PRESIDENT . The duties and qualifications of the president of a modern university were discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dr , Ednifind J. James as president of the University of Illinois . The ideal president must evidently be a scholar , teacher , disciplinarian , organizer , administrator , financier , diplomatist , and accomplished writer and speaker . Such , at least , is the inference from an interesting ad-di ess on the subject by Dr. Andrew Sloan Draper , President James 's predecessor , and now Commissioner of Education in this State . All college presidents fall short of the ideal in one point or another , but the successful ones must possess both solid attainments and superficial accomplishments . The day has long since passed when a broken-down pi eacher can be retired to the innocuous ease of a college presidency . The average man does not realize how Much we demand of our college presidents . The college  --  to say nothing of our few real universities  --  is no longer a boarding-school for two or three hundred boys of from sixteen to twenty-one A large faculty of specialists must be steadily recruited and kept in harmonious and economical activity . Build-Lags and grounds worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be maintained in a high state of efficiency . The college administration must have close relations with alumni throughout the country , and it must be fittingly represented on many public occasions . However duties may be divided among deans and committees of trustees and faculty , the final responsibility for the smooth running of the machine is laid upon the shoulders of the president . To adjust expenditure to iv come , to make the college a centre of the best intellectual and moral influences , to be socially acceptable to men and women of widely varying interests ? all these things , we can readily see , are rigorously exacted of the head of a ccllege. - He has other burdens which are less apparent even to trustees , faculty , alumni , ? or undergraduates . Trustees , Many of whom are prosperous bankers and manufacturers , sometimes regard a college as a business enterprise . If the annual deficit is not too large , If the teachers are busy and not disagreeably , notorious , if the students are not smashing . the property , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each member of , the faculty is inclined to look at college from the point of view of his own courses . If his department is steadily expanding , if he can secure appropriations for necessary instruction , books and apparatus , and if he is thus able to attract the best students , the president is everything that heart can wish . No undergraduate and relatively few trustees , professors , or alumni fully grasp the notion that the radical difficulty of the much-tried president 's position is this . he is conducting an extensive experiment in idealism in a community which asks chiefly for immediate material results . What is more , his failure may mean distress and possible disaster , not for himself alone , but for the faculty and students who are embarked with him . The individual professor becomes unproductive , unable to keep abreast of his science , and as a result a single department suffers from temporary weakness , while the strengthening of the rest of the college may more than outweigh the damage ; but when the president is unproductive , every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an . organization devoted to an ideal , but no clergyman , unless he be a bishop , can be compared in importan'ce with a college president . Every year in this city of New York some minister virtually confesses bankruptcy . He gives up his pulpit to a successor , or his little church may actually cease existence . One congregation more or less among so many is not an irreparable loss . Burt if President Butler of Columbia , ' Chancellor MacCracken of New York University , or President Finley of the College of the City of New York were so to conduct his office as to impair  --  or even fail to advance  --  the standing and influence of his institution , the miscarriage would be conspicuous and wide-reaching In its results . A preacher can say : " Here is my doctrine ; thus and so I expound it . If you prefer ' another creed or a more complaisant prophet , go in peace . I will talk to empty pews . " But the college president can not take the attitude of Athanasins contra maindunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is doomed ' to many sacrifices of personal taste and preference . He will be fortunate if he have such clearness of vision and force of character that he can always discriminate ? between preference and principle . When he sticks for mere preference , he alienates supporters on whose aid he may legitimately rely . When he first persuades himself that a principle is nothing but a preference , he begins to degenerate into a sycophant and timeserver . ' How powerful the temptations , none but lie can ever know . The recent insurance investigations have shown us how hard it is for men supposed to be fortified by intelligence and character to resist the allurement of money for themselves . They contrive some sophistry to excuse theft and quiet conscience . College presidents also are but human . They do nut , however , want the money for themselves , but for a noble cause . They are not scheming to filch it by excessive salaries , cookea accounts , or preposterous travelling expenses . ' Their only fault is to crook the pregnant hinges of the knee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and ' tie a great price for a small vice When , therefore , we recall the revelations of venality among men high in public confidence , when we remember how ignorant and unreasoning the patrons of education often are , the wonder is that more colleges do not , as Senator Dolliver put it , " smell of Oil . " 