@@473082

THERE is little satisfaction that an Englishman can extract from the tale of British rule in South Africa . The record is free , or tolerably so . from any grave crimes against others : it is not from a consciousness of guilt towards Kafir or Dutch that we would rather it were put out of sight . Our impatience with it springs from the sense of failure to ourselves which has made of the country south of the Zambesi a vast museum of imperial blunders ; from the contemplation of so much short-sightedness in high quarters , of so many mistakes committed by ignorance and tactlessness , to be paid for afterwards in blood and treasure . of individual sacrifice and enterprise frittered lightly away by officialdom , of a splendid mission and still more splendid opportunities unrealized or disregarded , of loyal subjects betrayed and an empire all but lost ? in a word , a painful falling short in policy , in diplomacy , in the art of government . In England we are rather apt to forget that Cape Colony is not a colony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it as intruders , dispossessing the Dutch of a land which they considered as much theirs as the Scotch do Scotland . It was inevitable that our welcome should not go beyond sullen acquiescence . It was inevitable that there should be antipathy and resentment . Yet the obstacles in the way of final harmony were no greater titan had been overcome in the American colonies , and not sogreat as those that have been met and surmounted in Canada . The two races were sprung from the same low-German stock , bad the same instinctive ways of looking at things , were attached to the same form of religion , and could hardly utter a sentence in either tongue without being reminded of their common origin . That they did not fuse into one must be set down chiefly to the unwisdom of the . British government . No doubt the character of the Dutch settlers , especially in the up- country districts , was a hinderauce . For over a hundred and fifty years they had been severed from the civilizing influences of Europe . The dour stubbornness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the richest part of their country to save it from Louis XIV . was still potent within them when the British captured the Cape in 1800 . So , too , were their instinct and affection for the morose moralities of the extremest form of Calvinism . Beyond these natural obstacles the physical conditions of South Africa had done much to develop in them a character and mode of life exceptionally hard to win over . They were for the most part stock-raisers , and the thinness of the pasture scattered them over a wide area . They led a solitary and almost nomadic life . Like all frontiersmen , they developed a remarkable spirit of courage and self-dependence . Unlike most pioneers ? unlike , for instance , the men who opened up Western America ? they also developed a passion for solitude and isolation , and out of this grew not only their impatience of control , but a neglect of the graces and decencies of life which even their descent from the neatest people in Europe could not restrain . We are not a sympathetic people any more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonizing race , the dramatic instinct that enables a man or a nation to enter into the feelings and prejudices of others is not among them . That is why , with all our successes , we have never , like the French and Spanish , stamped ourselves and our language upon the aliens under our control , Except round Cape Town , we saw little of the Dutch , and what we did see we did not like , and not liking , in our headlong English fashion we despised . Over four-fifths of the country , social intercourse was rare , and little or no progress made towards a harmonious fusion . Still , there was nothing in all this to render inevitable the secession that followed . With time and a conciliatory policy the two peoples would have come together . But the British government was in a hurry to remodel , and knowing next to nothing of the views of its new sihects , knew not how to conciliate them . It altered the old system of local administration , which was no doubt haphazard and clumsy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It substituted English for Dutch as the language to be used in official documents and legal proceedings ? this in a country where not one man in seven spoke English . But its greatest mistakes were in its handling of those native and color questions which form the largest and most permanent part of South-African politics . The British governments of the time were possessed by a spirit of philanthropy , whose crowning achievement is remembered while its crudeness and over-precipitancy have been forgotten . Of judicious philanthropy we are never likely to have too much ; of the philanthropy of the British Colonial Office it is hardly possible to have too little . The home authorities . tilled with sympathetic emotionalism for the negroes , put themselves and their policies in the hands of the missionaries , and the missionaries could hardly paint the Boer black enough . Yet there is the evidence of English governors to show that in no other part of the world - was bondage so mild . The system was never defended in theory . It was accepted as one of the conditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social upheaval . The Dutch colonists were willing that it , should die off gradually . They offered to set free all female children at birth if the British government would cease its irritating legislation . The offer was refused . The orders in council , prompted by missionary fanaticism , increased iu minuteness and stringency , till it was felt as an actual relief when the long strain was broken by the famous Act of Emancipation . There were then in the colony about 39,000 slaves , whose value was put down at rather over ? 3,000,000 sterling . Parliament voted ? 20,000,000 by way of compensation to the slave-owners throughout the empire . Of this a little less than ? 1,250,000 was allotted to the Cape . Calling loudly on the Dutch to admire our virtue , we paid up conscience-money to the extent of nine shillings in the pound . Nor was this al . The claims of the slave-owners had to be proved before commissioners in London . The Cape instantly swarmed with agents , who bought up the claims at about half their real value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-fifth or one-sixth of the sum due to them . Our sin in the matter of the South-African slave trade had been enormous ; our repentance was vicarious . English writers have rather encouraged the idea that the Boers seceded because we forbade them to hold slaves . It was not so . The slaves were held almost entirely in the western districts ; the secessionists came , with few exceptions , from the eastern borders . It was our whole native policy , of which emancipation at nine shillings in the pound was but a part , that drove the Dutch settlers to shake off British rule . Under the propulsion of an unbalanced and egotistical philanthropy ? such as thirty years later gave the suffrage to the negroes of the Southern ? States ? we refused to put a vagrant act in force . We placed black and white on a level , and we gave to the former the right to wander where he pleased , be as idle as he pleased , and drink as he pleased ; and with mighty good-will has he rushed down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave him , still at the prompting of the Aborigines Protection Society , liberty to plunder and murder with impunity . In 1831 a host of savages burst upon the colony , raiding the cattle and killing the farmers . After some stubborn fighting they were reduced to sue for peace , and compelled by the Governor to withdraw beyond the Keiskanima River . Only so could the eastern borders be even half preserved in safety . But the Governor 's command was overruled by Earl Gleitelg , in a despatch of monumental philanthropy . He asserted that the Kosas had " ample justification " for their attack , and " a perfect right to endeavor to extort by force that redress which they could not expect otherwise to obtain . " He allowed them to reoccupy the territory from which they had been driven , and appointed a special Governor for the eastern provinces to see that his orders were carried out . The Boers did not wait to see how much further Exeter Hall would go . Between 1836 and 1838 not less than ten thousand of them packed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goats and herds slowly before them , streamed away into the interior through the heart of the desolate Karroo . The tale of their wanderings and privations and conflicts is the one great romance of South Africa . The burghers of the Transvaal and the Orange Free State can trace the foundation of their states from as inspiring a record of daring and determination as any in history . ? The first body of trekkers perished miserably from disease and native attacks . A second penetrated into what is now the territory of the Transvaal Republic , came in conflict with the Matabele. hurled them splendidly across the Limpopo , and settled down on the rolling uplands north of the Orange River . Here they were joined by successive bodies of emigrants , and out of these small and scattered communities were grad sally evolved the two Dutch republics of our own time . Meanwhile a larger and better-organized party had pushed their way into the warm and fertile country now known as Natal . There , after terrible struggles with the Zulus , they set up the Republic of Natalia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way our empire has grown up . A few Englishmen had been settled since 1824 at Durban , then called Port Natal . They had petitioned the British government , but in vain , to be recognized as a colony . In those days , and for many years after , it was generally believed that the colonial possessions of Great Britain were already too extensive . The advent of the Boers forced a change of view . The establishment of a new white state on the coast , with its possibilities of growth into a maritime power , and the certainty that it would greatly affect the trade of the interior , was a serious matter . The Boers , too , were picking quarrel after quarrel with the Kafirs who lived on the borders of Cape Colony , and it was our cherished mission to protect the natives . Business and philanthropy combined to make Port Natal a desirable addition to our holdings . We sent a small force there in 1642 . It was besieged by the Boers , and only relieved with difficulty and at the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic of Natalia came to an end . Ultimately , no doubt , it must have fallen to pieces from its own weakness . But the point most worth dwelling on is that we refused Port Natal when it was offered to us , and a few years later were obliged to occupy it by the necessities of our imperial position . A little foresight would have saved us all the expense of the war and all the ill feeling it engendered among the Boer settlers , a majority of whom recrossed the mountains forthwith and joined their fellow-emigrants on the western plateaus . Perhaps , after all , it is possible to be too hard on Downing Street . Men still under middle age can remember when South Africa was as much an unknown mystery as Tibet , and in the thirties and forties no one bat a few missionaries and an occasional hunter had set foot beyond the Orange River . The people knew nothing about it , and cared less , except vaguely as a. field for philanthropic activities . To the official mind it was the least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioning , and no prospects of ever having any with large annual deficits , and a seemingly endless succession of native wars that offended our pockets as well as our humanitarianism . There were no Cape to Cairo dreams in those days . On the contrary , if we could have left Dutch and Kafir to settle things amongst themselves , and retained only Cape Town as a naval station , Downing Street would have been but too pleased . It looked simply to the bank-book bearings of the matter . Fresh territory meant fresh expense , and therefore expansion was forbidden . Wars were costly , and therefore the governors in whose terms they occurred were recalled one after the other . The natives were always in the right and the Boers always in the wrong , and the missionaries the only responsible guides to colonial opinion . That was the official credo of which successive Colonial Secretaries were the apostles . Our South-African empire grew and prospered , like all other portions of our empire , not only without the assistance of Downing Street , bat in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We were in a fine quandary of hesitation over the emigrant Boers who had settled on the table-lands between the Orange River and the Limpopo . We would not follow them into the interior with our flag and government officials , but we still claimed them as British subjects . We did not wish to expand , but we could not admit that British citizenship could be laid aside at will . For their part , the Boers contended that our authority was purely territorial , and that once beyond the borders of Cape Colony , our right to control them ceased . By 1845 the Boer secessionists numbered about 15,000 . They took up once more their wandering pastoral life with its isolation and uncouthness , and its ideal of liberty for each man to do that which was right in his own eyes . They had abandoned their homes in Cape Colony not only as a protest against specified acts and policies of the British government , but from a temperamental objection to government itself . Left to themselves , they pushed liberty to the extreme of individualism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did without any symbol of civil organization . They were kept loosely together as one people only by the necessities of native warfare and a common spirit of resistance to the claim of British sovereignty . North of the Vaal , as time went on , several small republican communities grew up , founded on family ties , and waged a fierce internecine struggle for hegemony . These rivalries were too remote from British territory to disturb officialdom at the Cape . But it was otherwise with the settlers on the borders of Cape Colony between the Orange River and the Vaal . The Boers have the simple Old Testament fashion of dealing with inferior races thatstand in their way , and the methods of Israel towards the Canaanites , when pursued by the Boers against Basutos and Griquas , on the frontier of a British colony in which a turbulent Katie population outnumbered the whites by over four to one , could not be anything but a severe embarrassment and menace to the British authorities . Missionary statecraft suggested a means of settlement , and at that time a s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government decree . The ideal of the South - African missionaries was the erection of Kafir states with Kafir chiefs under the guidance and inspiration of missionaries . Now was the time to press home the adequacy of their policy . Downing Street proved an easy convert , and in a little while Cape Colony was mathematically girdled with a belt of native principali , , ies , We selected a chief in a given area , and treated him as a sovereign ruler , made treaties with him , and let him know that he had the support of Great Britain behind him . In this way we built up the nation of the Basutos under the remarkable Moshesh , and handed over to the Griquas a large slice of land north of the Orange River , which was not ours to give . One need hardly specify the obvious results . The Dutch settlers would not pay quit-rent , or in any way recognize the petty Griqua captain we had set over them . There were wars in which we used our force to compel white men to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basutos were chieftains who would not bow down to Moshesh . These , too , we aided Moshesh in crushing . On the eastern frontiers the Kosas , like true Kafirs , saw nothing but weakness in our treaties , and in a long series of bloody and disastrous wars exacted from us the full penalty of our kindly motives . In Natal we allowed the Zulus to organize and establish that military power whose overthrow caused us so much trouble and humiliation , and we permitted them and all other natives such liberty of life and entrance that , though in Natal there are twelve black men for every single white , the labor of the colony has to be performed by imported Indian coolies , The system broke down in every way , and not least in this , that while it was intended to mark the boundaries of Cape Colony and British dominion iminutably , the bicherings and conflicts it gave rise to turned out to be the first step towards our hold on the interior . In 1846 we placed a British Resident at Bloemfontein to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers . Two years later we annexed the whole territory between the Orange and Vaal rivers and the Kathlamha Mountains . The Boers rose against us , but were defeated at Boomplats . The more irreconcilable among them trekked across the Vaal to join their northern kinsmen , and their place u-as taken by English colonists . The country soon settled down . The Griqua captain was pacified with a pension of ? 200 a year , and Put finally in his proper position of vassalage . The work of inducing British and foci ' to live in amity under a settled government was well under way when war broke out with the Basutos . The Basutos had been in a special degree the objects of our philanthropic guardianship . We had made treaties with Moshesh , and supplied him with arms , and enforced his authority over turbulent and refractory chieftains , and found excuses for him when he raided the Dutch settlers along the Caledon River . The matter wore a different complexion when his favorite looting-grounds became our territory by annexation . The Basutos proved very skilful and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small force to bring against them . The Dutch settlers would not , and Cape Colony , harassed by a Kafir outbreak on the eastern frontier , could not , help him . The Boers beyond the Vaal threatened to side with the Basutos , but hinted that they could be dissuaded by a grant of independence . The offer was eagerly accepted . In 1852 was concluded the Sand River Convention , by which the British government " guaranteed to the emigrant farmers beyond the Vaal the right to manage their own affairs , and to govern themselves according- in their own laws , without any interference on the part of the British government . " Thus , by a shrewd and characteristic stroke of diplomacy , was born the Transvaal Republic . Meanwhile the struggle with the Basutos went on . Intrenched in their rocky stronghold , they more than held their own . A large British force not only failed to dislodge them , but met with a severe reverse . Moshesh was an astute diplomat as well as a resolute and imperious soldier . He asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to General Cathcart ; " let it be enough , I pray you ' ' ? and peace was given him . The Basuto war had potent and memorable consequences . Indirectly it led , as we have seen , to the grant of independence to the Boers beyond the Vaal , and directly it was the cause of our withdrawal from the Orange Free State . Cathcart 's repulse , coming hard on the news of the eighth Kafir war , broke down the patience of the Aberdeen ministry . For eight years we had owned and ruled in the territory between the Orange and Vaal rivers , and all we had got from it was a succession of native vats . The Queen was advised to renounce her sovereignty , and in spite of the protests of over half the colonists , Who clamored to be allowed to remain British subjects , our flag was withdrawn . Not only did we betray loyal subjects , go back on our pledged word , and show ourselves , as we always have been in matters imperial , and at bottom still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances of the colony made its abandonment peculiarly callous and disgraceful . For it was a young and scattered settlement , possessing hardly anything in the nature of government machinery , and incapable of self - defence ; and on its southeastern border we had , in spite of warnings and protests , fostered the powerful Basuto nation , now armed to the teeth and exultant over its successful resistance to British arms . - Withdrawing when we did , we left to the burghers of the Orange Free State a certain legacy of eonflicts with what was then the most formidable native state in South Africa ? conflicts which only ended sixteen years later , when Moshesh placed himself under our protection to prevent being captured by his resolute and infuriated enemies . Moreover , by Landing over the country to the Dutch we blocked the sole highway to the interior , to recover it twenty years later by a stratagem which Mr. Froude , in his unrestrained way , has called " one of the most scandalous acts recorded in our history . " The emigrants beyond the Vaal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in 1852 ; but it was not until 1864 , or nearly thirty years from the time they first settled in the country , and then only after endless commotions and family feuds , rising at times to the dignity of civil war , that their dissociative instincts would permit of their combining under a single President . Even so their anarchical temperament held out against the seductions of written constitutions and the machinery of administration . Taxes they would not pay . The country lapsed into a really pitiable condition . Torn by the most paralyzing differences that can divide a people ? the differences of family and local rivalries and religious factions ? the burghers ' could not even maintain their territorial integrity against the native hordes that assailed it . By 1876 it seemed as though the republic must perish . The exchequer was empty , the paper money issued by President Burgers had fallen to one-twentieth of its face value , while on the northeast a Kafir chief , Sikukini , was raiding and looting at will , and on the south . Cetewayo was marshalling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion and sullen discontent to their farms . Sikukini was pressing his advantage . A genera election was approaching to bring all the turmoil to a head . The state was unable to protect the British settlers who had gathered round the Lydenburg gold-mines . Its helplessness and the imminence of collapse before its savage invaders . were an unquestionable menace to the security of Natal and all the British dominions in South Africa . Such were the conditions under which the Transvaal Republic was annexed to the British crown on April 12 , 1877 . The burghers took the loss of their independence quietly . They did not welcome the imposition of British rule , but they realized that nothing else could save them from being overrun by the Zulus and Kafirs . In Great Britain the forward step made little stir . The Russo-Turkish war held the field of public interest , and to the man in the street it meant nothing that a few hundred miles of territory had been added to the British South-African possessions . Mr. Kruger and another member of the Executive Council were sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were told , of course , that the annexation was final , and Mr. Kruger 's acceptance of office under the British government showed that one at Vor .. C. ? No. r , 98. - 31 least of them thought it so , and accepted the change of sovereignty with practical good sense . The annexation , it is worth repeating once more , was not in any sense an act of rapacity . Nobody dreamed of the wealth that lay hidden under the bleak and windy ridges of the Witwatersrand . The Transvaal was anything but a prize to be coveted . It was a bankrupt , disorganized , and defeated state trembling on dissolution , We stepped in , as much in its own interest as in ours , to prevent the disruption that imperilled the peace of South Africa , There is little doubt that had we but stayed our hand for six months , had we allowed Sikukini and Cetewayo full license to do as they pleased , the Boers themselves must have come to us begging refuge from annihilation . Than came our blunders . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a hard tussle , subdued Cetewayo . It was proper and inevitable that these chieftains should be overthrown , but in overthrowing them we removed the two greatest dangers that the Boers had feared . With peace along the frontiers , property rising in value , and money coming into the exchequer , the burghers began to repent of their compliance . We soon gave them cause enough . The state had been annexed under pledges of autonomy ? pledges withheld so long that the Boers began to fear it was intended to deny them popular representation . We made a greater mistake in removing Sir Theophilus Shepstone , who was liked and trusted by the Boers , and appointing in his place a military officer " totally unfit for delicate political work . " The Boers respond readily enough to kindness and sentiment ; if you try to drive them , on the evidence of one of their warmest admirers , there is no mule in either hemisphere more stubborn . Our military administrator tried to drive them , and the Boers , finding such men as Kruger and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country in an adamantine and inexorable way they were little used to , feeling themselves under a rigid system that overrode their customs and instincts and treated their homely ways with impatient contempt , grew exceedingly stubborn . it was at this most critical period that Mr. Gladstone , seeking material for his Midlothian speeches , turned fiercely upon Lard Beaconsfield in denunciation of the policy that had led up to the absorption of the republic . It is beyond question that the magic of his name and eloquence gave enormous encouragement to the would-be revolutionists . Yet even Mr. Gladstone , when he became Prime Minister , a few mouths later , did not venture to reverse the annexation he had so passionately denounced in opposition , saying by the month of the Under-Secretary for the Colonies , " Fieri non debuit , factum. valet . " * The Boers who , Iike a good many simple and inexperienced people , did not fully understand the insincerities of our party system , were bitterly disappointed . They actually thought that the policy a statesman had advocated in opposition would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The decision of the British government broke harshly upon their innocent dream . With a courage one can not but do homage to they took up arms to win back their independence . The result surprised most people , but no one probably more than the Boers . After two dashing and w ell-earned victories over small British detachments they drove the Liberal ministry into that famous surrender to which all the unrest and commotion in South Africa during the past nineteen years , including the war that began last October , are solely and directly traceable . In Mr. Gladstone 's eyes a moral justification for rebellion ? even rebellion against the British crown -- was full reason for not suppressing it . He handed back their country to the victorious rebels . He forgot his own official pronouncement ; he forgot the pledged word of England ; he forgot the British subjects who on the strength of that promise had taken up their residence in the Transvaal . Under circumstances of thrice blacker disgrace , it was the story of the Orange Free State over again . Nothing like it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible in England again . We are not nearly so Arcadian as we were . Even in this record of our blunders there is much that is incomplete . For the details of our native policy and the tragedies of innumerable governors , from D'Urban to Bartle Frere , I have no space . It is only within the last year or two that we have learned the necessity of ' ' trusting the man on the spot , " and I doubt * See Mr. Bryce 's Impressions of South Africa , p. whether we have yet learned that a halting , inconsequential policy towards inferior races is the worst form of kindness to them , and likely to be disastrous to us . Historically , the record shows how completely a matter of our own time is the British sense of imperialism . We have only just begun to realize what the empire means , and what high and inspiriting duties it lays upon us . Arid among these duties , though not among the highest and most inspiriting , the tale of our South-African rule marks out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awake to . It is for having neglected it in the past that we are now , as I write , paying an unexampled and unnecessary tribute in life and treasure to the god of battles . The narrative , too , carries with it other and hardly less palpable lessons . It is profoundly illustrative of that defective altruism , the badge of all our race , a hundred times more dangerous and disastrous in its purblind strivings after what is right and humane than any deliberate wickedness . Follow iu all its branches the history of our doings in South Africa from 1806 to the present day , and you have a fair synopsis of our national character , especially of that side of it which Matthew Arnold lashed so often and so cuttingly ? its earnest but unintelligent morality . Nor , as one goes over it , can one escape fresh and pressing doubts as to the final capacity of a democracy for an even and far-seeing foreign policy , South Africa shows what must inevitably happen when foreign policy is made the sport of party politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irreversible , and no minister dare fo ? - mulate or propose anything without an eye to " the mandates of the people . " Contrast the way we stumbled upon the Cape , and sought to confine ourselves to the narrowest limits , and expanded against our will , and took land and gave it back , only to reconquer it later on at enormous sacrifice ? contrast this with the steadfast march of the Russian Empire , hardly less beneficent to civilization than our own , and incomparably more imposing in its freedom from shiftless hurry and waste . Much as he would like some other emotion to predominate , an Englishman who looks into its past can feel only surprise at finding so much of the map of South Africa colored red . 