@@486715

The intrusion of Mr. Hearst into the New York campaign at the head of an independent ticket made up otherwise of Fusion candidates brought about a threefold contest chiefly characterized by mutual defamation . The result has been to elect Judge Gaynor , Tammany 's Mayor , by a plurality of 70,000 ( though a minority of 80,000 ) , but to bring in with him all the rest of the Fusion ticket . In effect Tammany has received the most shattering blow in its history . The city now has a Board of Estimate of able and honorable men , elected over the dead bodies of the whole line of Tammany nominees . It is true , of course , that the great deliverance is largely due to a happy accident of politics . Yet it is only fair to say that this tremendous break-up of parties , this new demonstration that Tammany 's mercenary hold upon its followers can be broken , this unexampled independence in city voting , were all the mobile in the situation as a threat to the power of Murphy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away . That all the anti-Tammany elements could not be united in support of a Fusion candidate for Mayor was merely the misfortune of the campaign . The proof remains clear that Greater New York is ready and eager to throw off the yoke of Tammany . It can never be said again that this city wallows in misgovernment unashamed . Meanwhile there is a wonderful chance for Judge Gaynor . If he is the reformer his friends say he is , he will bend every effort to work harmoniously with his high-minded associates in the Board of Estimate . The defeat of the disfranchising Con- ? stitutional amendment in Maryland is the most important single result recorded in the State elections of Tuesday . It ought not to be too much to hope that this second emphatic rejection of the proposition by the people of Maryland will put an end , for a long time to come , to the mischievous agitation that has been kept up by the Democratic politicians for the purpose of securing their hold on the government . The matter is of national interest , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have brought about what , in spite of the existence of similar Constitutional provisions in States further South , would have been essentially a new thing in our political history ; for the nullification of the Fifteenth Amendment , defended in those States on the plea of necessity , and backed by the almost unanimous sentiment of the white population , would in Maryland have resulted from a mere majority vote , in the face of the vigorous protest of a strong minority , which has behind it a record of beneficial political achievement . Another , and a most unfortunate , aspect of the success of the disfranchising amendment would have been the addition of Maryland to that body of Southern States which has , ever since the war , ceased to be debatable ground in national contests ; whereas Maryland has been a notable factor in such campaigns as that of 1896 , not to speak of earlier ones As for the effect on home politics , a leading feature of the fight on the amendment has been the opposition of those who " represent uncompromising hostility to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result is therefore not only a victory for honest observance of the Fifteenth Amendment , but also a defeat for ring rule . As an indication of public feeling on national issues , however , nothing in the returns is so striking as the close shave by which the Republicans carried Massachusetts . The plurality for Governor was only 8,000 , against 60,000 last year ; while the Lieutenant-Governor 's plurality was out down from 96,000 to only 5,000 . Nor is the difference to be explained by the fact that this is an off-year ; for in the election of two years ago the Republicans carried the Governorship by 106,000 , an even greater plurality than that of the Presidential year . There seems to be no possible explanation of the slump other than dissatisfaction with the course of the Republican party on the tariff . Now this showing in the Massachusetts election gives new prominence to the matter . The pity is that the Democratic party is so lamentably unprepared to profit by its opportunity . Its record in the recent extra session of Congress  --  especially that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not calculated to excite enthusiasm or hope . Never has the havoc wrought in that historic party by the Bryan folly of 1896 been more forcibly brought borne . Further testimony to the fact that Mr. Taft has neither pacified nor intimidated the insurgent West is brought forward in the first of a series of articles in the Chicago Tribune . Throughout the entire sedition belt ? Indiana , southern Illinois , Wisconsin , Minnesota , Iowa , Nebraska , Kansas , and Missouri  --  the Tribune 's special investigator finds the Republican party broken up into two hostile camps on the question of Aldrichism and Cannonism . And the determination on both sides is to rule or ruin . Where the conservative element still holds its own , it has been helped largely by the prevalent prosper . ity . But as it is , there is quite an army of nervous Congressmen sitting on the fence , and ready to drop off into the insurgent camp when Cannon 's sun begins to sink . We do not expect President Taft to offer help . The very reasons of party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , now demand that he should recognize what the sentiment of the West is in the matter of Cannon . Secretary Knox got back to Washington barely in time to receive officially the members of the Japanese Commercial Commission . As it was , the death of the secretary 's wife 's aunt stood in the way of his offering the Japanese visitors any closer hospitality . And as Secretary Meyer , " who was to have received the delegation , " was out of town over Sunday , and as Secretary MacVeagh was at his home in New Hampshire and Seeretaries Dickinson and Nagel and the Postmaster-General were with the President , it fell to the lot of the Japanese visitors to be entertained by certain assistants in the State Department . Such a wretched exhibition of official manners is sharpened by contrast with what the Japanese government , under similar circumstances , would have done . As the case stands , it will be necessary to explain to the Japanese that our manners never were very good , and that upon this second of November , the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers of state  --  new men who presumably should be busy learning their business  --  had not yet returned to the capital from their vacations . Judge Holt is as sound and fearless a Federal judge as we have , and his decision that two of the men inditted for criminal conspiracy , in connection with the shutting up of the Pennsylvania Sugar Refining Company by the Sugar Trust , must escape under the statute of limitations , will be accepted as a conclusion to which he was driven by the law and the facts . Whether the others will be able to get off on the plea made for Messrs . Kissel and Harned , does not yet appear . The question will turn on the doctrine of " continuing offence " : ? that is , of overt acts subsequent to the original conspiracy and in execution of it . The statute of limitations is not a very exalted defence for a man charged with crime , but still it is the law . It is for the good of society that criminals shall be prosecuted promptly ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run its term without beginning a prosecution , the blame falls upon them , not upon the law . For " crimes not capital , " an indictment must be filed within three years . When , therefore , Judge Holt found from the evidence that Mr. Kissel 's part in the sugar refining conspiracy was completed before January 4 , 1904 , there was nothing for him to do but decide that an indictment more than five years later would not hold . If the other indicted officials of the Sugar Trust also escape , people will say again that rich offenders can not be punished under our laws That is not true . witness the recent cases of Morse and Walsh . Moreover , in this particular instance , complaint ought to be directed not against the courts or the laws , but against the supineness of those set to enforce the laws . Who was President in 1904 ? Who was the Chief Executive to whom Mr. Earle of Philadelphia in 1906 addressed an urgent letter setting forth the precise evidence on which these men were indicted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is due to the fact that the Roosevelt Administration would not Proceed against these rich men . Meanwhile Attorney-General Wickersham has announced that the government will appeal from Judge Holt 's decision . His ground is that " where the law enacts that every person who engaged in a conspiracy to restrain trade is guilty of a misdemeanor , it means that so long as the conspirators are continuing in a course Of conduct which restrains interstate trade or commerce , they are violating the act , and that where the restraint of trade may be terminated by their voluntary act and not otherwise the statute of limitations does not begin to run in their favor until they perform the act which terminates the restraint and allows the current of trade which they had interrupted to resume its course . " The issue thus raised is evidently of far-reaching importance , and the possibility of making the appeal furnishes pointed evidence of the utility of the act of March 2 , 1907 , which permits appeals by the government in criminal cases against judgments rendered on a special plea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city , who can not even lose a trunk without having at least a column printed about it in the newspapers , Collector Loeb is now the subject of very disagreeable publicity . One of the ablest judges in our courts has deliberately censured him for his action ' n retaining in the government service three men who had confessed to taking money for defrauding the government by entering false weights . The granting of immunity to criminals who turn state 's evidence is familiar , but to allow self-confessed rascals to remain in office is a public scandal . That the taxpayers , thanks to Mr. Loeb 's bad judgment , have got to pay the salaries of confessed thieves is a trifle too much for endurance . The explanation is that they could not get employment elsewhere  --  as if that mattered . They are richly enough paid for any service they have rendered by the waiving of the punishment they deserve We can not believe that Mr. Taft and Mr. MacVeagh will approve such a confession of the ineffectiveness of the Treasury detectives , or consent to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's gift of a million dollars for the purpose of investigating and combating the hookworm disease , is a piece of enlightened philanthropy . Only two or three years ago , the existence of this disease was hardly understood ; the first announcement of the discovery of the parasite gave occasion for unending merriment by newspaper jesters the country over . Now , however , the extent of the evil has been discovered to be so great as to call for prompt and vigorous action . As in the case of tuberculosis and other preventable diseases , the evil done by the hookworm can be estimated in dollars and cents . Hence the value of the gift will appeal especially to business men who have heretofore looked upon the discovery of the hookworm as the latest medical fad . Following the usual form of his more recent benevolent undertakings , Mr. Rockefeller has appointed a board of twelve members , most of whom have been influential in administering his great gifts for education and medical research , many of them of the very highest professional standing . There is , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theatre is coming into its own , if the progress of civilization among the American people may be judged from the magazines -- and who is there that would dare to question that fact ? With the opening of the new institution on Central Park West as a text , pretty nearly every November magazine has something to say on the drama , and some magazines say it twice . But the tendency has been manifest for the last year or two . Nearly all the popular magazines have their monthly dramatic review , each after its own fashion . The sprightly publications have run to chatter and merry quip . The uplift magazines dilate on the advent of the American playwright and how much money he makes . The **27;662;TOOLONG magazines point out how many tens of thousands of dollars it costs to stage a play , and urge the unrecognized playwright to be patient . All the magazines run to pictures , and most of , them to excess . It may be that reasons of economy are behind the sudden development of the theatrical department in the monthly publications . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But whatever the fact may be it is apparent that Puritanism in the rural districts must be rapidly declining , if the number of chorus-ladies photographed for the popular periodicals is an index . In reading the detailed account of the proceedings in the House of Commons when the government was challenged to justify its failure to make representations to the Spanish government concerning the prospective execution of Ferrer , one can not fail to be impressed by the contrast with what would have taken place in our own House of Representatives There was , the repoit states , a condition of strained expectancy when , amid profound silence , the leader of the Labor party put his question . Sir Edward- Grey , secretary of state for foreign affairs , replied in a few brief sentences which , however , fully covered the ground . " His Majesty 's government , " be said , " can not depart from the rule not to interfere or to express opinions concerning matters of internal administration in other European countries when no British subjects or treaty rights are involved . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I am aware , by all European governments in their dealings with each other , and to depart from it would serve no useful purpose . " Additional questions and comments failed to draw from him another word of any kind , and the completeness with which the issue had been disposed of , in the judgment of the House , was made manifest when , on a test question , only eighteen members out of the whole House voted with the mover of the protesting motion . It is quite certain that ' among the members of the House there are many who could talk with great liveliness on various phases of the Ferrer case , but the habit still prevails there of regarding the proceedings as a matter of carrying on the country 's government and not as an opportunity for - getting one 's thoughts  --  or words  --  on things in general into print . - The bye-election in Bermondsey last week can fairly be interpreted only as a severe blow to the Liberals . No one expected them to hold their tidal-wave majority of 1906 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,700 majority should now go to the Conservatives ' by a plurality of more than 900 can not be taken except as a decided reverse . It is true that the contest three years ago was straight-out , while last week it was three-cornered , and that if the Socialist-Labor vote of Dr. Salter , 1,435 , were added to the Liberal vote of 3,291 , it would leave the Conservatives in a minority by more than 400 . But this is cold comfort for the Liberals . On a total poll increased from the 7,791 of 1906 to the 9,004 votes cast last week , the Conservatives gained 1,217 , while the Liberals lost 1,484 . And to say that the third candidate drew off enough votes to decide the election is only to say that the Liberals have not been able to arrange a working-agreement with the Socialists and the Labor party . One bye-election does not make a party defeat , but the triumph of the Conservatives in a strictly working-class constituency will make them more ready to force a general election on the issue of the budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country may be looked for not later than January . The throwing of acid upon the Bermondsey ballots by the suffragettes illustrates clearly the danger of Mrs. Pankhurst 's policy . True , the organization which tried to spoil the ballots was not Mrs. Pankhurst 's , and the reports vary as to whether acid or coloring fluid was used ; one of the inspectors was , however , injured and his eyesight imperilled . The Suffragettes , who assert that they never have injured anybody by their stone-throwing , may offset this act by citing the playing of a hose upon an imprisoned suffragette for which Mr. Gladstone has apologized in the House of Commons . But the point we would make is that a policy of violent obstruction is apt to be carried too far by the ill-balanced people who attach themselves to every cause . Maria Weston Chapman once said that the good Lord used as His tools in the anti-slavery cause some persons that she would not touch with a twenty-foot pole ; ' and some might say the same of a few of those connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to voice their protests , to approach the government which taxes them without representation , ought to be granted to every Englishwoman . Even the disturbing of meetings by heckling speakers is a time-honored British custoM . But an actual deed of violence may put Mrs. Pankhurst 's cause back for years by depriving it of public sympathy . In our ignorance , we- do not know what a " whist-drive " is , but we note with interest that English bishops are pronouncing against , it as a means of raising money for church purposes . We infer that it is a form of gambling . Its condemnation marks a certain advance since advertisements were published beseeching English society people to set aside one-quarter of their winnings at bridge for holy objects . The whist-drive , however , must be more offensive , for the Archbishop of York " rather deprecates the practice " of putting churches in funds by means of it . Other ecclesiastics are reported as " in= tensely disliking " it , or " declining to accept money raised by this means . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whist-drives for any kind of spiritual work . " This would seem to limit the application of sums won at cards to the purely non-spiritual work of the churches . German newspapers have been discussing an interview which the new Chancellor recently gave to a French editor . In it , Herr Bethmann-Hollweg intimated that he had taken office with an absolutely free hand , so far as political parties were concerned . He , should hold fixed relations with no party group in the Reichstag , but should maintain a position of entire independznce . This may be taken in two ways . It may be intended to convey the meaning that the Chancellor regards his power as derived exclusively from the Kaiser , and that he is opposed to the idea of a responsible Ministry , or anything approaching it . On the other hand , it may signify that the Chancellor wishes to notify the combination of Conservatives and Clericals and Poles which upset Prince Bulo w that their rejoicings are premature , and that Bethmann-Hollweg will not be their obedient servant , but will feel at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reichstag . Party backing of some kind he must have ; since no divine right can get taxes voted except by a majority . There is , of course , the possibility of dissolving the Reichstag , but there is also the certainty of great gains by the Social-Democrats , whenever a general election is held . All told , therefore , the oracle of the new Chancellor is suit ' . sufficiently Delphic.                     