@@486681

A PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORIAN . The most coherent and impressive portion of the late Mr. Lecky 's work is probably the ' History of European Morals ' ; in bulk , his writings on the eighteenth century exceed all his studies in other fields . This already suggests the temper of the great historian that is gone . Mr. Lecky was a moralist in the eighteenth-century sense . In the turmoil of our rapidly shifting civilization , he was distinctly the enl.ghtened. man . He attained as early as his undergraduate years at Dublin that serenity and impartiality of spirit which the Encyclopmdists regarded as the most desirable possession , but hardly achieved . In other respects , also , he was of the e.ghteenth century . Before that appalling mass of evidence which crushes the generalizing spirit back to the journeyman work of heaping up facts , he remained unruffled As a young man he undertook ' A History of European Morals ' with the cheerful curiosity of Bayle compiling a Universal Dictionary . This poised and indomitable spirit , which he maintained in the face of constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any man of his time . It certainly removes him as far from the class of documented athletes of Freeman 's kind as it does from the eloquent special pleaders of the Gibbon-MacaulayCarlyle dispensation . In the fearless mind which he brought to the great task of interpreting history through philosophy , Mr. Lecky distinctly recalls Hume , Montesquieu , Adam Smith , Voltaire . His superiority in method and his essentially modern quality lay in a truer sense of the difficulties that invested his problems . To read his books is to be instructed in the complexity of historical causes . One feels that he has moved more cautiously and patiently among his facts than those soaring minds who were his constant admiration and study . You rarely surprise him in a dogmatism ; were he not a most engaging writer , his kaleidoscopic exhibition of interplaying forces would merely confuse . As it is , it gives to a patient spectator a peculiarly exhilarating sense of a world-life that is always in flux , yet never out of order . Opinions will differ as to the value of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism is likely to deny the abiding worth of their intention To refuse to inject one 's personal passions into the analysis of the past , to decline in the interest of eloquence or popularity to treat complicated affairs as simple , to be rigidly a logician and yetfrankly to admit the force of chance  --  those cases " in which a slight change in the disposition of circumstances , or in the action of individuals , would have altered the whole course of history " ? this certainly is genuine title to distinction in an age which is intolerant of alI painful intellectual processes not immediately useful . - Possibly Mr. Lecky did not realize how much of a pioneer and conservator he was . He pointed the way that historical science must take if it is to enlarge the intelligence of those whom it professes to instruct ; and he did this by keeping undimmed what we may call that intellectual courage which , for want of a better word , we name classic . In placid pursuit of his favorite studies he does not seem to have cared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sturdy and aggressive qualities , and hardly seems to have felt himself to be what he unquestionably was , the champion of an urgent cause . Except for the advertising proclivities of the age by which he inevitably profited though disapproving , he might hardly have risen to international eminence . Indeed , it is likely that a large class of his readers take him rather for facts and the amenity of his style than for those elaborate interpretations of facts which are his peculiar contributions to historical science . To a small group of dissidents he was a leader in the highest sense , if hardly their personal chief . He was a kind of living evidence of the dominance of the mind , despite the greater tasks of assimilation constantly put upon it . And he seemed like the visible promise of a time when thebalance between accumulation of facts and their interpretation shall be ' again restored . Very likely , the merit of ' Mr. Lecky 's point of view will never be sufficiently recognized . His very dispassionateness and the calm flow of his style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a World of strenuous scholarship as he was , for a time , on the Government benches at Westminster . His scrupulous fairness was an offence to the generality . English Whiggism is not so dead that it likes to be told that the Revolutuin of 1688 was " a movement essentially aristocratic , " in which about the only popular element was " that hatred of foreigners which is so deeply rooted in the English mind , . . . and has played a part that can hardly be exaggerated in English history . " Nor has the average Englishman or American reached that philosophic detachment from which he can survey the American Revolution as a mere by-current in the mounting tide of Liberalism . But an age that loves pluck and paradox should at least honor the memory of the invalid who delineated ' The Map of Life ' while propped on his elbows on a couch .                     