@@486618

Senator Cummins of Iowa invaded Illinois on Saturday to utter his flat defiance of Speaker Cannon and all the let-us-alone tariff lotus-eaters The speech was significant because it expressed the thoughts of many hearts in the West . This was the chief point that Senator Cummins made He spoke as but the representative of thousands of Republicans who are bitterly disappointed with the Payne-Aldrich bill , and are determined to work and vote for its speedy amendment If these people are to be " readout of the party , " with them will go the Republican majorities in many of the States , from Ohio to the Rocky Mountains But the men for whom the Iowa Senator speaks do not propose to be read out . They are going to keep up the good fight which they made in Washington last spring . In particular , as Senator Cummins intimates , they intend to strengthen and make use of the Tariff Commission in every way possible . A hasty remark of President- Taft 's was taken to mean that the Commission would do nothing for the next four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But the President 's original statement should not be forgotten , in which he plainly said that the inquiries of the Commission might be ' expected to be made the basis of " executive recommendations " to Congress . Not so alarming as the bad Republican slump in Massachusetts , but perhaps as disappointing to a certain gentleman who has been sailing down the Mississippi River and making love to the people of the South , is the Republican showing in Virginia . The Democrats have elected their Governor by a majority of 23,000 and probably kept their majority of one hundred in the Legislature in joint session . Such comfort as exists for Mr. Taft is found in a reduction of 15,000 votes in the Democratic majority of four years ago . - He probably hoped for better things . He had made excellent Federal appointments in the State ; Postmaster-General Hitchcock had not been idle ; the liking between the President and the people of the State was mutual . But even in the romantic Southland , sentiment and business are two different things . The line that bounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before it disappears . That it must fade in the course of time follows not only from the ardent courtship of Republican Presidents but from events within the South itself . When Southern manufacturers shall have completely gone over to the game of Protection grab , when Southern Senators shall have all awakened to the fact that if there is any stealing going on they are entitled to their share of it , there will be no reason left why the South should not go Republican . On the Saturday before election , Senator Lodge made a speech in Boston which was evidently intended to check the Republican defection in Massachusetts , but which in effect could only have intensified it . For it was all about the tariff . After denying that the tariff question had anything to do with the State campaign , and affirming that the Democrats were " chattering " about it simply because they could not attack " Gov . Draper 's admirable Administration , " the Senator indulged in a couple ? af columns of tariff chatter of his own . The drift of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statesmanship ; that its many grave detects were due to the fact that " we could not do what we wanted " ; and that there may soon be another revision by which the tariff will be " still further improved " Mr. Lodge observed in a detached and far-away manner that " an especial attack has been made on the wool schedule . " Not a word as to the chief attacker , namely , President Taft himself ! Even the Senator had to admit that iniquities were wrapped in Mr. Whitman 's wool , but still he contended that " on the whole , the interests of Massachusetts have been well guarded . " His audience was gravely assured that Senator Crane and he in all that they did " thought first and always of the half-million people who work in the Massachusetts industries . " Before the reader exhausts his powers of laughter over this , let him save something for the Senator 's eco nomic discovery that Cleveland 's tariff message of 1887 was the " principal cause of the panic of 1893 " ! There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included in the oaths of Southern Governors a special obligation to oppose and defeat lynching mobs . But the necessity for this appears to have passed by . Even Gov. - Vardaman , victim of negrophobia that he was , balked more than one mob , and nearly every one of the present Governors has taken more or less vigorous action against those who would violate the laws in the name of order . Last week it was Gov . Glasscock of West Virginia who earned the gratitude of his State , and of law-abiding people everywhere , by taking from the jail in Gassaway two negroes , who were accused of assault and in danger of lynching . Gov . Glasscock marched with the militia and the prisoners , directed the strategy which outwitted the 200 armed men lying in wait , and saw that the prisoners were taken to another town where the militia will continue to guard them , until all danger is ? over . This is-the kind of distinguished active service which ought to insure to Gov . Glasscock a long political career . In no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The commendable habit of giving money to colleges to be used as the colleges think best is growing . Libraries , dormitories , and stadia impress the popular imagination and gratify the vanity of the donor , but many a university president has had reason to fear the benefactor bearing gifts in the shape of a new building that has to be kept up and furnished with classes and instructors . Additions to their general endowment funds the colleges have been pleading for , and these they are now beginning to get . An unrestricted donation , like the two and a quarter million dollars which Columbia University receives under the will of the late John Stewart Kennedy , the New York broker , may he made to mean almost as much in the true evolution-of a university as can a ten-million-dollar campus and a set of fine new buildings . It means an increase in the number and efficiency of the teaching staff . Courses given by underpaid and overworked young instructors can now afford better-trained men and men less harassed with the vulgar worries of bread and rent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the millions that go for interest charges and athletic fields , may now receive some attention . The teaching staff must ale ays be the prime care of the college administrator . Buildings can wait , but a half-starved Pb D. will sooner or later desert the academic halls for a place in the wholesale starch or dress-goods business From the famous log with a student at one end and Mark Hopkins at the other we have changed to marble halls with a tired instructor at one end and a bored class at the other . It is a relief to be told that the rumors of a Martian catastrophe , involving the destruction of all life upon that planet , are false . To have that bright young life snuffed out just when eyes WI earth have discovered it would have been the saddest event in the whole range of cosmic history . Better that life had never come into being beyond terrestrial hounds , if it really has come , than that ? it should disappear just when we are about to question it . Better that the Martian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canals ; better that the Martian vegetation had perish . ed ten thousand years ago , if those dark patches are really forests ; better that the polar ice-cap on Mars  --  taking it for granted that the ice-cap is actually there  --  had drawn tight over the entire rotundity of the planet , than to have the tragedy enacted before our straining and somewhat imperfect vision . If life on Mars were to be wiped out while . our scientists are still debating the comparative advantages of a ten-mile mirror or a bell 100,000 feet in diameter as means of interplanetary communication , it would have shown that Chance , and mocking Chance , does rule the universe . Like many another important item of Philippine news , the official announcement that W. Cameron Forbes , the Vice-Governor-General of the islands , has succeeded Gen. James F. Smith as Governor-General of the archipelago has attracted practically no attention . Mr. Forbes would seem in many respects to be admirably fitted for long service in his new post . A member a distinguished Massachusetts family , of independent fortune , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he gave up everything to go to the Philippines in 1904 , he is but thirty-nine years of age . He has already done hard and faithful service in Manila as secretary of commerce and police and as Vice-Governor . In My . Taft 's eyes he finds special favor because he is thoroughly in sympathy with the President 's policy of indefinite control of the PhVippines . Just here enters the scruple of doubt . A grandson of J. Murray Forbes , the great Boston merchant and abolitionist , the new Governor-General has yet to show that he shares the family views on the vital issues of democracy and human liberty . The Philippine future is full of sinister omens , despite the final rendering of tariff justice to the islands . To Mr. Taft this means prompt economic prosperity , and it ought to help greatly , though the last . figures show a falling off in our trade with the islands . But the trouble is that the Filipino is absolutely ungrateful for all favors , so long as they come from American hands . To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind and matter in the universe , the quarrel between New York 's leading Christian Science church and the mother church in Boston is now in a hopeless state of complexity . When a witness may testify to ? the truth verbally in one way , and spiritually in another , we face a condition of affairs where nothing but a firm belief in malicious animal magnetism can help us . At first sight the quarrel would seem to be about very tangible things . A gifted and successful " leader , " a woman , is suspected of cherishing personal ambitions dangerous to the unity of Christian Science , and , presumably , to the material interests of the governing body in Boston . In addition to so seemingly tangible a cause , we have such other seemingly corporeal facts as congregational meetings , a presiding officer , speakers on either side , a casting of ballots , a victory for the majority , and a vote of confidence . But the outsider 's puzzlement begins when majorities are described as " truth " and minorities as " evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blending of body and spirit which most of us have not yet attained . The tension in England over the Budget is indicated by Mr. Balfour 's language in reply to some utterances of Mr. Ure , Lord Advocate for Scotland . Mr. Ure had in several speeches stated that the aged poor of the country-were tearful of losing their pensions if there were a change of government , and that he shared their apprehension . These statements were made the basis of a terrific arraignment by Mr. Balfour in a speech before the Junior Constitutional Club . " I do not wish , " he said , " to judge too harshly the expressions of an excited orator talking to an excited audience . . . . It is the frigid and calculated lie which moves my indignation . " And this was but the beginning of the ex-Premier 's denunciation . The accusation of deliberate falsehood is based on the assertion that " no Government could if they would , or would if they could , interfere with these old-age pensions , and that you might . as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repudiating your obligation to those recipients of the national bounty . " To this it is replied by Mr. Ure and his defenders that such may be the feeling of the Opposition , but that ways and means must be provided , and that Mr. Ure 's statement was simply a challenge to Mr. Balfour to produce his programme and show that he could raise the necessary sum . Whatever the merits of this personal controversy , there is one conclusion which it can hardly fail to force on the mind  --  that of the probable far-reaching effect of the old-age pension policy upon the whole character of British politics and government . The combination of democratic institutions , in a highly developed commercial and industrial country , with a vast system of governmental bounties to individuals , is something the working of which the world has never yet had an opportunity to witness ; but it requires no gift of prophecy to forecast some of its inevitable consequences . One of these , and by no means the least serious , is sharply indicated in this UreBalfour episode . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party went so far beyond his own usual practice , and  --  that of English statesmen generally , in the violence of his language ; a new force , with untold potentialities of mischief , was invoked by Mr. TJre 's appeal . If every contest for the possession of the Government is to be - made the occasion for bids by one party , or both , for the votes of the old-age pensioners and their friends , men who cherish the traditions of English government must feel that the outlook is dark indeed . The history of the war-pensions issue in our own politics may- serve to give a faint indication of the demoralization that may be possible in a democratic country when , instead of a temporary issue affecting a special class , it becomes a permanent issue involving a large part of the entire population . The chances of a better understanding between Germany and Great Britain grow brighter . Rumor persists in dwelling on the imminence of peace overtures from the side of Germany . The new - Chancellor 's somewhat vague aspirations towards peace are reinforced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strain our attention has centred entirely upon British scares and fears . But it would be - absurd to think that the German Government , too , has not had its qualms , or that the German Empire has not its problems , which , like England 's , work for peace . The recent sudden development of the Socialist menace can not help influencing the Emperor 's foreign policy . When five-sixths of the people of Berlin cast their votes for Socialist canupon them by the Dreadnought fever . Von Bulow must have been aware of the true state of public feeling , but , satiated with office , preferred to resign rather years . No such reasons exist to keep the new Chancellor from working for the restoration of-common sense . In Ambassador Bernstorff 's address on Saturday , before the Academy of Political Science at Philadelphia , he urged that the almost entire drying up of do Sul , against which our Germanophobes used to warn us , is not likely to come off . Count Bernstorff dwelt on the other evidences that Germany is now able to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been , indeed , a great change in conditions with the rise of German industrialism and commerce . Whether it is to be permanent , we must wait to see ; but at present Germany is intensively cultivating her own garden with wonderful success . All told , Count Bernstorff 's address was peace-loving and peace-promoting . M. Briand , in his new capacity as head of the French Cabinet , won his first Parliamentary victory on Monday , when the question of electoral retorm came up in the Chamber . After that body had voted to change the system of voting for Deputies from the scrutin d'arrondissement to the scrutin de liste , the Premier intervened and by making the question one of confidence in the Government forced the Chamber to re . verse its previous majority of nearly 240 . Under the scrutin d'arrondissemeat. at present in force , every Department of France is divided into electoral districts , of which each elects a single Deputy . Under the scrutin , de ltste , every elector in a department voted for words , the same method by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French Republic has repeatedly experimented with was introduced in 1871 , replaced by the vote by arrondissements or districts in 1876 , restored in 1885 , and once more abandoned for the arrondissement system in 1889 . That there was not one more change , between 1876 and 1885 , is due to the Senate 's rejection of a bill for reestablishing the scrutin de liste passed France , he frequented the courts both of primary jurisdiction and appeal , and at first was shocked by the intervention of the judges . To his Anglo-Saxon conceptions of judicial propriety , this seemed intolerable . But later he came to a different view , and was ready to concede that the rigid examination of suspected criminals by the judge was often a splendid instrument of justice . A similar opinion , we believe , was expressed by Sir James Stephen . With the complete dossier of the case before him , an examining magistrate is often able to succeed better than any one else could in eliciting the exact truth . His bias against the prisoner is more assumed than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies the high sense of judicial obligation , and the fear lest , as the judge in the Steinheil case expresses it , a " judicial error " may be committed . Turkey is the latest victim of Dreadnought fever . Prosperous , peaceful , contented Turkey , with no vast problems of governmental change to work out , with no foreign loans to be negotiated , with no hereditary feuds between Moslem and Christian to appease , with no rebellions in Arabia and Anatolia to subdue , with no bothersome Cretan mix-up on her hands  --  this happy nation rolling in wealth has decided to spend $100,000,000 on battleships in the course of the next seven years . It may be that the Turkish Parliament which meets next week will hesitate to tread where the Minister of the Navy has rushed in so violently , but that navy-building on a large scale will be taken up by the new regime there is little reason to doubt . Turkey 's enhanced reputation among the Powers is due to the demonstration of military efficiency which accompanied ? the fall of Abdul Hamid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ottoman chauvinists probably see in a powerful navy the recovery of Crete , Cyprus , Egypt even  --  who knows ? The significant thing , in the meanwhile , is that the Mediterranean , which only four or five years ago was supposed to have been removed from the sphere of naval competition , is now falling back within the mad circle . Austria is building Dreadnoughts , Italy is building Dreadnoughts , Greece and Turkey plan to do the same .                     