@@486321

Secretary Hay made the leading speech at the annual dinner of the Chamber of Commerce last week . To those who had kept account of his doings and sayings as Minister of Foreign Affairs during the past three years , his words seemed very appropriate . They were the substance not merely of things hoped for , but of those already seen They were welcomed for the assurance they convey that the general policy with which Mr. Hay 's name has been identified in the McKinley Administration will be continued under that of his successor . Upon that point he left nothing to be desired , and if his expression of it was rather more blunt than we usually expect in a discourse on foreign affairs , it was probably made so by design . It was perhaps not necessary for Mr. Hay to emphasize the fact that President Roosevelt is incapable of bullying a strong Power or of wronging a weak one ; but since he has done so , we are bound to presume that he had the warrant of his chief in using just these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Secretary , and they will be welcomed , not because they were particularly needed , but because everybody can understand them . They are self-explanatory , and need neither gloss nor repetition . They apply first of all to the Powers of Europe , but they do not stop there . Mr. Hay paid marked deference to the republics of Central and South America , and reassured them , so far as words can go , that we have neither intention nor desire to encroach upon their territory or their rights , nor to overlook their claim to an equal place with ourselves in the community of nations . Perhaps the pleasantest impression left upon the minds of Mr. Hay 's listeners was the belief that he would remain in the place which he has so acceptably and so honorably filled . The Ship-Subsidy Bill , which has not yet been divulged by Senator Frye , seems to be already in a staggering way . According to a Washington telegram in the Times , the decision of the Reciprocity Convention the other day against Reciprocity has recoiled with considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of humor must see that it would be rather jocose to vote money to promote foreign trade after killing a measure whose object is to increase the volume of our imports and exports . Aside from this inconsistency , , however , it is evident that the found out that it is a measure to tax the many for the benefit of the few , and the poor for the benefit of the rich The workingmen 's organizations , in particular , have recognized this feature of the scheme . They think that there are ways enough to accomplish this end by means of Trusts and combines , without tapping the national Treasury for the same purpose . The movement for free hides in Massachusetts is a formidable one . Every argument of the commercial sort runs in its favor . We do not produce hides enough for our own use . About 25 per cent . of our consumption must be imported . The tax is a burden of $2,000,000 per year upon the tanning and shoe-making industries . It adds 5 to 8 per cent . to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . The duty ( 15 per cent . ad valorem ) is not needed by the Government for revenue . In fact , it was not imposed for revenue . It was put into the Dingley tariff for the purpose of making the bill look more attractive to the farmers and cattle-growers . Hides had been free of duty for twenty-five years , and the American farmer had never imagined that he was injured by that fact . He had never raised an animal for the sake of its hide , nor does he do so now . It is doubtful if he ever received one cent more for an ox by reason of the duty on hides . If there has been any gain from that source , it has gone to the large butchering and packing companies . On the other hand , the American duty on hides has benefited the tanning interests of Canada by giving to the latter an advantage of 15 per cent . in the purchase of the raw materials . All the commercial and financial considerations point to-a repeal of the duty as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One political consideration , however , may outweigh everything else . If the tariff question is opened for one thing , it may be opened for any number of things . If free hides are a desideratum , is not free wool equally so ? And what about lumber , iron ore , and coal ? The terrors and costs of modern warfare have been described with great fidelity by the Polish author Bloch , at whose instance , it is said , the Czar of Russia was moved to call the Peace Conference at The Hague . If M. Bloch had to write his book now , he would find some additional material of great value in the current report of the American Secretary of the Interior , who tells us that our pension list contains 4,000 names in excess of any previous year , and that the number of claims pending at the beginning of the present fiscal year was 403,569 . About one-half of these were claims for increase of pensions from persons already on the rolls . The amount disbursed for pensions during the year ( the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $138,531,484 . Even more remarkable than this aggregate showing is the piling up of pension claims as a result of disabilities incurred in the war with Spain . About 20 per cent . of all the men enlisted have filed claims for a war that began only three years ago , whereas only 6 per cent . of the soldiers of the civil war had filed claims in 1872 , eleven years after the beginning of that war . Many claims were filed for disability a few days after the claimants had been examined by army surgeons for discharge from the service , and had been found absolutely free from ailment of any kind The history of one volunteer regiment which served six months is cited in the Secretary 's report , where 477 claims for disability have been filed , out of a total enlistment of 53 officers and 937 men-50 per cent . of claimants in three years , as compared with 6 per cent . in eleven years after the beginning of the civil war . These terrors of war do not come within the scope of M @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolerate fraud in their pension rolls . Mr. H. 0 . Havemeyer , after a delay of several months , has secured the official ruling of the Board of Classification on the question whether a bas-relief is a " manufacture , " and taxable at 50 per cent , or " statuary " at 20 . The piece in dispute was a bas-relief in marble , by Mino da Fiesole , one of the most charming masters of the Italian Renaissance . Under a ruling of Appraiser Wilkinson , bas-reliefs were held by the Customhouse to be " manufactures , " while sculpture wrought in the round , provided it was " the professional production of a statuary or sculptor , " was " statuary , " in the eye of the Dingley law . The application of this principle would clearly produce amazing results . In the eyes of Appraiser Wilkinson and of the Customhouse of the chief port of a civilized nation , the Parthenon frieze , for instance , would be a " manufacture . " Again , Mr. St. Gaudens 's superb Shaw memorial on Boston Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main figure were concerned , " statuary " ; but the noble background of marching negro troops , being a relief , would be a " manufacture . " Fortunately , Mr. Havemeyer , though it must have amused him to find Mino 's professional status more than in doubt , and his work classified with " manufactures of agate , alabaster , . . . coral , carnelian , . . . jet , malachite , marble , " took the situation seriously , and appealed from the Appraiser 's decision to the Board of Classification . Their decision that an Italian bas-relief of the best period is not a manufacture , but a work of art , is , if somewhat obvious , most commendable ; for the Custom-house has , from beginning to end , shown a tendency to make the barbarous tariff on works of art doubly oppressive by unskilled and illiberal interpretation of its terms . A proper protest is entered by a Republican newspaper against the assumption by some representatives of the Republican machine that " the organization " polled fully five-sixths of the votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Press analyzes the votes cast for Republican candidates in New York County at recent elections , recalling that Roosevelt polled about 112,000 for Governor in 1898 and McKinley about 153 , - 000 for President in 1900 . It estimates that fully 5,000 voters not Republican cast their ballots for Roosevelt in 1898 , while it supposes that even the machine leaders will admit that McKinley received tens of thousands of independent and Democratic votes . In 1897 , when Tracy ran as the straight Republican candidate for Mayor , he received about 55,000 votes in this county . The Press concludes from all this that the Republican machine vote is somewhere near 50,000 , and that the rest of the 115,000 votes which Mr. Low received came from anti-Platt Republicans , Independents , Independent Democrats , and straight-out Democrats . The outside figure which it thinks can be claimed " with fairly decent grace " for the Republican vote this year , machine and anti-machine , is 115,000 , which would leave fully 50,000 to the other elements in the Fusion movement . We do not see any sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent State Conference of Charities for an amendment by the incoming Legislature of the transfer or legacy tax , so far as it affects bequests to charitable societies . A general statute provides that " the real property of a corporation or association organized exclusively for the moral or mental improvement of men or women , or for religious , Bible , tract , charitable , benevolent , missionary , hospital , infirmary , educational , scientific , literary , library , patriotic , historical , or cemetery purposes , or for the enforcement of laws relating to children or animals , or for two or more of such purposes , and used exclusively for carrying cut thereupon one or more of such purposes , and the personal property of any such corporation or association , shall be exempt from taxation . " It was in pursuance of the principles here enunciated that , when the policy of a transfer tax was adopted in this State , legacies in favor of societies thus exempted from taxation were expressly freed from subjection to the new tax . This exemption continued until a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the exemptions enumerated in section 4 of the tax law , of which this article is a part , shall not be construed as being applicable in any manner to the provisions of article 10 thereof . " This provision has been found to remove the former exemption from the transfer tax of bequests to charitable societies . It is perfectly clear , however , that the public never supposed this change was being made by the Legislature of 1900 , or an earnest opposition would have been provoked . No special attention appears to have been called to the amendment when it was pending at Albany , and certainly the people interested in charitable movements had no idea of what was being done . Some of them have contended that the change in the law does not require the imposition of the tax upon charitable bequests , but the question has been carried to the highest tribunal , which has decided that it does . The Court of Appeals has not concealed its judgment that the legislation is inequitable , the prevailing opinion saying that " whatever we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must recognize it . " One step forward in submarines is marked by the success of the Fulton on Saturday in keeping a crew submerged in perfect comfort for fifteen hours . This is probably unprecedented , though it has long been certain that life below water through the hours of daylight ( at night , cf course , the submarine can safely come up to breathe ) could be made tolerable . In some of the French experiments , however , the men came up much distressed after being down only six hours . The officers on board the Fulton assert that they could have lived under water week ; though if machinery were being operated and the boat in motion , the conditions would be obviously different . And even if you can give your crew plenty of air to breathe , the chief problems connected with the submarine  --  equilibrium , perfect control , and intelligible sight of the point of attack  --  yet remain to be mastered . The highest promise of this new naval construction is in connection with harbor defence , in which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its moral intimidation of a hostile fleet . Certainly enough has already been accomplished to justify the Navy Department in continuing its experiments with the submarines ; thoug it must not be forgotten that we may soon have an automatically propelled torpedo , dirigible by wireless electricity ? and then it would be good-bye to the present submarine type of boat . Mr. Charles A. Conant , Special Commissioner of the War Department , on Money and Banking , has just returned from the Philippines , where he has been investigating currency conditions . He announces that the monetary plan suggested by the Civil Commission a year ago will probably be recommended again this year . It will be recalled that when the United States first took over the islands , it found there a silver standard which had succeeded a nominal gold standard about 1875 . Gold had been driven out by the Mexican dollar , and the use of such dollars was legalized in 1876 , those in circulation being made a legal tender . At the time of the American occupation , therefore , there was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitrary one , fluctuating in value partly with the price of silver bullion , and partly with local demand and supply . The importation of Mexican dollars had been abolished in 1876 , but after the American occupation this prohibition was abrogated , and an arrangement was effected by the Philippine Commission for the exchange of Mexican dollars against those of the United States at the rate of two for one . The dangers of such a situation are obvious . If , as Mr. Conant advises , the plan suggested a year ago should be adopted , the first step would probably be the issue of a silver peso of about the same content as the Mexican dollar , but redeemable at 50 cents in gold . This mode of reforming the currency would be akin to that adopted by Japan under similar circumstances some years ago , which is probably the best solution of the currency difficulties in the Philippines . The fighting between Colombian factions on the line of the Isthmian railway somewhat complicates the duties of our Government . We are bound by treaty to keep communication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done by three detachments of United States marines , stationed , respectively , at Colon , Panama , and midway between . The situation is ticklish just to this extent , that the attempt of our troops to prevent fighting on or near the line of the Panama Railway might result in a collision with either the Government forces or the revolutionists . But the danger of trouble with the Government troops is slight , for our marines have been landed with its full assent . Captain Perry apparently feels that the bombardment of any town on the Panama line is constructively an obstruction of traffic . It is on this principle chiefly that Lieut. - Commander McCrea of the Machias has prevented a Colombian gunboat from shelling the insurgents out of Colon . Such a position of strict neutrality is clearly a difficult one to maintain through a partisan war , and recurring acts of interference with the military movements of either party might result in serious complications . But , since the forces on either hand are small and the spectacular raid on Colon may any day end with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for trouble to brew . The attitude of the American commanders has been wholly correct and impartial . In their hands it is unlikely that a delicate situation will develop into a dangerous one . ? The London Spectator , in a spirit of friendship , proposes that England shall give her public instead of her tacit assent to the Monroe Doctrine , with the expectation that the other nations of Europe will follow her example , thus removing all cause for future irritation on the subject . But the Spectator knocks the whole plan into smithereens by the innocent requirement that the United States shall first define the Monroe Doctrine . No American statesman is bold enough to attempt that feat . Some of our greatest men have sought to define it in the forum of debate where they were not responsible for any results to flow from their words , but no one has ever ventured to give it a definition applicable to all cases ; and we venture to say that no one living could be drawn by horse power to an inkstand where he should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave a comprehensive statement of the Doctrine by saying that a case for its exercise ( meaning a case for our interference in the affairs of another American state ) " must be danger to our security , or danger , manifest and imminent danger , to our essential rights and our essential interests . " But if this were inscribed on parchment as our understanding of the Monroe Doctrine , England and all the Powers would say : " We have always believed in that . It is a doctrine of universal application . W apply it to our own affairs daily . We could not keep house without it . We thought that the Monroe Doctrine was something peculiar to America  --  something not known before Monroe 's time  --  but now it appears to be as old as the hills and applicable to all ages , countries , and climes . " Then we should be just where we were before the Spectator conceived its happy solution of the difficulty . The Spectator means well , but we want to keep not only the Monroe Doctrine in pickle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of politics may require . The permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague has decided that it is incompetent to consider the Boer appeal for intervention . No other decision was possible ; for , in the first place , the Boers were not among the signatory Powers , to whom alone the Arbitration Convention applies . At the time of the Peace Conference , in fact , the Transvaal had , except with the consent of England , no international standing . Since that time Great Britain has become the de-facto administrator of the Boer territory . Quite apart from the question whether the Boers had any standing before the Court , that tribunal does not receive ex-parte pleas , nor any case of arbitration , unless " the object of the dispute " and " the extent of the arbitrator 's powers " are agreed upon and duly formulated by both parties to the dispute . It will be remembered that during the session of the Peace Congress similar appeals from the Armenians , the Finns , and the Macedonian Committee were rejected as beyond the scope of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private sympathies of the individual judges , had no - choice but to follow this precedent and its own charter . The announcement that France has definitely invited the other European Powers to send delegates to a conference upon ways and means of suppressing the ' white slave " traffic is gratifying proof of a national and international awakening in regard to this infamous system . The conference has been planned for some months , notice of the French Government 's intention having been given by Senator Berenger at the meeting of the National Vigilance Association in Amsterdam early in October . The plan of the French Government is that there shall be a general discussion of the existing laws , with a view to suggesting methods of strengthening them from the international point of view . It is hoped that some uniform , drastic , and effective method of dealing with the agents may be devised , and as the German Emperor has taken a great personal interest in the matter , it is thought that in Germany , at least , some valuable results may follow . That the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any reader of the Continental press . An organized exportation of Polish women to the Argentine Republic has lately been uncovered , and one or two of the criminals have been caught . In Hungary and Bohemia , too , the horrible traffic has been steadily carried on , while the luring of English girls of good family into Holland , Belgium , and France goes on as steadily as it did when Mr. W. T. Stead made his extraordinary revelations in the Pall Mall Gazette , years ago . For many years the selection of new plays for the Theatre Frangais was intrusted , mainly , to a reading committee composed of sociOtawres . Of lace , and especially since the retirement of M. Got ( now dead ) , there has been increasing dissatisfaction with the manner in which this committee has exercised its prerogatives . Complaints have been fre quent among authors that the members of it were actuated chiefly by a desire for personal aggrandizement , and that a play had no chance of being accepted if it was not rich in opportunities for all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mangled , to suit the leading players , as to be barely recognizable by their original creators . Only recently , a play that had been in the hands of the committee for years , and had been rewritten and remodelled to a considerable extent , to meet the requirements of this one and that , failed so ignominiously upon its production  --  chiefly on account of the absurdity of some of the emendations  --  that the reputed author declined to be held responsible for it . This result was nothing more than might reasonably have been expected from the deliberations of actors , each of whom was intent upon his own individual interest . The wonder is that the system should have avoided an open breakdown as long as it did . Perceiving the folly and scandal r - it , M. Leygues , Minister of Instruction , recently decreed that hereafter M. Claretie , the intellectual head of the theatre , a keen critic , an elegant writer and accomplished scholar , should have the sole power of choosing plays for performance , thereby putting an end to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fixing the responsibility upon a single person , who could be replaced at pleasure if he should prove incapable . Instantly the actors were in revolt over this alleged invasion of their rights and reflection upon their acumen and integrity . The thought that they had been relieved from an irksome and difficult duty , for which they were not fitted and which ought not to have been imposed upon them , never occurred to them . They could see nothing but the affront to their dignity , and think of nothing but the way to avenge it Their final resolve is worthy of sulky children . Hitherto it has been the custom to appoint certain members of the company , in rotation , to superintend the staging of new plays . Now the actors refuse their assistance . They say that , if M. Claretie is to choose the plays without help , he may have the privilege of stag : ing them also . And so matters ' are temporarily at a deadlock . If M. Leygues stands firm , however , the conflict can have but one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they deserve to be . Already there is a proposal that sDaRatres shall be retired compulsorily at the end of twenty years ' service , and more stringent measures of reorganization might be adopted , if necessary . There is no reason to fear that an infusion of new acting blood would do any permanent harm to the constitution of the Francais.                     