@@486797

JUSTICE AT LAST , Thanks to President Roosevelt , justice nas at last been meted out to the man who , above all others , has been responsible for the deficiencies in the Steamboat Inspection Service which made the Slocum disaster possible . James A. Dumont , after having been tried by himself and pronounced innocent on September 23d last , has been tried , found guilty , and sentenced to dismissal from the service by the impartial investigat- ing commission of army and navy officers and civilians constituted by the President . With Dumont go Robert S Rodie , the supervising inspector of the Second District , and Thomas A Barrett , one of the local inspectors More than that , the President directs that their successors overhaul the local office from top to bottom , removing all men who are unfit for their positions But the report did not stop with these recommendations It is a review of the whole situation , bearing out completely the revelations made by the Evening Post in the winter of 1903 . The only result then was the appointment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his evil influence to this port At that time a good deal of Dumont 's political pull , with which he had successfully defied all the numerous efforts since the days of Secretary Sherman to bring about his removal , was still in working order . However creditable Mr. Roosevelt 's action since the catastrophe  --  and we would withhold no deserved praise  --  it must always remain a biting commentary upon our administrative methods that , with the facts all before , the officials , it was still necessary to sacrifice a thousand lives to bring about the dismissal of the guilty and that reorganization whose necessity every interested person was aware of . The reorganization has now only just begun If the Secretary of Commerce is lulled into fancied security after merely dismissing Dumont and his fellows , comparatively little will have been accomplished . There is need of new laws and new regulations . Some system of holding the inspectors to account for their work is absolutely essential There must be a different method of paying them , and an arrangement - by which they will be relieved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , there also must be a statutory power to bring home to individual owners a criminal liability when their vessels have been improperly navigated . In the Slocum , case the Commission naturally found that the owners were " censurable in a high degree for the inadequate and improper conditions " on their boat , and that , whatever " their technical legal liability , they and their executive agents bore largely the moral responsibility " The inefficiency and cowardice of the master and crew , the lack of proper inspection , the rotten fire-hose and life-preservers , and the bad judgment of the pilot in beaching the ship were other reasons for the appalling loss of life All this would be bad enough if it related to only one ship . But the Commission 's report is full of warnings as to the future . It declares that there are many similar vessels doing service whose construction is as faulty as that of the Slocum , which " Was not abnormal , " but " typical . " To remedy these conditions there must be unceasing efforts for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with horrors of all-kinds that it speedily dismisses from its mind even so ghastly and needless a tragedy as that of the Slocum It is , therefore ; all the more the duty of the responsible officials to devote their energies to sweeping reforms , no matter what the expense or trouble to which steamboat-owners be put . The Secretary of Commerce can personally have no more important work for a year to come than the overhauling of the inspection service until it becomes a genuine credit to the nation Such a result is not at all impossible of attainment , and it may mean the saving of thousands of lives now imperilled . One lesson must not be overlooked . namely , the need of bringing into such an investigation outside experts in no way connected with the department of the Government under the probe . The one dissenting opinion in the report before us is that of Mr. Uhler , the present head of the steamboat inspection service , who intercedes in behalf of Robert S. Rodie . When the local board sat upon its own case under Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what " reforming from within " means . It carefully censured everybody except its own guilty inspectors ; threw nearly the whole blame on the crew ; falsified the facts ; lied as to one of the coroners , and from beginning to end tried to shirk its own responsibility . No matter how desirous of altering a bad state of affairs the President or the head of a department may be , there is an inevitable , often an unrecognizable , bias on the part of men in office . Insensibly they are swayed by a feeling of loyalty to their fellows even when these are caught red-handed There is a certain pride in their department which would rather hush up unpleasant facts than honestly confess the stain and openly wipe it away . And then , once you start an investigation , no one can tell what revelations will come out . Those in the seats of the mighty may themselves be hurled to earth . Hence the necessity of calling in some examiner whose pulse will not beat a whit faster whatever the neglect or corruption he uncovers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results , in the Slocum , case should have been the procedure in the Post-Office frauds . A committee of Congress , at least , should have been entrusted with the duty of bringing out the facts Instead , an anxious President and his worried party , in obvious dread of what might reach the light , decided to reform " in our own way and at Our own time . " As a result , no one believes that the process was either thorough or complete . " ILLEGITIMATE VICTIMS " OF WAR . So serious have been the . German losses from typhoid-fever in Southwest Africa that the mutterings of discontent in the press have now become a chorus of protest . It is bad enough , the critics say , that the prestige of the service should have been lowered by military blunders of various kinds , but that the medical department of the finest army in the world should have failed so lamentably in its efforts to safeguard the health of the troops is nothing less than disgraceful . To this the Government has made an unofficial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreseen ; that seventy physicians , many of them bacteriologists , have been dispatched to the front , together with elaborate filtering and distilling apparatus . The defenders of the Government also point to the recall of Major Glasenapp , the commander of a field force which was practically wiped out by typhoid , as a sign that the authorities are prepared to hold commanding officers accountable for the health of their men . This is locking the stable door after the horse has been stolen There are 170 cases of typhoid now in the base hospitals of the colony , and the daily report of deaths shows that new arrivals are as subject to the disease as the men who have been in the field for a year . On a small scale the Germans are enacting over again the American experiences in our little war with Spain , and those of the English in South Africa In our campaign only 268 men were killed by Spanish bullets , while 3,862 perished in hospital  --  the victims of our military and medical inefficiency . Since the beginning , wars have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One need but recall the scourging epidemics which swept through Europe in the wake of the Thirty Years ' War to see that a campaign at that time invariably visited its punishment upon victors and vanquished alike , even when the bloodshed was over . But with national epidemics a thing of the past , the question has arisen whether armies also can not be freed from the terrible diseases which have hitherto accompanied them . To this quest ? 1 , Major Louis L. Seaman , who served as a volunteer surgeon in 1898 and has just returned from Mantchuria and Japan , has but one answer . In his address delivered before the Association of Military and Naval Surgeons at their St. Louis meeting last week , he declared that typhoid , enteric. , fever , and dysentery are preventable , and maintains that the Japanese medical officers have proved this beyond all doubt . From personal observation he reports that the " conspicuously empty beds " of the contagious and infectious wards of the great Japanese hospitals " voice more eloquently than words the most important lesson of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases of disease of the respiratory system , only three of typhoid in Mantchuria , and only occasionally a case of dysentery . Of the many thousands of patients in the hospitals he visited , not a baker 's dozen were suffering from diseases of the digestive organs . In fact , there were but a few medical cases all told . This extraordinary result Dr. Seaman attributes to three causes : the powers given to the Japanese medical officers , their preparation for war , and the excellence of the ration furnished to the soldiers . The Japanese are the first to recognize the true value of an army medical corps ' ' The medical officer is omnipresent . " He is with the advanced scouts , carrying hiS microscope and chemicals , testing and labelling wells so that the arm.y shall drink no contaminated water . Towns are at once safeguarded by the bacteriological experts on each divisional staff , and no soldiers are billeted where there is the slightest danger of , refection . In camp the medical officer is unceasing in his efforts to instruct the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating in an extremely unsanitary country , the Japanese situation is the very reverse of that af the French in Madagascar in 1894 , where of 15,000 men 29 were killed by bullets and 7,000 by preventable diseases " Every man who dies in our army , " said a high Japanese officer to Dr. Seaman , " must fall on the field of battle . " It was this general 's belief that the Russians would lose four men by disease for every one killed , and he counted upon this difference in the health of the two armies to neutralize the superiority of Russian numbers . That he had good ground for his expectation would also appear from what Major Seaman has to say about the lack of Russian preparation for hostilities . He learned that the surgeon-general at Vladivostok said , the night oeiore Togo 's first attack : " Oh , there will be no war . If Russia expected war , I should be the first to know it , so my hospitals could be in readiness . As it is , I have never been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major Seaman declares that Verestchagin himself , " familiar as he was with war in its most brutal and bestial aspects , " must haw ; been horrified at the immorality and drunkenness which everywhere marked Russia 's preparation for the uplifting and glorifying " supreme triumph " of war . " Sodom and Gomorrah ? the current synonyms of Port Arthur and Vladivostok in the Orient  --  were temples of virtue in comparison to the debauchery , licentiousness , flagrant immoralities , and openly ' flaunted vice recently practised in those cities . " A better preparation for every disease known to armies is hardly conceivable . Dr. Seaman severely blames our own army for its blindness to the changes now under way , fot its failure to give the medical corps an adequate representation on the General Staff , or to send medical observers to join the Japanese army . He thinks the contrast between the faces " full of health and hope " of the gravely wounded Japanese and the " poor , wan , emaciated , and almost hopeless faces " of our own victims of mismanagement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Department to undertake a-complete reorganization and remodelling of the medical service . PREVENTION OF RAILROAD COL. - LISIONS . During the first six months of 1904 no less than 388 passengers have been killed on American railroads . It is a black record . The potential causes of railway wrecks are constant . The engineer forgets an order to meet another train at a certain station though the order is in writing and is presumably pinned up before his eyes in the engine cab . The conductor of the train has a copy of the same order , but he forgets it , or is unable to prevent the engineer 's error . A train is directed to wait at a certain station for two other trains from the opposite direction , and it waits for only one of them , then going on to its destruction ; or the order says that a certain station must be reached within a certain time , and the time is misread or miscalculated . There is nothing mysterious about the causes of these collisions which now agitate the public mind . About @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country has the block system , the well-approved method under which the number of collisions is enormously reduced ; but , on the other 85 per cent , passengers and trainmen  --  particularly trainmen  --  are added to the death list month after month and year after year with distressing regularity . If the people are to make their indignation effective , attention must be concentrated on one class of accidents  --  collisions , which constitute the great bulk of the disasters that give American railroading so bad a reputation abroad . There is practically only one remedy ? the block system All railroad managers know this . They put the block system in force on their busiest lines , thus justifying the assertion of the Interstate Commerce Commission , in its last annual report , that this is the only recourse . The only reason for the absence of so simple a safeguard is the cost ; but this plea is greatly overworked . One prominent railroad manager said , not long ago , that the block system had been introduced on several hundred miles of his road at an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signalmen of only 3 per cent . This was not one of the largest trunk lines , and the protection afforded was less complete than that which we find on some of the Eastern trunk lines and on the well-equipped railroads of England ; but it did greatly reduce the collisions and the death lists . The block system means that no train starts on any part of the road until the line is ascertained to be clear of all other trains for a known distance . Without the block system , trains running in the same direction can be kept safely apart only by holding them a certain number of minutes at stations , and by the use of the discredited red flag ; while an a single-track line the avoidance of collisions between trains running toward each other depends upon unerring adherence to the time-table , or , when trains are behind time , on perfect care and vigilance in asking for and reading telegraphic orders ; unfailing memory of rules , time-tables , and the superiority of different classes of trains , and attention to diverse distracting duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The block system , on the other hand , makes all trains of equal importance ( as regards safety ) , makes the " danger points " fixed instead of variable , and does away with errors from defective watches , misreading of time-tables or written papers , and forgetting telegrams . Consideration of the block system does not ( at present ) require notice of such refinements as the automatic stop , used in the subway to check a careless motorman . Neither can there be much profit in considering , just now , the question of overwork of trainmen , or of the influence of the trade unions . It is true that , when traffic is unusually heavy , trainmen will , for the sake of earning large pay , remain on duty too many hours . The officer in charge is tempted to permit this , or at least to wink at it , because he thereby prevents a blockade . The spirit of the trade-union agitations has weakened some trainmen 's sense of responsibility ; and many trade-union leaders are culpable for concentrating their attention on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency : But the majority of collisions are due to the error or neglect of men in good health and not overworked . The Government bulletins are full of cases of collisions where those responsible are reported as having good past records . It is fair to say that in some quarters progress in adopting the block system has been delayed by the desire to wait for the invention of more perfect apparatus American railroad officers believe  --  though Englishmen have not yet adopted this view to any extent  --  that the ideal block system is the automatic . It costs very much more , to in- stall than does apparatus for the nonautomatic or manual system , hence managers do not easily get the necessary appropriations . But this waiting attitude is indefensible , for the crying need is the immediate adoption of some block system ; the use of manual signals pending the perfection or more general approval of automatic signals . One prominent trunk line whose approved standard is the automatic , has yet put in the manual system on many miles . The dilatory policy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can find no fault if Congress takes radical action . The Interstate Commerce Commission , in its last annual report , laid before Congress a definite measure , and there has been no adverse criticism of it . On the contrary , the manager of one important trunk line declared his intention of preparing to comply with a law like that proposed , which contemplates complete block signalling within five years . The Interstate Commerce Commission is the most appropriate body to exercise governmental supervision in this matter . With all its faults , it has done fairly well - with the Federal statute of 1893 , making automatic couplers and airbrakes compulsory everywhere . The people of the country have a right to require of railroads a reasonable assurance of safety , and the way to enforce this right is now quite plain . The railways have had their chance to make a good showing ; too many have neglected it , and their showing is appallingly bad , Unless the managers act of their own motion in adopting safety appliances , the only thing they have to expect is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EDUCATIONAL PROBLEM . Comptroller Grout 's reactionary attitude , and the rumor that the Board of Education is partially yielding to it , are the latest symptoms of a prevalent failure to understand the meaning and motives of the modern educational movement . Even to the Chancellor of our State University and to Prof. Barrett Wendell , the alert educator appears to be a person engaged chiefly in adding " frills " to our time-honored educational garments , as it were in pure pedagogic sportiveness ; while to Messrs . Crosby and McIntyre , the Comptroller 's experts , he is the victim of a timid gregariousness  --  of " a certain esprit de corps , or tendency to sympathize with and even defend whatever the educational associations of the country may , for the time , seem to approve , however inadvisedly . " ( The sense is a trifle obscure , but the scorn is unmistakable . ) A popular system of education , we read in the Comptroller 's reports , aims " to provide a course of instruction and study best calculated to secure the highest average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency of such a system is that it shall succeed in sending out , from the elementary school , " graduates having a practical knowledge and habitually correct use of the English language , together with such knowledge of mathematics , geography , and history as may be reasonably expected . " These are the " essentials " ; and any " special " studies which interfere with the healthful acquirement of these must be excluded as involving a waste of time and money and a loss of efficiency . " There can be no knowledge , training , or accomplishment , however desirable , of sufficient relative importance to warrant its acquirement in the public schools at the expense of what is called a common-school education . " Of a similar tenor was Chancellor Whitelaw Reid 's Convocation Address , which called forth a hearty " Amen " from the New York Tunes in an editorial on " ' Fads ' in Education " Intelligent citizenship ! Is that to be nurtured by an education adapted to the production of tally clerks and cash girls ? an education which gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , quickens and aids no aptitudes other than those of the pen and the tape-measure , awakens and feeds no interests that are humanizing and civic ? Genuine education is scarce begun . the tools of education are furnished  --  little more  --  to be used selfishly or socially , criminally or worthily , according as the development of the moral faculties , the sentiments , the energies , the aspirations of the child is directed It is assumed that education is mainly a matter of the intelligence , whereas it is more fundamentally a matter of the emotions and the will . Of a truth , it is because education has failed to touch the heart and imagination , to nourish " anmiration , hope , and love , " and to discipline the will  --  has concerned itself so little with the real essentials of citizenship , with character , with honesty , loyalty , reverence , service , self-respect , self-control , idealism  --  that it has done so little , comparatively , against the forces of corruption , lawlessness , selfishness , and vulgarity which are rampant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and industrial order achieved some of these things , though not so much by the school as by those other agencies , the home , the church , the broader type of vocation , which have long been failing us and must now be so often replaced by the school . Must , we say , because this is no matter of choice , but of national necessity . Democracy can not prosper with parts of men for its pillars , it must produce whole men or perish . And it must do so despite the tendency of modern industrial life to develop and use mere fractions of men  --  mere " hands , " the makers of small parts of things , mere cogs in the great commercial wheel And it is upon its educational agencies , upon its potency as an educational institution and influence , that the State and the nation must rely to produce the men and the leaders of men upon whom its destinies depend It is because the Old Education now promotes a narrow , routine intelligence , with the emphasis on drill , habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , observation , originality , that it must give way to an education which is liberally directed towards these ends . The modern educator flatly denies the primacy of the so-called " essentials " in early education . The young child has far more important matters to attend to than desk and book-studies . ' These do too much violence to the natural powers of the child , who is not a sedentary and still-life creature , but one who learns and grows largely through play and ac tivity , through the handling and shaping of things , through imitation and experimentation . Instead , therefore , of being a hindrance to the " essentials , " when he is old enough to begin them , in his second or third school year , the " special " studies , if they are properly pursued , respect the child , break the outrageous monotony of desk work , bring zest and interest into the schoolroom , and instead of hindering actually promote progress in the " essentials . " Conventional educational values must be revised in the light of new standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and well-known causes of our present failure to accomplish the results we have hoped for in the elementary school ? namely , greatly overcrowded classes , which preclude individual attention ; the poor physical condition of the children , due to underfeeding and unsanitary conditions in the tenements ; the foreign nationalities ( twenty-seven in one school ) , and their varying standards of living and manners , and , we must add , the still insufficient equipment of our teachers , for which the too low standards of our training schools are partly responsible . It will no doubt be said in reply that the Old Education at any rate succeeded in ' producing worthy and powerful men and women . Undoubtedly ; but mainly because , cooperating with the meagre forces of the school , were other educational forces mightier than they  --  the old-fashioned home , gone from the city and so fast disappearing even from the country , the old forms of domestic industry , the old trades and crafts , the old free life with nature at the door , the direct contact with the simpler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ folk-song , and all the popular arts . We have discovered that we must find substitutes for these educational forces . The New Education Is in part an effort to provide them .                     