@@486590

" I 'm not going to make a speech , " said Senator Tillman , when the Panama treaty was before.the Senate . " I 'm just going to throw rocks at it as it goes by . " That is a pretty good definition of his regular method His fellow-Senators would not allow him to make a set oration , even if he wanted to , but on Friday his supply of " rocks " was sufficient to keep him on the floor , with interruptions , for four hours Tillman 's function in the Senate is as unique as it is important . He is the appointed sayer of disagreeable things His gift pf stinging sarcasm , and his very manner of delivery , fit him for this work . The Senate is hardly itself , in fact , except when Tillman and Spooner are exchanging courtesies , as they did on the above occasion . The Republican members would probably have it understood that they burn with indignation and horror when Tillman is running amuck , but we fear it is only " constructive " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uncouth South Carolinian blurted out on the floor the very things that his Republic-an colleagues in good and regular standing were muttering in the cloakrooms ? There have been few more valuable contributions to the debate about the Canal Commission than Till-man 's uncovering of the fact that Mr Shonts has continued to hold his railroad presidency after entering the employ of the Government . In finally voting him two-thirds of the money he had certified to be absolutely necessary for his Panama expenditures , the Senate has given Mr. Roosevelt a pointed rebuke . Very much in the tone of a father paying the debts of a spendthrift son , it has insisted that the squaring of old accounts must mean better methods in the future Hereafter , the President is to be allowed no fine derangement of a lump appropriation according to his own taste and fancy and the importunities of friends , but must submit to Congress a detailed estimate of salaries It is to be hoped that he has had his sufficient lesson As to the personal aspect of that part of the scandal which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf of the Administration , that the useless " place " . of " press agent " at $10 , - 000 a year would lie abolished , is open confession that the President had wastefully created a sinecure. ?  --  President - Roosevelt quite misses the point , in contending that the decision of Judge Phillips , finding Mr. Paul Morton guiltless as to a certain Atchison rebate , fully " vindicates " that gentleman , and also justifies the President in having refused to follow the - advice of Messrs , Harmon and Judson last June Those lawyers asked that Mr Morton be summoned in contempt proceedings It was , they pointed out , a process " not unusual or exceptional , " but- simply in pursuance of " a well-established rule " It was a " demand for an explanation , " they remarked , " not an accusation . " But the President refused to Permit a member of his Cabinet , and - his personal friend , to - be subjected to this regular process of the court , though there is no doubt that , if it had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have acceded to it without a murmur . He would not , however , " throw Paul Morton to the wolves , " as he expressed it . In that particular affair , therefore , it was not Morton but the President who was in need of " vindication . " He had , with a great flourish , appointed two Democratg to conduct that - inquiry into rebates , but the moment they struck close home , he declined to allow them to proceed Naturally , they resigned ; and that favorite little device of Mr. Roosevelt 's  --  the employment of eminent Democrats to pull him out of a hole  --  will probably not soon be attempted again . Despite assurances that the new Dominican treaty was absolutely perfect in form , change after change has had to be made in it . The treaty hastily patched up by our naval officers and proclaimed in Santo Domingo without the formality of submitting it to the Senate , seems to have been scarcely a looser document than the one which Mr. Lodge is trying to pilot through to ratification . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . It would appear that President Morales is less certain of his dictatorial power than he was , and is being forced to make concessions to some of his rivals . It is they who insist that the benevolent intervention of the United States shall be , not at the whim of the President of either country , but solely upon the request of the Dominican Congress . Thus the whole project becomes the more dubious the more it is studied . It proves to be , like so many of the President 's happy thoughts , hard to reduce to terms of law - The Interstate Commerce Commission now confesses , in its annual report , that it was too positive , ' in 1902 , along with the President , in thinking that the Minis anti-rebate law had ushered in the millennium , In its report two years ago , as also a year ago , very " favorable comments " were made upon that anti-rebate statute ; but it appears that " further experience " has convinced the Commissioners that they were far too " hopeful . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of letting the sawdust out of legislative panaceas . Even Mr Roosevelt seems to fear that the same course will be run with his latest plan for rate-regulation He sings much lower about it in his message , and is reported again by Washington dispatches to be more than ready to accept ' any compromise which will save his consistency . Meanwhile , the dilatory Senate and the do-nothing House act as if experimenting with the President 's ' patience The report which the committee was to make within ten days of the opening of the session proved to be only a verbal one of little progress among thickening difficulties ; and it is now certain that nothing will be don-e , or even proposed , until after the holidays . Of course , the fact that legislative remedies are necessarily slow and uncertain is no argument against applying them when justice demands it . If the Elkins anti-rebate law is too cumbrous and ineffective , it should by all means be made more direct and drastic The railroads themselves say they want that So do all honest shippers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first concentrate their energies , leaving more doubtful projects to be taken up later . Of- the bill for reorganizing our consular service , which Secretary Root advocated before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , reformers can find little but good to say . It is a measure at once sweeping and judicious . If adopted , it would put an end to many of the scandals which have made Americans blush for our consular system . It would also , we believe , heighten the efficiency as well as - the purity of the service . The bill proposes a classification of all consulates The seven classes are graded , each with a fixed salary , the pernicious fee system being abolished Also , the statutory provisions that a consul shall not engage in private business are made more stringent . Finally , the whole service is to be put in the way of becoining , ' what it really never has been in this country , a career , Appointments to the lowest grade are to be made only after competitive examination , and the higher offices are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill which-the Department of State is so strongly urging is a very thoroughgoing piece of much-needed reform . It seems almost too much to hope that Secretary Root cap , ' persuade Congress to adopt it in its entirety ; yet we know what he was able to do when in the War Department , in the way of obtaining useful legislation , despite strong and interested opposition . French example has long been adduced by our ship-subsidy advocates . It is put forward in the report of the subsidy committee accompanying their bill . France pays large sums to stimulate her merchant marine ; therefore so should we . Such is the argument . But it is badly damaged by the facts . In spite of lavish subsidies , French shipping has not prospered ; and , in the Chamber , confession was openly made the other day that the whole system had been a failure The official reporter of the budget , M. Pierre Baudin , admitted that the regime of ship-subsidies , especially under the law of 1902 , had been of doubtful advantage even to ship-builders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the ship-yards are crying for heavier subventions . It appears that , trusting to bounties , they have fallen behind their foreign competitors in machinery , in methods , and in intelligence generally ; hence the appeal to the Government to make up their deficiencies by money payments . That is the usual course of artificial fostering of industries ; and the precedent of France . which our confident subsidy-hunters allege , is really one which makes strongly against them . The particular activity of the Post-Office Department which has most rapidly increased in the last few years , has been , not rural free delivery , nor the handling of franked matter , but the issuance , of fraud orders . There were 131 in 1903 , 167 in 1904 , and 357 in 1905 , - an output nearly trebled in three years . As the Postmaster-General says in his report , " this does not mean that there has been a corresponding increase in the number of lotteries and fraudulent schemes operated-through the mails , for there has been a marked falling off in such enterprises during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigilance of the Post-Office Department and the broader application and more strict enforcement of the statues . " About the " broader application " there can be no question . It has been contended by a good many that the denial of the mails to quasi-fraudulent schemes not involving the lottery element or indecency is unwarranted . Yet there have been in practice extremely few cases in which abuse of this discretion by Post-Office inspectors has been charged . The scandals in this branch have all been in connection with orders held back , not with those issued . The fraud , order doubtless carries a power easily-susceptible of abuse , yet it hat proved a most effective means of suppressing wholeclasses- of schemes which are just on the edge of outright criminality , and yet are certainly not conducted in good faith . Their promoters , as a rule , do not fight when their mails are held , but move on to new ventures under other names . Thus about a fourth of the orders issued last year were merely supplementary to those previously in force . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an assault upon our sacred tariff . Some 132 manufacturing concerns have been obliged , " chiefly on account of tariff restrictions , " to establish in Canada branch plants that otherwise would have been set up in the United States . Since many of these companies have headquarters in Chicago , it is estimated that the losses suffered by that city mount up to tens of millions . Naturally enough , the Illinois manufacturers are dissatisfied with the outlook , but it passes our comprehension that these misguided men should dream of appealing to Congress for some sort of reciprocal trade arrangement with Canada If they were true and loyal Republicans , they would know that President Roosevelt 's message settled the question . From that the Illinbis manufacturers should have learned that tariff ' changes can not be made " on lines beneficial to , or desired by , one section or one State " ; also , that there is a distinction between what the President calls " needs " and what he terms " desires . " Just what the difference-is , we do not feel quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a " need " is a " desire " accompanied by votes , while a " desire " is just a plain , unattended , desire . Massachusetts , for instance , so long as she continues to return Republican representatives to Congress , may have a " desire " for free hides , but will not really " need " them ; the wool-growers of Ohio , however , since they are believed to have the votes , have a genuine " need " for heavy duties upon wool . Two facts are especially noteworthy in connection with the Evening Post 's postal canvass on the retention of Platt ' and Depew , the results of which that paper began printing on Saturday First is the large proportion of Republicans , chosen from an absolutely non2partisan list , who have thus put themselves on record against their party 's representatives in the United States Senate ; and , second , the concrete evidence of the change of feeling which has followed the insurance revelations . It may be true , as- some- of the- correspondents point out , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an open secret- before ; but at least we have- found intelligent citizens of the State who did - not so- consider . Over and over are phrases encountered inthese replies which indicate that the writers had formerly been comparatively little concerned about the State 's representation in the upper house Now the turn of feeling has made Depew the special abject of indignation . Seyieral men who still think Platt good enough , are bitter against his colleague . Though the Evening Post has several times undertaken similar tests of public opinion , it has , it declares , never had so prompt and general a response , nor such strong expressions of feeling as in the present one . Gov Higgins 's announcement that he has a candidate for the Speakership of the Assembly in the person of James W. Wadsworth , jr. , is fresh proof of the trepidation of the Republican party over the plight to which it has been brought . Even so timorous a man as the Governor has been forced to come out into the open against Odellism . As such his action is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should arrest public attention . Plainly , the Governor has spoken in response to pressure from Washington . The shrewd politician in the White House has been quick to see that no time must be lost in getting the present helmsman of the party in this State away from the wheel , and in throwing him overboard . Mr. Odell has run the ship on the rocks . If there is any salving to be done , it must be before the rising wind and tide of popular indignation have damaged the craft beyond repair . The Bar Association , having been criticised by District Attorney Jerome because of its seeming indifference to the disgrace of our methods of electing judges , decided last week that it could neither approve Jeromejs charges nor dignify them by calling upon him for the facts upon which he based his strictures . It voted , instead , to take a very conservative course , and directed its Committee on Judicial Nominations to report how the Association can " make more effective its influence in-the matter of judicial nominations in this judicial district " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they must have been in the mind of every lawyer present . The truth is , however , that too many members of the bar are affected by the same political and financial influences which impair the usefulness of some judges , to undertake the role of guardians of the judicial ermine which Jerome would have them assume . Fortunately , there are some , like Austen G. Fox , to insist that the Bar do its duty in this matter , and prevent that prostitution of the judiciary to the bosses which was so clearly demonstrated by the Mazet inquiry . Against the payment of money to campaign committees by judicial candidates , the Bar Association happily took strong ground . Mayor McClellan will undoubtedly receive his ' certificate of election , and be sworn in on January 1 , as a consequence of the decision of the Court of Appeals on December 13 . That is now the law . Whether it ought to be , is a question sharply sassed by the dissenting judges , and a matter promptly and carefully to be considered by , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thorough revision of our cumbrous and dubious election and ballot laws . But that is neither here nor there , so far as concerns the effect of the decision of our highest court . That establishes the law as it is , and no man may justly allege a grievance if the courts have been free-l3 open to him and his rights under the law fully secured Besides , as the court pointed out , Hearst has a complete if delayed remedy in quo warranto proeeedings . In a trial of that kind , his counsel could doubtless procure the opening of ballot-boxes and a recount of the votes . For our part , we hope they will pursue the matter to the end , and cause all the facts to be established in detail . But if they do not , let it be set down in advance , any charge of fraud that they make is without legal proof . Their pre , liminary contention that an inspection of the void and protested ballots would alone show frauds enough to elect Hearst , has been signally disproved Their claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be sustain ed if the courts finally decide to order them opened ; but , till the thing is tried out , it is for them , as for all good citizens , to submit to the law , and bring no railing accusation of injustice . Quite the most important pledge given by Mr. Morton to ' Equitable policyholders , in his letter published on Monday , is his assurance that the new administration will no longer strive to create the " biggest company in the world . " It will not , he promises , seek to obtain new business at the expense of existing policyholders , and if its efforts to get business in any section of the world are shown to se unprofitable , that field will be abandoned This is a programme whose scope , if the promise is faithfully carried out , is likely to be larger than most readers would imagine . When it is considered that the patronage of the man who really wishes to have his life insured may be obtained at a trifling cost , the ratio of last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life companies , ranging as it did from 23.73 to 24 65 per cent. , proves clearly that such a patron is not being fairly dealt with . Mr. Morton 's statement is important as showing that the new managements realize on what pointsthe future protest of policyholders is , likely to converge . Mr. Fitzgerald 's election to the Mayoralty of Boston was insured by the independent candidacy of ex-Judge Dewey . If that candidate had stood for a principle , the result would not be so mortifying . Having been defeated in the primaries , he called himself an " anti-machine candidate , " and actually succeeded in inducing 11,637 Republicans and Democrats to vote for him . Had these men stood by Frothingham , the regular Republican candidate , the city would now have a Mayor-elect worthy of its traditioes But it has instead chosen a man who will tighten the grip of the Irish Democrats upon the party machine , and the net result of whose administration will be to make Boston more of a boss-ridden city than before . The late . Mayor Collins , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alike , was quoted during the campaign as having said that Fitzgerald would not fitly represent the Irish Catholics , the Democrats , or the city ? if chosen Mayor Hence the outlook is not pleasant . Mr. Frothingham made a manly , uphill fight , which won to his support many independent voters One gratifying re sult was the election , , of an excellent School Board - of five members , all of whom were endorsed by the friends of the schools . In the increase of the Republican members of the Board of Aldermen and Common Council there is additional proof that many voters split their ballots . The United-Mine-Workers , in session at Shamokin , have been preparing to de - Bland from the anthracite operators three concessions ? an eight-hour day , 10 per cent , increase in wages , and recognition of the union . The first two demands are certainly debatable . Conceivably , there are cogent reasons why the operators should grant an eight-hour day and more pay , though on this point no wise man will reach a decision till he has heard both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender the principle of the open shop . The Anthracite Coal Strike Commission , which patched up the present truce between operators and miners , was absolutely explicit in its recommendation : " That no person shall be refused employment , or in any way discriminated against , on account of membership or nonmembership in any la'hor organization ; and that there shall be no discrimination against , or interference with , any employee who is not a member of any labor organization by members of such organization " This recommendation has been accepted by both sides as binding until the first of next April , when , the question is again up for settlement . In declaring for the open shop , the Commission was moved not so much by the immediate situation in the coal-mining industry as by the fundamental theory of a democracy . If any man , miner or operator , is to enjoy the right to life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness , he must be free to work for such wages and under such conditions as his judgment approves ; to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not under the coercion of a union which threatens all dissenters with violence or death . For the operators to yield on this contention would be a capital blunder  --  or worse . The Germans of Livonia , Courland , and Esthonia , the present scene of the fiercest disorder , however opposed to the reactionary measures adopted In the Baltic provinces , will not make common cause with the Lithuanians in their effort to revive the ancient realm which passed to Russia with the dismemberment of Poland . The region still commonly designated Lithuania is embraced in the governments of Kovno , Vilna , Grodno , Vitebsk , Minsk , and Mohilev , and includes also one of the provinces of Russian Poland . Lettish peasants and workmen of the Baltic provinces have , it is true , been particularly susceptible to anarchistic influences , but their fury is turned equally against conservative German landowners in the ' country districts and Socialist German labor leaders in the cities . That the Lettish rising has been carefully planned is evident from a recent letter in the Hannoverscher Courier which describes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force even female servants to join the strikers . The Letts number about 2,060,000 people , and their propaganda includes the publication of war-songs and inflammatory appeals . The singing of the " Marseillaise " in Lettish is a regular feature of the revolutionary programme . Their present ferocious assaults on German landowners recall the worst days'of the Terror .                     