@@486692

her most hostile female in-law-to-be discovered that " the fetters were loosened , the great distances were unlocked , the fruitless pettinesses destroyed , " and thus all ended as matrimonially as a registrar could make it As for the explorer , he too had memories of his own in the way of history , and so did n't care a bit , being that rare man who now and then " rises up head and shoulders above his fellows , and shows the right way for the new generation to tread . " The volume would serve well as an advanced text-book in the modernizing of humanity The whole idea is to bring everything down to 1908 , socially , scientifically , ethically . Harriet Rivers . and her champions accomplish marvels in convincing their world that kind hearts are more than marriage certificates . The youthful Bess strives nobly to emancipate her mother from the deadening clutch of " culture , " and apologizes for her , by saying , " It 's only that she does not understand  --  she has been so sheltered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Everybody emancipates somebody from something , till theory and practice are indeed thoroughly cleansed of tradition . It is to be added that the story reads interestingly , particularly in the first half . The characters , in modelling and in conversation , are often original , sprightly , and unexpected , the situations fresh and seizing . But one would welcome an interval of emancipation from emancipation The Corrector or Destinies . By Melville Davisson Post . New York : Edward J. Clode . Randolph Mason may not be humanly possible  --  an embodied characteristic is rarely so ; but there as a certain stern charm in so austere a conception as the incarnate essence of justice untinctured with sympathy . The character of his interest in the destinies he regulates is aptly sketched by one who remarks concerning him : Write to him the sort of note that you would write to a famous archeologist if you wished him to call and examine a rare Egyptian pot ; . . I invite him to the examination of a case of rare and interesting injustice . It is open to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would ever have seen the light had it not been for Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson ; but that in an /imitative age matters little , so the work be well done . Most of the stories hang upon points of law more interesting- to the technician than to the outsider ; the " Virgin of the Mountain " plumbs : deeper waters ; calling into play the reader 's personal- sense of justice apart from law. - ' Whether one agree With Masbn 's solution of the problem or not- , it as an interesting case , and to the perversirdspecially piquant as an unique chance to find a joint in the hero 's armor of infallibility . The Sovereign Good . By Helen Huntington . New York : G. P. Putnam 's Sons In these days of complex diversions the vers de soci  --  te has been supplanted by the larger possibilities of the roman de soczete . In " The Sovereign Good , " the characters are of impeccable social standing , with the exception of a few of the Poor , thrown in by way of contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unusual theme of an older woman 's love for a gifted boy and the ultimate inevitable turning of youth to youth The personages of the drama are seemingly intended for portraits , but even so fail to convince . One is left with a dominant impression of well-groomed and fashionably clad men and women taking tea in a richly subdued atmosphere , mildly elated by joys and elegantly submissive to sorrows as politely sophisticated as themselves . The lightness of the book 's impact upon the reader 's mind is the more regrettable in view of the writer 's manifestly sincere effort to express the inner eventfulness of commonplace life I and My True Love . By H A. Mitchell Keays . Boston : Small , Maynard &; Co . This is a slight and rather clever novel , dealing with those problems of marriage , disillusionment , divorce , and re-marriage which seem in danger of taking entire possession of our novelists ' minds . Christina Sargent , after being brought up for nineteen years by her father , a distinguished playwright , in the dignified seclusion of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sudden impulse , to learn the meaning of life and of her own heart under the charge of the mother who deserted her inheritance from her passive , fatalistic , magnanimous father and her wilful , imperious mother offers a rather interesting subject . The pretty child is neatly analyzed as " a distracting combination of innocence and cynicism , " who , " if you attack her on one count . . shifts to the other with disconcerting agility " She might be fascinat'ng if the author had not made the fatal mistake of letting her be vulgar Oddly enough , Kitty Warder , the woman who has broken her vows because marriage bored and maternity disgusted her , and who has subseqiiently passed through the searing experience . - of fifteenryears ' subservience to the iron will of a- heartless voluptuary , retains her dignity , and , tomparativelY speaking . ? her refinement , but poor little Tina speaks and flirts like a shop-girl . The most amusing thing about the book is that the Sodom into the dazzling gayeties and iniquities of which the innocent Christian is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but ? Boston ! The English of this novel is unusually good , and the illustrations are , if possible , more than usually inappropriate to the text . Great Ralegh . By Hugh de Selincourt . New York . G. P. Putnam 's Sons . 83.50 net . A book which is written professedly for the general reader rather than for the special student must be judged as a piece of literature , and as such the present work is typical of the times in its failure to distinguish between vivacity and a cheap smartness and between legitimate illustration and irrelevance . We say typical of the times , for any one who reads largely in the mass of biographies now printed must observe a note of amateurishness that seems to grow more marked year by year . Some of them show on every page that their authors are mere novices at composition ; others are by writers who never learn ; their work is not literary and has no sign of the professional craftsman Only here and there a rare example indicates that its author has the sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the veriest compiler of Grub Street . As for Mr. De Selincourt , he should know that it is not vivacity to close a paragraph on the apparent growth of humanity since Elizabeth 's day with the snapper : " Let us be thankful for that , and let Us by all means subscribe to the Home for Lost Cats . " Nor does it show skill in composition to lug in an account of the ' trial and death of Mary Stuart , too Selincourt makes a vast parade of the fact that Ralegh , when Lord Warden of the Stannaries , once deigned to ride over the muddy roads of Devonshire to inspect the river at Roxburgh Down . A is bonne heztre . r That does n't quite Prove that " their the Elizabethans ' capacity for hard work was unequalled . " These faults are typical of the whole growing school of biography to which Mr De Selincourt 's volume belongs Let us add that be has read up his subject better than is often the case , and that his subject is of inexhaustible interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtiers is thoroughly intelligent , though marred- once or , twice by bad taste in expression His characteritation of the two-Cecils is excellent Equally excellent is his explanation of the inevitable antipathy between Ralegh , with his exuberant imagination and his reckless - expansiveness of the true Elizabethan , and James , with his narrow vision and timid contraction And then the man Ralegh himself , who could miss the contagion of his magnificent audacity ? Mr. De Selincourt becomes especially entertaining in his account of Ralegh 's latter years of imprisonment and adventure in Guiana , despite a trick of apologizing where simple statement of facts would have been more effective . If Ralegh appears in our eyes to have debased himself by his letters of appeal from the Tower , it is because we forget that the men of that day , like the Homeric heroes , were not ashamed of their emotions . And were Ralegh 's letters ten times more grovelling , they should be forgiven for that splendid and pathetic epistle to his wife , with its summing up of all the mad hilarity and endless ambition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travelled and wearied your thoughts on all sorts of worldly cogitacions , you shall sit down by Sorrow in the end . What echoes of Shakespeare and all the choir of the dramatists run through those words ! It is a note peculiar to a generation of great physical vitality and experienced in reckless adventure , and its almost complete absence from the literature of to-day is as distinctive a mark of our age as its constant presence is characteristic of the spacious times of Elizabeth . We may remark by the way that Mr. De Selincourt has scarcely a word for Ralegh the poet , and makes too little use of purely literary materials generally . How valuable a generous use of such illustrations might be can be seen from the passage in which Mr. De Selincourt takes up from one of Ralegh 's letters the phrase , " Princes are lost by securetye , " and shows its parallels in Shakespeare and Spenser , although he does not explain that " security " with these writers meant " carelessness " It is like a sudden , deep glance into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Past in Burma . By V. C. Scott O'Connor . With illustrations , maps , and plans ; pp. xx+436 . New York : D. Appleton &; Co. , $6 net . The resuscitation of the past of Burma , as that past finds expression in its cities , is the aim of the author of this sumptuous volume . His success is due largely to the fact that he is not a casual traveller , but one who has lived among the scenes which he pictures and has imbibed much of the spirit which has ever characterized the Burman . His book is not easy reading , except to those familiar with the country and its history  --  a people whose chief concernfrom time immemorial has been , not the acquisition of wealth , but the storing up of spiritual merit . The kings ' palaces , though superb , were of wood , while the temples and pagodas were of brick and stone . The unfinished pagoda of Mingun " is the biggest mass of brickwork in the world , " and by its side is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the air with a deep tremor . The most wonaerful object in all Mandalay is the pagoda , " where the Buddhist scriptures stand carved in stone . Here is the biggest Bible in the world , each page of it a monolith of white marble the height of a man . And each of these pages , 729 in number , has a temple to itself . The white temples stretch away in long avenues like an army of soldiers . " This place , the last of the capitals . having been founded in 1857 , has the greatest interest , and considerable space is devoted to a sketch of - its hlei , ory and a description of its present condition . Here , in 1879 , King Thibaw sought to make his throne secure by the massacre of his seventy brothers and sisters . The abyss which separates the Eastern from the Western consc:ence is shown by the fact that at this day , " the general sentiment in Burma is that the massacre of the Princes was a political necessity ; painful and unfortunate perhaps , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The capital of the Burmese Empire at the zenith of its power , where art achieved its highest triumph , was Pagan . Yet notwithstanding its magnificent architectural remains , which cover an area of 100 square miles , it is rarely visited by travellers , and its romantic history is almost unknown . The story of Pegu , in some respects the most famous of all the capitals , a very populous city in the fifteenth century , with a circumference of twelve miles , is largely told in the quaint language of the earliest European travellers and traders in Burma The value rof the work is greatly enhanced by its wealth of illustrations of the monuments of the land , " alas ! now hastening to decay . " The delicate beauty of the details of the ornamentation of the palaces and religious buildings is strikingly brought out in the reproductions of photographs . It is to be hoped that such an interest will be awakened in these remains , many of a remote past , that there may be a systematic search among them , which would doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untold story of early Buddhism . Only a short time ago there was discovered in the jungle of Pegu a statue of Buddha 181 feet in length . All the remarkable art , however , is not ancient . There is a figure of Gautaina carved in 1864 from a solid block of marble , which it took10,000 men thirteen days to drag from the edge of the canal to its present site . Lord Curzon gave much attention to the work of the preservation and investigation of these remains . Many buildings that might have utterly perished have , under his influence , been given a new lease of life . The volume closes with a minute of his , issued in 1901 , on the necessity of the preservation of the great palace at Mandalay , on account of its value as a model of the civil and ceremonial architecture of the Burman kings .                     