@@486909

It would be impossible to name two composers more antipodal in their ideals and actions than Offenbach and Wagner , the one a caterer to the lowest taste of the masses , the other an educator to higher things ; yet there was a time when these two men were equally hated and abused by the self-appointed guardians of high-class music . This paradox can only be explained by means of another : Wagner and Offenbach were allies ! The admirers of old-style opera decried Wagner because he had the audacity to put forward his music drama as a great improvement over that style of opera , which was thus threatened with extermination : and Offenbach they denounced because he parodied and caricatured everything that used to be treated seriously by opera composers and their public . In his " Orphee aux Enters " and " La Belle Helene , " the gods and heroes of the Greeks , who used to be the stock-in-trade of the librettists , were exposed to ridicule , and in his other operettas nearly everything that people had been in the habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the great delight of the Parisians in and out of Paris . In the words of Zola . This carnival of the gods ? Olympus dragged through the mire , a whole religion , a whole age of poetry scoffed at  --  seemed an exquisite treat . . . . Royalty became a farce , and the army a laughing stock . . . . For a long time the public had not wallowed in more disreputable folly at a theatre . It rested them . The opera bouffe founded by this buffoon and his allies became so extraordinarily popular that it threatened to swamp the serious grand opera , including the works of that public idol , Meyerbeer , Wagner 's pet aversion . Thus did Offenbach become Wagner 's ally as a destroyer of the old order of things . Nor was he a destroyer only . He , too , was a builder , but his structures were flimsy card houses , blown over by a change in the direction of the wind , whereas Wagner built himself temples of art that are now more frequented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years before Wagner , yet it is rarely that one of his works is now presented on any stage . A few years ago his last work , " Les Contes d'Hoffmann , " was revived in Paris , with some alterations , and proved an unexpected success  --  so great a success , indeed , that several German opera houses repeated the experiment with equally favorable results ; and thus it came about that Oscar Ham , merstein , last week , presented this same opera at the Manhattan , where it was received as practically a novelty , although it had had , in a somewhat different arrangement , four performances in October , 1882 , by a company managed by Maurice Gram It will probably have more than four hearings this time , for its reception was most cordial . This does not imply that we are likely to witness a revival of Offenbachism , in the cynical sense of the word . " Les Contes d'Hoffmann " is not one of Offenbach 's opera bouffes . Those seem hopelessly abandoned ( although some of them , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Princesse de Trebizonde , " deserve to be kept alive ) . They had fallen into neglect even before Offenbach died , and that , probably , was the reason why he wrote the " Contes d'Hoffmann . " This he intended as a grand opera which would help him to immortality ; and if a quarter of a century means immortality ne succeeded . He got . Jules Barbier to write him a libretto of which the hero is the German poet Hoffmann , who , in the prologue , relates to a group of students his love affairs with three women , which stories , however , instead of being told , are enacted . To the composition of this score Offenbach devoted the last years of his life , working with the utmost conscientiousness . He succeeded in constructing a work which for the most part resembles real grand opera . The dearth of melodic invention which had begun to manifest itself in his operettas of the seventies , is even more patent here , yet most operagoers are not greatly concerned over a lack of originality in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sung . Mr. Hammerstein 's artists , including Dalmores , Renaud , Gilibert , and Zeppilli , did full justice to the music anal enacted their roles with realistic charm . Young composers in Italy can not complain , like those of other countries , that there are no opportunities for them . The two leading music publishers of their country have their ears pricked up constantly for new men of promise , and creative effort is encouraged by prizes and in other ways . Sonzogno discovered Mascagni , Leonciivallo , and Giordano , and helped to give their operas European vogue . A later prot  --  gO of his is Francesco Cilea , whose fourth opera , " Adriana Lecouvreur , " has won considerable success in Italy . At the Metropolitan Opera House , where it opened the season on Monday , it was a flat failure , notwithstanding the presence in the cast of the beautiful Lina Cavalier ' and of Enrico Caruso . At the outset the composer made the mistake of selecting for his libretto a play which contains too much dialogue and offers few opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in more than one of his operas , but he saved himself by the gift of writing eloquently for the singers , even when he bas little or nothing to say . Cirea lacks this gift , and his melodic gift also is- weaker than Puccini 's . He gave Caruso no opportunity to arouse enthusiasm . It will be a blessing if this fiasco should help to check the tendency at the Metropolitan cf selecting inferior Italian operas in the hope of their being floated by that tenor 's Popularity , instead of urging him to master a higher class of operatic roles , such as Jean de Reszke , a much greater artist than Caruso , used to impersonate . A year ago most musicians , if asked who was the greatest living violinist , would probably have answered " Joachim . " But Joachim was a very old man when he died , and if he ever deserved that epithet it was only from the intellectual point of view . Sensuous beauty of tone and emotional warmth were never his conspicuously . Of the violinists now before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensuous , and emotional qualities is Fritz Kreisler . He can also display a Paganinian virtuosity quite equal to Kubelik 's , but fortunately he does not make a point of setting off such fireworks . His specialty is the exhuming of eighteenth-century musical gems and giving them a modern musical setting . At his Carnegie Hall recital last week , he thus delighted a large audience with forgotten pieces by Martini , Franceeur , Couperin , and Porpora ; he also , played , with nearly flawless art , sonatas by Handel and Bach , and some modern pieces . by Dvorak , Wieniawski , and Paganini in a way to convince many that he is the greatest living violinist . Eugen D'Albert recently celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of his first public appearance as pianist . He was born in Glasgow , studied with Liszt , and has become an out-and-out German . After writing a number of unsuccessful operas , he has at last won success with his " Tiefland. " in Berlin , Cologne , and Frankfort this opera has been so much applauded that a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palmer , a veteran teacher of music , composer , and editor , died on November 15 at Yonkers , N. Y. He was born in 1834 . Not long after the Civil War he settled in Chicago , where he edited a monthly journal , the Concordia , prepared text-books , and conducted singing festivals . His work spread over the Northern States , and even into some of the Canadian provinces . In 1881 he assumed charge of the Church Choral Union of New York city , where he was very successful . Similar organizations under his leadership sprang up in Brooklyn , Buffalo , Washington , Philadelphia , and other cities . He also had charge of the Chautauqua musical work . His textbooks and song collections have been widely used in this country . His first books , " The Song Queen " and " The Song King , " were published in 1871 . He was also the author of several theoretical works , among them , " Theory of Music , " " Class Method , " " Dictionary of Musical Terms , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ 