@@437854

I SHALL have to begin somewhat further back than two years , in order to make my statements intelligible to most of my readers , who are not provided by our daily press with means of keeping in touch with Italian affairs . It is obviously impossible to refer to books , or even to periodicals , for a description of the changing scene of politics and society . Professor A. Lawrence Lowell 's Governments and Parties in Continental Europe gives a good account of the static form of Italy 's constitution , and a brief historical view of its working under the exigencies of party government . But this hook , besides that it is now thirteen years old , contains little information about that most vital part of a country 's history , the inter-relation of social and political forces . King and Okey 's Italy of To-day , published in 1901 , though written from the point of view of extreme English Liberalism , is on the whole a fair and accurate treatment of the subject , and gives enough of the history of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reader of King and Okey has much to learn before he can understand actual conditions . When they wrote , the reign of Victor Emmanuel HI , a wise , laborious , and upright ruler , had only just begun . He has done much for his country , and , surely , seven years make a vast difference in the life of a country so vigorous and progressive as modern Italy . Statistics for the past few years show an astonishing growth in commerce and manufactures . Also in the higher arts of civilization , especially in literature , music , and natural science , she seems in a fair way to regain something of her ancient prOminence and renown . Relations between Church and State have greatly improved ; and , in purely secular politics , important changes have taken place since the last general election in November of 1904 . I allow myself briefly to recall certain leading points in Italian history of the past thirty years . The old party of the Right , consisting originally of Conservatives whom the splendid leadership of Cavour had transformed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until 1876 ; and individual statesmen trained in his school , Ricasoli , La Mar- mora , Lanza , and Sella , proved themselves to be his not unworthy successors . Of them , it may be said , in short , that , in hard and perilous times , and often without time for reflection or experiment , they established the new kingdom on a basis which experience has shown to be mainly sound . Even the system of local government , the faultiest part of the whole Italian constitution , is probably more to be ascribed to centrifugal tendencies due to long centuries of local autonomy , than , as is commonly done , to the political unwisdom of the founders . ' Pile Right , under the above-mentioned leaders , manifested both the strength and the weakness that belong to conservative government in general . They were honest , able , and patriotic , and guided the newly built ship of state as none others could have done . But , like so many other conservatives , they were hopelessly out of touch with the people . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class need be expected , except under pressure , to legislate wisely for another . The Right struggled long and faithfully , and at last successfully , to make receipts and expenditures balance . But in the mean time , mistaking the complaints of the tax-burdened masses for mere popular clamor , they undertook no measures of reform , nor did they try to readjust an iniquitous incidence of taxation . When the democratic Left came into power in 1876 , it in turn illustrated another principle of wide application , that the first leaders of a popular party are likely to be much more interested in place-hunting and the exploitation of offices than in looking after the interests of their constituents . Ever since , with few and brief intervals , the Left , in so far as it can be called a consistent political party , has remained in office . And for eleven years after its first accession , almost uninterruptedly , its leader , and therefore also Prime Minister of the kingdom , was Agostino Depretis , a man whose sole political qualifications were a certain sagacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , as it is very well put by King and Okey , " a profound knowledge of human vice and frailty . " Italy had been exhausted , morally as well as physically , by the struggle for union and independence . The Right , out of office and bereft of its great leaders , degenerated so rapidly and completely that it could offer no consistent opposition . " With Minghetti 's unhappy assistance , " to quote again from King and Okey , " Depretis made a coalition with a section of the Right , and created a party without a programme , that lived from hand to mouth on parliamentary manoeuvres , and nursed a shameless corruption , which ate out all that was wholesome in Italian politics . The civil service became a machine to secure a ministerial majority . Constituencies were bought with local railways and public works , with every direct or indirect form of bribery . . . . Depretis , it is true , widened the franchise and abolished some of the more odious taxes . But it is to this period that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics . " It is unnecessary for my present purpose to trace the course of events from the death of Depretis in 1887 down to the year 1904 , which I have chosen as my point of departure . Francesco Crispi succeeded Depretis in the premiership , remaining in power until 1892 . Recalled three years later , because it was thought that he alone could deal with the troubles in Sicily , he completely failed to meet the situation . The disastrous Abyssinian war soon followed , whether by his fault or not there is still great diversity of opinion . At any rate he had to bear the blame , and was driven from office for good and all . Short-lived ministries followed one another in quick succession , until , in 1903 , Giolitti succeeded upon the death of Zanardelli . Giovanni Giolitti , who has been Prime Minister almost ever since , is a characteristic product of the Italian public life 774 The Last Two of to-day . He was born in Piedmont , sixty-six years ago , in the humblest condition . His boyhood and youth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having managed to get a scanty education , he secured a government appointment as clerk in the Treasury . Approving himself competent and laborious , he was steadily promoted until , in 1889 , being of course member of Parliament , he was made Minister of the Treasury under Crispi ; and having meanwhile acquired an expert knowledge of partisan tactics and the arts of electioneering , his rise to party leadership was only a matter of time ; after having been made Prime Minister for the first time in May , 1892 , he was driven by the Bank scandals of the following year into obscurity and even into exile . And , although there is no question of his personal honesty in this and all other matters , it would seem that this retribution was not altogether undeserved . However , he was soon back in Parliament and public office . Of Giolitti it may be said in brief that , although a pedantic bureaucrat , as is not unnatural considering his early career , and without constructive statesmanship , he is not by any means a merely unprincipled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , and his administration of the last two years proves abundantly that he has some statesmanlike qualities . But , as so often happens in such cases , his egotism was developed by his long struggle with adversity to a degree that has enabled it to overcome his patriotism . Of none of his political principles is he so sure as of his eagerness to be prime minister . To win elections and to secure his other political ends , he is not above resorting to bribery , and even to violent intimidation . In the early autumn , then , of 1904 , with Giolitti in office as Premier and Home Secretary , and Parliament not in session , the whole country was startled by the announcement that a strike , begun at Monza , had been made general at Milan , Italy 's greatest industrial centre ; Years in Italy and that , this was due to no industrial conditions , but was a protest of all laboring men against the wanton slaughter by the military of their brother workmen in the mines of Sardinia and the fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the soldiers was quite without cause or even excuse . The strike spread rapidly to Genoa , Turin , Venice , Florence , and Naples . There was little or no disorder ; but at Milan , though not in the other cities , the newspapers had to confess , when they reappeared after five days ' suspension , that trade and industry had been completely paralyzed in the mean while . The Deputies of the extreme Left , Radicals , Republicans , and Socialists , made common cause , and after they had vainly agitated for an immediate reconvention of Parliament , which had adjourned until November 25 , determined to use obstructionary tactics at the coming session . And although the " evolutionary " Socialists and Radicals repudiated this part of the programme , there was no question that the others could make trouble if they wanted to . It may have been chiefly this consideration that determined Giolitti to call for a dissolution and a general election , more especially since , as prime minister , he had the election machinery in his hands . The King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place on November 6 . Giolitti had , of course , disclaimed all responsibility for the rash and criminal action of the military in the previous September , and had asseverated his intention of forbidding the military authorities to interfere in disputes between capital and labor . But it is most important to note here that it was in the report to His Majesty made at this time , and published along with the royal decree in the Official Gazette , that he astonished even his own party by announcing as a part of his programme for the next session the resumption by the state of the operation of the railroads , then under the control of private companies whose con- The Last Two tracts terminated June 15 , 1905 . Besides that the measure , which has since been carried into effect , has been thoroughly justified by success , this private management was so scandalously inefficient that the announcement was unquestionably a good electioneering move . This election , perhaps the most important , as it was certainly the most interesting , that the kingdom has ever known , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I mean as a separate political factor . Pius IX , interposing his non possum= to every overture of Victor Emmanuel and his ministers , some of which he might greatly have profited by , and which will never be offered again , had forbidden the faithful to take any part in the usurping government . This policy was formally promulgated , as the veto non-expedit , by the Sacred Penitentiary in 1883 , wherein , however , it was significantly provided that all the circumstances must be taken into account before such participation could be regarded as a sin . In accordance with this veto , Leo XIII , in 1895 , forbade Catholics to vote , by a formal decree , and he seems to have been obeyed by the great majority of those in close communion with the Church . But the present Pope , as Patriarch of Venice and Cardinal Sarto , in consequence of his intimate knowledge of the people , had always been outspokenly opposed to such a policy . Conscientious laymen also were weary of a system which kept them from the polls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Divorce bill , and in favor of religious instruction in the public schools . Giolitti and his followers , thoroughly alarmed by the growth of the Socialist vote , saw that here was an opportunity too good to be lost . A combination was made with the Clerical party , by which fusion candidates were put into the field , not a few of whom were high Clericals , and who were all supported . nearly or quite unanimously , by the Catholic press . The Archbishop of Florence conYears // ducted an active campaign in behalf of the fusionists in his diocese , and in some districts all the conservative elements united with the Clericals against the Socialists and other " subversives . " The result was a complete victory for the allies . In Florence and Venice , and even in industrial Milan and Turin , all of their candidates were returned . In Rome and Bologna , they were only partially successful . Returned to power under these conditions , even so practiced a parliamentarian as Giolitti could estimate only uncertainly how many votes he should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance when the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies was elected , and the bill for the civil list presented , he had a comfortable majority . But within a few months , that is , in February and March , 1905 , his railway bill got him into trouble . This would have been hard to formulate and steer through the Chamber in any case , because it provided for resumption of the railways by the government , and for all the details of organization and control . Giolitti had , apparently against his own better judgment , allowed the introduction of two articles providing severe punishments for railway employees who should form a compact looking to the damage , interruption , or suspension of the train service . In the opinion of many impartial persons , these provisions were both unnecessary and unjust , while among the Socialists and laborers they aroused a storm of indignation . And experience having shown that , in public services where there are a great many regulations rarely or never carried out , obstruction is just as effective and much pleasanter than striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this case , rules about the condition of engines and carriages , the registration of baggage , and so forth , were so scrupulously regarded that most of the trains never got off at all . Sixty-four trains running out of Rome were suspended , and the others ran from one hour to twelve hours late . Giolitti , who as Home Secretary had to bear the blame , became so ill that he could not attend the sessions . But his Minister of Public Works , Tedesco , gave notice that his chief would neither withdraw the offensive clauses nor bring pressure to bear on the men . Public indignation grew until the men themselves were on the point of yielding , when suddenly Tedesco announced Giolitti 's resignation on account of ill health . Unfriendly critics did not fail to point out that this was the fourth time that ill health had been invoked to save the Premier from an embarrassing political situation . At all events , the King accepted his resignation and the railway obstructionists yielded . After many vicissitudes , and after being once compelled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominee , succeeded in forming a coalition ministry in April , 1905 . The new ministry , whose speedy dissolution was freely predicted at the time , managed to hold together until the summer adjournment . But trouble began soon after the reopening of the session in the autumn . The so-called modus vivendi with Spain , involving the abolition of Italian duties on Spanish wines , was promptly rejected by the Chamber , with censure of the three members of the Cabinet , Ferraris , Rave , and Tittoni , who were responsible for it . But as this censure was coupled wills a statement that the Chamber still retained confidence in the Ministry as a whole , Fortis , in the face of a previous declaration that he would stand or fall with his colleagues , weakly consented to supply their places . But it was only after a crisis of forty days , and just before Parliament adjourned for its Christmas recess , that he succeeded in presenting himself to the House with seven of the new and three of the old ministers . After the session had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this new ministry lasted only a few days . Assailed oh every hand , and having no consistent policy to set forth , Fortis challenged Baron Sidney Sonnino , the leader of the Centre , to sum up and present the hostile arraignment . Sonnino accepted the gage , and in a carefully prepared speech unsparingly reviewed the history of the Giolitti and Fortis ministries since the last general election . In truth , he had little difficulty in making up a formidable list of promises unfulfilled and crying public needs incompetently dealt with . Fortis , though one of the ablest of debaters , could make only a weak defense , and Giolitti 's apology came even more haltingly off . The usual motion , to approve the declarations of the Prime Minister and proceed to the order of the day , was lost by a majority of thirty-three . Fortis and his colleagues at once resigned . As was to be expected , the King summoned Sonnino to form a new ministry , and he accepted the charge . But while everybody knew that it must be a coalition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all shades of political opinion , no one expected such a coalition as was actually sprung on the House and country . Guicciardini as Minister of Foreign Affairs , Luzzatti as Minister of the Treasury , and others , were well-known Liberal Conservatives whose appointment occasioned no surprise . But Sacchi , the Minister of Justice , and Pantano , the Minister of Agriculture , were an astonishment and a scandal to many . Both were extreme Radicals with decidedly republican leanings , and the latter had been Sonnino 's bitter personal and political foe . But more than this , Sacchi , being a zealous supporter of the Divorce bill , was an offense to the Clericals and to many others whom it was not the part of political prudence to antagonize . Nor had the country yet forgotten that , just after the assassination of the late King , Pantano had publicly suggested that now was a good chance to overthrow the monarchy and become a republic . Neither brought anything to the new government but weakness and suspicion . And it was not long before Sacchi outraged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notorious murderess . Of Sonnino himself , who assumed the portfolio of the Interior , it is not too much to say that no living Italian has deserved better of his country . In the dark days between 1892 and 1896 , when Italy was on the verge of bankruptcy , when friends and enemies alike could see nothing ahead but repudiation , he saved the national credit in a way that must remind Americans of Alexander Hamilton . ' By the sternest parsimony and by merciless taxation , aided by his own extraordinary administrative genius , he placed his country on her present sound financial basis and laid the foundations of future prosperity , at the same time teaching his countrymen the much-needed lesson that if they must needs have a great army and navy , expensive public buildings and such extravagances , they must also pay the bills . But teachers of such hard lessons never make themselves personally popular , and , besides , Sonnino was not now Minister of Finance or of the Treassury , but Home Secretary . Being a profound student of social and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a way eminently qualified for this position . But the Home Minister comes into closer contact with the people than any other , and Baron Sonnino , though respected universally for his great abilities and for his severe and high rectitude , has none of the sympathetic qualities that would endear him to a people so responsive as the Italians . He is too proud and too tactless even to avoid giving unnecessary offense . Add to this that , as a leader of his party in the Chamber , he was an unready debatei in a house full of quick-witted rhetoricians , and it will be seen that even he contributed some elements of weakness to his own ministry . In matter of fact , his government lasted Baron Sonnino was , first , Minister of Finance , and afterwards Minister of the Treasury , for a time performing the duties of both offices , in the Criepi Ministry that lasted from December 15 , 1893 , to March 4 , 1896. less than four months , that is , until May 28 , 1900 . His absurd association with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliamentary leader , soon involved him in difficulties , as did also his haughty and uncompromising spirit . After the last eruption of Vesuvius , for example , taking warning from the misuse of the money subscribed for the sufferers in the Calabrian earthquake , he very wisely appointed the Duke of Aosta as treasurer of the relief-funds . But when some Neapolitan deputies complained that this was a reflection on the honesty of their constituents , he retorted that Neapolitan honesty was a thing he was quite willing to reflect upon , ? an unnecessary piece of candor that cost him a number of votes on the critical division . His opponents , consolidated under Giolitti , waited for their opportunity , and voted him down when he had unwisely staked his fortunes on an unimportant issue . Giolitti was summoned by the King to form a new ministry , and made , as I have been credibly informed , the express stipulation that there should not be a general election , except by limitation , until he gave the word . He himself became Minister of the Interior ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger Italian diplomats , was recalled from the embassy at London , to be made Minister of Foreign Affairs . This ministry has been in power ever since , and even its opponents are compelled to admit that its services have been very considerable . During the last two years , and beginning before that time , Italy 's commerce and manufactures have increased by leaps and bounds , and the budgets have shown a large balance to the good . Tittoni has improved relations with Austria , and in other ways safeguarded Italy 's position in European politics . For that position of late years had been none of the most secure . It must be remembered that the Triple Alliance between Germany , Italy , and Austria , at the time it was formed in 1882 , was designed in part to protect 778 The Last Two Italy against France , in those years an outspokenly malevolent neighbor . But relations with France , especially since Loubet 's visit in 1904 , have gone on steadily improving . Italy has also become a sort of silent third in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Algeciras Conference , Italy 's moral support went to the side of France and England rather than to Germany , her ally . But the Marquis Venosta , her representative , an astute and seasoned diplomat of the old school , conducted his negotiations with such address that , although the German press raged and fumed , the Berlin Foreign Office could find nothing against which to enter a diplomatic protest .. Wherefore , in case of a European war , say between England and Germany , Italy , as one of her statesmen has put it , might find herself compelled to choose between her friends and her allies . And it is generally believed that she has given her partners to understand that they need not expect her help in any individual quarrel . On the other hand , the Triple Alliance is still of service to Italy precisely for the reason that , much of the old hostility between Italians and Austrians still remaining , it makes Austria formally , and to a certain extent really , her ally . There is accordingly no serious opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strong army and navy which it implies . But the army and navy have not merely the incentive of making the country an acceptable ally . A year ago in May , Admiral Mirabello , the Minister of Marine , in prOposing the naval estimates , which were accepted , declared it to be Italy 's policy to maintain a stronger fleet than any other power whose coastline is exclusively Mediterranean . This , of course , could mean only Austria . In home politics , unquestionably the most important development of recent times has been the entrance of the Clericals into politics , their coalition with the Moderate Liberals , to which I have already referred , and the consequent de- Years in Italy clension , I mean politically , of the Socialists . There are only three or four Clerical deputies in the Chamber itself , but Giolitti , since many of his seats were won by their aid in 1904 , must govern himself accordingly , and two members of his new Cabinet , Tittoni and Gianturco , belonged to the Clerical Right . There can , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moderate Liberals and Clericals against the Socialists , he has rendered a real service to the country , as well as strengthened his own political position . I have already related how , in the general election of November , 1904 , there were in many colleges open coalitions between the Moderates and Clericals , which were unopposed , nay , in some cases actively encouraged , by the ecclesiastical authorities . The non-expedit could hardly be maintained in practice after this , and judging from the acts and utterances of Pius X before his election , he personally was willing enough to see it go . At any rate , on June 20 , 1905. he addressed an Encyclical to the Italian Bishops in which the non-expedit was practically , though not formally , abolished . Grave reasons , said His Holiness , deterred him from abrogating the law . But reasons equally weighty , deduced from the welfare of society . might demand that in special cases it be suspended , especially when his venerable brothers , the Italian Bishops , considered it necessary . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Girgenti , at the request of her bishop . But it has been a dead letter ever since the Encyclical , whether with or without formal suspension . And after the Encyclical was published , the Giornale d ' Italia of Rome printed a long series of interviews on the subject with public men of every shade of political opinion from extreme Conservatives to Socialists . They all agreed , with remarkable unanimity , that the Pope 's action would be for the good of Italian politics , because thereafter a large and most respectable class of citizens The Last Two would be openly and honestly represented . I have said above that Giolitti did well by his country in consolidating Moderate Liberals and Clericals against the Socialists . By this I do not mean to say that the Socialists might not become a useful factor in public life . On the contrary , it is precisely the laboring classes , whom they are supposed to represent , and who are building up modern industrial Italy , that are actually unrepresented in Parliament . Indeed , it is hardly too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been almost independent of the proletariat . Its leaders have come from the middle classes , who are its natural foes , and from the " intellectuals . " A number of reasons can be given for this , ? revolutionary habits of mind inherited from the Risoryimento , and not yet outlived ; illiteracy , total or partial , among the lower classes ; the absence of a compact liberal party ; but chiefly , perhaps , too much " higher education , " with its natural consequence of overcrowding in the learned professions . Italy has , according to the most recent census , 24,196 lawyers , or seven and a half in every thousand of the entire population ( the percentage is only one and a half in university-ridden Prussia ) , 22,168 physicians , and 813 dentists . Unemployed professional men find an easy outlet for their discontent , and sometimes emolument and political honors , in agitation on behalf of the down-trodden poor , including such persons as underpaid teachers and employees of the higher class . Hence it results that , although there are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party has shown a voting strength of more than 325,000 ; also that , in the last general elections , out of thirty-three Socialist deputies returned , twenty-eight were university men of the middle class , and not a few of them well-to-do , three were of the lower middle class , and only two were workmen . Nevertheless , though unrepresented to this extent in Parliament , the laboring classes take only a languid // interest in that part of the Socialist programme which calls for manhood suffrage . Nor is it at all likely that , until they are much better educated than at present , manhood suffrage would send many more deputies of their own class to the Chamber ; or , that such deputies , if elected , would do their cause much good , or add weight to the national councils . Undoubtedly the laboring classes have many and serious grievances . The incidence of taxation weighs heavily upon them , as there are very high duties on salt , sugar , and coffee , and octroi imposts on articles of food and drink are levied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spite of the favorable budgets of the last few years , has the government reduced any tariff except that on petroleum . But although the Socialist party contains elements that may some time go to the making of a good and serviceable labor party , its present enfeebled condition is cause for satisfaction . Though its motives are oftentimes good , its principles are just as often bad . It has gone so much to school to the quasi-philosophical socialism of Marx and to the other German sects , that its openly avowed theories , much more , I believe , than its inner motives , are unsocial and anti-Christian to a degree . The spectacle of Christian Socialism in England , which has shown itself so powerful at the recent Lambeth Conference , is strange to the Italian mind . Two enthusiastic young Romans , devout Catholics , who lately presented themselves to the Socialist leaders , and , as Christians , demanded enrollment and active service , were coolly informed that they had come to the wrong shop . That the Church itself , with its long record as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present hostility to the Christian Democratic movement , is largely to blame for this unhappy opposition , the more outspoken Catholics are quite willing to admit . Meanwhile the Socialists , along with the other Secularists , have been crushingly defeated in the Chamber on the 780 T he Last Two subject of religious education . The result of this important vote , taken last February , was to leave religious instruction where it was before . If municipal boards abolish it in the public schools , parents may demand that it be given , in the school building , but out of school hours , by priests or other persons , who are remunerated from the public funds . On the whole , then , the last two years have been peaceful and prosperous , and signalized by no violent political changes . A law has been passed that will raise the salaries of many thousand deserving government employees . The railway service has been greatly improved , and the next few years will see the construction of many new lines that are already demanded by the volume of home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for after many years of waiting , though it seems that the naval defenses have been exaggerated and the military slighted . But the very peace and harmony that now characterize the political and parliamentary situation are , in themselves , a disquieting phenomenon . All effective opposition seems to have disappeared . The protests even of the extreme Left have become feeble and perfunctory , while the opposition elements in the Centre have been absorbed into Giolitti 's huge majority . In fact , as the Corriere della Sera of Milan has observed , in an admirable article on the present situation , the strength of the Giolitti ministry is parliamentary rather than governative , a circumstance that makes his virtual dictatorship a subject for alarm . For example , toward the end of the last session the Chamber rejected a bill , formulated by Rava , the Minister for Public Instruction , for increasing the salaries of university professors . But lava , though thoroughly discredited in this and other ways , is retained in office because his chief is strong enough to protect him . There are rumors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election next spring . As an Italian chamber is elected for a term of five years , the present one Years in Italy does not expire by limitation until the autumn of 1909 . I have already dealt with some religious matters in so far as they are connected with Italian politics . The religious and ecclesiastical history of Italy for the two years just ended possesses an extraordinary interest , but for the most part concerns the rest of the world as much as Italy itself . The Syllabus Lamentabili of July , 1907 , directed against the scientific criticism of the Bible ; the Encyclical Paseendi in condemnation of the Modernists ; the excommunication of Loisy and others , are known and have been discussed all over the civilized world . However , not only does the political situation , as between the Papacy and the Kingdom , give a special character in Italy to acts of ecclesiastical authority , but , in addition to this , the Papacy , as Gregorovius pointed out , in spite of the world-wide range of its power , has always been an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with being an irreligious people , as is so often done by foreign writers , merely because their own religious notions and practices are different from what they find in Italy . But it is true , and it is probably what these writers usually mean , that the Italians were never Christianized anywhere near so thoroughly as were the Teutonic tribes of northern Europe . The continuance of pagan cults and pagan memories , the persistence of the ancient Roman Imperium under the form of the Roman hierarchy , and the tradition , unbroken in spite of all that is thought and said to the contrary , of classical civilization , were obstacles never entirely overcome in the evangelization of Italy . The historical consequences of this condition in mediaeval and early modern times readily suggest themselves . One of the consequences in our own times I take to be this , that it is hard nowadays to excite the Italian against the Church except as a political factor ; which means that , now that he thinks himself secure from it politically , it is bard to excite him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he be indifferent or unbelieving , as so many of the educated classes are , the long unbroken tradition of cult and observance , in many cases older than Christianity itself , the might and majesty of the Church and its ancient renown , have a powerful hold upon him in spite of his intellectual attitude . These facts must be borne in mind when we consider the subject of Modernism in Italy . That the Italian clergy and laity , and the best of them , have been strongly influenced by this movement there can be no doubt whatever . The condemnation of the " Christian Democrats , " and subsequently of their leader , Don lioniolo Murri , and the decree of the Iloly Office that placed Fogazzaro 's Santo on the Index , are well-known facts . It may not be so well known that , in the summer of 1007 , after the promulgation of the Syllabus Lamentabili , five Italian priests addressed anonymously an open letter to the Pope , entitled Quetta the roglianto ( What We Want ) , protesting in the plainest and most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience , and reproaching him with reversing the enlightened policy of his predecessor . And more importantly , on October 528 , 1907 , a month after the publication of the Encyclical Pascendi , appeared , also anonymously , 11 Progra mina dei Modernisti ( The Modernists ' Programme ) , a reply to the Encyclical , and generally supposed to be the work of priests . ' The mere fact of such a reply , coming from a Roman Catholic source , in itself gave this document a special importance . And this effect was enhanced by all the qualities that such a composition ought to show , ? learning . moderation , dialectical skill , and respect " Supposed to be " is the expression used by the French translator , but I think there can be no doubt of the fact . In Part III the authors refer to their early scholastic education , after receiving which they forced themselves to learn the language and understand the thoughts of the modern world . // for the person of the Sovereign Pontiff . The authors had no difficulty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and irreligion , nor in proving that the persons responsible for it , whom with studious irony they always imply not to be the Pope , had no adequate conception of the critical and philosophical problem . And following the lead of their master , the great and saintly Newman , who , as Tyrrell has shown , was the father of all Modernist thought , they maintain that throughout the ages , especially when the Greek Fathers brought Christian theology into harmony with Neo-Platonism , and also when St. Thomas reasserted it in terms of Aristotelian philosophy , the Church has constantly adjusted her teaching to the language of contemporary thought . Of course , the authors of the Programme , and all who had in any way collaborated in it , were excommunicated . In the diocese of Rome the book was interdicted under pain of mortal sin declared against those who bought it , sold it , or kept it in their possession . On the morning after it was published , emissaries were sent to all the churches in Rome where there were suspected priests , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excommunication , might reveal their identity by omitting to say mass . But in the whole city that morning there was not a single mass less than usual . Then the Cardinal Vicar telegraphed to the bishops of all dioceses where there were priests under suspicion , instructing them to adopt similar measures . But even this inquisition yielded no results . The Programme has been translated into English , French , and German , and the Italian edition has long since been exhausted . I have said above that it is hard-. to arouse the Italian against the Church , except politically ; hard it is , indeed , but not impossible . And this difficult feat the intransigent party now in control seems to have accomplished . They have followed up their worse than useless persecutions 782 The Last Two in away that has grieved their friends and delighted their enemies . To select one or two instances , Mgr . Fracassini , a cautious and orthodox thinker , who was appointed by Leo XIII to a place on the Biblical Commission , was suddenly deposed about a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Perugia , at first on such grounds as that he was the friend of Murri and Loisy , and allowed his students to read 11 Santo ; and afterwards , when the archbishop had indignantly protested , the further reason was given that his teaching of Scripture was not in conformity with the desires of the Pope . More recently , Don Salvatore Minocchi of Florence , a learned Hebrew scholar , delivered a lecture , which he had submitted to the ecclesiastical authorities , upholding the familiar view that the accounts in Genesis of the Creation , the Garden of Eden , and the Fall , were originally Babylonian myths that were taken over by the Hebrew writer , purged of polytheistic error , and transformed into a teaching of the Unity of God . He was cited to appear before the Archbishop of Florence , and having refused to sign a declaration of his belief in the literal , historical truth of those narratives , was suspended from the priesthood . At about the same time the editors of the Itinnova ? mato of Milan , a liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How numerous these Modernists are , it is of course impossible to say . ' But it is quite certain that there are a good many of them , both of clergy and laity , and that they are even more powerful in character and intelligence than in numbers . Some high-placed ecclesiastics , notably Cardinals Capecelatro and Bonomelli , are well known for their charitable attitude to ' I use this term in a wide and vague sense , including all who are in sympathy with modern critical and historical theology . Thus it takes in many who would atop far short of the extreme critical position of Loisy . Modernism is not a party , but only a league of sympathy among minds that are moving in the some general direction . Years in Italy ward modern thought . And in spite of popular indifference , traditional reverence for the Church , and its perfected discipline , threatening signs of the times are not wanting . The authors of the Programme attribute the violence of the Curia against the new theology in part to the fact that its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old . Analogously , their violence in launching excommunications against persons may be partly due to lack of confidence in their own power . At any rate their gross and cruel violations of liberty of thought and conscience have aroused indignation and resentment , even among the apathetic Romans . I know it to be a fact that many of the most cultivated and intelligent Roman laymen were recently on the point of publicly expressing their sympathy with Modernists , and defying the excommunication . It is hard to say what might not happen in the event , not at all unlikely , of the election of a liberal and progressive Pope . Meanwhile Pius X , in spite of his complete subservience to the party of reaction , has accomplished a noteworthy reform in the administrative and judicial procedure of the Church by his decree dated June 29 , 1908 . Considered summarily , this decree in the first place reduces to order the Roman Congregations , which , since they were first instituted by Paul III and systematized by Sixtus V , have , in respect of their functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anachronisms ; and in the second place , by taking from the Congregations all judicial competence , and bestowing this upon the Courts of the Rota and the Segnatura , which are thus restored to their antique splendor and importance . It establishes the distinction now generally observed between judicial and administrative procedure . Speaking more particularly , it is to be remarked that the importance of the Congregation of the Consistory is greatly increased , while that of the Congregation of the Propaganda is greatly diminished . // The dioceses in Great Britain , Holland , Luxembourg , the United States , Canada , and Newfoundland , formerly regarded as missionary jurisdictions , will be taken away from the Propaganda and put into direct relations with the Holy See . Especially in Great Britain , Holland , the United States , and Canada , the dioceses have long since been thoroughly organized , and their bishops have not infrequently complained that they were treated as if they were in charge of uncivilized communities . Catholics in these countries will therefore have the satisfaction of being on an equal footing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world . However , as a writer in the Journal des Debate ( July 23 ) acutely observes , this increased self-importance will not be without its compensations . The procedure of the Propaganda is both quick and gratuitous , while that of the Holy See is slow , expensive , and beset with formalities . But it is only just to add that the present decree relieves petitioners of the Curia of the necessity of employing certain intermediate agents and procurators , of whose expensive services they were formerly , whether laymen or ecclesiastics , individuals or communities , compelled to avail themselves . But I must content myself with this bare mention of a reform which reflects much credit on the present Pontiff and his advisers , and by which they have promoted the cause of justice and good government . As the decree does not take effect until the present month of November , and as certain regulations and dispositions governing matters of detail have not yet been published , I shall return to this same subject in a future article .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       