@@430364

 |p546  AMONG the most important of the great undertakings yet to be accomplished by the modern investigator is a complete scientific exploration of the Pacific Ocean . Although some centuries have elapsed since the first adventurers of western Europe tempted the dangers of this vast region , the Pacific offers today the largest area on the globe for scientific investigation and locks within its mighty shores information the acquisition of which would be of more benefit to modern knowledge than that to be derived from the prosecution of any similar undertaking . Foremost among the great benefactors of our race have been numbered many naturalists , and the names of Darwin , of Wallace , and of Dana will always be associated with those who have contributed much to the sum of modern knowledge . The researches of such workers have immeasurably extended the horizon of human intelligence and have helped our race to break away from the narrow confines and set formulas of ancient habits of thought . The investigations of these great men were conducted in this same ocean region to which the attention of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result of their achievements , it has only made us vaguely acquainted with the extent of the work yet to be accomplished and of the perplexing questions to which modern learning demands answer . The scientific exploration of the Pacific is fraught with so much importance that it will immortalize alike the patrons whose beneficence shall make its prosecution possible and the workers who shall bring it to a successful issue . From the time the first hardy mariners of the old world entered the Pacific , expeditions innumerable have visited this immense ocean . In the early days of its history the vessels of Holland and Portugal entered from the west and strove for possession of the coveted Spice Islands ; the keels of Spain ventured from the east in pursuit of the elusive gold , of which they were to find none , and have left only the empty name of Islands of Solomon to recall to us their vain hope ; the English adventurer haunted its wastes to prey upon the weighted treasure-ships from Mexico laden with Spanish gold . EARLY GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS In less remote times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of these , the English were foremost in enterprise and in - the results which were achieved , although the French , Spanish , German , and Russian governments also did good work . The tragic fate which has befallen so many Pacific explorers is proverbial and has spread an atmosphere of mystery and romance over the story of adventure and discovery in this part of the world . Cook , Magellan , Mendana , and La Perouse are but a few of the illustrious roll of voyagers whose lives have been sacrificed in their endeavor to solve the mysteries of the Pacific . The narratives of the early Pacific explorers afforded a wealth of eagerly sought literature , @#  |p547  whose influence has to this day tinctured the writings of the historian and novelist of this wonderful region . In still later years the United States government has interested itself actively in various Pacific investigations and has added considerably to the oceanography of the region . The whaling industry also carried its toilers into many remote parts of the great ocean and left an indelible impression upon the native population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incursion of a host of piratical and predatory exploiters , who have preyed upon commerce , pillaged and kidnapped the native races , and made the white man an object of hatred throughout the regions in which their nefarious work was carried on . THE MORE FEROCIOUS ISLANDERS AVOIDED In spite of these activities of the white man , whether of good or evil repute , the  |p548  Pacific Ocean remains today the most explored but the least known extensive region of the globe . After the clays of early exploration the interest of the white man centered chiefly around those Pacific archipelagoes which were either situated on convenient commercial routes or where the friendly disposition of the natives invited the newcomer to sojourn among them . This quality of racial disposition has been very instrumental in determining the development of certain island groups and accounts in part for the fact that among the various archipelagoes , these inhabited by the Polynesian race have been the great centers for the white man and have therefore departed from primitive standards most . In many cases the reputation of ferocity and cannibalism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has warded off the tide of civilization for many generations and left the island continent of New Guinea and such archipelagoes as the Solomon Islands to this day very much in a condition of primitive savagery . In order to place before scientists the record of the Pacific which yet remains , there has recently been inaugurated at Honolulu , Hawaii , the Pacific Scientific Institution , whose object is to stimulate public interest in the great work of Pacific exploration and to take definite steps toward its accomplishment . The main object of the institution is to promote and carry out a complete scientific exploration of the Pacific Ocean realm . The chief interest will largely group itself around ethnology ? that is , around subjects affecting the races of mankind which inhabit the ocean archipelagoes . More theories have probably been propounded and dogmatically asserted concerning the origin of the Pacific islanders than of any other race of man . The study of this important question will not only seek to determine the mode  |p549  of entry of man into the Pacific ? for it is agreed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but must have entered it as emigrants , whether voluntary or involuntary , from some other branch of the human stock ? but the inquiry will no doubt throw much illumination upon the evolution of the human race itself . THREE DISTINCT RACES Much valuable material will also be collected to assist in a better understanding of the growth of our own civilization from elemental savagery , for it is reasonable to suppose that the primitive wants of man in different ages and regions have called forth similar expedients to satisfy them . Other important objects of investigations for the ethnologist will touch the various racial types in which the Pacific islanders are divided . Of these , three are generally recognized , of whom the Papuans and Polynesians appear to show the widest divergences , with the Micronesians occupying the intermediate ground and possessing affinities of race , language , and custom within the other two . Eliminating the Micronesians from the question for the moment , the presence of two distinct races of man in the Pacific suggests two periods and sources of immigration and adds difficulty to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the races is by no means well defined , but is ? complicated by the admixture of many other races of both oriental and occidental origin . The Papuans may be generally said to inhabit New Guinea , the Solomons , New Caledonia , Australia , and Fiji . Their most obvious characteristics may be briefly summed up by stating that they are irreligious , democratic , quarrelsome , cannibalistic , and hostile to strangers . They possess no hereditary chiefs , paint or scar the body rather than wear clothes , cook in earthen pots , chew betel , and their speech is broken up into a number of apparently irreconcilable dialects . The Papuans are the least attrac- tive of any Pacific islanders , and the island groups which they occupy are among the least known of the Pacific and have been for many generations shunned by mariners and associated with everything that is of evil repute in the record of the ocean . The Polynesians in many attributes are greatly at variance with the Papuan islanders . They possess , generally speaking , an elaborate religious system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ castes . They are friendly to strangers , fond of dress , expert manufacturers of hapa cloth , and intrepid seamen and navigators . They tattoo instead of scar the body , seldom practice cannibalism , cook in earthen ovens instead of in earthen pots , drink avya , and possess a common language understandable throughout New Zealand , Hawaii , Samoa , Tahiti , and the Paumotu Islands . Of all the Pacific races the greatest interest attaches to the Polynesian islanders , but it is unfortunately these people whose primitive customs and racial types have been most broken up by modern intercourse . The study of the Polynesian language will afford a most fascinating field of inquiry , and its proper investigation will require a knowledge of the tongues of the people inhabiting the region between the eastern coast of Africa and the western coast of South America . The Malayo-Polynesian language possesses the distinction of being spoken by indigenes over the widest area of any language of the world , for it embraces two great oceans and extends from the island continent of Madagascar to the isolated islet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is distinguished as affording specimens of that remarkable ideographic writing which lifts the race well above the plane of savages and proves it to have advanced toward a culture worthy of comparison with primitive civilization . The deciphering of the Rapanui records has not yet been accomplished , but its solution should be achieved when all speci-  |p551  mens of the art have been assembled for comparison . The translation of their writing will perhaps unlock knowledge of immense value to many questions of the origin , migration , and history of the Pacific races . DID THE MOON COME OUT Or THE PACIFIC OCEAN Of not less importance will be an investigation affecting the origin of the Pacific Ocean bed itself ? the greatest depression on the globe . Many ingenious theories have been advanced on this subject , and among these the two following are interesting : The first hypothesis suggests that the Pacific area was formerly occupied by a land-mass which has subsided below sealevel , probably by volcanic agency . The volcanic system extending round the Pacific littoral of Asia and America lends considerable color to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain . At this point of fracture the subjacent molten contents of the earth have found vent , and thus by dispersal have built up the coast mountain chains . If this be true , the present island groups of the Pacific would represent the summits of former mountain systems . Whatever the cause of the isolation of the present archipelagoes , evidences are not lacking that they have at some time been connected with other land-masses . The absence of mammals of any importance , however , would suggest this period to be so remote that the severance occurred before the evolution of these creatures . The land mollusks , whose nearest affinities must be sought in geologic fossils , also point to the islands as having been isolated in the remote past . The second geological theory of the Pacific which has claimed credence is that the land-mass which formerly occupied its depression was , in the age before the solidification of the globe was too far advanced , whirled off by centrifugal force , and now composes our satellite , the moon . A comparison of the shores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some truth to this re-@# markable theory , for the coast lines will be seen to bear the same relation to one another as that possessed by the indentures of a legal document . Why do Pacific mammals , reptiles , and birds become more scarce as we progress across the ocean from east to west ? What is the origin of the Hawaiian birds ? How did the flightless birds of New Zealand originate , and what was the evolution of the gigantic wingless moa ? Why is the nearest living relative to the extinct dodo found in Samoa ? What is the import of the presence of the same species of a fresh-water fish in two rivers situated on opposite sides of the Pacific ? Have the Australian marsupials a common origin with those of America , and does their presence contribute to the theory of an intervening continent ? These are a few of the many interesting questions whose solution would contribute much to the establishment of truths of material importance to modern knowledge . The investigation of all the above questions , except perhaps those affecting such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate future if any satisfactory result is to be achieved . The total disappearance of the inhabitants of some islands has created a gap which is now as impossible to bridge as that between our own civilization and the European Stone Age . In this way much that is necessary to a true understanding of the Pacific has forever disappeared , and many perplexing problems can now never be solved . The work of the early navigators was sufficient to the knowledge of the day in which it was conducted , but the significance of habits , of custom , of rites , of legends , and of arts was ignored or wrongly interpreted , and an inexhaustible store of priceless information remained unheeded until it has been effaced and has forever passed away . THE EXTRAORDINARY CIVILIZATION OT THE POLYNESIAN And here it may be said that the plane of culture which has disappeared before  |p554  a hardy and aggressive civilization has in some cases been of a much higher order than the intolerance of the early white man could appreciate . With regard to the Polynesian race , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people had attained a perfection and elaboration of ritual such as has been equaled by few other people . The origin of the dreaded taboo and its development into a wonderful religious and political engine indicates an intelligence of no mean order . The ceremonial by which the hereditary castes and offices was maintained and in which social system was upheld bears witness to a succession of remarkably endowed political rulers . The tremendous irrigation tunnels by which mountain ranges were pierced required alike great mechanical skill and some knowledge of the principles of surveying . Their elaborate code of water rights , their knowledge of the movement of the heavenly bodies , their familiarity with the currents of the great ocean and their protracted voyages thereon , their evolution of a system of writing , are all matters which excite our admiration and bear testimony to the fact that the Polynesians , so far as permitted by the material accessories around them , had developed a culture which compares favorably with that possessed by other races at the dawn of authentic history . The ethnological result of the missionaries ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The motive which actuated these workers is irreproachable , but as a class the ministers of the gospel have been singularly deficient in realizing the importance of preserving an account of native customs and habits . Many noteworthy exceptions , however , occur to this statement , and such names as Ellis and Chalmers will always be associated among those who have contributed to Pacific knowledge . By the not unnatural antagonism of the Christian missionaries to the heathen cult , all that pertained to the native religion was sternly suppressed . The native converts to Christianity , in the zeal and bigotry of their new faith , in turn did everything in their power to suffocate the early religion , and thus effected the extinction of much which can not be determined . Together with the ban placed upon the native religion , the whole realm of myth , genealogy , legend , and history fell into disrepute , until , instead of preserving a more or less accurate record of their race in their elaborate oral traditions , the native tribes in many instances now present the condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severed from their affinity to other peoples . One beneficial work of the missionaries was the translation of the Bible into many native tongues , which has thus helped to preserve a record of the languages of the region much in their early purity . AN IMMEDIATE EXPLORATION NECESSARY It is probably not too much to say that in the Pacific as great changes are now wrought ethnologically in five years as without the influence of the Caucasian would be brought about in many generations . Another ten years will probably be too late in which , with any prospect of satisfactory result , a complete ethnological exploration of this region can be conducted . Unless the work is actively undertaken long before this period has elapsed , the value to be derived therefrom will be very greatly diminished . The exploration , therefore , must be vigorously prosecuted now , or on the present generation will lie the reproach of having refused to preserve information of vast importance to the scientific workers of future generations . We of our time can not content ourselves with the plea upon which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They at least erred ignorantly , and even had they been cognizant of its importance were not so well equipped for undertaking it as are we of the present day . Many of the causes which have contributed to the destruction of the inhabitants themselves have also been at work in undermining the majority of the Pa-  |p555  cific fauna and flora . Protected by their isolation from the struggle for survival which continental species must continually maintain ; nurtured in an environment admirably tempered to an easy existence : rendered non-resistant to introduced disease by long generations of immunity ; situated on small islands which afforded no means of retreat , the native species of both animal and plant life have in most cases proved unable to exist in the aggressive competition with harder types . The decay of the native bird life in many islands is remarkable , although other than exotic influence has assisted in their destruction . On the island upon which Honolulu is situated , more than half the native species of birds have become extinct during the last century . Upon the land mammals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most of the few aboriginal species have so utterly disappeared that no reliable description of them has been preserved . In some cases even their former existence is questioned . The botanical species have in the same way been crowded out by more persistent foreign plants or have been destroyed by domestic animals . Upon marine life very little modification appears to have as yet taken place , and it is safe to presume that , unless some altogether unexpected factor arises within the region itself , this will long remain stationary . There are , however , evidences which suggest that the Hawaiian coral reefs are not in such a vigorous condition of growth as formerly . ADVANTAGE 'S OF HONOLULU FOR PACIFIC EXPLORATION Situated in mid-Pacific , Honolulu affords the best center from which this great work can advantageously be conducted . The foundation of the Pacific Scientific Institution proves that the opportunity of this favored city is appreciated by its inhabitants , and that the work which has lain so long neglected will soon be commenced . With headquarters at Honolulu , it is proposed to dispatch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various island groups . At convenient centers , substations will be established , through which communication with the home office may be maintained . Each expedition will consist of a corps of experts , who will carefully record all that is found of sufficient interest to preserve . A careful and elaborate series of anthropometric data will be tabulated ; the languages , religion , law , mythology , legend , and genealogy of each people will be recorded ; their technology , art , and medicine will be exhaustively studied . Series of mammals , birds , reptiles , insects , and botanical specimens will be preserved ; the coral reef , the marine fauna and flora , the ocean currents , the geology and the meteorology , will all be investigated , until the whole realm of nature has yielded up its store of scientific data . It is anticipated that the work of exploration will be completed in fifteen years . As soon as they can be published , exhaustive accounts upon the ethnology , zoology , and botany of said groups will be issued . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the data of the various expeditions have been received and reduced toa order . Under the assistance of the foremost scientists of America and Europe , the records of the whole exploration will be then examined and compared . The publication of these final volumes will probably rank as one of the most interesting and important additions to human knowledge that has ever emanated from a single press . During the fifteen years in which the exploration is in progress , many other scientific institutions will be established by the central on &,; supplemental to its work . Of these , one of the most important will be a botanical garden and garden of acclimatization , in which will be grown and studied many of the important plants procured by the collectors . The production of new and improved varieties of tropical fruits and flowers will be an important work of this depart-  |p558  ment and one which should make it famous throughout the world . When it is considered that our present varieties of such fruit as the apple have been evolved by careful selection during many generations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not similarly been operated upon seems almost limitless . The unrivaled situation of Hawaii and the diversity of climate available from sealevel to mountain peak should in time render a botanical garden established there as beautiful as any in the world . A zoological garden for the reception of the Pacific mammals and reptiles , including an aviary to accommodate its rare and wonderful birds , will also be established . A wholly untrodden field of practical research awaits the economic study of the birds of this region , the importance of which work can scarcely be overestimated . The accession of fishes to the already established Honolulu Aquarium will without doubt make the exhibitions in these three institutions one of the most complete collections of the fauna and flora of a single region which has ever been assembled together . The study of marine life will also be pursued and a biological station will be equipped for this purpose . Here will be established tables for the study of marine biology , to which will resort stu-  |p563  dents from many other countries . Scientific men have come to regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of original research , for from the study of the elementary cellular creatures of the ocean it is expected that the baffling enigma of the origin of life may at length receive enlightenment . As the result of the survey , a wonderful collection of ethnological specimens will also be assembled in Honolulu . The disposition of these among the various institutions of the world which collaborate in the undertaking will be an important consideration . The main collection should , however , be retained to augment the already goodly collection of the celebrated Bishop Museum . As time goes on and when the whole series of establishments are in operation , Honolulu will rank among the foremost centers of scientific research . The antiquarian , the ethnologist , the zoologist , and the botanist will look to the Hawaiian Islands as preserving the record of many of the most interesting objects of their various departments of learning . It is anticipated that when the establishment of the Pacific Scientific Institution becomes known , many patrons of science will avail themselves of the opportunity of contributing to an undertaking which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Institution has been incorporated and the trustees under whose administration it has been placed assure us that the long-delayed work of Pacific exploration will shortly be commenced .                     