@@486741

The proposition to turn the hydro-graphic work of the Coast Survey over to the Navy Department has been so long urged and so often rejected that its revival at the present moment seems singularly inopportune . Twice at least within the last twenty years it has been exhaustively considered and adversely reported on by committees of Congress when all the circumstances were much more in its favor than they are at present . Prominent Treasury officials under the first Administration of President Cleveland were known to be so hostile to the management of the Survey that an investigation not only unfriendly , but very far from judicial , in its character , was undertaken with the approval of the President . The report set forth that abuses had crept into the management , some of them of long standing . The resignation of the superintendent was forced , and it only remained for Congress to take the necessary action to transfer the Survey . At the following session a committee of Congress , having Senator Allison at its head , made a thorough investigation of the whole subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they were . The effort to effect the transfer was renewed with great vigor in 1893 . A majority of the Naval Committee was believed to favor the change , several of its members being warm advocates of the measure . But , after a careful hearing of all that was to be said on both sides , the Committee reached a conclusion adverse to the transfer . What has happened since to lead to a change ? Nothing whatever . On the contrary , the establishment of the Department of Commerce with the Coast Survey as one of its bureaus removes the last reason for considering the subject . No work is more appropriate to the Department of Commerce than that of providing facilities for navigating our'coasts . Charts and soundings are of the first importance not only to our coasting ships and our entire mercantile marine , but to all ships from abroad which enter our ports . - Of course , a naval ship has as  - -  much need as a merchantman for these means of navigation . There is nothing required on a chart for naval use different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accordingly , the Coast Survey was very naturally in-eluded among the bureaus to be transferred to the new Department . Extraordinary though the proposition to reverse this action may now appear , the reasons against it are so strong and so near the surface that they hardly need to be cited if the question is to be decided on its merits . Looking at the matter from a purely abstract point of view , the question is whether such a work as that of making charts of our coast can be most efficiently and economically undertaken by the navy or by a civilian organization like the present one . Let us carefully weigh all that is said in favor of the proposed transfer . Hydrographic surveying is part of the business of a naval officer . He learns as much about it while at the Naval Academy as the absorbing character of his other studies will permit . The question whether , during the limited periods which he can possibly devote to such work , he can acquire as much skill as a civilian wholly engaged upon it , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mere fact that naval officers can do the work , does not prove that it should be placed under the Navy Department rather than under that of Commerce . The arguments on the question whether naval or civilian methods are the more economical have , on the whole , been favorable to the civilians . But even here one important item has been too little considered , and that is the cost of the naval officer himself . The mere salary of the latter is but a part , of what it costs the Government to'edu-1 cate and train him . - In estimating his cost , we must include not only what is expended in his training and his off-duty pay , but his retired pay also . To reach a correct conclusion on this point , we shall probably have to double the pay of every officer of the navy from the time when he gets his first commission up to the date of his retirement . Of course , we must include in the estimate the millions being expended at the Naval Academy for the improvement of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform duty that civilians are now carrying on at far less cost , would be a most unjustifiable expenditure of the public money . - The slight reason for the employment of naval officers on civil duty which formerly existed has entirely disappeared with the lapse of time . For several years after the civil war we had more officers than were necessary for the management of our ships and the administration of shore stations . Under these circumstances there was no objection to their employment on such outside service as might be appropriate . But all this has now been changed . The cry in every de= partment of the naval service is for more officers . We hear daily stories of the Department 's inability to man its ships properly . Why should the service be deprived of its trained officers if this is the case ? The practice of foreign nations has been cited in favor of the proposed action . It is true that the hydrographic surveys of the leading countries of Europe are carried on to a large extent by their respective naval departments . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bath the administration and the per-simnel of foreign surveys are to a greater or less extent distinct from those which relate , to na- val duty properly so-called . -I In France the surveys are all conducted by a special corps of " hydrographic engineers , " and not by line officers at all . In England , by custom , the hydrographer of the Admiralty is permanently withdrawn from military duty . He can , of course , be restored to it if such a course is desirable , but practically this is seldom if ever done . These features of foreign hydro-graphic surveys have always been successfully - antagonized by our naval authorities , and we can not suppose that they have changed their minds on the subject . The transfer of the Coast Survey to the Navy Department , whatever may be the intentions of those who favor it , practically means the administration of the Survey and the performance of its most difficult work by officers of the navy , each temporarily withdrawn from naval service proper for this special duty , which he is expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a - respectable measure of . its skillt in its performance . A civilian organization under the Secretary of the Navy , however plausible it may be made to appear , is an impossibility in the present state of naval opinion . The law organizing the Department of Commerce gave the President authority to transfer to itbureaus from other departments of the Government , that of the Navy included . There is good reason to believe that this provision was expected to lead to the inclusion of the Naval Observatory , and perhaps of the Hydrographic Office also , within the new Department . The transfer of the former is loudly called for by all the facts of its history and present position ; and if any unification of the Government hydrographic surveys is to be carried out , it should be done by transferring the Hydrographic Office also , for it has no necessary relation to the Navy Department whatsoever , and properly belongs to the Department of Commerce . THE PHILIPPINE OPIUM TRAFFIC . The inquiry in regard to the status of the opium bill now-before the Philippine Commission is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some respects one of the most important measures which the Commission has yet had to consider , if has been very little understood or talked of in this country outside of certain influential church circles . The fact throws an interesting light upon the hollowness of the Imperialistic theory that we should improve all our home political methods and institutions by taking lessons from our colonial governments . In practice , the great bulk of the public is in as total ignorance of what our Philippine Commissioners are doing as they are in regard to affairs in Borneo . The bill itself , as was explained by Governor Taft in his speech of July 15 , was drawn by Commissioner Smith , who made use of the results of an investigation previously carried on by Commissioner Moses . This inquiry showed that under Spanish rule all Filipinos were forbidden to smoke or use opium . The dealers were permitted to sell the drug only to Chinamen . The privilege of vending the drug to them was sold to the highest bidder in each province , while one " farmer " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the arrival of the Americans these laws were suspended , and there were no restrictions upon the sale and use of the drug , save an import duty and some weak attempts of municipali ties to suppress opium dives . In 1899 the opium imports comprised 120,066 pounds , valued at $328,713 . In 1901 three times as much came in  --  no less than 369,037 pounds . In 1902 there was a great falling off , but in the first four months of this year 90,466 pounds were imported . Under the changed conditions the Civil Commission notedta , sud-I den and alarming spread of the drug 's use among the Filipinos , and particularly among the native youth . The Commission thereupon felt itself compelled to take some action looking toward the regulation of the opium traffic . The bill which Commissioner Smith drew has as its sole object  --  we quote Gov . Taft again  --  the restriction of the use of opium by the Filipinos . The Chinese are apparently either deemed to be beyond rescue or to have a prescriptive right to the drug . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opium to any American , Moro , or Filipino is absolutely prohibited . Only a Chinaman over twenty-one years of age can become a purchaser . In its second section the bill shows that Commissioner Smith followed the policy of the Spaniards in most respects . Here the exclusive right to import opium , or to sell it , or to give it away is lodged , for three years , in the hands of the " opium concessionary , " the " highest and best bidder " for the privilege . In subsequent sections of the bill he is required to give a large bond and'is hedged about by many restrictions , drawn with a view to preventing any violation or evasion of the main purpose of the law . He is entitled to appoint agents and sell opium in all towns where there are aggregations of Chinese , but lie must in no way encourage " dens , " for these are positively forbidden . One violation of his agreement is sufficient to cause the concessionary to forfeit his rights , as would two or three violations by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid for the concession shall be used only for educational purposes . As to the possibility of enforcing the law , there was a sharp division of opinion . Gov . Taft expressed himself as being hopeful that it would accomplish its object , but confessed that his belief was founded on the Spanish experience . The opposition , which was very strong in Manila , maintained that - illicit sales could not be prevented , and that the net result would be the forcing of the drug upon the Chinamen , since the concessionary would naturally be anxious to spread the sale of it by every possible means in order to increase his profits . A petition against the bill , signed by 7,000 Chinese , was given to Gov . Taft , who discredited it somewhat by showing that the names included those of a dead Emperor , a stuffed monkey , and a good many others who have gone to the happy hunting-grounds . Still , it represented an earnest protest against what some honest Chinamen consider " a wholesale poisoning of their community . " The petition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opium , " " will debauch our countrymen , " and " will encourage our young men to start the use of opium by surrounding it with an air of respectability . " The opposition to the bill comprised various elements . Besides the protesting Chinese , there was a group of men headed by an able Methodist clergyman , the Rev. Homer C. Stuntz , who represents a bona-fide moral antagonism to the Philippine Government 's lending its official sanction to such a traffic . It is on all fours with the sentiment which forced Congress to repeal the law establishing canteens in army barracks , and is entitled to very great respect . As much can not be said of the hostility of the Manila newspapers , whose advocacy of any cause is a serious blow to it . The adventurers who are opposed to Gov . Taft at all times and under all conditions could not , of course , let pass this opportunity to attack the man who stands for the Philippines for the Filipinos . These incongruous forces , hoWever , were strong enough , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to induce the Commission to lay the bill on the table . Gov . Taft himself admitted the existence of defects , and the measure was so open to misconstruction that its temporary abandonment was heartily welcomed by the Government and the Insular Bureau at Washington . At the same time a commission of three persons , the Chief Health Officer in the Philippines , Bishop Brent of the Episcopal Church , one of the opponents of the bill , and Dr. Albert , a Filipino physician , who is President of the Federal party , has been appointed to tour the Orient and study the opium problem from Calcutta to Canton . Until it makes a report , the main question at issue will not be revived ; but the antagonism on moral grounds to a licensed opium traffic is likely steadily to increase as the problem is more clearly understood . COTTON-GROWING AND THE COT-TON INDUSTRY . The price of cotton during the past year has been perhaps the most important factor in the industry of the civilized world , even surpassing that of steel . It is extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn to it in the past twelvemonth by reason of the high price that the staple has reached , causing a partial suspension or the spinning industry , both in England and in the United States . The range of price has been from 8.90 to 13.50 cents per pound . The price on call a week ago ? was 11.15 , but for October delivery it was 9.60 . The latter figure is much above the average of the past ten years . A difference of one cent per pound in the price of cotton makes a difference of $17,500,000 directly to the cotton spinners of Great Britain . To many of her operatives in the cotton industry it makes all the difference between full and partial employment  --  between comfort and misery . The United States supplies 60 per cent , of the cotton used by mankind . Our last crop ( 1902-3 ) is reckoned at 10 , - 758,326 bales of ' 450 pounds each . That of 1901-2 was a trifle less , and that of 1900-1 was considerably less . We have to go back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1898-99 was a little more than 12,000,000 bales . In general terms , it may be said that our annual production of cotton has increased by three million bales in the past ten years , but that it has not kept pace with the demand . The proof of this fact is furnished by the rising price . In 1894 the price ranged between Ph and 81/2 cents . It did not reach 10 cents until 1900 . Some part of the advance of the past season was due to the cornering of the market , but cornering is rendered possible only by the relations of demand and supply . Corners are costly enterprises , and are of brief duration in any case . It is the settled opinion of the cotton spinners of Great Britain that demand has outrun supply . This belief finds expression in the renewed activity of the British Cotton-Growing Association , which has decided to establish permanent headquarters in Manchester and keep an open office for the transaction of business . At the present time , as we learn from the Manchester Guardian , the efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa as a source of supply . At Lagos , on the Bight of Benin , the cultivation of the staple has been begun with some promise of success , but only three or four thousand bales are expected to come from that place this yeal% More encouragement has been found at Sierra Leone because the plant is indigenous ; but there , it is said , everything depends upon cheap transportation , which is still wanting . If steamships will come and take the cotton and carry it to market free of charge , it will be possible to compete with ' American cotton , but not otherwise . " Without some definite guarantee as to freights , " says the writer in the Guardian , , " there is absolutely no inducement or protection for private speculation in the cultivation of cotton . in West Africa . " Southern Nigeria , which adjoins Lagos , is another field to which the attention of the Association has been directed , but the conditions there are certainly no better than at either of the other West African stations . Longing eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guardian tells us that the Government has turned a deaf ear to the appeals of the Association , Lord George Hamilton having declined to grant them an interview on the subject . This seems rather surprising . It must betoken either a great pressure of other business on the India Office , or a belief that it is not-the function of the Government to advise the cultivators of Indian lands what crops they can raise to the best advantage . Egypt can produce more cotton than she is now bringing into the world 's market , but the amount is limited to the strip of land that may be reached by the waters of the Nile  --  the small delta below Cairo and a narrow ribbon above it . The Guardian 's article we take to be a summing up of the latest information within the Association 's reach on the subject of new supplies of cotton . It concludes thus : " Although the reports from the Association are necessarily indeterminate , they appear to give on the whole good reason for hope . Those uninformed enthusiasts who look for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few years may be disappointed with the signs of progress It must be understood , however , that the object of the Association is not to substitute so much as to supplement ; and if  --  to name quite arbitrary figures  --  they could five years hence produce an additional crop from all sources that would add a million or even half a million bales to the world 's provision , they would have done well . But such a result as this could hardly represent a stationary state of things , and if we get so far the possibilities of the future are immense . " It is evident that there exists in the world no conjunction of soil , climate , transportation , labor , capital , and intelligence for the production of cotton comparable to those of the Southern United States . To all intents and purposes we have a monopoly of this indispensable article , and nothing can take it from us but our own supineness and folly . It is not at all likely that we shall lose it . The capacity of the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crop that ever has been gathered . Whether the growth will keep pace with the demand in years to come is not so certain . That the-rise in price will stimulate the planters to increase the cotton area and lead to larger expenditUre for fertilizers may , however , be reasonably expected . But another fact must be-quite as care- , , - a fully kept in mind . The pressure on-cot- ton consumers , and on the cotton manufacturing trade , would be severe enough if the price were left to regulate itself under natural laws . Prices of cotton goods have not risen in proportion to the rise of the raw material . At some figure , the margin of manufacturing profit disappears and becomes a loss If consumers of cotton goods will not pay an advanced price for their goods , the spinner can not pay it for his cotton ; and a resumption of this year 's early efforts at a corner would , if long protracted , bring about such shrinkage in demand as would eventually prove disastrous to the cotton producer himself . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in , cotton-growing regions , that the spinning trade must- take the cotton crop , and the whole of it , at any price whatsoever . This is a mistake , as the shut-down of July and August proves ; but of course nothing but experiment can tell at what point consumption will be checked . A YEAR OF THE CHILDREN 'S , , , COURT . The Court for Juvenile Offenders which was established . by the revised city charter in 1901 has now completed - its first year , having begun work on September 2 , 1902 . Despite the forebodings of District Attorney Jerome , who opposed its establishment , it has proved to be of constantly growing value , if only because the prisoners brought before it are kept from contact with hardened criminals . The whole atmosphere of the little building at the corner of Third Avenue and Eleventh Street is vastly different from that of the old courts , every effort being made to keep the courtroom bright and cheerful . So evident , indeed , have been the benefits of separate trials for minors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter , was opened in BrOoklyn some three weeks . ago To it has been appointed Mr. Robert J. Wilkin , who was for many years superintendent of the Brooklyn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children . As in the Manhattan institution , everything which suggests the prison is kept in the background as much as possible . The detention rooms , for instance , in no way resemble cells . In the first twelve months of the new Manhattan court 's existence , 7,447 children were arraigned , of whom 4,368 were convicted . Of these , only 1,527 were committed on criminal charges or because of improper guardianship . The rest were-placed on parole or had their sentence 's suspended . The offenders may be classed as follows : Mischievous children , disorderly children , those of distinctly criminal tendencies , and those who are misbehaving because neglected by unworthy parents . In therfirst class belong those who break windows , build street bonfires , and  --  othetWis6 become nuisances Before releasing them - the judges take pains to explain to them the nature of their - wrongdoing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home because-of their impatience of restraint , or who are on the road to crime . Among these the judges ( of whom there are five , from the Special Sessions Court , sitting in succession ) , find it necessary to discriminate carefully . Strange as it may seem , there are many parents of scanty means , desirous of having their children educated free of cost , who are perfectly willing to prefer charges of waywardness against their own children . By this means they can shirk the respdnsibility of caring for them , and at the same time have them taught a trade . So flagrant was this evil that the judges induced the last Legislature to pass a law giving them the power to compel parents , under threat of imprisonment , to pay a sum not exceeding two dollars a week for the support of each child placed in a city institution . While this law has been ' in effect only ' Since September first , there is every indication that it will check this tendency to make the city stepmother to hosts of children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought about the passage of legislation making purchases by junkmen from children a misdemeanor . This law was necessitated by the discovery that many children were being taught by the junkmen to steal from vacant houses , the subway works , etc. , pipes , tools , and other articles , which were eagerly purchased for a few cents . It is safe to say that the public owes both of these laws to the establishment of the separate children:s court , in which the whole conditions of juvenile crime can be studied as they never could be when the children were only a few of a large number of offenders passing in review . The most difficult problem , of course , concerns the children who have just got started on the criminal path . Here a great deal depends on the probation officer ; and that official reports that 15 per cent . of the 639 children released on probation betWeen September 1 , 1902 , and - July 1 , 1903 , had to be committed to institutions because they violated the provisions of their parole . Of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes to prove that for children under that age the probation system is of quekionable value . It is also interesting to note that of these 639 probationary offenders only 23 were girls . Of the boys 285 came into court because of larceny , and 125 for disorderly conduct . In most cases the parole lasts two or three months , only six having been committed for a year or longer . Where a child is reparoled more than three times , it is generally found to ' be necessary to send him to a reformatory ; but the judges seek wherever possible to avoid commitments . Children on parole are required to report to the probation officer once a week , and to the court at stated intervals . Each time the delinquent reports , his or her record in full Is placed before the judge . In the Brooklyn court , where Judge Wilkin sits permanently , there are three probation officers , one for Catholic children , one for Protestants , and one for those of the Hebrew faith . The Manhattan magistrates believe in changing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strain on the syrapaithies of one man , who would , they believe , soon become too tender-hearted or too callous . This has not been the case in Chicago , where Judge Tuthill still presides most satisfactorily over what is believed to have been the first separate children 's court in this country . Judge Tuthill has , however , fewer offenders to deal with than the Manhattan court , and has more probation officers . It is the principle of prevention as well as punishment which distinguishes these courts , and which marks them as , part of the great movement everywhere going on to modernize the treatment of offenders . What the judges must ever consider is that it rests with them largely whether the child is to become an enemy of society or a valuable citizen . Hence the need for great wisdom , patience , and sympathy , particularly as the court must often protect a child from wicked parents or debased guardians . The Manhattan judges are not alone in their opinion that the older the courts the more light they will throw upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already , for instance , discovered many shortcomings in our compulsory-education legislation BRITISH AND AMERICAN SCIENCE . A fortnight ago , in speaking of Lockyer 's appeal to his countrymen for the support of British science , we showed how to apply the old saw that the way to get the best performance from a human being is to encourage him . To-day we will try applying the same maxim in speaking of the future of American science . We wanted to allow the Anglophobists ( who never allow the sacred fire to die on their hearth ) ample time to dispute our proposition if they could ? the proposition , we mean , that for three hundred years not a single conception has taken sovereign preeminence in science that has not been largely  --  in most cases , even without contest ? of British parentage . But our proposition remains undisputed . Its substantial truth seems to be tacitly acknowledged . Whatever could be said to blunt its point has , no doubt , been indicated in a letter in another column from a - rarely accomplished and ingenious scholar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is serious , or whether he is only making believe that he opposes us , our readers can guess as well as we , if they note that he does not explicitly deny our proposition , and that he throws in our way two or three very pertinent suggestions in support of it . Certainly , two more striking examples of what are not conceptions of sovereign preéminence in science than those he furnishes would be sought in vain  --  the theory of numbers and the theory of functions . A famous mathematician , being asked why he should be so in love with the theory of numbers , replied that he loved it because it was a pure virgin that never had been , and that never could be , prostituted to any practical application whatsoever . Not only no practical application , but ( so far as one can look into the future ) no sotentifl , c application , either , is likely ever to be made of one or other of those two theories , outside of pure mathematics itself . In short , they are as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monads whose activity , intensely interesting in itself , is imperviously secluded from the business of life and from the main business of science . Only compare this isolation with the loud resonance awaked in every harp and organ of science by those discoveries which truly have been sovereignly preeminent through science  --  the induc , tive philosophy , the corpuscular philosophy ? with the atomic theory and its progeny ; universal attraction ; the differential calculus ( certainly discovered by Newton , not certainly also by Leibnitz after enjoying Newton 's conversation ) ; the theories of elasticity ( Boyle and Young ) , of heat as vis viva of molecules ( Bacon and others ) , of electricity ( Gilbert , Faraday , etc. ) , of light as transverse vibrations ( Young ) and transverse vibrations of an electromagnetical kind ( Maxwell ) ; natural selection ( Darwin and Wallace ) ; universal evolution ( Spencer ) . We forgot to mention one of the greatest discoveries of all , made by an humble clergyman of the Church of England , Gay  --  the discovery that the association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the first of two consuls ) that governs all the activities of the human mind , so far as they are subject to any mental law . For the theory of numbers and the theory of functions it can be said that they far surpass chess both in beauty and in their broadly intellectual character ; but to call them ideas of sovereign preeminehce in science would be to fall into one of those extravagant statements to which mathematicians are only too prone , as when Henry John Stephen Smith  --  one of the protagonists of the theory of numbers , for all his being an Englishman  --  spoke of a decline in a people 's mathematical activity as if it differed from all other historical developments in having but a single possible cause . We have to thank " H. T. " for another suggestion contained in his remark that , of the pure mathematicians of England 's last half-century , the two most prominent were the Hebrew Sylve'ster and the halt ( or quarter ? ) Russian , Cayley . To be sure , there is a simpler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain has sustained to science has not been due solely to Teutonic blood , namely , the density of the entirely uncultivated German ( if this species be not quite extinct ) . The days are very , ' very distant when it will be possible to disentangle the causes of national character ; but as to the matter in hand , there is one cause that strikes any good American observer of intellectual English society . Montesquieu , who possessed an intimate knowledge'of so many countries ( he was , by the way , a Foreign Member of the Royal Society ) , put on the title-page of his immortal book this motto : " Prolem sine metre creatam " ( offspring produced without a mother ) . A close friend asked him in what sense this had any particular application to the ' Esprit des Lois . ' He replied , after some reluctance : " A truly great work must owe its birth not only to a man of genius as ' its father , but also to a society of intellectual freedom as its mother . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so completely untrammelled as in England . The chief external hindrance , everywhere , to supremely original scientific speculation lies in a certain spirit to which , - for want of a better word , we may give the name of pedantry ( one could hardly call it obscurantism ) We mean that spirit which caused Poggendorff to refuse for his journal the now far-famed paper of Mayer about the thermodynamics of gases ; that spirit which for a whole generation silenced , through the German universities , every contribution to philosophy that was not Hegelian , and which to-day as completely silences there everything that is Hegelian . And this brings us round to the brief word we proposed to say to the young scientists and philosophers of America . Good and sufficient reasons have in the past acted to conceal the scientific genius of the American people in money-getting and in settling the order of things in this country . But now that those reasons are losing their force , and that you are turning to pure science , above all trust to your own wings . Beware of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vogue in the German universities . Imitate the Germans in those things that deserve imitation . Enaulate- them , for example , in that which has contributed not a little to German scientific leadership , their national self-confidence ; in their persistencyas jell . Those two qualities have made that people the world 's leader in all Pach-Porschung ( if we may be al . Meanwhile the restaurants , the Mai- , sonsDorOes and the Caf  --  s Riches , which were frequented by the old-school bottle : vardiers , and turned away all but the notorious , the wealthy , and the extravagant , have one by one closed their doors . Every year Paris loges something of its old preeminence as a city of pleasure , and the time has come when the primrose path for the spendthrift has as many ramifications as there are great cities and human follies . Balzac used to insist on a certain freemasonry , in the sensual life , which had its capital on . the Seine . To-day he would feel differently . The recklessness and the genius for debauch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parisian characteristics . Parisian dissipation has taken on- the dull and uniform tone of the random life elsewhere . The irrational squandering of one 's gold and one 's sett may as well be practised in New York , St. Petersburg , or any one of a score of great cities . If a certain school of metropolitan economists be right , the discontinuatiO of theopera balls should be marked ; by a shrinkage of the national credit . Many times the theory that money can circulate normally only when much of it is spent profligately has been seriously maintained . As if to give the lie to the theory that she is rich only on condition of remaining the bawd of Europe , Paris adds a new beauty as fast as she drops an old infamy . Year by year that unparalleled prospect along the Seine becomes richer and nobler , without the loss of any of the precious monuments of old time . Every year , too , Paris becomes a more delightful residence for those who value the things of art or of the mind . As she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthens that of the new Athens . - Nor do we believe that , with the passing of the legend embodied in the opera balls and in a dozen other institutions of organized profligacy , Paris loses any real gayety . The verve Pansienne was never prominent among these syndicated pleasures , nor was it offered at a price to the moneyed rabble of immigrant amateurs of " la vie en rouge . " The gayety of Paris is at every family dinner table , in the studios and small shops ? everywhere that two or three Parisians meet . And that unique sprightliness of the mind-which is the just pride of all Frenchmen , is still to be found in Paris , from the quais where clothes are washed to the salons where academicians are still agreeable to pretty women . That is the real " gay Paris . " It will live on as - long as Frenchmen are Frenchmen , although it be unknown to the cosmopolitan herd whose growing parsimony or prudence is forcing the other " gay Paris " into liquidation . . 