@@430409

IT is a curious characteristic of this modern age that we are devoting nearly all our thought to things which do not really matter , and that we rarely confer serious consideration upon those phases and features of life which are so essential that it is impossible to escape from , them . Thus , we are thinking a great deal about flying-machines , which the world has managed fairly well to live without for many centuries . On the other hand , we can not possibly live without our bodies ; and yet we rarely consider how we may best develop them in efficiency and beauty , though this was one of the main preoccupations of the Greeks . Nowadays we are very fussy about getting from New York to Chicago in fewer hours than twenty-four , in order that we may economize that precious entity we call our time ; but we seldom bother to consider our eternity . The men of the Middle Ages devoted their best thought to religion , because they found that it was something that they could not possibly escape ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it and assume the attitude thus phrased by Mr. Chesterton ? Everything matters except Everything . Another of those haunting realities which men can not live without is language . Therefore , at certain periods , like the Renaissance for instance , the world at large has devoted considerable thought to it . But in this oblivious age of ours , language is pretty generally ignored ; and just because a man is doomed to employ it every day of his life , he deems it unnecessary ever to think about it . In mere material and secondary matters we insist on having the best ; but we have a vague sense that our way of speaking and of writing is good enough as it is , and may be allowed to take care of itself . Hence , we seldom pause to examine the language we employ in our hourly concerns , to question its efficiency , or to endeavor to develop it in form and fluency . For this reason there is a very real need at the present time for any book which directs attention to the essentials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been prepared in recent years to fulfill this purpose , one of the most interesting and valuable is the recent volume on Modern English : Its Growth and Present Use , by Professor George Philip Itrapp , of the University of Cincinnati . This book presents in popular form the results of a very thorough historical study of English inflections , syntax , vocabulary , and pronunciation . In discussing such technical details as these , most academical writers batter themselves into a state of high and dry solemnity ; but Professor Krapp has managed to remember that language is a living thing , and to write about it with a live enjoyment . His book ? to use an ancient adjective in its Elizabethan sense ? is a veritably with/ work . Seldom has so scholarly a treatise been written so directly and so humanly . The knowledge which is tabulated amid , told is illuminated frequently with wisdom . Since language is the record of life , any book about language should deal with life at only one remove . This truth , which has escaped most writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is keenly alive to the humor which not infrequently accompanies the adventures of a part of speech along the highway of history . In discussing questions of divided or disputed usuage , his attitude is always sensible and tolerant . Even when the reader disagrees with him , as is not infrequently the case , the disagreement stimulates the disputant to active thought about the point at issue . It is an indication that a thesis has been boldly thought out and vividly expounded , when the reader can find an equal interest in accepting what is said on one page and denying what is said on the next . Professor Krapp 's philosophy of language will occasion considerable consternation among formalists and worshipers of rules . He believes that the only valid laws of language are empirical formulations of tendencies which have been observed in the unconscious custom of the multitudes who use the language in their daily practical concerns . He denies that any man or group of men , any author or school of authors , any dictionary or other work of linguistic scholarship , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be binding upon those to whom the speech is native and natural . His historical studies have convinced him that language is continuously in a state of flux , that customs A STIMULATING STUDY OF LANGUAGE 279 of speech which have been valid in one century , have grown invalid in the next , and that therefore any arbitrary attempt to formulate to fixity the usages of English is unpractical and vain . Professor Krapp regards language as a popular and democratic institution . Since speech arose spontaneously among the many to meet the needs of social intercourse , and is in its present form merely the record of centuries of immediate unconscious utterance among the many , it is upon the many that its destiny depends . What shall become of English in the future can not be determined by any monarch or by any oligarchs of speech , but must result from the unconscious suffrages of the word-engirdling millions who are speaking English now . And the way to determine how to speak at present is not to follow blindly the habits of the past , nor even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observe with open ears and a free mind the natural customs of the vast army of contemporary speakers . This democratic theory of language , which has here been somewhat over-stated owing to the exaggerated emphasis of summary , is very alluring to the imagination , and undeniably explains most of the great changes which have taken place in the history of English . But as a working theory for determining what is the best English usage at any period , it seems to me ineffective and erroneous . For , at its best , language is an art ; and no art ever was or ever can be a democratic institution . The best usages of any art are determined by taste ; and no one can deny that the taste of the majority is almost always wrong . Though all may speak intelligibly , it is only the few in any age who speak with nicety ; and to determine what is the best English , it is necessary , therefore , to listen to the few . And if we turn our attention to language that is written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulated by the habits of an aristocracy of letters . The written language of Milton is not a democratic institution ; and neither is the written language of Wordsworth , in spite of his deliberate attempt to imitate the daily speech of dalesmen . Upon this point Professor Krapp has expressed himself as follows : " In all study of language as expression , it is now generally conceded , by those who have given much thought to the matter , that the spoken , as compared with the written or literary language , is of far the greater importance . It is mainly in the speech of men and women as they come into direct social relations with each other that language develops and grows in a natural , untrammeled , and effective way . The language of literature is merely an approximate transcription , more or less remote , of the language of speech . It is from the latter that the language of literature is derived , and it must always return to its source to renew itself when , as it constantly tends to do , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readily follows that it is speech which we should study , not only for effectiveness in conversation , but also for effec tiveness in literature . The popular opinion is not usually in accord with this statement . " That generous last sentence invites to controversy ; and I shall therefore venture the opinion that the quoted paragraph presents a peculiar al ternation of statements which are true and which are false . To my mind the first sentence is wrong , the second right , the third wrong , the fourth right , and the fifth wrong . With such surprising regularity the pendulum swings from agreement to disagreement ! As the crux of the whole matter , let us consider the ( to me ) astonishing third sentence . Surely the language of literature ( except in the special instance of realistic dialogue in the novel and the drama ) is not " merely an approximate transcription , more or less remote , of the language of speech . " In the first place , it is , in its elements , not a transcription of , but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the second place , it differs from the language of speech in that it arranges the elements selected in accordance with a conscious pattern . ' I'he language of literature bears the same relation to the language of speech that art bears to life ; the first is selected and distilled from the second ; the one is the quintessence of the other . But Professor K rapp , because of his determination to be democratic , continually denies that the language of literature is better than the lang uage of speech . Ile admits that it is different ; but when the question of better or less good arises , he feels inclined to side with the unliterary populace . Toward the end of his book he states that " there is no such thing as an absolute English . " If this be so , there is reason for grave discouragement among the gallant few who burn the midnight cigarette and search for the inevitable word . All brave and earnest literary toil is inspired by the contrary belief , that there is an absolute , ideal expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to find the one best way of saying something that our literary artists strive and strain . Is Professor Krapp correct in his conclusion that there is no one best way ? " No absolute English ? " ? Let me for reassurance on the counter side , recall a sheaf of sentences and phrases from many sources , old and new , which seem to me to say more perfectly than any imaginable other form of words , the thoughts that they were fashioned to convey : " Until the day break , and the shadows flee away . " " For this my son was dead , and is alive again ; he was lost , and is found . " " And thou , all-shaking thunder , smite flat the thick rotundity o ' the world ! " " Her voice was ever soft , gentle , and low , an excellent thing in woman . " " Absent thee from felicity a while . " " No light , but rather darkness visible . " " Quietly rested under the drums and tramplings of three conquests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nun , breathless with adoration . " " Magic casements opening on the foam of perilous seas in faery lands for . lorn . " " Lucent syrops tinct with cinnamon . " " Laborious orient ivory sphere in sphere . " " On one side lay the ocean , and on one lay a great water , and the moon was full . " " Sea-gulls sidelong circling . " " The sudden springing up of a great run of dashing surf along the sea-front of the isle . " These sentences , though they have been culled from several centuries and represent many different styles , are nearly all exceedingly simple ; and yet no one of them bears any resemblance to the habitual daily speech of the majority of educated people at the time when it was written . And my point is that the literary utterance is in each case better than any unliterary expression of the same idea could possibly have been ; and that , in several at least of the sentences selected , the utterance is absolute ? in other words , the thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way . It is not by studying casual contemporary speech that any man may learn to write such a perfect phrase as " the sea-gulls sidelong circling " ; because nobody talks with such absolute simplicity and concision , and with such fitness between sound and sense . It is not in the market-place but in the studio that such efficiency is learned . And now , upon the popular or democratic side , let us once more quote Professor Krapp : " What , then , is good English ? The purpose of language being the satisfac tory communication of thought and feeling , that is good English which performs this function satisfactorily . " If so , then this sentence is good English : " Ah , gwan ! ? quit yer kidden ! " We very often hear it spoken ; and it nearly always performs its function satisfactorily . That is to say , it leaves no doubt as to the thought and feeling of the speaker . Professor Knapp continues : " Such a definition of good English , it will be observed , is purely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of its activity , without reference to any theoretical and abstract conceptions of its value or significance . Whenever two minds come into satisfactory contact with each other , through the medium of language , we have then , so far as each instance taken by itself is concerned , a good use of language . The rustic , with his dialect , and in his own homogeneous dialect community , realizes as much the purpose of language ns the most polished speaker in the best society ' of the city . Each expresses himself satisfactorily and is understood satisfactorily , and more than this language at its best can not do . " This paragraph seems to me to define English that is " good enough " rather than English that is good . Good language is an art ; and an art is never " purely utilitarian . " And if language at its best can do no more than permit a man to express himself so that he may be understood , then the phrase , " sea-gulls sidelong circling , " is no better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and flying around in long spiral curves , " and " laborious orient ivory sphere in sphere " is no better than " carved concentric spheres of ivory , wrought laboriously by Chinese craftsmen . " The root of the whole matter is that the democratic theory of language , . when pushed to the utmost , leaves no room for the artist , who is doomed by natural endowment to talk and write as an aristocrat . Professor Krapp might answer that artists , being in the minority , do not really count . But shall we write obscurely because the vast majority of people fail , in their daily speech , to express themselves simply and definitely ? And shall I pronounce the vowel sound in World and Journal as the Park Row newsboys do , for the democratic reason that it is so pronounced by over a million inhabitants of New York City ? The average New Yorker agrees with the Lguard about the pronounciation of Thirtythird Street ? is the average New Yorker therefore right ? These questions and many others have been suggested to me by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this review , excessive emphasis has possibly been placed on special instances in which the author has seemed to overwork his thesis . But it must not therefore be supposed that the thesis as a whole is lacking in essential soundness . Modern English is , as I said at the outset , a very sensible and serviceable book ; and it is only because it is so bold in thought and lively in presentment that the reader feels summoned at times to couch a lance and ride at tourney with the author .                     