@@473951

A LITTLE attention will show that science , as the word is commonly used , implies these things : first , the gathering of knowledge through observation ; second , the classification of such knowledge , and through this classification the deduction of general ideas or principles . In the familiar words of Herbert Spencer , science is organized knowledge . Now it is patent enough , at first glance , that the veriest savage must have been an observer of the phenomena of nature . But it may not be so obvious that he must also have been a classifier of his observations ? an organizer of knowledge . Yet the more we consider the case , the more clear it will become that the two methods are too closely linked together to be dissevered . To observe outside phenomena is not more inherent in the nature of the mind than to draw inferences from these phenomena . A deer passing through the forest scents the ground and detects a certain odor . A sequence of ideas is generated in the mind of the deer . Nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wolf ; therefore the scientific inference is that a wolf has passed that way . But it is a part of the deer 's scientific knowledge , based on a previous knowledge , individual and racial , that wolves are dangerous beasts ; and so , combining direct observation in the present with the application of a general principle based on past experience , the deer reaches the very logical conclusion that it may wisely turn about and run in another direction . All this implies essentially a comprehension and use of scientific principles , and anomalous as it seems to speak of a deer as possessing scientific knowledge , yet there is really no absurdity in the statement . The deer does possess scientific knowledge ? knowledge differing in degree only , not in kind , from the knowledge of a Newton . Nor is the animal , within the range of its intelligence , lesslogical , less scientific in the application of that knowledge , than is the man . The animal that could not make accurate , scientific observations of its surroundings , and deduce accurate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its lack of logic . What is true of man 's precursors in the animal scale is , of course , true in a wider and fuller sense of man himself at the very lowest stage of his development . Ages before the time which the limitations of our knowledge force us to speak of as the dawn of history , man had reached a high stage of development . As a social being he had developed all the elements of a primitive civilization . If , for convenience of classification , we speak of his state as savage or barbaric , we use terms which , after all , are relative , and which do not shut off our primitive ancestors from a tolerably close association with our own ideals . We know that , even in the Stone Age , man had learned how to domesticate animals and make them useful to him , and also to cultivate the soil . Later on , doubtless by slow and painful stages , he attained those wonderful elements of knowledge that enabled him to smelt metals and to produce implements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Stone Age he was a mechanic of marvellous skill , as any une of to-day may satisfy himself by attempting to duplicate such an implement as a chipped arrow-head . And a barbarian who could fashion an axe or a knife of bronze had certainly gone far in his knowledge of scientific principles and their practical application . The practical application was doubtless the only thought that our primitive ancestor had in mind ; quite probably the question of principles involved troubled him not at all . Yet , in spite of himself , he knew certain rudimentary principles of science , even though he did not formulate them . Thus primitive man must , from a very early period , have observed that the sun gives light and heat . It required but a slight extension of this observation to note that the changing phases of the seasons are associated with the seeming approach and recession of the sun . This observation , however , could not have been made until man had migrated from the tropical regions , and had reached a stage of mechanical development enabling him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is conceivable that a long period must have elapsed before a direct . causal relation was felt to exist between the shifting of the sun and the shifting of the seasons ; because , as every one knows , the period of greatest heat in summer and greatest cold in winter usually comes some weeks after the time of the solstice . Yet the fact that these extremes of temperature are associated in some way with the change in the sun 's place in the heavens must in time have impressed itself upon even a rudimentary intelligence . That the sun , moon , and stars move across the heavens must obviously have been among the earliest scientific observations . It required a relatively high development of the observing faculties , yet a development which man must have attained ages before the historical period , to note that the moon has a secondary motion which leads it to shift its relative position as regards the stars ; that the stars themselves , on the other hand , keep a fixed relation as regards one another , with the notable exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the galaxy , the latter being the bodies which came to be known finally as planets , or wandering stars . The wandering propensities of such brilliant bodies as Jupiter and Venus can not well have escaped detection . We may safely assume , however , that these anomalous motions of the moon and planets found no explanation that could be called scientific until a relatively late period . Turning from the heavens to the earth , and ignoring such primitive observations as that of the distinction between land and water , we may note that there was one great scientific law which must have forced itself upon the attention of primitive man . This is the law of universal terrestrial gravitation . The word gravitation suggests the name of Newton , and it may excite surprise to hear a knowledge of gravitation ascribed to men who preceded that philosopher by , say , twenty-five or fifty thousand years . Yet the slightest consideration of the facts will make it clear that the great central law that all heavy bodies fall directly toward the earth can not have escaped the attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connect us in sympathy with our primeval ancestor if we recall that in the attempt to explain this feet of terrestrial gravitation Newton made no advance , and we of to-day are scarcely more enlightened than the man of the Stone Age . Like the men of the Stone Age , we know that an arrow shot into the sky falls back to the earth . We can calculate , as he could not do , the arc it will describe and the exact speed of its fall ; but as to why it returns to earth at all , the greatest philosopher of to-day is almost as much in the dark as was the first primitive bowman that ever made the experiment . Other physical facts , going to make up an elementary science of mechanics , that were demonstratively known to prehistoric man , are such as these : The rigidity of solids and the mobility of liquids ; the fact that changes of temperature transform solids to liquids and vice versa ; that heat , for example , melts copper and even iron , and that cold congeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the rubbing together of two sticks , may produce heat enough to cause a fire . The rationale of this last experiment did not receive an explanation until about the beginning of the nineteenth century of our own era . Ent the experimental fact was so well known to prehistoric man that he employed this method , as various savage tribes employ it to this day , for the altogether practical purpose of making a fire ; just as he employed his practical knowledge of the mutability of solids and liquids in smelting ores , in alloying copper with tin to make bronze , and in casting this alloy in moulds to make various implements and weapons . Here , then , were the germs of an elementary science of physics . In the field of what we now speak of as biological knowledge primitive man had obviously the widest opportunity for practical observation . We can hardly doubt that man attained at an early day to that conception of identity and of difference which Plato places at the head of his metaphysical system . We shall urge presently that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's earliest inductions from observation , and hence that came to seem the universal and " innate " ideas of his mentality . It is quite inconceivable , for example , that even the most rudimentary intelligence that could be called human could fail to discriminate between living things and such inanimate structures as the rocks of the earth . The most primitive intelligence , then , must have made a tacit classification of the natural objects about it into the grand divisions of animate and inanimate nature . A step beyond this ? a step , however , that may have required centuries or millenniums in the taking ? must have carried man to a plane of intelligence from which a primitive Aristotle or Linnaeus was enabled to note differences and resemblances connoting such groups of things as fishes , birds , and furry beasts . This conception , to be sure , is an abstraction of a relatively high order . We know that there are savage races to-day whose language contains no word for such an abstraction as bird or tree . We are bound to believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress during which the highest man had attained no such stage of abstraction ; but , on the other hand , it is equally little in question that this degree of mental development had been attained long before the opening of our historical period . The primeval man , then , whose scientific knowledge we are attempting to predicate , had become , through his conception of fishes , birds , and hairy animals as separate classes , a scientific zoologist of relatively high attainments . Tn the practical field of medical knowledge a certain stage of development must have been reached at a very early day . Even animals pick and choose among the vegetables about them , and at times seek out certain herbs quite different from their ordinary food , practising a sort of instinctive therapeutics . The cat 's fondness for catnip is a case in point . The most primitive man , then , must have inherited a racial or instinctive knowledge of the medicinal effects of certain herbs ; in particular he must have had such elementary knowledge of toxicology as would enable him to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things dangerous to the human system there must have grown up at a very early day a belief in the remedial character of various vegetables as agents to combat disease . Here , of course , was a rudimentary therapeutics ; the crude principle of an empirical art of medicine . It must be recalled , however , that primitive medicine was not a matter of drugs so much as a matter of incantations . Therapeutics belonged at first rather to the domain of religion than to that of science . For disease was not , in all probability , thought of at - first as a " natural " phenomenon , but always as a result of the occult influence of an enemy . A study of this question leads us to some very curious inferences . The more we look into the matter , the more the thought forces itself home to us that the idea of natural death , as we now conceive it , came to primitive man as a relatively late scientific induction . This thought seems almost startling , so axiomatic has the conception " man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ideas of existing savages , combined with our knowledge of the point of view from which historical peoples regard disease , makes it more than probable that the primitive conception of human life did not include the idea of necessary death . We are told that the Australian savage who falls from a tree and breaks his neck is not regarded as having met a natural death , but as having been the victim of the magical practices of the " medicine-man " of some neighboring tribe . Similarly , we find that the Egyptian and the Babylonian of the early historical period conceived illness as being almost inevitably the result of the machinations of an enemy . One need but recall the superstitious observances of the Middle Ages and the yet more recent belief in witchcraft to realize how generally disease has been personified as a malicious agent invoked by an unfriendly mind . Indeed , the phraseology of our present-day speech is still reminiscent of this ; as when , for example , we speak of an " attack " of fever and the like . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions under which primitive man lived , it will be evident at once how relatively infrequent must have been his observations of what we . usually term natural death . His world was a world of strife ; he lived by the chase ; he saw animals kill one another ; he witnessed the death of his own fellows at the hands of enemies . Naturally enough , then , when a member of his family was " struck down " by invisible agents , he ascribed this death also to violence , even though the offensive agent was concealed . Without further elaborating the argument , it seems a justifiable inference that the first conception primitive man would have of his own life would not include the thought of natural death , but would , conversely , connote the vague conception of endless life . Our own ancestors , a few generations removed , had not rid themselves of this conception , as the perpetual quest of the spring of eternal youth amply testifies . If , then , we are justified in supposing that the conception of eternal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the conception of natural death , we may equally assume that the idea of the immortality of the spirit would be the most natural of conceptions . The immortal spirit , indeed , would be but a co-relative of the immortal body , and the idea which found prevalence among the Egyptians that the soul persists only as long as the body is intact ? the idea upon which the practice of mummifying the dead depended ? finds a ready explanation . But this phase of the subject carries us somewhat afield . For our present purpose it suffices to have pointed out that the conception of man 's niortalitya conception which is usually thought of as being the most " natural " and " innate " ? was in all probability a relatively late scientific induction of our primitive ancestors . Turning from the consideration of the body to its mental complement , we are forced to admit that here also our primitive man must have made certain elementary observations that underlie such sciences as psychology , mathematics , and - political economy . The elementary emotions associated with hunger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have forced themselves upon the earliest intelligence that reached the plane of conscious self-observation . The capacity to count , at least to the number four or five , is within the range of even animal intelligence . Certain savages have gone scarcely farther than this ; but our primeval ancestor , who was forging on . toward civilization , had learned to count his fingers and toes and to number objects about him by fives and tens in consequence , before he passed beyond the plane of numerous existing barbarians . How much beyond this he had gone we need not attempt to inquire ; but the relatively high development of mathematics in the early historical period suggests that primeval man had attained a not inconsiderable knowledge of numbers . The humdrum vocation of looking after a numerous progeny must have taught the mother the rudiments of addition and subtraction ; and the elements of multiplication and division are implied in the capacity to carry on even the rudest form of barter , such as the various tribes must have practised from an early day . As to political ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceptions of ownership , at least of tribal ownership , and the application of the principle of likeness and difference to which we have already referred . Each tribe , of course , differed in some regard from other tribes , and the recognition of these differences implied in itself a political classification . A certain tribe took possession of a particular hunting-ground , which became for the time being its home , and over which it came to exercise certain rights . An invasion of this territory by another tribe might lead to war , and the banding together of the members of the tribe to repel the invader implied both a recognition of communal unity and a species of prejudice in favor of that community , that constituted a primitive patriotism . But this unity of action in opposing another - tribe would not prevent a certain rivalry of interest between the members of the same tribe , which would show itself more and more prominently as the tribe increased in size . The association of several persons implies always the ascendancy of some and the subordination of others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mental endowment ; and rivalry between leaders would soon result in the formation of primitive political parties . With the ultimate success and ascendancy of one loader , who secures either absolute power or power modified in accordance with the advice of subordinate leaders , we have the germs of an elaborate political system ? an embryo science of government . Meanwhile the very existence of such a community implies the recognition on the part of its members of certain individual rights , the recognition of which is essential to communal harmony . The right of individual ownership of the various articles and implements of everyday life must be recognized , or all harmony Would be at an end . Certain rules of justice ? primitive laws ? must , by common consent , give protection to the weakest members of the community . Here are the rudiments of a system of ethics . It may seem anomalous to speak of this primitive morality , this early recognition of the principles of right and wrong , as having any relation to science . Yet , rightly considered , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well be a doubt that the adoption of those broad principles of right and wrong which underlie the entire structure of modern civilization was due to a scientific induction , based on observation and experience , which taught that the principles involved were essential to communal progress . He who has scanned the pageant of history knows how often these principles seem to be absent in the intercourse of men and nations . Yet the ideal is always there as a standard by which all deeds are judged . It would appear , then , that the entire superstructure of later science had its foundation in the knowledge and practice of prehistoric man . The civilization of the historical period could not have advanced as it has had there not been countless generations of culture back of it . The new principles of science could not have been evolved had there not been great basal principles which ages of unconscious experiment had impressed upon the mind of our race . Due meed of praise must be given , then , to our primitive ancestor for his scientific accom plishments ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider the reverse side of the picture . The highly scientific desire and propensity to find explanations for the phenomena of nature lies at the foundation of all knowledge . Without such desire no progress could be made ; and yet , just as most other good things can be overdone , this scientific propensity may be carried to a disastrous excess . Primeval man did not escape this danger . He observed , he reasoned , he found explanations ; but he did not always discriminate as to the logicality of his reasonings . He failed to recognize the limitations of his knowledge . The observed uniformity in the sequence of certain events impressed on his mind the idea of cause and effect . Proximate causes known , he sought remoter causes ; childlike , his inquiring mind was always asking , Why ? and , childlike , he demanded an explicit answer . If the forces of nature seemed to combat him , if wind and rain opposed his progress and thunder and lightning seemed to menace his existence , he was led irrevocably to think of those human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hack of the warfare of the elements , an inscrutable malevolent intelligence which took this method to express its displeasure . Modern science can explain the lightning , as it can explain a great number of the mysteries which the primeval intelligence could not penetrate . But the primordial man could not wait for the revelations of scientific investigation ; he must vault at once to a final solution of all scientific problems . He found his solution by peopling the world with invisible forces , anthropomorphic in their conception , like himself in their thought and action , differing only in the limitations of their powers . His own dream-existence gave him seeming proof of the existence of an alter ego ? a spiritual portion of himself that could dissever itself from his body and wander at will ; his scientific inductions seemed to tell him of a world of invisible beings , capable of influencing him for good or ill . From the scientific exercise of his faculties he evolved the all-encompassing generalizations of invisible and all-powerful causes hack of the phenomena of nature . These generalizations , early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generations , came to be among the most firmly established scientific inductions of our primeval ancestor . They obtained a hold upon the mentality of our race that led subsequent generation to think and speak of them as " innate " ideas . The observations upon which they were based are now for the most part susceptible of other interpretations ; but the old interpretations have precedent and prej udice back of them , and they represent ideas more difficult than almost any others to eradicate . Always superstitions based upon unwarranted early scientific deductions have been the most implacable foes to the progress of science . These are still as firmly fixed in the minds of a large majority of our race as they were in the mind of our prehistoric ancestor . The fact of this heritage must not be forgotten in estimating the debt of gratitude which historic man . owes to his primitive forebears .                     