@@486881

The ousting of Stuyvesant Fish from the presidency of the Illinois Central Railway , this week , by vote of his own directors acting in the interest of E H Harriman , has again directed attention to the effort of powerful financiers to increase , by hook or crook , the number of railways under their personal control This movement reached remarkable proportions at the time of the excited financial " boom " at the opening of 1901 . During two or three successive months , such announcements were ' made as the purchase of the $101,000,000 Southern Pacific Railway , by the Union Pacific ; of the $98,000 , - 000 Chicago , Burlington , &; Quincy , by the Northern Pacific and the Great Northern , and of the $27,000,000 New Jersey Central , by the Reading . All of these purchases , some of them made in open market at extravagant prices , were paid for with proceeds of bonds , issued by the purchasing companies and sold to the eager investing public The " game of grab , " as it was called even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Great Northern for control of the Northern Pacific 's $80,000,000 stock . The movement came to an end when the markets broke down m May , 1901 , under the load of new securities Efforts of the same sort were renewed when the Stock Exchange got its breath again Shares of half a dozen great railways were bid up to unheard-of figures by capitalists trying to get control in open market . In 1902 a band of stock-jobbing adventurers started in to buy up , with borrowed money , shares of some of the few independent railways . These people thus secured possession of the $10,000,000 Chicago , Indianapolis , and Louisville , and of the $52,000,000 Louisville and Nashville . They could not have kept their purchase ; but their object was to force banking interests , connected with rival railways , to take over the stock at a still higher figure , rather than risk demoralizing competition in rates . The blackmailed bankers meekly paid the price , and issued bonds of their own railway companies to raise the money To this kind of performance the financial collapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? put an end , and it was two years before the talk of " buying up other railways " was beard again in Wall , Street But with the country 's recent great prosperity , and the revival of daring speculation , on the part both of the public and of the railway millionaires , the attempt to capture independent railways was resumed The achievement was not so easy as in 1902 , however , and for several reasons . Resources of capital had been so overstrained by heavy trade and extensive speculation that new bonds could not find a ready market , such operations as those of 1901 were therefore too dangerous . Again , the Wall Street millionaires who arranged the " railway deals " of 1901 had the surplus of life insurance companies placed at their disposal , to " guarantee the undertakings . This was , no longer possible after the Armstrong investigation . Finally , . owners of the independent roads had ' hi the interiin -- fortifled their own position , and with many of them , control could not be bought at any price . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last adopted in the " game of grab . " E. H. Harriman of the Union Pacific wanted the road  --  partly for a southern outlet from his own lines ; partly , so Wall Street inferred , because Stuyvesant Fish had , as chairman of the Mutual Life trustees ' investigating committee , pushed his inquiries uncomfortably close to certain large capitalists on - the board His investigation was blocked by President Peabody of the Mutual , but the incident was not forgotten . Harriman was unable to buy up Illinois Central stock ; it was too securely lodged with real investors . After attempting unsuccessfully to obtain control without purchase  --  through organizing a " holding company " in which Illinois Central shareholders were invited to place their stock ? Harriman secretly organized a revolt against Mr. Fish in his own board of directors . By what means he prevailed , it is not easy to say ; but on Wednesday of this week , at a " snap " meeting of the board , called when one of Mr. Fish 's supporters was ill and another likely to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unseat Mr. Fish in favor of a tool of Harriman . Among the directors working and voting against Mr. Fish was Charles A. Peabody , president of the Mutual Lite , who had refused to put Mr. Fish 's inquiries to the trustees , who is a director in Harriman 's Union Pacific Railway , and who has lately won distinction for his letter threatening those agents of his insurance company who did not support the administration ticket . This particular " railway capture " has been marked , in a quite unusual degree , by intrigue and treachery . It also provides an instance where one of the few remaining independent railways has been seized without the annoying preliminary of buying it . The incident is in this respect suggestive . The orgie of railway speculation in the seventies came to a climax by very much such methods , but they marked its approaching end .                     