@@486826

On August 15 , 1905 , there were gathered in Cape Town about four hundred over-sea members , with a strong supplement of South African members , of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at the opening of its seventy-fifth meeting . The Association has met outside of the British Isles on only two other occasions  --  at Montreal in 1884 , and at Toronto in 1897 . The visit to South Africa this summer was , however , a much more exceptional affair than a mere transatlantic jaunt ; indeed , it was the largest scientific excursion ever carried successfully through a long-distance itinerary . Three vessels of the Union-Castle line brought detachments of the party from England , the voyages varying from seventeen to twenty-three days of fair weather . The over-sea membership was of four classes . There was the " official party , " of about one hundred and seventy , including the general and sectional officers of the Association and a number of representative scientists selected by the Council from the eleven sections , from Astronomy to Education ; for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway transportation over long distances , and much private hospitality , as well as a generous subvention towards expenses from funds that had been placed at the disposal of the Association by the colonial Governments in order to ensure a strong attendance . Then there were foreign guests to the number of sixteen from Europe and America , invited by the Council from nominations made by the sectional committees . These fortunati were practically on a par with the official party where they were not given even greater facilities and privileges : among them may be named Engler , botanist , and Luschan , ethnologist , of Berlin ; Penek , geographer , of Vienna ; Backlund , astronomer , of Pulkova ; and Cordier , Orientalist , of Paris ; and among the five Americans , Scott , palmontologist , of Princeton ; Brown , mathematician , of Haverford ; Car-hart , physicist , of Michigan ; and Campbell , botanist , of Stanford . Third came the nonofficial party , for whom the concessions as to travelling expenses were less generous , but who , as far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with every one else . Fourth were the wives , sons , daughters , and relatives of members , who were in sufficient number to give the excursion the appearance of a large family party . To all these should be added the colonial members , who , however , as it seemed to me , usually stood aside to let the procession pass . Although this peripatetic meeting was smaller than its predecessors at home , it was attended by a good proportion of representative men , from the president , Prof. George Darwin of Cambridge , to the many sectional officers and speakers ; and the South Africans may consider that they had a good sample of a scientific gathering in the various presidential addresses , sectional meetings and evening lectures , to say nothing of the personal conferences between home and colonial members , from which profit flowed both ways . Darwin 's presidential address was given in two parts , one at Cape Town , the other at Johannesburg ; it treated molecular and stellar physics in a style that must have conveyed a somewhat severe impression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halls were crowded on both occasions , but this was alleviated by the lighter vein of his frequent informal remarks  --  as , for example , at Pietermaritzburg , when he repeated the story of a dispute reported by a lady 's maid : " The butler says as ' ow we 're hall descended from Darwin , but the cook says we hai n't , and they ca n't agree " ; and at Durban , where he told how his father , when the Beagle touched on the Natal coast seventy years before , wished to leave the vessel and go overland to the Cape , an adventurous plan that was defeated by an off-shore breeze which turned the vessel away . " So my presence here , " said the distinguished son of the famous naturalist , " may in all probability be laid to a puff of wind . " Among the various sectional addresses , mention may be made of those on " University Education and National Life , " by Sir Richard Jebb , the distinguished classical professor and M. P. of Cambridge , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other end , " and advocated a broad-minded conception of university culture , in which the narrower views of Matthew Arnold as to the sufficiency of literature were amplified by the more philosophic views of Henry Sidgwick as to the value of scientific training ; by Professor Haddon of Cambridge , anthropologist and explorer , on the native tribes of South Africa , their subdivisions and characteristics , their invasions and migrations , and particularly on the need of careful study and record of native customs before they are too much affected by European influences ; by Sir Colin Scott Moncrieff , army engineer in India for over twenty years , and in charge of irrigation in Egypt under the British administration , describing the systems of irrigation in various parts of the world  --  a subject very pertinent to the needs of the South African colonies at present ; by Admiral Sir William Wharton ( whose death afterwards at Cape Town was the tragedy of the whole excursion ) , on geographical progress , especially in oceanography , in which appropriate reference was made to the ancient circumnavigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the explorers said they saw the sun pass over the sky on their right hand , as they sailed westward around the southern end of the land , but added that he could n't believe such a story ; by Professor Miers of Oxford , on recent researches in the physico-chemistry of solutions and alloys , in their bearing on the conditions under which ancient salt deposits and crystalline rocks were formed . The evening lectures were equally suggestive . Sir William Crookes , the eminent chemist of London , described at Kimberley the various theories of the origin of diamonds , with brilliant illustrations by means of elaborate apparatus brought all the way from home , but with a stronger leaning to the origin of the Kimberley diamond " pipes " by meteoric impact than was acceptable to some of his geological listeners . Professor Poulton , zoologist of Oxford , presented at Cape Town an account of Burchard 's African explorations of a century ago , and had the good fortune to find afterwards , through the aid of one of his audience , some of Burchard 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Boys , physicist of London , exhibited in Cape Town many experiments concerned with the properties of liquids . Farrar , the young geologist of the recent British Antarctic expedition , told an audience at Durban of his journeys over the far southern plateaus of ice and snow . Professor Arnold , metallurgist of Sheffield , explained at Johannesburg the structure of " Steel as an Igneous Rock " according to modern researches ; and so on . It was the abundance of this sort of thing that gave some warrant to the superlative terms in which the over-sea members were greeted by colonial and municipal officers in the flattering addresses of welcome by which the Association was met at every stop on its long inland journey . As to sectional meetings , there was much good material , to judge by the published programmes , but nothing that calls for report here in competition with the innumerable novel experiences in the Colonies that we traversed . Indeed , it was often hard to secure a worthy audience f or papers of real merit , so distracting were the opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest . Geographers and geologists , zoologists and botanists , in particular , found it difficult to remain indoors during the few days that we had in a region of such exceptional interest as the Cape Town district ; while , at Johannesburg and Kimberley , engineers and chemists , economists and anthropologists were also continually tempted away from the formal sessions . For this reason the incidents of the itinerary may here take the place of further account of the meetings . There were , of course , garden parties and receptions everywhere . Those given at Cape Town by his Excellency , Sir Healy Hutchinson , Governor of the Colony , by Sir David Gill , Cape astronomer , and by his Worship , the Mayor , were the first of a series that had no end till we left the continent on the return voyage . The University of the Cape of Good Hope signalized its appreciation of our visit by holding a special congregation to confer a number of honorary degrees  --  a dignified ceremony , which took place in the large assembly-room of the new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which nearly all the meetings of the Association were held . The opening address by the President of Convocation explained with graceful modesty that it was not so much for the purpose of conferring distinction upon the recipients of the degrees as for acquiring distinction for the young university that the guests were invited to allow their names to be added to its list of alumni . Some of the new doctors were evidently chosen with regard to international considerations ; thus , representatives of Russia , France , Germany , Holland , Denmark , Austria , and Sweden were ranged on one side of the platform , as if to indicate the diverse languages and interests of Continental Europe , while the force that makes for unity in the possession of a common tongue brought together on the other side representatives of Cape Colony , Canada , and the United States to fill out the line that began with British scientists like Darwin and Crookes , and with British philologists like Jebb and Murray . The five days at Cape Town were all too short for a satisfying view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its heavy cap of sandstone , unconformably overlying a floor of older rocks . too much in praise can not be said : its superb escarpment is the northern end of a north-south range , lying at the southwestern corner of southern Africa  --  once an island , now tied to the continent by a low , sandy belt on the east , like Gibraltar on a larger scale . Heavy surf thrashes the exposed western base of the range ; Table Bay and Cape Town harbor are imperfectly protected from westerly gales north of the sand belt , while Simonstown , with a better harbor , on the east of the range south of the sand belt , has been chosen as a naval station and has large works in progress . There are charming suburban villages around the northern base of the range , where many of us were quartered , half an hour or more by rail from Cape Town , and so agreeably that we were loath to move on to our next meeting-place . The main party left Cape Town on August 18 or 19 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Durban , the chief port of Natal . Many entertaining distractions were provided during brief stops there and at Pietermaritzburg , the capital , including views of sugar plantations , native dances , and so on . Some amusement was felt when it was learned that at the latter city , noted among its neighbors for a certain soporific quietude , Colonel Bruce , expert on tropical diseases , was to give an evening lecture on " sleeping sickness . " The trip through Natal included stops at Ladysmith and other battlefields , for those historically inclined , after which the party made its way in several special trains up the strong slope by which the inner highland rises from the Indian Ocean , passing around Majuba Hill of unhappy memory on the edge of the chief escarpment , and so across the Veld , or open high country ( often written Veldt by the English , as if to preserve its sound , and still better transliterated Felt ) to Johannesburg in the Transvaal . A feature of Natal is the large number of turban-wearing ( East ) Indians profitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servants , they are largely employed by the railways , many of them are market gardeners on small holdings , and they are said to be displacing Europeans in the way of small shop-keeping . The point of all this is , that they work more steadily and intelligently than the Kaffirs , and live on a lower scale than the whites . Many of them have come from India as five-year contract laborers , but the Indian Government insists that at the end of this time they may settle permanently in South Africa , and be . free to take up any work that they like . They may become citizens of the colonies , and acquire the right to vote ; but suffrage for Africans and Indians is so restricted in Natal that practically none of them exercise it . In Cape Colony a larger number of non-Europeans are qualified voters , but their representation in the Assembly is so restricted that it can never reach a majority . In both of these self-governing colonies , white domination is an undisputed principle by the race now in power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Natal d &tour; by an excursion in the Karroo district , the inner dry part of the east-west ranges and valleys which must be crossed before reaching the plateau country farther north . The clear nights brought freezing weather , and the days were fresh enough for winter clothing . Here Mr. Rogers , geologist of the Cape Colony , w as in charge , and gave us a fine opportunity of seeing a typica : series of South African formations . The most remarkable of these was certainly the Dwyka , which we saw at various widely separated points  --  a heavy bed of unstratified material , probably of Permian date , containing numerous striated pebbles and boulders of various kinds , and lying , at most of the points where its base is seen , on a striated MOUtOnilee surface , and hence unquestionably of glacial origin . It extends over something like 200,000 square miles , and , wonderful to relate , the movement of the ice sheet which formed it was southerly , from the region of the equator toward the region of the pole . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dwyka in South Africa , there was extensive glacial action in India and Australia . To say that geologists are puz zled thereby is to put the matter very mildly . From Rogers 's party in the Karroo , three of us , Penck of Vienna , Coleman of Toronto , and myself , made a hurried run northeastward , and joined another excursion led by Anderson , geologist of Natal , and Molengraaff , formerly geologist of the Transvaal . This was in the Vrijheid district , transferred from the Transvaal to Natal at the close of the Boer war , and here we saw something of rural Boer life , as well as of geological problems . The few Boers whom we met impressed us as men of strong character and good intelligence ; and we gained the impression here and elsewhere that , while they were not altogether happy in the present situation , yet they accepted it in good faith , and worked with good will toward the future . They did not appear to harbor bad feeling against the British as such , although there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the concentrated mine owners ; but there were not iwords enough to express the contempt felt for the National Scouts , or Boers enlisted under the British flag in the latter part of the war . We saw something of the Zulus on this occasion , looked into a kraal ( village of stick and straw huts ) , and heard much from the colonists as to the necessity of maintaining white supremacy  --  a subject on which men of a rougher nature expressed themselves violently , but on which those of finer fibre spoke with much feeling of responsibility , and with perception of the difficulty of the problems ahead and of the need of well-tempered justice in attempting to solve them . Nearly every one , except the missionaries themselves , described the Christianized natives as less honest than the unconverted , and we thus gained the impression that the missionaries had gone too far and too fast . The natives taught in Jesuit schools were less criticised . There was a stop of four days at Johannesburg , during which we were distributed among local hosts all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sandstones that enclose the gold-bearing Banket or puddingstone . This allowed a resumption of sectional meetings , which were held in the temporary buildings of the new Technical Institute ; but , as already hinted , it was difficult to withstand the temptation of making special excursions with our many hosts , to see the mines and the surface works and the compounds for the 80,000 Kaffirs and the 50 , - 000 Chinese , to say nothing of the official excursions every afternoon , and of the all-day trip for many of us to the marvellous Premier diamond mine ( product , over ? 1,000,000 a year ) beyond Pretoria . Here , as well as in all our other stopping-places , the comfort of many members was substantially increased by the hospitality of the clubs , whose houses were opened to us and much used , especially at the noon hours , when the luncheon tables were filled with lively groups , where over-sea and local members had better opportunity of making acquaintance than in the meeting-rooms . Johannesburg itself was immensely interesting from its extraordinary artificialness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population of about 80,000 Europeans and as many natives  --  not counting the Kaffirs and Chinese in the mining compounds ; with many large buildings and fine shops , tramway service , and residential suburbs , an set down in a high and dry country , nearly 6,000 feet above the sea , bare of trees , scant of water , empty of people for miles and miles together  --  a country apparently fit for little more than cattle-raising , and now almost deprived of cattle by rinderpest and other diseases , unsuited for wheat farming because of the rust that comes with the summer rains , and without high mountains to supply perennial streams for irrigation ; a city where the working population is recruited from India and China , as well as from the African colonies , and where many of the European and American population would seem to be held only by high salaries or high wages , ready to escape homeward as soon as possible  --  for who would make a permanent residence at this centre of dust in a region of dreariness , if the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to him ? ( and yet this is , I fear , only the stranger 's view ) ; a city where the interest of every one centres in the mines , from which the monthly output is ? 1,700,000 , and yet from which the profits to shareholders are said on the average to be small , where " Kaffirs Rising " as a headline in the morning papers suggests to the uninitiated outsider the need of getting a gun and joining the militia to suppress a native insurrection , ' but shows to the residents that their mining shares are advancing in price ( and every one has some stock in the mines ) ; a city so civilized that it would soon go naked and starve if supplies of all sorts were not received from thousands of miles over seas and lands , and yet so dependent on the mines that it will remain only as strange ruins when its population dwindles away after the Banket is worked out some thirty or fifty years hence , unless some unsuspected source of wealth is then discovered . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by English and American engineers under the ownership of European capitalists ; the surface works , with forges where whites and blacks are employed side by side in sharpening and tempering drills , and compressors where air is driven down to forced labor below ground under heavy pressure ; the slanting underground works where the shallower part of the Banket is already exhausted , where the deeper parts are now honeycombed , and where the greatest " deeps " at which mining can be carried on profitably are prospected in advance by borings and shafts ; the surface works , again , where the skips come rushing up from the shafts with their three-ton loads of Banket , the sorting-tables where men and boys pick out the barren rock , the crushers and the deafening stamp-mills where the paying rock is reduced to sand and slimes , the amalgamating tables and the cyanide tanks for the extraction of the gold , and the huge white heaps ( the " Johannesburg Alps " ) where the waste is carried up on long endless rubber belts ; and all this going on at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of invested capital , and thus to secure the greatest profit to European owners , whatever effect the exhaustion of the mines may have on the South African State . The great question in Johannesburg today is the employment of Chinese labor . This question arose after the war , when the Kaffirs  --  the common name for all kinds of native laborers  --  elated with wartime wages , were slow to return to the lower terms that the mine owners thought enough : and when , moreover , the available natives did not seem numerous enough to supply the labor demanded in the mines as fast as work was resumed with the establishment of peace . In order promptly to secure sufficient cheaper labor , a bill was passed at the instance of the ? mine owners by the Legislative Council on February 10 , 1904 , signed by the King , and put into effect on May 19 , allowing the importation of Chinese laborers for periods of three years to work in the mines alone . The bill contains numerous specifications and restrictions as to manner of recruiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return from Durban , working days and holidays , wages , manner of payment , space in compounds , right of appeal to magistrates , permits for brief absence from the compounds , conditions under which families may be sent for , and under which any Chinaman may resign at any time and return home at his own expense , and particularly as to the kind of work he must not do in the Transvaal . If he so desires , reenlistment for a second three-year term is permitted , but this contingency has not yet been reached . A third enlistment is not allowed ; the coolie must then be returned to China if he has not been taken back at the end of his first term . The mines and the miners are always open to governmental inspection . Nearly 50,000 Chinamen have been brought over under these conditions . This is not slavery , as ' it is excitedly called in some of the English papers , nor anything like it . It is not so bad as signing on many a sailing vessel , where there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mates can not be escaped till the end cf the voyage . It is not out of comparison with enlistment as a private soldier , except that there is no bright uniform . It is vastly better than the condition of many Italian laborers under railway contractors in the United States , where the work ' is bard , and where the manner of living is often dirty and wretched in the extreme . The compounds , in which the Kaffirs as well as the Chinese are kept , were regarded by all who saw them as large , well arranged and relatively clean . The Chinese compound that I visited had a large washroom , where the men could have a tub on coming up from work ; a good kitchen where Chinese food was prepared by Chinese cooks ; a smaller kitchen where the men could prepare their own food in their own way if they chose ; plenty of hot water to be drawn , steaming , from a tap into individual teapots whenever wanted ; abundant clear space among the buildings ; and barracks clean to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the men coming up from the mine and wandering about the compound ; good humor was their prevalent expression , and only a few , looked sulky . There was abundant chance of escape for those so inclined , but there was much probability of arrest of any stray Chinaman without a permit ; nevertheless , a number of them have run away from work , and of these the few who have be come marauders , stealing and murdering among Kaffirs and Indians , have caused , naturally enough , a great commotion . They are the black sheep of an industrious flock . This is not slavery ; but whether the importation of thousands of Chinamen on contract labor will prove to be a wise economic act is a very different and very difficult question . It is a not unnatural result of the high-pressure methods prevalent on the Rand , where the Kaffir , unaccustomed to continuous labor , has not always been easily held to his task . It seems to me to serve and to be intended to serve chiefly as a device to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be forgotten that there are still almost twice as many Kaffirs as Chinamen at work in the mines about Johannesburg ; and a recent report of the Native Labor Association declares : " It would be a most unfortunate conclusion for any one to arrive at that , because the mines have been obliged at great expense to add a few thousand Chinese to the working force , we intend to or think we can afford to dispense with the labor of the South African natives . " The device of importation appears , however , to be more expensive than was expected , and less satisfactory as a remedy for real or imaginary evils ; and in this respect Chinese labor has some likeness to the present British regime , which has proved more costly to the mine owners , who were essentially responsible for the Boer war , than the less elaborate government that it replaced . There is already a strong feeling in favor of a change from a crown colony , administered from London , to a self-governing colony , and of a replacement of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resident Afrikanders or Colonials as officials . W. M. DAVIS . 