@@430339

 |p1422  THE Bureau of Municipal Research is an agency for the promotion of efficiency in the administration of cities . Its program is a program of publicity . It believes that the publication of facts respecting the acts of government will not only prevent specific acts of misgovernment , but ensure a progressive development of governmental efficiency by providing a basis for the exercise of intelligent popular control . Historically , the bureau is an outgrowth of the repeated failure of political reform movements in New York and American cities generally . These movements , regularly predicated on the patent corruption of particular administrations , as regularly dissolved after a brief and disheartening period of power . The two years of the Low administration , characterized in many ways by excellent service , resulted in the return to power of Tammany . Men were not convinced that the administrative methods of reform were essentially different from those of Tammany , should Tammany ' assume respectability . Reform had failed is make an appeal to the popular imagina tion which Tammany could not surpass The public continued to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Tammany , had governed thru personality . At the close of the first McClellan term in 19o5 the reformers had no issue . Since no scandals had cropped to the surface there was nothing to galvanize opposition . The Republicans had n program until the eleventh hour , when Mr. Ivins came to the rescue of his party . The Citizens ' Union , the foster mother of reform , had barely vitality enough ti echo the promises of Jerome . Mr. McClellan 's re-election scarcely would have been disputed had not Mr. Hearst entered the field to undermine the foundations of Tammany on the collateral issue of public ownership of public utilities . What had actually happened during the two years of Mr. McClellan 's administration nobody knew . The Citizens ' Union found satisfaction in the belief  |p1423  that the example of the reform administration had raised the standards of Tammany . No one asked : What has Tammany accomplished and how has the public business been transacted ? Has the tenement house law been enforced ? Have the streets been properly cleaned ? Has unnecessary sickness been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer ? Does the death rate indicate an efficient Health Department ? Are there adequate sittings for school children , and if not , why ? Have the public funds been productively and economically expended ? Has every dollar spent produced a dollar 's value in result ? Are the poor receiving the value of their taxes ? To a group of social workers who realized that the poor man 's good government must be an efficient government , and that the poor do not consciously prefer the glad hand and cheap bounty in the form of a Thanksgiving turkey , shoes or burial money , to decent tenements , clean streets , attractive parks , pure milk , and educational opportunities for their children , it seemed indispensable to intelligent action by an independent electorate that there should be a perpetual agency for securing publicity of the facts respecting government . It was not urged that the publication of the facts would prove damaging to Mr. McClellan . It was contended , however , that unless Mr. McClellan or any other administrator , however gifted in leadership , knew the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ f his office could not be possible to him . Dr. William H. Allen , at that time eneral agent of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor , proposed to Mr. R. Fulton Cutting , the chairman of the Citizens ' Union , that that body conduct a bureau whose function it should be to accumulate and publish information relating to the government of New York City . In January , 1906 , the Bureau of City Betterment was organized under the control of a subcommittee of the Citizens ' Union . The bureau 's staff consisted of a secretary and three assistant investigators , $12,000 being provided for the first year 's work . The press , persuaded of the futility of reform , was skeptical of this new undertaking of a reform body . Tammany saw in it at best only a temporary inconvenience . It was soon discovered , however , that the bureau was not attempting the accumulation of political capital for one political body as against another . It made its first statement to call attention to the absence of published reports on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for periods running back from one to four years . It pointed out , for example , that no statement of the work and expenditure of the Department of Street Cleaning had been published during either the Low or McClellan administrations . It called attention , by simple analysis and tabulation , to the significance of statements reporting the increases of salaries in the various departments , found scattered and disordered in voluminous issues of the official city daily . Day after clay it gave publicity to facts which , unclassified , would have escaped attention . The Street Cleaning Department was under severe criticism for failure to clean the streets . It was known that its annual expenditure exceeded $5,000,000 , but no information was available as to its organization , its methods or its use of its funds . The bureau , in a pamphlet , invited attention to certain facts digged out and compiled from forgotten public records . An aldermanic investigation of the department followed . Wherever publicity was given , public interest was aroused and administrative quickening resulted . The public , for example , suffered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Houses were bombarded by flying stones ; workmen were maimed and killed . The bureau undertook an investigation of the agency maintained to control blasting operations , and made a detailed report , after inspection , on its failure to compel contractors to conform to the precautionary measures prescribed by law . The official responsible for the law 's enforcement did not survive the publicity given to his incompetency . Attention was called to the delinquencies of public service corporations respecting the payment of obligations to the city . The facts set forth , the city immediately began suit for recovery . The bureau quickly learned that information and publicity of facts  |p1424  react beneficially on the methods of administration , and the bureau discovered , too , that most public officials welcomed information that would enable them to govern well . With the co-operation of the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Board of Aldermen , the bureau undertook an analysis of the departmental estimates submitted for the annual budget . The estimates totaled manv millions more than could be provided . In the light of the estimates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the merits of the requests ? Department heads rarely offered reasons or arguments in support of estimates asking for increased appropriations . How was money voted last year spent ? What results had it provided ? The estimates sent in by department heads did not tell . Money asked for twenty different things was voted in the budget in lump sums less in amount than the aggregate of the twenty requests . now did the fiscal authorities decide what to allow and what to deny ? How did they know that money appropriated to this thing was not spent for that ? The bureau believed that an unintelligent budget meant an unintelligent administration ; that a need which was left unrecognized in the budget meant a need unfilled . Finding the Commissioner of Health convinced of the need of awakening public and official interest in the problems of his administration , the bureau made an analysis of the Department of Health 's expenditure of the funds appropriated to it for the year 1906 . It showed how much of the appropriations voted under eleven heads had been spent for each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a complete redistribution of the expenditures of the department was necessary . The accounts , tho well kept , failed to , show what each activity cost . Consequently , the department could make no intelligent appeal for additional funds to support its activities . Since the department stated its case only in generalities , the fiscal authorities could decide only on the basis of these generalities , and , accordingly , cut down the estimates as one cuts off the tops of standing grain . With the department itself and the fiscal authorities uninformed , the public was left hopelessly at sea . With the information of what had been spent for each activity , the bureau urged that allowance be made on the basis of results produced and needs foreseen . The mere consideration of each need resulted in the voting of a budget to the department more nearly adequate than it otherwise would have received . This display of interest in the notoriously perfunctory process of voting the annual budget , determining the scope and direction of next year 's municipal program , led the Mayor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Apportionment to determine that , in the future , all departmental budgets should set forth a specific item for every line of activity conducted by the department , in the manner adopted for the budget of the I I ealth Department . An intelligent ( segregated ) budget must be premised on intelligent ( segregated ) accounts and properly controlled operative records and reports . The bureau , in co-operation with the Department of health , undertook the provision of this mechanism of intelligent and efficient administrative control . The results of this work are described in a recent bureau publication . For the budget of 1908 the bureau , in co-operation with Comptroller Metz and his staff , has , ill a similar way , provided information for the functional segregation of budgets for eight of the principal departments . These budgets were based on statements of expenditure classified according to functional activity or lines of work . They represent the judgment of the fiscal authorities as to the measure of support each activity shall receive , and place upon the administrative official the obligation of measuring his expenditure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general installation of classified accounts in all departments , this work having been begun in those departments to which segregated budgets have been voted . In this work the bureau is actively co-operating , providing and supervising a corps of accountants . Tammany grants preferment to its members when they can point to a record of acts friendly to the poor and op-  |p1425  pressed . In 1903 Tammany elected John F. Ahearn , a forceful district leader , to the office of President of the Borough of Manhattan , on a legislative record of service to teachers , firemen , police and orphans . Mr. Jerome , popular idol , publicly endorsed Mr. Ahearn as one of the cleanest of the Tammany leaders . His family life was exemplary , his eagerness to he of service undisputed . In 1905 Mr. Ahearn was re-elected , even the Hearst opposition only serving to swell his majority . The office of the President of the Borough is one of close relation to the daily comfort of the people . He has charge of the street pavements and of the sewerage system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control is the great system of public paths thruout Manhattan .. Here was a popular idol . How had he governed ? The bureau sought to find out . To secure information proved a laborious task . The records of his office were uninforming , his published reports meaningless . The bureau 's report , when published , altho an ungarnished statement of fact , was stamped by Mr. Ahearn as a " mass of misinformation . " It was sufficiently disconcerting , however , to prompt him to ask for an official investigation . The investigation was ordered of the Commissioners of Accounts by Mayor McClellan . These officials proceeded to react in the expected manner . Instead of investigating , they undertook the preparation of briefs in reply to every statement contained in the bureau 's voluminous pamphlet . It happened , however , that the bureau continued its . investigation after the publication of its pamphlet . Among other things , it made a careful examination , analysis and tabulation of the facts shown on the thousands of vouchers drawn by Mr. Ahearn during his incumbency in office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation Cotmsel that the Commissioners of Accounts were wantonly whitewashing Mr. Ahearn . Immediately a special corporation counsel , Mr. John Purrov Mitchel , was placed in charge of the inquiry , the co-operation of the bureau invited , and a real investigation begun . The Borough President , finding that the ' investigation was unexpectedly earnest , exerted every effort to block its progress . When the public hearings began and the unpleasant truth was told or reaffirmed , Mr. Ahearn lost all his aplomb . For three years he had enjoyed the reputation of being " a pure and competent official . " No one knew in what respect he was competent , but not having extraordinary evidence to the contrary , competency was conceded to his purity and popularity . The public learned that for three years Mr. Ahearn had been spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on supplies and repairs without the slightest pretense of conserving the city 's interest . Mr. Ahearn saw published the fact that thousands of dollars had been paid by him to the political agent of a fellow district leader , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit of from 30 to 300 per cent . on the goods bought by him and sold to the city . When Mr. Ahearn realized that his neglect and indifference had gone too far for him to persuade the public that pavements full of holes were in good condition , the popular leader lost consolation in his popularity arid , forgetting his vaunted competency , suddenly began to fear removal from office by the Governor . A lifelong friend of the people and enemy of reformers suddenly turned reformer himself . His chief subordinate , a fellow district leader , he turned out of office , charging him with responsibility for his own neglect . One after another " trusted " subordinate was removed . Mr. Abeam had capitulated before facts . The bureau 's ' ' misinformation " suddenly appeared the inexorable truth . Acting on the facts educed in the investigation and set forth in the report of the Commissioners of Accounts , the City Club of New York brought charges against President Ahearn before Governor Hughes , with a petition for his removal . The hearing on these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Ahearn 's sole defense was that he had been uninformed of the acts of his subordinates , and that when the facts were brought to his attention he immediately took steps to correct the abuses revealed . With tears in his eyes he pleaded his personal innocence of any wanton maladministration . He declared that he had repeatedly inquired of his subordinates whether this  |p1426  or that transaction was proper , and had granted his approval only on being reassured of its propriety . In defense of his appointment to administrative offices of men with only political qualifications , he declared that they were as competent as he ; that he had been twice chosen by the people for his important administrative office , and that in choosing him a second time they had sanctioned his selections of district leaders as his chief subordinates . In this defense Mr. Ahearn summarized the whole case of the Bureau of Municipal Research . To Mr. 1 heart ' the uninformed sanction of the public justified any administrative practice pursued prior to the expression of this sanction . It is the bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year of Mr. Ahearn 's administration been made public at the close of that year , instead of at the close of the third year , practices then found prejudicial to the public interest would not have been tolerated . Had the Citizens ' Union had the information respecting Mr. Ahearn 's administration in the fall of 1905 that was available to it in 1907 , there would have been no want of issues . Money wasted by Mr. Ahearn in two years , in the hands of the Health Department , would have saved additional lives ; in the hands of the Tenement House Department , strengthened the enforcement of the housing law . The Citizens ' Union might have seriously shaken the popularity of the friend of the poor by calling attention to public benefits denied by the waste and incompetence of his administration . The widening scope of the work of the Bureau of City Betterment , especially in the field of co-operation with officials , prompted its establishment as a separate institution , without connection with any political body . In May , 1907 , the bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff now numbers eighteen men . The supervision of its work is entrusted to three men , who in turn are responsible to a board of trustees . Its expenditure will exceed $5o,000 for this year . Much of its present energy is devoted to the installation of a mechanism of information which will make the intelligent control of administration possible to governing officials , as well as provide the basis in facts for intelligent judgment by the public . Modern systems of accounting , carefully devised systems of controlling records , and reports made truthful thru control , are the necessary antecedents to even intelligent publicity . Certainly they are prerequisite to constructive development of the methods and activities of government . The bureau 's work has resulted in the renewed emphasis of the functions of the Commissioners of Accounts , the agents for securing information for the guidance of the executive . This office , being practically a bureau of audit , with the powers of a legislative commission of inquiry , is potentially of greatest importance in providing the Mayor with accurate information of the transactions of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function , and was utterly neglected during the reform administration . Being exempt from civil service restrictions , it was made the means of providing berths for " the enemies of Tammany . " A part of its staff was transferred to the Mayor 's office , there to perform purely clerical work . Had Mayor Low utilized the power of the Commissioners of Accounts to learn the facts about the administration of his predecessors and to tell him the truth about his own , the continuance of Tammany methods under reform colors would scarcely have been possible . It would have done much to make impossible , for example , the plea of Mr. Ahearn that he had trusted one of his subordinates ( and the one proved least deserving of trust ) because he had inherited him from reform . Publicity of the acts of municipal government and the methods of administrative and popular control over the mechanism of government are the problems with which the Bureau of Municipal Research is concerned . It believes that the only good government is government by intelligence . To secure this intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required . To make such an agency effective its permanency must be insured , that it will not prove only a " temporary inconvenience " to officials who thrive on confusion and misgovernment.                     