@@486923

In appointing a committee to inquire into the President 's statements regarding the use of the secret service men , the House has gone too far to retreat . There are intimations in Washington that an effort will be made to " hush up " the quarrel between the Executive and Congress . That is now impossible without reflecting seriously upon one or the other . If Congress fails to press the matter , everybody will say that it is filled with scoundrels whom the President frightened by threatening to expose . In the process of collecting materials of war , the President will doubtless go to the Congressional Record of May 1 , 1908 . Therein is the record of the debate in the House on the paragraph in the Sundry Civil Appropriation Bill to which the President referred in his message . He said many unpleasant things about the intent and effect of the clause providing that the secret-service agents of the Treasury should be used " for no other purpose whatever " than the one expressed in the law . The President declared that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime " But the danger that this might happen was brought forward in the debate in the House , and was then and there disposed of . It was shown that the power of any Department to employ detectives was not in the least curtailed , and that , in particular , the Department of Justice had a specific and ample appropriation for that purpose If the Attorney-General has been " hampered " in the running down of criminals , it has not been for lack of funds put at his disposal by Congress . The saying of the President which has most rankled in the bosoms of Congressmen , and which seems to have been most unjustifiable , was that " the chief argument in favor of the provision was that the Congressmen did not themselves wish to be investigated by secret service men . " Now , by this Mr. Roosevelt must have meant the argument by which Congressmen in their heart of hearts were most influenced ; be was apparently thinking of a secret argument , or , at the most , what the logicians call an enthymeme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept in the mind . But it is exceedingly difficult to prove what another man is thinking of . Turning to the actual record of the debate on the bill in the House , we do , indeed , find one reference to the use of secret service agents to " shadow " Congressmen . The fact was first brought out that the Secretary of the Navy had employed detectives to find evidence that a certain naval officer had been guilty of conduct unbecoming a gentleman and an officer . Then occurred the following colloquy Mr. Sherley ? The gentleman may be aware of the fact that this Secret Service at one time was used for the purpose of looking into the personal conduct of a member of Congress , notwithstanding the gentleman seems to think that they are answerable to no one Mr. Bennet of New York ? The gentle -- man is not aware of anything of that kind . As far as the gentleman has investigated it has been denied Mr. Sherley ? But that was the fact . Mr. Bennet of New York ? The allegation was made , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made not by a member of the Secret Service , but by a police officer of the city of Washington , who , when it was ascertained that he had done that , was summarily dismissed from the police force This would make it appear that the President 's " chief argument " was advanced only to be repudiated and its basis of fact denied Far from clearing up the mystery of the Brownsville shooting , the President 's message on that subject has made the confusion worse confounded . He has sent to Congress a report which he himself admits to be " incomplete , " and to contain matter that is " worthless . " It would have been better to wait until the investigation , which he says is to be pushed further , had been finished ; - and the results - sifted and weighed . As it was , Senator Foraker was at once able to read letters throwing doubt upon the " confession " of one of the negro soldiers which the President had triumphantly produced . No one who has read with care all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that some of the negro soldiers may have got out of hand and taken part in the Brownsville shooting ; but there never was positive proof in the case of a single individual . Whether the evidence now brought forward by the President is valid , is a fit subject for inquiry . It certainly was obtained under suspicious circumstances ; corroboration is as yet lacking ; and the particular soldier involved denies that he ever made the statements reported by - the -illiterate-negro detective . We note with satisfaction , however , that Mr. Roosevelt is inclined to take a more reasonable view of the possible reinstatement of the negro soldiers , summarily discharged , innocent and guilty alike . He now favors a law putting back in the army any of the men who can show that they had nothing to do with the shooting , or any " guilty knowledge of it beforehand . " It must be said that Mr. Roosevelt 's reasoning in the whole matter is difficult to follow ; he speaks of the facts as before " established beyond all possibility , of doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fixed with " tolerable definiteness . " At one point , he betrays himself into the admission that " innocent " soldiers were discharged , but immediately adds that there were " hardly any innocent , " but a few who were " less guilty " ; yet only those who can prove themselves " innocent " may hope for reinstatement ! Through all this , however , there runs a dawning sense that a great injustice has been committed , and that the President wishes it might be righted . Mr. Roosevelt 's message would not be characteristic of its author without much talk about army and navy . Not content with that , however , he has sent in an emergency message for the passage of a law regulating in advance the war-time organization of regulars , national guard , and volunteers . The plan , he says , will not cost us a dollar in peace-time , and will insure the creation automatically of war-time forces , organized with a view to profiting by past experiences and mistakes. - - Congress will probably find little chance for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations regarding the army and navy ; indeed , to most of these Congress has hitherto wisely turned a deaf ear There was that emergency message sent in by Mr. Roosevelt two years ago , in which he declared it of transcendent importance that he should be forthwith given power to dismiss navy officers without trial by court-martial if , in his opinion , they had misconducted themselves . But Congress calmly disregarded the message  --  and now that very pressing matter is apparently forgotten . Probably the only recommendation for the navy that will be seriously debated is that for four more battleships . A report from the Secretary of War without recommendations for more men and more officers would be an anomaly . Secretary Wright , therefore , follows his predecessors in asking for 612 more officers to take the places of those on detached duty , and an increase in the Coast Artillery of 1,070 officers and 26 , - 392 men . Mr. Roosevelt goes even farther . In the cavalry he wants an immediate reorganization and increase of presumably five or ten more regiments . Whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very little , if any , in the request for more officers , because of absenteeism . The more Congress yields in this matter , the greater will be absenteeism and the less effort by the War Department to check the evil . More satisfactory is the report that desertion is on the wane again , and that the skeleton companies of a year and a half ago are being recruited . Instead of being 19,673 short , as on October 15 last year , the number is only 9,422 . Plainly , industrial depression has helped the army by driving to it the unemployed and stimulating reenlistments , while the increases in pay granted last year and the greater severity in the punishment of deserters have also contributed to the result . Altogether , no less than 152,141 men applied for enlistment , of whom 109,721 , or 72 per cent. , were rejected , because they were illiterate or were not citizens or were suffering from mental , moral , or physical defects . No less than 41,463 applicants were accepted , of whom 11,793 were men desirous of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not crack the loud whip or fire dreadful preliminary broadsides at hypothetical opponents ; but his quiet manner of " getting together " with people whose opinions are different , is none the less effective The conference last week between the President-elect andthe Republican members of the Ways and Means Committee.brings new assurance that in the lower house , at least , there shall be no comfort for the hardened " standpatter . " " I have every reason to believe , " said Mr. Taft , " that they Mr. Cannon and the Republican floor leaders are keenly alive to the obligation which is on them as Representatives elected to represent the Republican party , to prepare an honest and thorough revision of the present tariff . " There are no hints of what will happen to Congressmen who persist in their sinister subserviency to criminal interests ; but a manly declaration of purpose and firm intent to see to it that whatever can be done to impress upon Congress the necessity of giving ear to the insistent desire of the country , shall be done . Both Mr. Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue might be the best way to bring about the comprehensive improvement of our waterways . Gov . Johnston of Minnesota seems to be of the same mind , as he has spoken of the $300,000,000 , which the Lakes-to-Gulf canalization would cost , as a " mere bagatelle . " Every one must see that these vast projects , if seriously taken up , can not be paid for out of current revenues . One of the inevitable consequences of putting out a large amount of new United States bonds would , however , be the embarrassment of currency reform , since such an issue would enable advocates of bond-secured circulation to argue that the supply of government securities will never run out . Thus it might be more difficult to persuade the people to abandon a rigid and unscientific system of currency . All this , of course , is no argument against bonds for internal improvements , if they are deemed necessary ; but currency reformers must prepare themselves to overcome this new obstacle . ? What Congressman does not deplore the evils of patronage and piously wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet , when asked to vote for civil service reform , he recites the tenuous old sophistries which Representative Hepburn of Iowa dressed up last week for the debate on census-bureau employees . Competitive examinations , Mr. Hepburn said , are not so effective as the spoils system ; the government knows only about " scholastic attainments , " " while under the old method the applicant 's integrity and industry were vouched for by a member of Con --  gress . " If all Congressmen had expert knowledge about integrity , if they were not in the habit of measuring a voter 's industry by his zeal in repairing his patron 's political fences , the country would more readily entrust the choosing of sixty thousand census enumerators to Mr. Hepburn and his colleagues . As things stand , however , the defeat of the civil service amendment to the census bill by a vote of almost two to one means a victory for wire-pullers and small jobbers . The triumph , we hope , will be short-lived . The Senate and the President still have their say . A farmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its cause by showing one-quarter of the whole country to be still timbered . One acre of trees to three of clearing does not seem to be a dangerous ratio . Senator Smoot 's report , however , might have made clear that one of the most serious features is the unequal distribution of our forests . Waste there is , terrible fires there are , and also far too little planting ; but if the trees still surviving were ideally situated , worry might be deferred for many years . What we find , however , is a few great clusters in mountains and in remote districts , and everywhere else barren stretches , or at best occasional tiny patches of woodland . The evils traceable to this arrangement are perhaps the strongest arguments in favor of immediate , thorough forest regulation by States and the Federal government . Lumbermen may repent and learn to care properly for their own acreage ; but , as individuals , they can not make trees grow where the rivers and the soil most need them . The popular vote for President , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting mainly in its figures for the smaller parties . Whether the Republican vote or the Democratic showed a higher rate of increase since 1904 or 1896 , matters little , in face of the fact that , with Bryan in the field , so many Democrats abandoned party lines . But the disappointment of the Socialists , the Prohibitionists , and the Independence Party are more- interesting . The drift this year was away from the smaller parties . The Debs vote will be within two or three thousands of what it was four years ago , an increase of one-half of one per cent. , instead of the 150 per cent . fondly predicted . The Prohibitionists suffered a loss of about 10 per cent. , and the Independence Party polled throughout the entire country only , some . 82,000 votes . The Socialists profess to have found this grain of consolation : The Debs vote of 1904 was much swollen by radical Democrats who plumped for the Socialist ticket rather than vote for Parker ; in Chicago the teamsters ' strike had a decided effect on the Debs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tens of thousands who voted for the Socialist ticket on temporary issues , and not because they were properly class-conscious . Hence , to have suffered no loss in the last election , that is , to have seized those thousands of weak brethren and turned them into true Socialists who would not desert even under the threat of increasing panic , was in itself a triumph . The argument has , however , its weak points . If the Socialist standstill this year meant that conquered ground had been held , though no new acquisitions were made , the explanation would suffice . But as a matter of fact , the Socialists this year managed to hold their own because their gains in new territory balanced their losses elsewhere . A loss of 35,000 Delis votes in Illinois shows that the Socialists have not turned the neophytes of 1904 into true believers . To make only the slightest gains in New York , Missouri , and New Jersey , to lose in Illinois , Iowa , Kansas , Massachusetts , Ohio , and Wisconsin , and to make large gains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Oklahoma is proof that the Socialists are still subject to the fluctuations that mark the fortunes of other political parties . On the eve of another sensational murder trial , a movement has been started in this city to induce the newspapers to omit " libidinous details of criminality . " The appeal is made to the- press on the ground of public decency , and with the aim of securing newspapers that may be taken into homes without dread of their containing " lewd or suggestive articles . " It is good to know that seri ous-minded and influential men are giving thought to this matter . It is a plain question of public morals . We do not see , however , why discussion of it , and agitation about it , should be limited to times when revolting crimes are committed , or when the ends of justice require that disgusting testimony should be brought out in court . The need of fighting for decency in the press is as continuous as is the temptation to vulgarity , sensationalism , and pruriency . One thing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is of special weight . It is the intimation that " readers and advertisers " could secure a clean press if they truly wished it , and set about obtaining it with real determination . This is gospel truth The most offensive and reckless of our newspapers could be compelled by their advertising patrons to reform or die This is elementary to the whole debate . France has just awakened to the fact that for a nation aspiring to the leadership in culture , she has a disagreeably large number of citizens who can neither read nor write Among last year 's recruits , there were no less than 10,000 illiterates ; the same number has turned up this year . In addition , there are 5,000 young soldiers , who can read , but not write Taking the annual military contingent at about 300,000 men , roughly , this would give France 5 per cent . as the ratio of illiteracy for her adult male population . For the nation at large , the ratio would , of course , be higher still , illiteracy be:ng more widespread among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the percentage of illiteracy was 1-25th of one per cent The highest ratio , 3-20ths of one per cent , stood for agricultural and slow-moving East Prussia . Most of the smaller German states had clean scores The French showing is received by the opponents of the government with a certain amount of malicious satisfaction , because the anti-clericals have been accustomed to boast of what they have done to disseminate secular education among the people . The French newspaper humorists suggest that many conscripts have pretended ignorance just to tease the government ; but the Minister of Education has considered the situation serious enough to issue a ' circular calling upon his subordinates for an active campaign in town and country .                     