@@486810

The greatest possible defect of a book , declared the Port Royal logicians , is not to be read . The same is true of Presidential messages ; and Mr. Roosevelt has made his of such inordinate length that it will be little read . Advocating severe cutting down of Government publications which " no human being " can read , he unhappily produces one of that sort himself . His portentous message , breaking all records and all backs , might have been boiled down to five columns , with appended note : " For the rest , see my speeches and previous messages passim . " Yet there is one set of his speeches to which he could not refer . We mean his tariff-revision speeches of 1902 . All that zeal has cooled . To judge by this message , President Roosevelt has become the weakest of stand-patters  --  one without real convictions , that is , and swayed only by political expediency . He masses the futilities for doing nothing with the tariff in the most approved manner  --  in a manner , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others who paid money to the Republican committee last year on the-distinct understanding that the tariff plunder was to be let alone . This suggests another part of his message which is disappointingly feeble . His reterences to political corruption , and especially to contributions to campaign committees by corporations , are not what was expected of Theodore Roosevelt . He perfunctorily renews his recommendation that there be publication of cams aign expenditures , and would have all Contributions by corporations forbidden by law ; but he makes no allusion to the scandalous diversion of trust funds to aid in his own election  --  has no word of indignant repudiation of his own agents who sought and received such unlawful contributions . To this , then , his reported Oyster Bay indignation has simmered down . The President 's battle-horse Is , of course , his project of railway-rate regulation . As he distinctly refuses to indicate " the exact terms " of the law he desires , it is at present possible to note only his general ideas . These are well known . He wishes Congress to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which shall go into effect " within a reasonable time and subject to review by the courts . " Yet he has discovered that " it is not possible adequately to secure the enforcement of any law of this kind by incessant appeal to the courts . " Still , the courts are open ? A sharper sense of that fact has apparently led the President to doubt if the millennium will be ushered in even by the adoption of his suggestions . " lt is a complitated and delicate problem , and all kinds of difficulties are sure to arise in connection with any plan , while no plan will bring all the benefits hoped for by its more optimistic adherents . " At one moment Mr. Roosevelt seems to think that rebates and the abuses of private-car lines and terminals and switches and using charges are the main things to strike at  --  which , of course , can be done without recourse to Government rate-making ; at another , he says that unless the rate-making power is granted " there is little use in touching the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready to offer the railroads legalized pooling if they will coneent to his plan ; at least , we do not know what else he can mean by his proposal to " permit . . . agreements clearly in the interest of the public , " Provided the Interstate Commerce Commission first be given the power to " fix a maximum rate . " This whole subject , obviously , will be only too much with us all the coming winter ; and we must be content to-day with remarking that the President is plainly less sure of his ground and of himself The Administration finds itself in a singularly humiliating posStion in relation to Germany . That country has denounced the reciprocity agreement in effect with us since 1900 , because of the rearrangement of ? its tariff legislation , and is now ready to ne'go'tiate anew . So are the President and Secretary Root , and so are the merchants and manufacturers whose business is going to suffer by the higher tariff which will be in force after March 1 . But apparently nothing can be done to alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has succeeded in , discovering one lone Senator who is ' in favor of a new reciprocity agreement with Germany , but even he admits that there is no chance whatever of inducing Congress to act . There is no possibility of finding sixty Senators who will vote as he feels , and a two-thirds vote is necessary to ratify a treaty . The long list of rejected reciprocity treaties , the failure of Congress to do justice to the Filipinos , all confirm this view . So , in effect , Mr. Root bias to say to Baron Sternburg ? " The President ' wants to join you in eniaicting a new treaty , and so does his Secretary of State and all the business interests concerned . But the ' stand-patters ' control this Government , and decline to allow ' any tinkering with the tariff leat the whole structure - Come tumbling down . Hence we of the executive branch can only twiddle our thumbs , though admitting the justice of your request and acknowledging that a new reciprocity treaty would add considerably to our material prosperity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief of the ' Bureau of Insular Affairs , in which he recommends that the application of the coastwise shipping laws to Philippine trade be deferred until April 11 , 1909 , though short , is of great importance . It can have only one meaning : that , in the opinion of the American ' authorities most concerned with the welfare of the islands , Anierican ship owners , in spite of nearly three years given them for preparation , have not yet made such arrangements as will famish inexpensive transportation an American bottoms . This falls in with the testimony of Mr. Barber , who , after a visit to the Philippines some months ago , declared that American ? shipping was no better prepared then to carry all the island commerce with this country than it had been When the Philippine shipping bill was passed , and that he did not believe it would be much better prepared after another year . Recent bids of American and foreign carriers on coal for the islands are said to have been $7.00 and $4.871/3 Per ton , respectively . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of the coastwise lama . As this and ' the provision for sufbsidized railroads are the only important pieces of Philippine legislation enacted since the " pacification " of the islands , the demand for a delay of three years More is a poor compliment to the wisdom of the National Legislature . Among the other labors of the Commissioner of Corporations , it is stated that he is " working hard " on a " report on the steel industry " which is to furnish the President " forceful arguments " when he " decides that the time has come to recommend a scaling of certain tariff schedules . " It is not , however , lack of arguments that troubles the President He had them and produced them in 1901 . He was as hot then to revise the tariff as he is now to make railway rates . But that was before the stand-patters had got him down . As for arguments for scaling down the steel duties , they meet him wherever he turns . If he takes up the report of the subsidy committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolting at the fact that our steel-makers were charging our shipbuilders $32 a ton for plates , at the same time that they were selling them to the Belfast builders for $22 . This , said the RePublicans of the committee , " calls for some plain speaking , " since " these steel mills simply heap an unjust and intolerable burden upon an interest now well-nigh prostrate . " But woe be to the man who touches the tariff making such outrages possible ! Representative Payne , Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee , informs the artists of America that they can not have the tariff taxes on paintings and statuary removed : The time , he says without a blush  --  at least , With none visible from this distance  --  is not " opportune " to revise the tariff , and , of course , the " whole tariff question " would be " opened " if any rash Congressman should introduce a bill to make art free . Besides , he explains , the artists do not know their own business . But does Payne know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ befriended " the artists - by getting inserted in the McKinley tariff " a clause removing the duty on works of art imported from abroad . " But veracious Payne , Section 465 of the McKinley bill levied a duty of 15 per cent . on " paintings in oil or water-colors , and statuary . " Pursuing his muddled reminiscences , Mr. Payne says that it was the Wilson tariff , " if I am not mistaken , " which " placed the tariff in operation again . " Well , you are mistaken , Congressman . The tariff on art was already , as we have seen , in " operation , " and the Wilson bill removed it  --  see Section 575 of the tariff act of 1894 . Sereno E. Payne was a member of the Ways and Means Committee at the time ; but , of course , he was too busy denouncing the Wilson bill to know what was in it . Thus it was the ignorant and wicked Democratic party that really " befriended " the artists of America ; as soon as the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the tax again , to the tune of 20 per cent . Embarrassing as is the resignation of the United States Minister to ' Cuba just at this time , Mr Sunless Was clear-eyed enough to perceive that his usefulness had come to an end . Secretary Root 's admirable letter , quashing the hopes of the Isle of Pines annexationists , contained , also , an implied rebuke of the Minister , and his withdrawal promptly followed . The situation With regard to Cuba is ? difficult enough . There are plenty of American annexationists in Cuba who will seek every opportunity to embroil its Government with the United States an order to achieve their ends . There are others ' who will demand American interference for sanitary reasons , or because of the increasing unrest in the Interior ; and the vicious Platt Amendment will play into their hands . It is in every way necessary , therefore , that the scales should be held evenly at ' Washington , ' and that the State Department should be Influenced neither by prejudiced representations nor ' by men with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to do the right thing by C ) uiba , as manifested in his Isle of Pines letter , is a welcome augury of future justice to the Republic . With Mr Odell 's reported desire to have Postmaster-General Oontelyou and Cornelius N. Bliss questioned by the Insurance ' Committee as ' to the political contributions they received from ' the ' insurance Companies , we are in hearty accord . Mr. Odell 's motive is obviously to discredit those pure ' Washingtonians who are now bent on reading him out of the party . To our mind , justice to Mr. Roosevelt and Mr - Cortelyou calls for a ole'aring-up of this Whole questiron of the methods of the Republican National Committee . The Insurance Committee has already performed an inestimable service an demonstrating the alliance between corrupt ffoliticians and the corrupting corporations ; we want the picture complete , bringing out the national aspect of the matter , lest people notice its unfinished condition , and lay it to tenderness for President Roosevelt . We heartily welcome the report that he had declared that both Platt and Odell must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and should be the kind of Warfare in which he could most delight . Platt and Odell ? and Depew . These three must be retired forthwith unless the party desires to be pulled down by them to defeat as well as disgrace . George ' Wi . Perkins will retire from the vice-presidency and the chairmanship of the finance committee of the New York Life . When he attempted to be both vice-president of the life-insurance company and partner of J Pierpont Morgan , the latter gravely doubted whether it was possible , even for a man of Mr. Perkins 's energy and vivacity , to hold the two positions . The event has amply justified Mr Morgan 's misgivings . Among the most . unpleasant ievelations of the insurance investigation have beeen those in regard to Mr. Perkins 's performances in his dual role . As officer of - the insurance company he had to drive hard bargains with the partner of Morgan ; and as partner of Morgan he had to see that the officer of the insurance company ( " the trustee for widows and orphans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . The plain statement of facts on the witness-stand made it obvious to everybody that Mr. Perkins could not try to serve two masters without damaging both them and himself . His retirement from the insurance business is the first open step toward house-cleaning in the New York Life ; but- it can not be the last . The - McCall-  management and President John A. McCall himself no longer command public confidence . To blink this fact is useless . The juggling of the annual statement of the company , the secret ownership of stocks which were presumably sold , the dabbling in the Steel stock syndicate through an intermediary , the elaborate and costly machinery for the corruption of legislatures  --  all these things have served to write down the name of McCall in that black-list of insurance officials who must resign . All the speeches at the City Club 's " Political-Independence " Dinner last week were forward-looking The great victories already won were less dwelt upon than the battles yet to be fought . Reform has - evidently put its hand to the plough and will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians are to be continuously attacked ; to obtain a simpler , surer ballot ; to make the laws against corrupt : practices more thoroughgoing - and to ' enforce them ; to drag political manipulators out of the- cellerage where they lurk and compel them to publicity ; to give the people through better primary laws a better opportunity to work their will  --  these were the themes discussed with vigor and hope Mr Jerome , as usual , excelled all in terrific plainness of speech . His bold and indignant wares about the degradation of the bench - in New York city should cause much searching of hearts . He spoke but the truth , yet it is a truth which our easygoing Bar Association , with the profession in general and a careless public , has been too slow to admit or act upon . Judges in our highest courts boss-made , or on their knees to political machines ; judges practically buying their positions and expecting to recoup themselves by mixing up justice with gain ; incompetent and pliable judges in charge of isuch vast interests in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Jerome drew with his customary startling frankness No candidate for the Speakership of the A.sseiiably approaching J. Mayhew Wainwright in fitness and independence has thus far made his appearance He has not only followed the welcome fashion of announcing his own candidacy without consulting any boss or leader or organization , but has promulgated a platform beyond criticism . In brief , he pledges himself to do his utmost to make the Assembly a legislative body instead of a machine for registering the decrees of bosses and the corrupt corporations which create them . He will , for instance , set himself against the domination of the Rules Committee , which controls the Assembly for the last ten days of the session . During this time the worst bills are generally passed . Like Mr. Parsons , Mr. Wainwright has raised a standard to which all- who favor the reofficering of the Republican party by honest men should repair During his five years at Albany , Mr. Wainwright has shown commendable independence , and has opposed every " strike " bill and steal which came up , and this despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worst bosses in this ptate ? Ward of Westchester County . In his notable fight against the Mortgage Tax bill he rendered a public service which should now stand him in good stead . The representatives of Columbia University have promptly put an end to the football " obsession " at their institution . They displayed a courage more often wanting in scholastic circles . President Butler , too , rose above questions of expediency ; was not misled by talk of " waiting until the excitement should cool down , " and was quite ready to face the august disapproval of the student body which has terrorized so many college executives . Columbia has blazed the way , and other colleges are bound to fall in behind her New York University will , we hope , come next to complete this city 's leadership in the reform . Harvard seems destined to lag behind . The introduction an the Boston Board of Aldermen of an ordinance prohibiting football within the - City limits  --  which include the Harvard Stadium  --  directs attention to the possibility of reforming the game from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good many years anti-football bills have been among the " freak " measures annually introduced in Western legislatures , and occasionally  --  in South Dakota . we believe , was the latest instance-one of these has been enacted and enforced for a short time . It is hardly to be doubted that , when the law steps in to suppress any form of public " amusement , " it stops . Football , at least , can not , like pugilism or cock-fighting , be indulged in in. secret . As for public sentiment , it is true that football games in this city have drawn at least twice as large CT owds as prize-fights ever did under the Horton law , yet what has been done in the one case could assuredly be done in the other . We are not prepared to argue that it should be , under existing conditions A certain sense of academic Xm , munities , an inheritance from the benefit of clergy , has often operated in the past to stay the hand of the public authorities . Mr. Balfour 's abrupt resignation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few Prime Ministers have had to make his humiliating confession that the Government was so tumbling about his ears that he could not go on and face the Commons . It was Mr. Chamberlain who forced the crisis . His bitter and contemptuous speech at Bristol , in which he declared that " no army was ever led successfully to battle on the principle that the lamest man should govern the march , " was practically a notice to Mr. Balfour to quit . What a long series - of defeats in bye-elections , with the Ministry 's steady loss of prestige and even respect , could not induce the Prime Minister to do , a single utterance of his too powerful subordinate in the party compelled precipitately . Of course , if Mr. Balfour had to acknowledge that his . Cabinet and his party are reduced to such Impotence that they can not carry on the Government a week longer , there was nothing for the Liberals to do but step into the breach . Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman , who has earned the Liberal leadership by his pluck and dour persistence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risen to it by commanding qualities , will doubtless form a Ministry . But its first step will be to dissolve Parliament and appeal to the country . The general election , which even Chamberlain admits can result only In a Liberal victory , will probably take place early in the year  --  after the Christmas festivities are over and the new registry of voters comes into effect in January . Even England finds that she has now reached a point where she can put limits on her naval expansion . Last year she made a reduction in her navy estimates of $17,500,000 ; this year she expects to cut them down $7,500,000 more . The Admiralty is , moreover , to be content with four large armored ships every year , which practically means merely a replacement of obsolete or worn2out ships , or at most a slight annual increase Undoubtedly , the total collapse of the Russian navy  --  far more obvious to-day than when Togo won his great victory in May  --  has had something to do with this decision Still another reason is the financial one ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only the United States , France , and Germany are to-day naval rivals of Great Britain , Since Japan is allied to England by a treaty whiCh is an additional reason why the Admiralty can now afford to stop the increase ' - of the fleet . Japan 's battleships may - be counted as England 's for many practical purposes . Moreover , as Lord Cawdor points out , England 's shipbuilding resources are so great that she can always overtake a rival naval programme by reason of her unsurpassed power of rapid construction . NoW if England can cry , " Hold , enough ! " in this matter , it is long past time for the United States to do likewise  --  unless we plan the hopelesS game of attempting to outdo the queen of the seas , The agitation for universal suffrage injected into Austrian politics by Fejer-1 , ary 's programme for Hungary may seriously affect the poSition of the German element . Liberal Germans , both within and without the ranks of the Socialists , fear that with universal suffrage their numerical representation in the local diets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has shown that clerical and reactionary Germans are willing to make common cause with the Slays against the Liberals , and , notably in Bohemia , powerful aristocrats and landed proprietors , such as Prince Schwarzenberg , have openly allied themselves with the Czechs . The outlook of the Germans is still worse in Moravia , where the Czechs outnumber them nearly three to one . In Carmola , Istria , and southern Styria the Slovens are in an overwhelming majority . But even in northern Styria and Carinthia , which are . preponderatingly German , a few seats ' may be lost by the Germans in an election based on universal suffrage Tyrol , where the line of demarcation between Germans and Italians is clearly fixed , is in no danger of being similarly affected , while in the purely German provinces of Lower and Upper Austria and Salzburg the race question has never been acute .                     