@@430256

IF a foreigner unacquainted with American politics had unwittingly selected the morning of March 30 , 1868 , for a tour of the national Capitol , he might well have imagined , on approaching the seat of government , that a social function of some description was impending in the Halls of Congress , for fashionably dressed women were arriving in carriages from every direction , and others were flocking up the broad stairway ; and had the visitor proceeded undaunted into the Rotunda he would have found himself surrounded by ladies in gala attire . Even a stranger left to his own conjectures would have speedily discerned , however , that whatever else the affair might be , it was decidedly exclusive , for although many fair guests were apparently called , and all were evidently clad in wedding-garments , comparatively few were chosen , and the credentials of those few were subjected to a rigid scrutiny before their possessors were allowed to pass the doorkeepers of the Senate galleries . Scores of fair applicants were turned away with scant ceremony , venting their grievances in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned that the ticket system governing admission to Andrew Johnson 's impeachment trial was a gross infringement of Amer/ ican liberty , a scandalous abuse of political patronage , and generally an outrage . By eleven o'clock , however , all Washington was represented behind the fluttering fans ? not only political Washington , but diplomatic , literary , artistic , and generally exclusive Washington . Doubtless most of the fair onlookers knew more of the personal history of their neighbors than they did of the merits of the great controversy which had occasioned the gathering . To the leaders of society the political issue had been a tiresome and complicated business , but it had resulted in an Occasion ? and the Occasion was unquestionably great . Even in the diplomatic circles the events which had culminated in the impending trial were but imperfectly understood . The newspaper men , however , were familiar with every phase of the mighty struggle over the reconstruction of the seceded States . They knew that Andrew Johnson had inherited a task utterly beyond his powers , and they had watched his clumsy but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little sympathy , for the President was not a man of personal magnetism who touched the imagination . He was a coarse-fibred , right-hearted , strong-headed , fearless , honest fighter who neither asked nor gave quarter ? a good hater , without the qualities which rally and in- spire friends ? a determined rather than a heroic figure , even when battling for the right . No one who had studied the man as had the little group of journalists in the press-gallery above the Vice-President 's chair could have failed to foresee trouble when his own State ? Tennesseewas denied representation in the national councils ; and when the Executive answered that affront with a veto of the Freedman 's Bureau bill every trained observer interpreted his action as a challenge , and it required no gift of prophecy to predict that the defiance would be instantly met and answered by the leaders of Congress ? men every whit as resolute and masterful as he . Indeed , covert hostilities had preceded this first blow in the open . To the President 's plan of conciliation and forgiveness his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they responded by packing the Senate and overriding his objections with shouts of exultation ; to his insistence upon the letter of the Constitution they replied with sweeping amendments . But neither threats nor obstructions intimidated nor discouraged the Executive , and he closed with the opposition , grimly determined to fight to the bitter end , regardless of the  |p828  consequences to himself or others . The fanatics no sooner disposed of one exasperating veto than another , equally well drawn and maddeningly logical , was thrust upon them , and the game of check and countercheck continued until Johnson 's veto record far surpassed that of any other President , and bade fair to equal that of all his predecessors combined . It was speedily demonstrated , however , that this direct assault would never succeed in dislodging the legislative enemy ; but there remained the mighty engine of official patronage , and it was not long before the unruly House and Senate found themselves attacked upon the flank . This move against their henchmen seriously alarmed the leaders of the dominant party , for they instantly realized that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a compromise , or even a complete capitulation to " the great criminal of the White House . " Not a moment was to be lost if the army of office-holders was to be protected from rout or capture , and the Tenure-of-Office bill was speedily passed to avert the threatened catastrophe . This measure virtually left the President powerless to remove any official without the approval of the Senate . In its original form the bill had expressly excepted members of the cabinet from its protection , but this concession did not meet with the concurrence of the House , which was in no mood to leave Andrew Johnson even a vestige of authority , and a compromise was effected by substituting for the plain exception a proviso that members of the cabinet should respectively hold their offices during the term of the President by whom they had been appointed and for one month afterwardas vague and cowardly a phraseology as ever disgraced a public statute . Having disarmed their hated antagonist , the rabid party leaders then turned their undivided attention upon his wards , and in a frenzy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South to the level of conquered provinces , and forced unqualified suffrage upon the entire Union ? burdens and disgraces shared and suffered by the nation at large . In all this disastrous business the radicals had had a powerful ally in Edwin M. Stanton , Secretary of War , and when the President was no longer able to endure the increasing arrogance and opposition of this important member of his official family and removed him from office , the House received the news with open exultation . More than one exasperated Representative had previously expressed the wish that Johnson would violate some of the obnoxious laws which had been forced upon him ; but , as time passed , all hope of catching him had practically faded . But finally Providence in the dubious shape of the Tenure-of-Office Act had delivered him into their hands , and with indecorous haste and amid riotous rejoicings the President of the United States was imper ched by the House upon charges promptly presented at the bar of the Senate . At first the removal of Stanton was thought to be an all-sufficient provocation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of impeachment resulted , embracing all Johnson 's alleged offences , from the misdemeanor of malfeasance in office to the high crime of had manners . In fact , so multifarious and divergent were the accusations against the President that it is not surprising that some of the guests in the crowded galleries supposed that the Chief Magistrate was on trial for inebriety , others that he had committed treason , and still others that he was an accessory to Lincoln 's assassination , as had so often been loosely charged in the Halls of Congress . Probably none of these speculations , however , troubled the visitors as the Senate dawdled through its unfinished business . There were other and more interesting matters demanding attention in the assembling company ? important information to be asked and given concerning the distinguished occupants of the diplomatic gallery and other centres of interest , fine points of fashion to be noted and criticised ? and the Chamber was a babel of busy tongues when the sergeant-at-arms rose and commanded silence . In the sudden hush which followed many of the late-corners studied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glance over the floor showed every Senator in his place but one . That vacancy was speedily filled , however , for as the sergeant-at-arms ceased speaking , a tall , clean-shaven , amiable-looking man about fifty years of age vacated the VicePresident 's chair and took the one unoccupied Senatorial post . The reporters in the press-gallery nudged one another and nodded significantly as they noted this move on the part of the presiding officer , for , despite his prior declarations , it was universally believed that Senator Benjamin F. Wade , Vice-President and heir apparent to the throne , would have the temerity to take his place as one of Andrew Johnson 's judges and vote himself into the Presidency . But the significance of this ugly circumstance was not comprehended by the mass of spectators , and conversation had already begun again when the Chief Justice of the United States , the Hon. Salmon P. Chase , robed in his official black gown , was ushered into the Chamber and assumed his place as presiding officer . With the advent of this distinguished jurist the scene became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of desks behind which sat fifty-four Senators , representing twenty - seven States and nearly forty millions of people , the assemblage seemed to take on more dignity and meaning . The attention of the audience , however , was speedily diverted from the imposing presence of the judge by proclamation announcing the counsel of the President , and from a side room five men entered the Chamber and seated themselves at a table placed at the right of the Chief Justice . The chair nearest the assembled Senators was assigned to Henry Stanbery , ex - Attorney - General of the United States , who had resigned his office to devote himself to the case at bar , and whose careful preparation for both attack and defence was to be shown in every phase of the proceeding . To the left of Stanbery sat Judge Benjamin Curtis , ex-Justice of the Supreme Court , writer of one of the two  |p830  dissenting opinions in the Dred Scott case , leader of the Pennsylvania bar , and known throughout the country as one of the most distinguished jurists of his day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically without compensation , and none of his associates accomplished more for the cause . Beside Curtis sat one of the ablest lawyers of Tennessee , Judge Thomas Nelson , a warm personal friend of the accused , who represented him in what might be termed his individual as distinguished from his official capacity , and who brought more personal feeling into the contest than any of the President 's other counsel . Nelson 's reputation in the profession was merely local , but the man at his immediate left was well known to the bar throughout the country , and his keen , thin face and tall , lank figure were familiar to many laymen in the audience , for William M. Evarts was no stranger in Washington . He was then only at the threshold of his great legal career , but his professional reputation was firmly established in his own State , and there were but few lawyers not prominent in polities more widely known throughout the country . Partially screened from observation by these imposing legal luminaries sat William Groesbeck , of Cincinnati , a lawyer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public , but destined before the trial closed to make himself known from one end of the country to the other . There had been nothing spectacular or even formal about the entrance of the President 's counsel , but their quiet dignified bearing and businesslike gravity impressed even the casual observer with a feeling of confidence . The moment they had assumed their places another proclamation announced " the Honorable  |p831  Managers on behalf of the House of Representatives , " and six men marched into the Chamber , two by two , each couple linking arms , and the interest of the audience immediately centred upon one of the leaders ? a man whose large , pudgy body seemed literally bursting out of his extraordinary swallow-tail coat , exposing a broad expanse of not too immaculate linen , and whose massive bald head with its little fringe of oily curls was probably familiar to every occupant of the galleries , for Benjamin Butler had not hidden his light under a bushel . There was power in the man 's coarse , big-featured face , force and aggressiveness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-closed lids , his hard mouth and small , drooping mustache , all combined to create an uncomfortable impression of cunning and insincerity , and his whole personality was unattractive . Accompanying this pugnacious leader were five men well known to the best-informed spectators as prominent Congressmen and active opponents of the President 's policies . Of these Boutwell and Bingham were able lawyers , but neither Williams nor Wilson , the chairman , was a lawyer of recognized ability , and John A. Logan , whose long black hair and flowing mustache added picturesqueness to the scene , had no reputation whatsoever in the courts . All eyes were still focussed on these official prosecutors , when the attention of the audience was suddenly diverted to a solitary figure moving toward the bar of the Senate , and several of the managers rose as a feeble and emaciated old man , leaning heavily upon a cane and painfully dragging a crippled foot along the floor , approached their table . The appearance of the newcomer was pitiful in every way , but one glance at his fierce , aggressive face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and blazing eyes , was sufficient to convince the observer that pity would be misplaced . Even in his prime and at his most vindictive moments Thaddeus Stevens had never appeared more implacable and vengeful than he did when , with the hand of death upon his shoulder , he crawled into the Senate-chamber to aid in the prosecution of his bitterest enemy . With the fanatical zeal of the early Abolitionists , Stevens had carried his hatred of slavery to the point where he regarded himself as the Heaven-appointed avenger of the negroes and the scourge of the South , and all who checked or even questioned his mission became the objects of his ungovernable wrath . To his mind Andrew Johnson was a traitor plotting to restore slavery and the slave power , and in this belief he had fought him with the rage of a maniac for three years . Essentially a man of peace , he virtually thirsted for Andrew Johnson 's blood . and though wasted in body and bowed with years he still had sufficient  |p832  strength to trail his victim . Indeed , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managers ' table , and drawing a chair apart from his associates , settled himself to watch the proceedings , his sallow , thin , hawklike face , piercing eyes , and long , coarse black hair suggested an aged Indian intent upon his prey . The contrast between his sinister frailty and Butler 's brutal vitality was suggestive , and as the two men faced the galleries the whole impeachment stood personified . Butler embodied the prosecution in the flesh ? Stevens in the spirit . The judge , jury , and counsel for the respective parties being present , the Sergeant - at - Arms announced the accusers , and the House of Representatives entered the Chamber , headed by the Speaker and the Hon. Elihu B. Washburne , leaning upon the arm of the Clerk of the House . The august tribunal was now complete , and in the hush which followed the somewhat noisy seating of the House the spectators leaned forward , expectantly awaiting the President 's entrance . Every one knew that he had not attended the preliminary sessions of the court , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the day of trial . Johnson had , however , no intention of giving his enemies any such satisfaction , and in this and all other respects his attitude in maintaining the dignity of his mighty office was absolutely beyond criticism . The absence of the accused was naturally a disappointment to the mass of spectators , but the presence of both Houses of Congress , the Chief Justice of the United States , the distinguished counsel , and the occasion of the assemblage afforded a spectacle never equalled in the history of the country . To the foreigners the proceedings were , of course , wanting in the pomp and circumstance customary in European affairs of state . There were no resplendent uniforms or picturesque observances ; nothing , in fact , to catch the eye , give color to the picture , or touch the imagination , and the dull , sombre aspect of the Chamber and the absence of majestic official ceremonies naturally disappointed the Diplomatic Corps . The simple democracy of the gathering should have appealed to all Americans , however ; and yet , strangely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the galleries , and more than one thoughtful observer vainly sought a satisfactory reason for their apathy . Possibly it was the presence of Wade , prepared to render a judicial decision upon an issue vital to his personal interests ; perhaps it was the sight of Sumner , an open opponent of the accused , and other equally biased partisans , calmly sitting as judges sworn to administer impartial justice ; mayhap it was the notorious Butler and the relentless Stevens and the other party politicians representing the prosecution ; possibly it was the flimsiness of the che.rge , the tricky wording of the statute involved in the accusation and the technical character of its alleged violation ; doubtless it was some or all of these ominous circumstances which instinctively chilled enthusiasm and forbade respect , and before many hours the conduct of the proceedings had utterly killed all impulse to patriotic pride . The various proclamations and the assembling of the court had occupied less than half an hour , and without further loss of time the Chief Justice formally opened the trial by directing that the minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion of which ceremony Butler immediately rose and faced the Senate . In some respects " the hero of Fort Fisher " was better qualified for his task than many of his associates . No abler expounder of casuistry ever addressed a jury , and his doctrine that law was " anything plausibly presented and persistently maintained " had been the key-note of his professional career . In the case at bar there were practically no facts at issue . There were only law points . Of the fifty-four Senators who faced Butler , no less than forty-four were lawyers ? many of them jurists of no mean calibre ? men familiar with the tricks of the trade , and not only trained to distinguish between sophistry and logic , but qualified to know a lawyer from a limb of the law . Seldom in the history of the courts has a member of the bar been called upon to address a similar body of legal experts , and despite his ingenuity and plausibility , Butler was not the type of practitioner whose utterances on questions of law carry weight with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disadvantages under which he was laboring , for instead of trusting to his fluent powers of speech , he armed himself with a great sheaf of notes , and proceeded to read a carefully prepared address , which soon set the galleries yawning , but delighted the reporters , who gratefully laid aside their pads and pencils , knowing that copies of the harangue could be had for the asking . Despite his labored efforts to adapt himself to his learned audience and avoid his customary forensic methods , the speaker 's opening was eminently characteristic . He informed his hearers that the Senate organized as a Court of Impeachment was not a court ; that not being a court , it was bound by no precedents , and that being bound by no precedents it could make its own rules of evidence and generally be " a law unto itself . " Having announced this convenient theory , which was certainly well adapted for a case destitute of all legal proof , he proceeded to demonstrate its soundness by quoting precedents from one of the most monumental briefs ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the humor of hurling authorities at a tribunal supposed to be " a law unto itself . " This preliminary fiction was , however , only a forerunner of those that were to follow , and starting with the proposition that Johnson was merely filling out Lincoln 's unexpired term , the champion casuist argued that Stanton could not be removed from office under the Tenure-of-Office Act because he had been appointed by Lincoln , and the law protected all officials during the term of the President by whom they had been appointed . Johnson 's term being Lincoln 's term , the President had violated the law by removing the Secretary of War , and thereby forfeited his office . The jury-exhorter then turned to the more familiar field of cheap invective ,  |p835  and the bored and sleepy audience roused itself to listen to gusty eloquence in which the President 's opposition to the Congress was denounced as criminal , and wordy chastisement administered for the sin of criticising political opponents . A little of this diversion , however , soon palled upon the galleries , and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by closing with a panegyric on the great example which the American people were about to afford the wondering ' nations of the earth by peacefully removing an obnoxious ruler , " while your king , 0 Monarchist ! if he becomes a tyrant , can only be displaced through revolution , bloodshed , and civil war ! " This absurd fustian must have fairly disgusted those Senators who knew in their heart of hearts that the power of impeachment was being misused for party purposes . Indeed , before the weary day ended there was some evidence of a reaction in the President 's favor , and the case had already begun to totter . There was plenty of vacant room in the galleries at the next session , but the proceedings had scarcely opened when the most interesting and important question of the whole trial was presented , the decision of which was destined to have a far-reaching result . In ordinary courts of law the presiding justice passes upon the admissibility of all evidence , but the moment Judge Chase attempted to exert this prerogative his authority was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the proper judge of what testimony should be admitted or excluded , contended the managers , who , for some mysterious reason , suspected Chase of favoring the accused , and after a sharp debate the Senators decided that they would reserve to themselves the right of deciding what testimony they would hear . The motive of this extraordinary move was only too obvious . It was the sort of justice which the cur proposed for the mouse in Alice 's Wonderland , " I 'll be judge ? I 'll be jury ! " Said cunning old Fury . " I 'll by the whole cause And condemn you to death ! " and the final outcome can be directly traced to this flagrant impropriety . It is extremely doubtful if there ever  |p836  was a trial in which fewer facts were in dispute than in the case at bar , but for six days the managers struggled to substantiate the voluminous impeachment , at the end of which period all that was proved was what stood admitted by the pleadings , namely , that the President had attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years previous to this more than doubtful offence he had indulged in undignified utterances at the expense of his political enemies . On the 9th of April , the prosecution having rested , Judge Curtis opened for the defence before an audience filling every nook and cranny of the Chamber . Curtis enjoyed a very different reputation in the profession from the leading counsel for the prosecution . He was a jurist of recognized authority ; and there was no lawyer in the Senate but could well afford to receive instruction from his lips . Well aware of Butler 's failure to impress his fellow practitioners , the speaker addressed the tribunal with admirable dignity and tact , speaking without notes , and arguing as a lawyer to lawyers , every sentence aimed at the best professional talent among the Republicans of the Chamber . In the little group of Democrats there were several lawyers of national repute , but their votes were assured , whereas there were a dozen or more Republicans open to legal persuasion , and if even a small minority of them could be won from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conviction would be over . With a knowledge born of long experience in the appellate courts the distinguished advocate instantly struck at the heart of the case , demolishing Butler 's " law unto itself " theory with a sentence , and attacking the cowardly worded Tenure-of-Office Act , showing that it was not intended to prevent the President from removing Stanton , or if it were , it was so badly constructed that . it had utterly failed to effect its purpose . " I am here , " he began , " to speak to the Senate of the United States sitting in its judicial capacity as a Court of Impeachment presided over by the Chief Justice of the United States for the trial of the President of the United States . . .. The Honorable Managers have informed you that this is not a court , and whatever may be the character of this body it is bound by no law .... Each one of you before you took your place here called God to witness that he would administer impartial justice in this ease according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagined , continued the speaker , that this oath invested him with authority to make up his own laws as occasion required , or as his desires dictated , his ideas of administering impartial justice were not those approved in the profession of the law . Butler 's whole argument was shattered by this blow , and his elaborate fiction that Johnson 's term was Lincoln 's was almost as speedily exposed . This terse , logical , legal presentment of the main issue caught and held the attention of every lawyer in the Chamber , and at the close of his masterly dissection of the eleven articles Curtis might safely have rested his case , for devotion to the law was second nature to some of the Senate , and despite the bias and passion of party feuds they responded to the professional touch . There was at least one layman , however , among the open-minded Senators to whom the strictly legal argument may not have appealed with convincing force ; but at the close of Curtis 's remarkable address , which occupied the best part of two days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indignation of laymen and lawyers alike . General Lorenzo Thomas , a respected officer of the army , appointed by the President as Secretary of War ad interim after Stanton 's removal , was called to the stand to show , among other things , that Johnson 's purpose in appointing him was to create an issue for the courts , and thus decide the constitutionality of the Tenure-of-Office Act . General Thomas was an amiable man , well advanced in years , soldierly in appearance and bearing , and when he took the stand , dressed in full uniform , and gave his testimony , it was evident , despite his amusing loquacity , that he desired to relate the few facts within his knowledge as accurately as possible . But the unsophisticated witness gave Butler an opportunity to play to the galleries , and knowing his man , and having , so the  |p837  story goes , an old grudge to settle dating back to his removal as military governor of Louisiana , he attacked the general on cross-examination with all the weapons at the command of an unscrupulous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tricking him into contradictions and foolish answers , until the thoughtless in the gallery roared . This sorry exhibition was soon followed , however , by an outrage so gross that it discredited the whole proceeding , and gave the finishing-touch to the managers ' blundering campaign . In the gorgeous uniform of a lieutenant-general , Sherman took the stand and proceeded to testify that the President had offered to appoint him Secretary of War on the understanding that the legality of his appointment should be tested in the courts , the object of the testimony being to show Mr. Johnson 's motive and good faith , but the prosecution instantly objected to any proof of the President 's motives ; and when Gideon Welles , Secretary of the Navy , took the stand to report the deliberations of the cabinet over the Tenure-of-Office Act , Butler and his associates were instantly up in arms . In vain the defence protested that the President , being charged with an intentional violation of the laws , should be permitted to refute the motive attributed to his conduct ; the managers knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought it tooth and nail . Finally the Chief Justice ruled that the proof was relevant and admissible , but a Senator objecting , the question was submitted to the Senate , which promptly overruled the highest judicial authority in the country and refused to listen to the proof . A more shameless denial of justice can scarcely be imagined ; but the President 's counsel were men of unlimited resource and indomitable courage , and they instantly devised a means of spreading the facts upon the record indirectly , with the same or even greater force than they would have had if introduced directly . Without the loss of a moment Mr. Evarts arose and calmly offered to prove on behalf of his client that the members of the cabinet ( including Mr. Stanton ) had advised the President that the Tenure - of - Office bill was unconstitutional , and that the duty of preparing the veto message had been assigned to Mr. Stanton himself , and would have been written by him had he not been in ill health , and that as it was he had actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this announcement can well be imagined , for it practically demonstrated that the President was being arraigned for following the counsel of the friend and ally of his accusers , but the party Senators sought to cover their consternation by solemnly voting to reject the proposed proof . With significant calmness and an earnestness from which there was no escape Mr. Evarts then offered to prove that the President had submitted the question as to whether or not Mr. Lincoln 's appointees were subject to removal under the Tenure-of-Office Act to the members of his cabinet , including Mr. Stanton , and had been advised by them that he could remove any such appointee . In other words , that Mr. Stanton , the protege of Congress , whose dismissal was declared criminal by the impeachment , had himself approved the President 's criminality . All this testimony was deemed proper by the Chief Justice , but his decision was challenged and reversed by the majority of the Senate , callous to all pleas but party expediency , and not one word of testimony on any of these vital subjects was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke louder than words . Public opinion throughout the country instantly revolted at this indecent attempt to suppress the facts , and more than one stanch Republican Senator became disgusted at such mockery of justice . Secretary Welles having been forced to leave the stand without testifying , it was useless , in the face of the Senate 's rulings , to prolong the struggle , and on the sixteenth day of the trial Mr. Evarts and his associates rested their case . The Senators thereupon voted a short adjournment to enable the respective counsel to prepare for the summing up . Possibly no body of men anywhere in the world was better equipped than the Senate to withstand the deluge of words which was to descend upon it during  |p838  the succeeding fortnight . Logan mercifully reduced his contribution to writing , and Stanbery , Wilson , and Stevens were incapacitated by illness from taking more than a nominal part in the oratorical contest ; but Boutwell , Williams , Bingham , Nelson , Groesbeck , and Evarts drained the language in their efforts to support and refute the charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their auditors by anything they said , for Butler and Curtis had covered the entire case in their respective openings , and there was nothing in the testimony which changed the situation . Nelson 's address was mainly notable for its passionate eulogy of the President , and Williams 's , while less notable , was correspondingly bitter in denunciation . Much had been expected of Boutwell , but he not only failed to rise to the occasion , but exposed himself to unsparing ridicule by indulging in childishly extravagant metaphor and exaggeration . Indeed , Evarts almost laughed the case out of court at his expense , and the jaded Senate actually listened when the great New York lawyer , in the course of a masterful speech , turned aside to . flay his indiscreet opponent . With the empty issue at bar it was wellnigh hopeless for any advocate to rise to great heights , but Evarts and Groesbeck almost achieved the impossible , and the Cincinnati lawyer , who had remained unobtrusively in the background until he rose to make his argument , not only relieved the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unremitting attention from his hearers , and won the only legal reputation which resulted directly from the trial . Bingham 's long closing address was in no way remarkable , either for adroitness or eloquence , but the personnel of the galleries was very different from that of the opening days , and at the conclusion of his harangue he was greeted with a burst of suspiciously unprovoked applause , which continued until the galleries were cleared , the exhausted Senators speedily following the ejected public with the relief of prisoners released from torture . But although the formal arguments were closed , the wavering Senators had no sooner left the Chamber than they found themselves subjected to a very different sort of persuasion from that which had been officially urged upon them , and for almost two weeks they were pestered , persecuted , and actually threatened with every form of political and private argument in the effort to make their opinions conform to that of the majority . Despite the unparalleled efforts which had been made to anticipate the judgment of the court , the event was still in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May to record its verdict , and the galleries were again crowded to their utmost capacity , and great throngs of spectators were massed in and around the Capitol . By noon all the managers were present and all the President 's counsel except Judge Curtis ; every Senator , with the exception of Grimes and Howard , was at his post ; the entire House of Representatives was in attendance , the Chief Justice occupied the chair , and just before the Chamber was called to order the- doors opened , and Howard , who had arrived at the Capitol on a stretcher , was practically carried to his seat . Howard 's vote was regarded as pledged to conviction , and the hopes of the President 's enemies rose at his appearance . There now remained only one vacant place , and that of a man likely to favor the accused . The Chief Justice 's gavel fell , and after the majority of the members had decreed that the last article of the impeachment should be the first voted upon , Edmunds broke the solemn silence by moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the room , Senator Fessenden rose to urge an adjournment until Grimes could be present , but before his plea was concluded the doors again opened , the missing Senator , more dead than alive , was supported to his place , and the High Court of Impeachment presented a full bench . Acting upon the order of the Senate , the Chief Justice thereupon directed the secretary to read the last article of the impeachment , the one count in the long indictment which was so worded as to insure a stronger vote than any of the other ten ; and at the conclusion of this formality Judge Chase rose , and facing  |p839  the fascinated audience , commanded the Secretary to call the roll . The first Senator in alphabetical order was Anthony , of Rhode Island , one of the waverers suspected of party disloyalty and the subject of much attention during the adjournment , and as he rose and faced the Chief Justice a deathlike stillness settled upon the Chamber . " Mr. Senator Anthony , how say you ? " questioned the distinguished jurist . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , guilty or not guilty of a high misdemeanor as charged in this article ? " " Guilty , " answered the suspected Senator , and the managers and party leaders settled back comfortably in their chairs . Hundreds of pencils kept tally as the voting proceeded , and it was soon apparent that party discipline was being strictly maintained , the Democrats without exception recording negative votes , and the Republicans exhibiting unbroken ranks . Indeed , Simon Cameron was so zealous in his party allegiance that he blurted out " Guilty ! " before the Chief Justice completed his question , and for a moment the solemnity of the proceedings was threatened by the titter which greeted his performance . Suddenly , however , there was a sound which dismayed some of the satisfied managers , for Senator Fessenden , of Maine , answered " not guilty " to the presiding officer 's inquiry , and destroyed all hope of complete party harmony . Fessenden 's loyalty had been long under suspicion , but there were those who believed that neither he nor any other Senator would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Grimes struggled to his feet a few moments later and recorded his belief in the President 's innocence , and Henderson of Missouri followed his example . Before the clerk reached the name of Senator Ross , of Kansas , however , twenty-four votes had been recorded for conviction , ten more were practically pledged , and only thirtysix were necessary to convict . Ross was a silent man , who had wrapped himself in a mantle of dignity and refused to discuss the case or to allow any one to approach him concerning it outside the Senate-chamber , and his opinion was the only one about which no information of any sort had been procurable . If he voted " guilty , " the impeachment was almost certain of success ; if " not guilty , " his example on the wavering Republicans might work disaster , and the audience sat spellbound as the Chief Justice voiced his solemn question . Then for the first time Ross broke his exemplary silence and recorded a vote of acquittal . From that tense moment the hopes of the party politicians sank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictation , and disappearing as Van Winkle placed his independence upon record , leaving Wade to the inglorious distinction of recording a vote in favor of elevating himself into the Presidential chair . But the final vote , thirty-five to nineteen , lacking only one of conviction , was too nearly a party triumph to justify surrender , and under whip and spur other votes were subsequently forced on the second and third articles with the same result ; and then the disappointed majority , determined that the President should not enjoy the satisfaction of a complete acquittal , adjourned sine die without taking a vote on the remaining articles , the crowd in the galleries and corridors melted away , and the momentous impeachment ended . Quietly retiring to Tennessee at the expiration of his Presidential term , Andrew Johnson began to plan the most dramatic return to public life recorded in American history . Offering himself as a candidate for the United States Senate , he entered heart and soul into the fierce campaigns that followed , and undeterred by reverses , delays , disappointments , and well-nigh insurmountable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At last , seven years after the great trial , he entered the Chamber which had witnessed his arraignment , and standing before his former judges on the very spot where his enemies had hoped to see him crushed and humbled , and gazing steadily into the eyes of VicePresident Wilson , he took the oath of office as a Senator from Tennessee . Then and not till then did the curtain fall upon the first and only impeachment of a President of the United States .  |p840                      