@@473111

IT may be said with truth that every kingdom , principality , or tribe to which Russia has extended " protection " has eventually been absorbed into the Muscovite Empire . Just as in Europe she has gradually acquired Finland , Livonia , Lithuania , a large portion of Poland , Bessarabia , and other territories , so in Central Asia she has been by degrees pushing her way through tribe after tribe , protecting and annexing as she went , until at the present moment she has practically arrived at the heart of Afghanistan ; and even this , of course , is not the proposed end of her march . During this progress of hers the Kalmuck and tire Kirghiz tribes had , amongst others , to be dealt with , and it is significant that the former , iu 1771 , unable to longer endure Russian oppression , migrated to Chinese territory to the number of half a million , having to fight their way thither through hostile tribes . The Kirghiz , however , whose land , according to Peter the Great , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia , " were not so fortunate in maintaining their independence , for they gradually fell before the inevitable wave of Russian advance , and although many of them do not even now acknowledge allegiance to the conqueror , the majority are both nominally and practically vassals of the Tsar , their patriarchal system having been gradually superseded by that of circuits and volosts , and their very wanderings being care- . fully regulated by the Governor of their province . This tribe really consists of two distinct races . The Kara or " Black Kirghiz " * ? the true one ? is found principally in the valleys of the Wan - Shan and Altai mountains , and is unmistakably of Turkish origin . Descriptions found in Chinese writings of a very early date show that at that time the prevailing type was characterized by light hair and a fair skin , which would not apply to the average Kirghiz of the present day , although such may still be met here and there . The other race , which inhabits the greater part of the province of Turkestan and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Kassak-Kirghiz , " is more impregnated with the Mongol element than is the Kara-Kirghiz race . The Kassake have largely intermarried with the Kalmucks , and their aristocracy , or " white bones , " claim descent from Genghiz Khan , while their various traditions describe them as being descended from " a red-haired dog , " or ( a more poetical story ) they are said to be veritably " Children of the Mist . " Whatever their origin , however , the race is undoubtedly of great antiquity . Their early government was founded on the patriarchal system , their chiefs being known as khans . Tradition says that one of these early khans divided his kingdom into three parts for his sons , thus founding the three Hordes ? the Great , Middle , and Lesser , The second of these , living on the western frontier of China , and consequently at a great distance from Russia , preserved their independence until as late as 1847 . The Lesser Horde , occupying the country contiguous to the possessions of Russia in the southern Ural , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sea of Aral , being torn by internal dissensions and harried by neighboring tribes , offered their allegiance to Russia in 1730 , but at that time it was not accepted . Shortly afterwards , however , the Russian Empress consented to become suzerain and protectress of the Kirghiz , a step which has since led to the acquisition of much territory on the part of Russia , although no inconsiderable amount of money , not to speak of human life , has been sacrificed in the process . At first Russia 's policy in Central Asia was to control her subjects by playing off one tribe against another , thus keeping them well occupied . As it was found , however , that the predatory habits of the Kirghiz ( by no means renounced when they took the oath of allegiance to the White Tsar ) greatly interfered with the caravan trade which Russia was so anxious to develop , and that they made raids on Russian colonists on the frontier line and along the shores of the Caspian , carrying off ninny of the settlers and selling them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to order . The Kirghiz resisted stoutly , and as late as 1843 , rallying round their popular khan Kenissax , the " Kirghiz Schamyl , " met with a certain amount of success , and were hopeful of achieving their independence . With the death of Kenissar in 1846 , however , this hope was destroyed , and , as previously stated , their final subjection to the Muscovite was merely a matter of time . A kibitka tax of 36,000 roubles is now levied on the Kirghiz of the Caucasian province , Although he has thus lost his independence , the Kirghiz still retains many curious and characteristic traits , one of these being an incurable contempt for a settled or town life . " Sant , " the term applied to merchants and townsfolk , is used contemptuously. and would be much resented by a true Kirghiz , who has a scoffing proverb to the effect that , " when a Sart becomes rich , he builds a house ? a Kirghiz buys more wives . " When on the move they live in kibitkas , or felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mongolian yourtas . These kibitkas are exceedingly portable , and can be packed for a journey in less than an hour . The Kirghiz , as a rule , are of swarthy complexion , and are short and sturdy in build , the men shaving the head , but allowing the beard to grow , while the women wind yards of cotton stuff about their heads . The male attire consists usually of a pair of baggy leather breeches , a coarse shirt , and one or more rough coats , the head being covered with a skull-cap and a conical hood of sheepskin or felt . On special occasions a red velvet coat and a tall felt hat with turned-up brim are worn by the well - to-do . Polygamy was adopted by the race at the time when the Russians forced Mohammedanism upon them , and the position of women amongst them is not enviable . When a man wishes to marry he buys a wife , or one is bought for him by his relations , and once the kalym , or purchase-money , is paid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who generally treats her with less consideration than he does his cattle . He can divorce her with the greatest ease , and liar family may then attempt to sell her again . However much she may be ill-treated , she has no.redress , the utmost that can happen being a remonstrance from her relations to the husband for " depreciating her market value , ' ' whilst even if he killed her , under Kirghiz law he had no more serious penalty to encounter than a fine . " A woman has only half as much soul as a man , " says a Kirghiz proverb , and the men of the tribe evidently act up to their belief . The more serious crimes are now amenable to Russian law , but smaller matters are settled before certain chosen elders , who are not paid for their services , but receive a portion of every fine they inflict . Hitherto little has been clone by Russia to civilize the tribes under her dominion , and such a thing as a Kirghiz school is practically unknown . Although Mohammedanism is nominally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine , many of them still adhering to the old Shaman or devil worship , while ancestor- worship is still largely practised . When a man of importance dies , two camels , led by priests , are placed one on either side of the corpse , and a form is repeated transferring the sins of the dead man to the camels , which then become the- property of the priests . This is only one of many curious customs connected with funerals , and marriage ceremonies are equally interesting and numerous . It may be said , perhaps , that the principal object of Kirghiz existence is the breeding of cattle and horses , to which nearly the whole of their time is devoted . In bartering his cattle the Kirghiz does not make a feature of honesty , and will inevitably cheat whenever be gets the chance . Peter the Great designated them a " fickle and roaming people , " but there is no doubt that they are politically of the greatest importance ? a fact which Russia , as usual , has not been slow to recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pick of the Russian regular army , whilst officers of every nation are found in its ranks . It may be incidentally mentioned here that the Cossacks ( originally known as " Kazaks , " e. , wanderers , freebooters ) are a mixed race of Russians , Poles , Tartars , and others , who originally came from the south and southeast of Russia . They have always been of a warlike character , and were at one time divided into two clans , the Don and the Dnieper Cossacks , both being independent of the imperial government . The Dnieper Cossacks , however , in 1652 , tendered their allegiance to the Tsar , whilst the Don Cossacks became Russian subjects duringthe time of Ivan the Terrible , the foundation of the Cossack Army of the Ural being laid in 1613-14 , when specified . territories were offered to them on condition of certain military services . In the town of Orenburg , the centre for trade between Russia and Central Asia , there is at the present time a recognized Cossack quarter , and here Englishmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fighting with the Kirghiz , as with other tribes in Central Asia , the usual mode of procedure of the Cossacks is to link their horses into a circle , and kneeling behind them , to fire , not in volleys , but in files , upon their opponents , picking off the leaders . It has been aptly said that " the roll of glorious deeds accomplished in Poland , in Turkestan , and in the Kirghiz Steppe bears eloquent testimony to the great moral force the Cossacks possess , " but much more , we may add , to their obstinate courage , which makes them willing to die , but not to accept defeat . - At a time when the Tsars troops were making steady progress in Central Asia , among these Kirghiz and other tribes , there arose , in the Christian provinces of the Turkish Empire , disturbances which eventually led to the Russo-Turkish war . The enmity between Christians and Moslems had led to fearful massacres in Bulgaria ; Bosnia , Herzegovina , and Montenegro were in revolt , and in the summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter , however , were on the point of taking Belgrade , Russia , interfered , and demanded that an armistice of six weeks should be agreed to . Negotiations were carried on for a considerable time , a conference of the powers being held at Constantinople early in 1877 , but no satisfactory results being arrived at , the Tsar , in April of that year , having invoked the Supreme blessing , ordered his troops to cross the Turkish frontier , declaring that his " desire to ameliorate and assure the lot of the oppressed Christian populations of Turkey " left him no alternative . And so it came about that , whilst thus engaged , Russia 's attention was for a brief period partially diverted from her designs on the various approaches to the Indian Empire . The Russo-Turkish campaign was carried on not only in Europe . but also in Turkey 's Asiatic provinces , Armenia being in 1877 invaded by Russian troops . In the spring of 1878 Russia had obtained possession of all the Armenian fortresses , and , with an army- encamped near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The occupation of the city , at that time apparently imminent , did not , however , take place , for at this point a British fleet arrived on the scene , anchoring in the Bosporus . Shortly after this the Russians effected an occupation of the village of San Stefano , and eventually the war was brought to a close ( March 3 , 1878 ) by the Treaty of San Stefano , after some delay on the part of the Turks in agreeing to the proposed terms . During the war RuSsia had been ill pleased to find that England had despatched Indian troops into Europe , and when the British government insisted that the terms of the Treaty of San Stefano should be laid before a congress of the European powers , relations between the two countries became so strained that both nations began to prepare for war . In order that Britain 's action in Europe should be weakened as much as possible , by means of forcing her to confine her attention to the defence of her Eastern empire , a demonstration against India was decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that country through Afghanistan , the first step was to be an alliance with Shere Ali ( who had hitherto been an ally of Britain ) , and increased efforts were made to bring to a successful issue the negotiations which emissaries of the Tsar had for sonic years been carrying on with the Amir . That potentate was informed that if he refused to become the tool of Russia . another claimant to his throne would be brought forward and backed by Russian influence . Under this pressure the Amir yielded , rejecting with insolence the overtures of the British , who wished to send a mission to Kabul ; and Stolietoff 's mission to that city in 1878 ended in the conclusion of an alliance , having for its object a joint attack by Russia and Afghanistan on India ? an alliance which was the result of seven years ' careful intriguing carried on by Kauffman n 's agents at the Afghan capital . Simultaneously an emissary was secretly despatched to India to sow the seeds of rebellion , but on reaching Peshawur he was arrested , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " was quietly sent down country and deported to Russia , Meanwhile , however , the Berlin Congress had met , and had rendered any advance of Russia on India an impossibility for the time being . Sliere All found himself between two stools . The English were demanding reparation , and an army was marching towards Kabul , while the Russians refused ? perforce ? all aid , and would not even mediate . The course of action pursued by Russia at this time will long be remembered as treacherous , not only towards the Amir , but also towards Great Britain ; for Stolietoff staid at Kabul five mouths after the Treaty of Berlin was concluded , and acted as ad viser to Shere All till such time as the unfortunate Arnie was compelled to fly to the north , accompanying the Russian mission , and leaving his son , Yakoob Khan , as regent . The British established their ascendency over Afghanistan , concluded the Treaty of Gandamak , left a British Resident at Kabul , and having vindicated their supremacy , withdrew their troops . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which obtained complete control over the Khyber and Michin passes , while , in return for support against foreign aggression and an annual subsidy of six lakhs of rupees , the new Amir bound himself to conduct his relations with other states in accordance with the advice of the Indian government . With regard to the conduct of Russia in sending Stolietoff to Kabul , it must be remembered that in 1869 , and again in 1873 , she had given the most solemn assurances , which were repeated from time to time , that Afghanistan should not be tampered with , and that Russian agents should not visit Kabul . In spite of this , however , Russian officers and Cossacks , as has been said , remained at Kabul for five months after the Treaty of Berlin was signed , and this although M. de Criers , in July , 1878. gave assurance to the British ambassador at St. Petersburg that " no mission had been , or was intended to be , sent to Kabul , either by tine imperial government or by General Kauffmann . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could no longer be concealed ( as accounis of the progress of the mission were actually appearing in the Russian press ) , de Glens informed the British chare d'affaires that " everything had been stopped : the political as well as the military precautions which we thought ourselves justified in taking against you ? everything has been stopped . " Nevertheless , four months later , in a conversation with the British Prime Minister , Count Schouvalor casually observed that although the Russian envoy who had been sent to Afghanistan had been recalled , the Russian mission stilt remained at Kabul . Nothing could better illustrate the fine distinctions which characterize the general policy of Russia in Central Asia , where , to quote Prince Dolgoroukoff , " slavish subjection and arbitrary force reign from top to bottom , and throughout there is developed , in formidable proportions , the official lie ? the lie erected into a political institution . " One more significant incident : When the Treaty of Berlin rendered imperative the retirement of the troops which were gathered to invade India , Grodekoff , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's permission , and , wearing his uniform , rode through northern Afghanistan to Herat , an escort of Afghan troopers being furnished as soon as he had crossed the Russo-Afghan frontier . At Herat he was accorded a warm reception , and after staying there three days and making a thorough survey of the city and its fortifications , continued his journey to Meshed , and thence to Astrabad , On returning to Russia he was cordially received by the Tsar , knighted , and appointed Governor of the Syr-Daria district , from which be has since been removed to still higher command . tinder all the circumstances it is apparent that Russia 's action in Central Asia at that time is not to be viewed solely in the light of precautionary measures , in case of hostilities with Great Britain . In reality , the Tsar 's government saw a chance to make another step forward in the direction of India , and they did not neglect the opportunity . Another means by which Russia had long sought to approach nearer to her goal was by getting a footing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having conquered the Turkomans of Akhal and Merv , she was able to establish garrisons close to Herat , the " Key of India " ? the English , in their horror of a great war , permitting her to thus take possession of a part of Afghanistan and to occupy advantageous positions in the country . In 1877 an expedition under Lomakin had been sent against the Akhal Tekkes , but met with disastrous failure , which , coming just at the time when Russia had sustained her reverse at Plevna , considerably reduced her prestige in Central Asia . In the following year Lomakin undertook a second expedition , which , however , was even less successful than the first ; but the Russians were not to be beaten , and they set about retrieving their position . Still another campaign was organized , General Lazareff being appointed to the command , but disaster continued to attend the Russian arms ; for Lazarer , falling a victim to the poisonous air and the impure water-supply characteristic of the Caspian shores , died just as the troops were entering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed in command ; but at Denghil Tope , where the Tekkes made a resolute stand , he lost his final chance of retrieving his former failures , and after a wanton massacre , in which he spared neither women nor children , was himself driven back and his troops overwhelmed by the desperate Tekkes . Alikhanoff , an eye-witness of what took place , says , " The whole course of the battle .. ? . from beginning to end , was in defiance of the commonest elementary rules of the art of war . " At this last reverse Russian prestige , of course , sank to the lowest ebb , and for the time being the campaign against the Tekkes was abandoned . Meanwhile English supremacy had apparently been firmly re-established in Afghanistan by the Treaty . of Gandarnak , and it was supposed that Yakoob Khan would be strong enough to hold his own against the various factions in the country . The British congratulated themselves on the turn which affairs had taken , while Russia looked on in mortification and alarm aL the advantages which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an event occurred which rendered necessary a second British campaign against Afghanistan . A few days prior to Lomakin 's defeat at Denghil Tepe , news arrived of the treacherous murder of Sir Louis Cavagnari , who bad just been appointed British Resident at Kabul , and who , with b is officers , was set upon by certain of the fanatical inhabitants of that city ( September , 1879 ) . The British took up arms to avenge his murder and to vindicate their supremacy ; Yakoob Khan was deposed , and Abdul Rahman Khan was made Amir in his place ; but although the campaign was entirely successful , the English government , under Mr. Gladstone , did not think it advisable to retain the country which had been won at so much cost ; and accordingly , in 1881 . Afghanistan was entirely evacuated , it being maintained that a Russian invasion of India was a very remote contingency , and that " the probability of our having to struggle for Herat , or to defend India from Kandahar , is so remote that its possibility is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Afghanistan was thus evacuated , Skobeleff triumphed over the Tekkes , and with the fall of Denghil Tep ? the power of the Akhal Turkomans was entirely broken . Skobeleff estimated the total loss of the Tullioma , us during this last siege to be about 20,000 , or half the defenders of the town . The occupation of Mery seemed likely to be the next item on the Russian programme ; but this , M. de G-iers assured Lord Dufferin , was far from being the case : " Not only do we not want to go there , but happily there is nothing that can require us to go there . " In response to anxious inquiries on the part of Great Britain , the Russo-Persian frontier was at last definitely fixed , in 1881 , by the Convention of Teheran ; but the most important part of the frontier line , that between Mery and Herat , was not included in the arrangement . During the next few years Russia resorted to her favorite expedient , and sent agents , under the guise of scientific and trading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mery and the routes thither . The occupation and annexation of the town , early in 1884 , was well timed , taking place at a moment when Great Britain was wholly occupied with affairs in the Soudan . It was practically accomplished by the intimidation of the inhabitants , who , being overawed by the Russian troops who had been gradually introduced into their country , swore allegiance , through their chiefs , to the " White Tsar . The news was thereupon conveyed to England , his Imperial Majesty intimating that he had decided to accept the allegiance , and had sent an officer to administer the region . The possession of the Mery oasis , it may be observed , is of the utmost advantage to Russia , both strategically and commercially . Before the annexation of Merv , that Russian armies of the Transcaspian VOL . C. ? No. &i8.-75and; of Turk.estan were separated by a large tract of hostile country , and , as can readily be seen , in the event of a war with England such an arrangement would have been far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mery was taken , however , the position of affairs was entirely altered , for free and direct communication was thus obtained from the Caspian Sea to the borders of China , whilst at the same time a shorter route , by way of Askabad , Merv , and Charjui , was provided for the sending of re-enforeements to the Turkestan army The saving of time immediately effected by making use of this route could be numbered in weeks , and since the rail way has been carried through Mery and Charjui to Samarkand , the time saved may be reckoned in mouths . The con , mercial gain to Russia consequent on the acquisition of Mery is no less important than the strategical , for new markets have been opened up for the interchange of both European and Asiatic commodi. ties , and by this means a great impetus has been given to the Central Asian cot ton trade . But of course , whatever immediate ad vantages might accrue to Russia , there is little room to doubt that her ulterior object in acquiring the place was to ad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India , and it was not long before she found fresh opportunity for her enterprise , for her troops had now been introduced to a district whose frontiers towards Afghanistan were but imperfectly defined , and where in consequence the possibilities were illimitable . Further developments were rapid . Immediately after the annexation of Mery a new map was prepared by Rus sia , in which she took advantage of a certain vagueness of definition as to desert land ( so called in the Anglo-Russian agreement of 1873 , by which the frontier had up to this time been delimited ) to extend her boundaries . In answer to re ? peated inquiries on the part of Great Brit ain , it was arranged that a boundary commission should meet at Saraklis in October of 1884 . Various expedients were , however , resorted to by Russia in order to gain time , and meanwhile she occupied numerous points of vantage . In January , 1885 , she herself proposed a frontier line which would be much to her own advantage , and which practically meant that Britain should agree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and neighboring districts , which hitherto had been considered as parts of Afghanistan . This was , of course , rejected by the British government , who , however , made a counter-proposal , in which considerable concessions were made to Russia . But their proposition did not meet with the approval of the Russians , who now no longer endeavored to conceal the fact that their intention was to occupy all the important points on the way to Herat . The British government thereupon made strong representations on the subject , and demanded that Russian troops should be withdrawn from certain outlying positions which they already held , and that no farther advance should be made . The Russians refused to evacuate any position already in their possession , but agreed to the second half of the demand The promise was , as usual , not carried out , and attempts were made at various points to provoke the Afghans to hostilities . The despatch received at Kabul from the British government hereupon gave distinct instructions on the subject : " Her Majesty 's government can not advise the Afghans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the positions they now occupy , but her Majesty 's government consider that the farther advance of the Russians should , subject to military considerations , be resisted by the Afghans . " The result was that a series of collisions took place between the Russians and the Afghans on the river Murgbab , culminating in the Russian attack on Panjdeli , of which place they obtained possession after a courageous resistance on the part of the Afghan defenders , who suffered heavy loss . Parijdeh having succumbed , the Russians proceeded to establish a temporary administration , to include also the surrounding districts . Hereupon England awoke to the fact that it was time to interfere , and accordingly preparations were made for war . After a time of suspense , however , the difficulty was ended by the Tsar agreeing to submit the matter to arbitration if desired , and finally a line of frontier was agreed upon , which , with the exception that Panjdeh was exchanged for Zulfikar , was practically the same as that proposed by the Russians in January of 1885 , and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even after this , however , numerous complications ensued , and it was only with the greatest difficulty that a satisfactory frontier line on the northwest of Afghanistan was finally arrived at . This matter at last settled , for the time being at any rate , Russia proceeded to see what could be done in the Pamirs , where the boundary-lines were also but vaguely defined . For a time some anxiety was felt in England at this latest Russian movement , but was easily allayed by an " assurance " from that country on the subject . Whatever she means to do in that direction , however , it is an open secret that she regards the Hindu Kush as the proper boundary of British activity in Asia ? that is to say , for the present ? and that she looks upon an occupation of Herat as a by no means remote possibility . As has already been said , she has DOW extended her line of railway to within seventy miles of that town , and it is far from likely that the present terminus at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is admitted that the Merv-Kushk Railway is but a means to an end , and that end the establishment of Russian domination at Herat and in northern Afghanistan generally . Nor is this line destined to he the only one having this important object . Already the country in the direction of Balkh has been carefully surveyed , and plans submitted to the imperial authorities for a line of rail to that place , whilst the whole of the surrounding country has been so carefully studied that the position of almost every tree and hedge is known . At the same time , employing Astrabad as a centre , a net-work of Russian intrigue and acquisition is also being gradually spread farther and farther to the south in Persia , in preparation for the time when that country also can be easily absorbed , it being an understood thing that a rail way is eventually to branch off towards the south from Astrabad , and thus , according to Russian writers themselves , open a way to the establishment of the Tsar 's supremacy on the shores of the Persian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claimed for the MervKushk Railway that it is merely a civilizing project , but it is well here to recall the words applied to it by Skobeleff . He declared that not for a generation or more would Russia be able to advance beyond Herat upon India . " But , " lie went on to say , " in the mean time , by this railway of ours , we are assuming a menacing position towards England , which will keep her occupied iu India , and prevent tier impeding us in other parts of the world . " Clearly , then , if this line has any civilizing aim at all , that is by no means its sole purpose of creation . The inevitable conclusion to be drawn from a study of the steady Muscovite advance is that Russia will continue her encroachments . It therefore behooves Britain to carefully consider the present position of affairs , and to formulate andcarry out some consistent line of policy which shall effectually protect her vast Eastern empire from the Russian menace . Dangers are accumulating thick and fast on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come for the British government to make a determined stand , once and for all , against Russian interference in Afghanistan . A Russian occupation of Herat , for instance , would not only be a direct menace in itself , but , if allowed , would give rise amongst the peoples of Afghanistan and India to an impression that England feared to oppose Russia , and such a result would naturally be fatal in its effects .                     