@@430227

 | THERE are some who maintain that State supervision of all kinds is merely a form of pernicious paternalism . Be this as it may , we are brought face to face with the fact that the supervision of corporations is becoming more extensive day by day , and the intention of the Government not only to exercise supervisory functions , but to participate actively in the management of semipublic corporations , is well illustrated by the agitation relative to railroad rate making . Since the State has decided that the best interests of its citizens are served by requiring its physicians , its dentists , its veterinarians and even its barbers ( New York State now requires " tonsorial artists " to pass examinations before the State Licensing Board ) to demonstrate their fitness to practise , there is no real reason why it should not extend its protective system over the life-insurance policies held by its citizens . In fact , there exists a positive reason why it should do so , inasmuch as , life-insurance being based upon mathematical and scientific principles , its essentials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a banking institution to offer a man six per cent . interest upon his daily balances , he would realize from his knowledge of business conditions that such an otter was inconsistent with proper and conservative banking methods ; in consequence , he would decide to have nothing to do with an institution that made such an offer . When an insurance agent , however , offers this same man a policy of insurance , he is unable to determine whether the premium which he is to pay are adequate , or whether the company standing back of the contract is being conducted along safe lines . It is to be regretted that the history of the past twenty-five years in this country indicates that  | mere cheapness has been an unduly exaggerated factor in the mind of the insuring public . The rise of assessment organizations , their wonderful and unprecedented growth and the subsequent failure of many of them owing to the inadequacy of their premiums and their managerial mistakes , all point to the inability of the average citizen to select safe depositories for his insurance premiums . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life-insurance companies . They are encouragers of thrift ; upon the death of the wage-earner , the proceeds of the insurance policy are , in many cases , the only barrier between the family and pauperism . For that reason , life-insurance takes its place in the economic structure and occupies a peculiar niche , for it not only encourages habits of economy and compels periodic deposits of money ( as contrasted with the voluntary deposits which are made in savings-banks ) , but it exercises the more important function of distributing the losses of the few among the many . It has been well said that nothing is so uncertain as the date of the death of any particular individual , and nothing is more certain than the number of individuals who will die in any given year . Insurance eliminates the hardship which would be occasioned by the premature death of the individual , in such a way that each of the contributors pays his share of the mathematical probability of his death during the given period . As an illustration of the recognition by the State of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in Europe we find a system of compulsory governmental insurance , covering not only death from all causes , but also disability from accident and disease . It may not be uninstructive to show by a few concrete illustrations the extent to which life-insurance has entered into the every-day life of the people . The United States leads the world in the size of the companies domiciled within its borders . Taking , for example , the records of three of the largest companies , we find that at the end of the last calendar year they controlled between them $1,242,731,1.13.35 of assets . Now , bear in mind that an insurance company is not a productive corporation . It receives certain moneys ; it invests them ; it distributes these funds to the beneficiaries of the policy-holders who die during the existence of their contracts , or to those who , by their survival of a stated period , are entitled to such participation . The  | corporation itself is , therefore , merely a collecting and distributing bureau . It produces nothing . It is the receiver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which its policy-holders pour into its coffers . These remarks are equally true either for the life-insurance company with a capital stock or for one organized absolutely upon the mutual plan . In the former case , there may be some charter or statutory provision which will permit the stockholders to receive certain dividends ; but the distinction must be sharply drawn between the capital stock of a life-insurance company and that of an industrial corporation ; for , in the latter , the operations are conducted and extended by means of the contributions of the stockholders , while , in the former , the policy-holders contribute the assets . It has been pointed out that three of these companies alone owned on December 31 , 1904 , over one and one-quarter billion dollars in securities of various kinds . This great sum represents the contributions of individuals scattered throughout the civilized world , and numbering at that time 2,158,749 . The foregoing facts have apparently been lost sight of in the reports of the internal strife in one of these corporations which have recently been so prominent in the daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers and directors have used all of their talents to secure advantages for their respective clients ; but the great army of policy-holders , the real owners of the assets of the institution , are a disorganized body unable to protect their own interests properly . The question naturally arises , therefore : " Does the State , after bringing these corporations into being , assume no responsibility for the safeguarding of the interests of the policy-holders ? " State supervision exists in every country . In Germany . the Government not only exercises powers of visitation and supervision over its insurance corporations , but actually participates in the management of their affairs , specifies the mortality tables to be assumed , the commissions which may be paid . the time when their profits shall be distributed to the policy-holders , etc . In the United States , we attempt to supervise our life-insurance companies by means of Insurance Departments existing in each of the fifty-one States , Territories and Districts . These supervisors , in nearly every case , are appointed by the Governors . In a very few instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are nominated as are other State officers and elected by direct vote of the people . They have various titles , usually being called " Superintendent of Insurance " or " Insurance Commissioner . " In some cases , the Auditor of State is Insurance Commissioner ex officio , and in a perfunctory manner combines the supervision of insurance companies with that of State banks , savings-banks , building and loan associations , etc . It will be seen from this that the supervising officer is part of the political machinery of the State , and the besetting sin of American civic government ? the political pull ? is responsible for whatever lack of efficiency there may be in this important branch of the State Government . It is an unfortunate fact that this office , which comes into such close and vital relationship with the interests of so large a number of citizens , should be handed out as a reward for political services . It must not be understood that this is a sweeping condemnation of all Insurance Departments or a denunciation of every Insurance Commissioner , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cast off all political yokes and affiliations , and have succeeded in reforming serious evils which existed in the business . It is merely a criticism of a system which takes men with no technical education , places them in charge of one of the most important bureaus , and then , without regard to their honesty , efficiency or record , sweeps them out of office and hands their positions to some new , inexperienced man as a reward for political services rendered at the last election . This condition of affairs is to be found in nearly every State in this country . The most notable exceptions are the New England States , where many of the Insurance Commissioners have been in office for a great number of years , and are thus , by their experience , enabled to serve the interests of their policy-holders with fidelity and ability . The method of appointing or electing the supervising officer has been touched upon before referring to the statutes themselves , for , no matter how good or how bad the laws are , their beneficial effect is directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a State whose statute-books contain a set of ideal insurance laws , but whose supervising officer is weak and inefficient , and it will be found that the results attained , as far as the interests of the policy-holders go , are inferior to those of some neighboring State whose insurance code is less elaborate , @#  | but where the supervising officer is a man of sterling integrity , imbued with the knowledge of the importance of the duties assigned to him , and determined at all hazards to protect the interests of his policy-holders . The duties of an Insurance Commissioner are threefold : First : To see that the insurance laws of his State are obeyed ; Second : To see that the policy-holders receive equitable treatment from the corporations under his supervision ; Third : To see that the corporations receive fair treatment . The insurance laws of most of the States are in a deplorable condition . They were enacted at a time when life-insurance companies had not attained their present growth , and consequently are inadequate to meet the needs of the present conditions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the insurance laws , may be briefly summarized as follows : ( 1 ) The establishment of a standard of solvency by which the financial condition of the organization may be tested . It is apparent that the ascertainment of the outstanding liabilities of an insurance corporation is a much more difficult proposition than is met with in determining the liabilities of any other financial institution . The present value of a life-insurance contract is dependent not only upon the accumulation of interest , but also upon the operation of the law of mortality . A life-insurance company may have more than enough funds on hand to pay all of its accrued death claims , and still be in such a perilously insolvent condition as to render its further operations extremely hazardous . The principles upon which legal reserve insurance companies are founded contemplate the establishment of a sufficient amount in the early years of the history of a life contract to overcome the deficiency in later years caused by the naturally excessive mortality resulting from old age . It is absolutely necessary that a company should have sufficient funds on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal the present value of these contracts . The State , therefore , prescribes a mortality table and a rate of interest which may be applied in calculating the present value of a company 's policy contracts . Companies are required to list their policies , send their lists to the Insurance Department of the State in which they are domiciled , and the actuarial department then ascertains the liability on account of such contracts .  | ( 2 ) Prescribing the investments in which a company may invest its funds . It will be recognized that this is one of the most important features of supervision ; for , if the funds of a life-insurance company be invested improperly , the entire structure must fall to the ground . The laws of nearly all the States permit companies to purchase sufficient real estate for the conduct of their own business . This has been , by practice , construed to permit a company to erect a large office-building , but a small part of which is occupied for its own operations . It goes without saying , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate as they are compelled to acquire under foreclosure , although the laws of many of the States require such property to be sold within a given time , usually five years , unless the necessary certificate is secured from some State officer setting forth that a forced sale would result injuriously to the interests of the policy-holders . A large part of the funds of insurance companies is invested in bond and mortgage on real estate , and the laws usually prescribe that such real property shall be improved , unincumbered and worth fifty per cent . more than the amount loaned thereon . The weak part of this requirement is , that it makes no provision for ascertaining the actual worth of the property . The restriction is , therefore , valueless . The next broad subdivision of investments is the bonds and stocks . The statutes of a State in which are located large insurance interests provide that , after making the deposit with the Superintendent of Insurance , the residue of the capital and the surplus money and funds " may be invested in , or loaned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which deposits are required to be invested , or in the public stocks and bonds of any one of the United States , or , except as herein provided , in the stocks , bonds or other evidence of indebtedness of any solvent institution incorporated under the laws of the United States , or of any State thereof . " Companies are not permitted to loan upon or own the stock of any other insurance corporation transacting the same kind of business . It will be seen at once that the field of investment permitted under this act is so broad as to contain , practically , no restrictions . It is responsible for many of the evils which have crept into the business , and which must , in the very near future , be remedied in order that the institution of life-insurance shall occupy its legitimate field . It was never intended  | that the funds of any corporation of this kind should be used for the purpose of controlling subsidiary corporations , engaged in the transaction of other forms of commercial enterprises . The spectacle of insurance companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust companies , trolley roads and industrial corporations of various kinds , is neither a pleasant nor a reassuring one . The evils to which such a condition of affairs can lead have been given great prominence in recent public prints . If the supervision of insurance companies is to be worth anything , it must , in the very near future , devote its serious consideration to the establishment of more rigorous standards , preventing the use ( or misuse ) of the policy-holders ' contributions for personal gain or aggrandizement . In addition to the foregoing , companies are permitted to loan to their policy-holders an amount not exceeding the reserve which is maintained on their policies . This constitutes one of the safest and most desirable investments which a company can make . It is hard to imagine a more thoroughly secured loan than one of this character . Should the policy-holder die , the loan , by its terms , immediately becomes due and payable and is deducted from any proceeds which are turned over to the beneficiary . It is dependent for its security upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repudiated , as have been the bonds of some municipalities . If the policy-holder permits his policy to lapse , the company is amply protected ; for it has in its possession the man 's reserve , which , it will be borne in mind , is the excess payments which he has made to provide for the maintenance of a level premium throughout his contract . ( 3 ) The ministerial functions . Under this heading comes the important duty of preparing and distributing the blanks upon which the companies are required to render an annual account of their transactions of the previous calendar year . The development of this blank is a most interesting one . It is not so very long ago that a primitive form then in use gave practically no insight into the true condition of the corporation . The gradual introduction of more scientific methods , and of a more detailed analysis of the various items , has produced a statement form which enables an experienced observer to obtain a fair knowledge , not only of the financial condition of the company , but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its ability  | to keep its business upon its books , etc . It may be interesting to know that the last blank adopted by the National Convention of Insurance Commissioners of 1902 , subdivided the income of companies under twenty-seven heads , the disbursements under twenty-nine , the assets under twenty-seven and the liabilities under twenty-four . It will be seen from this that a fairly comprehensive analysis has been attempted . ( 4 ) The power of visitation . To require corporations to make periodic reports and to provide for no way of verifying such reports , would manifestly be ridiculous . In consequence , the insurance statutes of nearly every State provide that the head of the Department , or somebody selected by him , is authorized to visit the office of any insurance company transacting business in his State , for the purpose of making an examination of its condition and ascertaining whether the laws of the State have been strictly complied with , and whether its operations give indication of having been conducted along conservative lines . There is no more important duty entrusted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take all of the necessary precautions to assure himself that the property which the company displays for his inspection is owned absolutely by it ; that the lists of policies submitted to him for valuation are complete and in accordance with the terms of the contracts , for to verify the assets without looking after the liabilities would be worse than useless . If he finds that a company fails to pay its death claims promptly , is being conducted for the benefit of its officers and directors rather than its policy-holders , is developing into an institution whose funds are used for the promotion of industrial or financial enterprises rather than in the field of legitimate investments , it becomes his duty to attempt to correct such abnormal conditions . Publicity , it will be found , is the greatest corrective of corporate evils , and every policy-holder is entitled to know every detail which directly affects his contract . No institution conducted along safe and conservative lines need fear the search-light of publicity . It is greatly to be regretted that , in the past , some unscrupulous Commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of securing pleasure trips around the country at the expense of the companies examined . At one time , there was an epidemic of this pernicious activity on the part of certain men temporarily clothed with great authority . It is practically un- heard-of to-day . The responsibility , however , of determining whether a company is fit to transact business within a State , is one which is placed in the hands of every Commissioner . He is not authorized to delegate this power to the Commissioner of any other State , and it becomes the duty , therefore , of every conscientious State officer to investigate for himself , if he has any reason to believe that the home department is incompetent or unwilling to make the proper investigation . The above brief resume of some of the duties of the head of an Insurance Department will serve to indicate the great responsibility attaching to the office . The technical nature of the lifeinsurance business , its close affiliation with the financial world , and the great number of citizens interested in its successful administration , are all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the office . The judicial frame of mind , so necessary to the proper contemplation of the problems arising in connection with supervision , is only acquired after years of practice and experience . To expect a man trained in other walks of life to develop suddenly into a competent supervisor , is to ask the impossible . Life-insurance is a huge structure and its erection must be watched by competent eyes . If the foundation be placed upon shifting sands , if the materials entering into the building are of inferior quality , or if the work of upbuilding is conducted improperly , the structure will fall to the ground , bringing desolation and ruin to great numbers . It is to the credit of State supervision that such good work has been accomplished with such poor tools . With the full realization upon the part of the people of the cost to them of the failure of a weak and pliable Commissioner to do his duty , may we not hope that , before another decade passes , we shall see the office stripped of its political nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education and training to protect the interests of the millions of policy-holders throughout the world ? When that time comes , the funds of a life-insurance company will never be regarded as a means whereby one group of financiers may profit at the cost of another group . The title to the funds will rest securely in the policy-holders , and the only thing needed to effect this transformation is the realization upon the part of the policy-holder of the necessity for it .                     