@@430215

 |p1217  BECAUSE rabbit shooting is seasonable only in late fall or winter weather the mention of it is calculated to suggest shivering chills , cold feet , numb fingers and all sorts of heavy clothing . At first blush , therefore , it may not seem to be exactly an appropriate : opic to be given a place in a magazine designed for midsummer reading . On second thought , however , I hope it will not be deemed amiss that the torridity of such a magazine should be tempered by a cooling admixture hinting of recreation free from dog-day swelter , and reminding the reader that a season is on its way which brings with it outdoor sport exempt from summer heat and unvexed " by the stings and arrows of outrageous " gnats , flies or mosquitoes . It is quite within reason to suppose that the addition of rabbit hunting to the ingredients that simmer in summer recreative reading might be as refreshing as the addition of ice to an otherwise tepid summer tipple . Some hunters there are , of the superrefined and dudish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate game animals ; and there are others who , while grudgingly admitting rabbits to the list , seem to think it necessary to excuse their concession by calling them hares . I regard all this as pure affectation and nonsense . I deem it not beneath my dignity and standing as a reputable gunner to write of the rabbit as an entirely suitable member of the game community ; and n doing so I am not dealing with hares or any other thing except plain , little , every day plebeian rabbits ? sometimes appropriately called " cotton-tails . " Tho they may be " defamed by every charlatan " among hunters of self-constituted high degree , and despised by thousands who know nothing of their game qualities , I am not ashamed of their pursuit ; and I count it by no means bad skill to force them by a successful shot to a topsy-turvy pause when at their best speed . These sly little fellows feed at night , and during the day they hide so closely in grass or among rocks and brush that it is seldom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no decent man will shoot a rabbit while sitting , and I have known them to refuse to start for anything less than a kick or punch . When they do start , however , they demonstrate quite clearly that they have kept their feet in the best possible position for a spring and run . After such a start the rabbit must in fairness be given an abundant chance to gain full headway , and when he has traversed the necessary distance for this , and is at his fastest gait , the hunter that shoots him has good reason to be satisfied with his marksmanship . I once actually poked one up and he escaped unhurt , tho four loads of shot were sent after him . In the main , however , dogs must be relied upon for the real enjoyment and success of rabbit hunting . The fastest dogs are not the best , because they are apt to chase the rabbit so swiftly and closely that he quickly betakes himself to a hole or other safe shelter , instead of relying upon his running ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following a little cotton-tail should be as exhilarating and as pleasant to ears attuned to the music as if the chase were for bigger game . As the music is heard more distinctly , the hunter is allowed to flatter himself that his acute judgment can determine the route of the approaching game and the precise point from which an advantageous shot can be secured . The self-satisfied conceit aroused by a fortunate guess concerning this important detail , especially if supplemented  |p1218  by a fatal shot , should permit the lucky gunner to enjoy as fully the complacent pleasurable persuasion that the entire achievement is due to his sagacity , keenness and skill as tho the animal circumvented were a larger beast . In either case the hunter experiences the delight born of a well-fed sense of superiority and self-pride ; and this , notwithstanding all attempts to keep it in the background , is the most gratifying factor in every sporting indulgence . Some people speak slightingly of the rabbit 's eating qualities . This must be an abject surrender to fad or fashion . At any rate it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can relish tender chicken and refuse to eat a nicely cooked rabbit is , I believe , a victim of unfounded prejudices . Why , then , should not rabbit hunting , when honorably pursued , be given a respectable place among gunning activities ? It certainly has every element of rational outdoor recreation . It ministers to the most exhilarating and healthful exercise ; it furnishes saving relief from care and overwork ; it is free from wantonness and inexcusable destruction of animal life , and , if luck favors , it gives play to innocent but gratifying selfconceit . Let us remember , however , that if rabbit hunting is to be a manly outdoor recreation , entirely free from meanness , and a sport in which a true hunter can indulge without shame , the little cottontail must in all circumstances be given a fair chance for his life .                     