@@430019

In every generation of our national life , from Phillis Wheatley to Booker Washington , the Negro race in America has succeeded in bringing forth men whom the country , at times spontaneously , at times in spite of itself , has been impelled to honor and respect . Mr. Washington is one of the most striking of these cases , and his autobiography is a partial history of the steps which made him a group leader , and the one man who in the eyes of the nation typifies at present more nearly than all others the work and worth of his nine million fellows . The way in which groups of human beings are led to choose certain of their number as their spokesmen and leaders is at once the most elementary and the nicest problem of social growth . History is but the record of this group leadership ; and yet how infinitely changeful is its type and history ! And of all types and kinds , what can be more instructive than the leadership of a group within a group ? that curious double @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be relative retrogression ? All this is the social student 's inspiration and despair . When sticks and stones and beasts form the sole environment of a people , their attitude is ever one of determined opposition to , and conquest of , nat . ural forces . But when to earth and brute is added an environment of men and ideas , then the attitude of the imprisoned group may take three main forms : a feeling of revolt and revenge ; an attempt  | to adjust all thought and action to the will of the greater group ; or , finally , a determined attempt at self-development , self-realization , in spite of environing discouragements and prejudice . The influence of all three of these attitudes is plainly to be traced in the evolution of race leaders among American negroes . Before 1750 there was but the one motive of revolt and revenge which animated the terrible Maroons and veiled all the Americas in fear of insurrection . But the liberalizing tendencies of the latter half of the eighteenth century brought the first thought of adjustment and assimilation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Attucks and Salem . The cotton-gin changed all this , and men then , as the Lyman Abbotts of to-day , found a new meaning in human blackness . A season of hesitation and stress settled on the black world as the hope of emancipation receded . Forten and the free Negroes of the North still hoped for eventual assimilation with the nation ; Allen , the founder of the great African Methodist Church , strove for unbending self-development , and the Southern freedmen followed him ; while among the black slaves at the South arose the avenging Nat Turner , fired by the memory of Toussaint the Savior . So far , Negro leadership had been local and spasmodic ; but now , about 1840 , arose a national leadership ? a dynasty not to be broken . Frederick Douglass and the moral revolt against slavery dominated Negro thought and effort until after the war . Then , with the sole weapon of self-defense in perilous times , the ballot , which the nation gave the freedmen , men like Langston and Bruce sought to guide the political fortunes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the old ideal of self-development . Then came the reaction . War memories and ideals rapidly passed , and a period of astonishing commercial development and expansion ensued . A time of doubt and hesitation , of storm and stress , overtook the freedmen 's sons ; and then it was that Booker Washington 's leadership began . Mr. Washington came with a clear simple programme , at the psychological moment ; at a time when the nation was a little ashamed of having bestowed so much sentiment on Negroes and was concentrating its energies on Dollars . The industrial training of Negro youth was not an idea originating with Mr. Washington , nor was the policy of conciliating the white South wholly his . But he first put life , unlimited energy , and perfect faith into this programme ; he changed it from an article of belief into a whole creed ; he broadened it from a by-path into a veritable Way of Life . And the method by which he accomplished this is an interesting study of human life . Mr. Washington 's narrative gives but glimpses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . First of all , he strove to gain the sympathy and cooperation of the white South , and gained it after that epoch-making sentence spoken at Atlanta : " In all things that are purely social we can be as separate as the fingers , yet one as the hand in all things essential to mutual progress " ( p. 221 ) . This conquest of the South is by all odds the most notable thing in Mr. Washington 's career . Next to this comes his achievement in gaining place and consideration in the North . Many others less shrewd and tactful would have fallen between these two stools ; but as Mr. Washington knew the heart of the South from birth and training , so by singular insight he intuitively grasped the spirit of the age that was dominating the North . He learned so thoroughly the speech and thought of triumphant commercialism and the ideals of material prosperity that he pictures as the height of absurdity a black boy studying a French grammar in the midst of weeds and dirt . One wonders how Socrates or St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very singleness of vision and thorough oneness with his age is a mark of the successful man . It is as though Nature must needs make men a little narrow to give them force . At the same time , Mr. Washington 's success , North and South , with his gospel of Work and Money , raised opposition to him from widely divergent sources . The spiritual sons of the Abolitionists were not prepared to acknowledge that the schools founded before Tuskegee , by men of broad ideals and self-sacrificing souls , were wholly failures , or worthy of ridicule . On the other hand , among his own people Mr. Washington found deep suspicion and dislike for a man on such good terms with Southern whites . Such opposition has only been silenced by Mr. Washington 's very evident sincerity of purpose . We forgive much to honest purpose which is accomplishing something . We may not agree with the man at all points , but we admire him and cooperate with him so far as we conscientiously can . It is no ordinary tribute to this man 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amid so many diverse interests and opinions , he to-day commands not simply the applause of those who believe in his theories , but also the respect of those who do not . Among the Negroes , Mr. Washington is still far from a popular leader . Educated and thoughtful Negroes everywhere are glad to honor him and aid him , but all can not agree with him . He represents in Negro thought the old attitude of adjustment to environment , emphasizing the economic phase ; but the two other strong currents of feeling , descended from the past , still oppose him . One is the thought of a small but not unimportant group , unfortunate in their choice of spokesman , but nevertheless of much weight , who represent the old ideas of revolt and revenge , and see in migration alone an outlet for the Negro people . The second attitude is that of the large and important group represented by Dunbar , Tanner , Chesnut , Miller , and the Grimkes , who , without any single definite programme , and with complex aims , seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human endeavor which they believe will eventually place the Negro beside the other races . While these men respect the Hampton-Tuskegee idea to a degree , they believe it falls far short of a complete programme . They believe , therefore , also in the higher education of Fisk and Atlanta Universities ; they believe in self-assertion and ambition ; and they believe in the right of suffrage for blacks on the same terms with whites . Such is the complicated world of thought and action in which Mr. Booker Washington has been called of God and man to lead , and in which he has gained so rare a meed of success .  |                     