@@486323

How strong , and often malign , may be the prejudice connected with old battle-cries , was shown again at the opening of the Reciprocity Convention in Washington on November 19 . To some delegates , free trade was evidently a dragon hidden somewhere in the hall , and ready to rush upon them if they were unwary . So they got up to crush every argument in favor of reciprocity with the ready charge that it was only free trade in disguise . On the other hand , manufacturers like Mr. Farquhar , who are thinking earnestly of the foreign market and how best to get to it , could regard their opponents only as the embodiment of a bigoted protectionism , " gorging itself on the spoils of the weak . " So the Convention seemed at once to be in for a renewal of ancient battles and old recriminations . The lame and impotent resolutions adopted the next day mark the culmination and failure of the movement to induce the Republican party to do something this session for American trade . The resolutions themselves ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children in the public schools . It would certainly be a poor student who could not pass with honor an examination requiring him to point out ( 1 ) how the tail of the resolutions eats up the head ; ( 2 ) how the wrong conclusion is drawn from correct premises ; and ( 3 ) how what is openly asserted in one resolution is covertly denied in its neighbor . The process appears to have been to allow the man who wanted foreign trade to write one clause , and the man who hated foreign trade to introduce the amendments which nullified it . Thus , the Convention highly resolved that it was in favor of " opening up by reciprocity , " and by " special modifications of the tariff , opportunities for increased foreign trade , " but " only where it can be done without injury to any of our home interests of manufacturing , commerce , or farming " There it is ' You may do it , only on condition that you do n't do it ' We take it for granted that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McKinley negotiated them and believed in them ; President Roosevelt and Secretary Hay will urge their ratification ; great manufacturers and exporters will press their acceptance by the Senate , but that body has the grave ready into which they are to be tumbled without even the rites of Christian burial . And the reason is clear . The Republican party is afraid of the discussion . It shrinks from revealing its internal differences of opinion on this subject . Moreover , it knows that the clutch of selfish interests is upon its throat . It is of the nature of protection to make its greed blind and angry , and protection is now renewing its old threats to the Republican party if any attempt is made to diminish its pound of flesh , nominated in the tariff , . by the twentieth part of one poor scruple . In view of all this , the Republican party has had the cowardice of its lack of convictions , and its leaders have practically said , " What , invite a party split when we are comfortably in the enjoyment of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real folly , however , lies in the determination to do nothing . This is tantamount to serving notice on the country that the power which it has given the Republican party is not to be used except in a timid , hand-to-mouth fashion . It is not to be employed to fortify the country against the coming of an evil day . But the evil day in trade and agriculture will surely come . Its arrival can not , in fact , be much longer delayed , unless the fat years are to be multiplied by special miracle in our behalf . Let the chill fall upon our industry which the law of averages makes us certain will fall ere long ; let scanty crops coincide with low prices for them , as may easily be the case next year or the year after ; and then let it appear that we are cut off from our foreign market by the neglect of the Republican party to follow the advice and urging of President McKinley  --  and what will be the result9 Who will look foolish then ? The economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be simply appalling . There are two kinds of statesmanship ? the far-sighted , and the bat-blind . Party leaders may seek power for two ends ? either to lie at ease in the patronage pen , with their snouts near the trough , or to put office and party control to large and creative use in inaugurating wise and far-reaching national policies . To the latter course the Republican party was invited by its unexampled opportunity , as by the utter demoralization of the Opposition , and was urged to it by the enlightened and progressive minds within its own ranks . It appears to have decided , for the present , upon the " great refusal . " It will do nothing but enjoy the goods which it thinks it has laid up for many years . Its chosen watchword is that of the lotus-eaters ? " Let us alone . " But the history of the rise and fall of parties has been written in vain if this somnolent statesmanship is not destined ere long to a rude awakening . If there were no Opposition party , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enact at Washington a trade policy corresponding to the needs of the time and the demands of the country . The Governor-elect of Iowa , Mr. Cummins , gave fitting expression , at the New York Chamber of Commerce dinner last week , to the sense of boundless pride in our national resources and opportunity which pervades the Central West . Out there they are fully ready for a " fair field and no favors " in the world 's competition , They know that they can feed the world and make machinery for the world , and they look with growing impatience upon that cowering timidity of many interests in the-East which dreads and hampers foreign trade . We are prepared to go out for the conquest of the world , yet we fall a-wrangling whether we shall reduce cur duty on pinchbeck jewelry by 5 per cent. ! We are building bridges in Africa and India , invading England , fright-. ening Austria , and disturbing Germany with our expanding and victorious trade , yet we squabble over a few pairs of stockings ! Well , it is all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to natural forces which are sure to triumph hi the end , despite the puny men who get in their way . And we confidently expect that rejoicing America , going forth like a strong man to run the race of industrial competition , will not much longer submit to the weights and clogs fastened upon its limbs by short-sighted or selfish men . A SHIPPING TRUST . The gentlemen connected with the formation of Trusts do not habitually take the public into their confidence until their plans have been carried out . It was therefore not to be expected that any announcement would be made as to the persistent rumors that the control of the White Star Line has been acquir- ' era by Americans . Whatever technical denials of particular statements may be made about the existence of a gigantic , Shipping Trust , however , a report from trustworthy sources is current in shipping circles which throws more light on the actual situation than any number of denials of carefully selected rumors . It appears that , in order to carry out an agreement with the Canadian Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be maintained between Portland , Me. , and Liverpool . This service , it is alleged , is to be made up from the fleets of the Leyland Line , the Atlantic Transport Line , the Dominion Line , and the White Star Line . In other words , here are four companies which do not openly admit that they are part of any shipping combination , but which are actually combining their fleets in order to form a connecting line between the Grand Trunk Railway and Liverpool , and to make a line of sufficient importance to require two steamers a week . The fact that the Leyland Line takes part in this service indicates that it is in the syndicate , and the same may , perhaps , be said of the White Star Line and of the Atlantic Transport Line . But whoever is or is not in the syndicate , the important fact is that an international combination exists , including at-least four hitherto independent lines . And this is the same Atlantic Transport Line whose President sent to the Commissioner of Navigation e , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interesting to note the relation between this combined line and the plan for a subsidy which was pressed so urgently in the last Congress , and which is to be brought up again in Washington within a few weeks . Here is a line of ships , all foreign-built , ostensibly engaged in our foreign commerce from the port of Portland , but really a part of a. line of transportation from British America and Canada to England  --  that is , foreign ships engaged in foreign business . Yet the ? single device of putting the title to these ships in a company , and the putting of the nominal title to 51 per cent . of the stock of that company in the names of United States citizens , would require our Government to pay a heavy subsidy to every ship for every voyage under the plan of subsidy proposed . This Portland Line has an unmistakable connection with the plans of the subsidy seekers  --  just as unmistakable as the plan of a certain large ship-building Trust which was put before investors , a year ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but which was withdrawn when the bill was dropped in the Senate . The combining of the fleets of foreign companies inthe Portland Line also shows that the foreign steamship companies , which were said to be fighting an American subsidy , have merely been preparing to share in such a bonus as the American people shall find it in their hearts to donate . The contrast between the plans of this great shipping combination  --  which is inspired and controlled by Americans , if not wholly composed of Americans  --  and the pitiful cry of the same Americans for Government aid would justify most satirical comment . But there is a side of the subject too grave to be treated lightly . Great business combinations are with us , for better or worse . They exist in defiance of the policy of the law , and in many cases in defiance of its letter . They avoid legal attack by making their most important arrangements through secret contracts on which no legal authority can lay its hand ; but when their combinations have been effected , they can dictate terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign commerce is a most inviting field for such combinations . If the great shipbuilding companies and the great shipping lines have not been drawn into a combination , or are not now drawing into a combination , they are throwing away opportunities which are being seized upon in every other field of business . But facts which leak out indicate that there has been no such neglect of opportunities , and that one of the chief reasons for secrecy is the plan that has been brewing to induce the United States Government to make an annual contribution to the profits of such combinations . To accomplish this , the com ponent American companies must continue to act in the role of infant industries until the Subsidy Bill has passed . Now , business combinations existing in accordance with law , or by avoidance of it , are one thing , and combinations made profitable by Government assistance are a very different and more serious thing . We can not say , however , that we are surprised that combination should take the latter form . So many resolutions have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made by statesmen , in favor of some kind of subsidy , that capitalists who are alive to their opportunities could not fail to see the double advantages offered by a Shipping Trust . In our view , they are much less to blame for the subsidy scheme than the politicians who tell them that there is a large surplus , in the Treasury to be applied to some vague public purpose , through the pockets of private individuals . The piling up of a surplus in the Treasury is perhaps the greatest menace to American institutions to-day . It offers a temptation to all the greedy and unscrupulous characters in the nation to bring forward plans for disbursing it through channels which they control . River-and-harbor and slack-water navigation schemes are multiplying beyond precedent . Battle-ships and big guns are looming up in astounding number and size . We shall presently have proposals for new pensions and additions to old ones . The amount in the Treasury can never be so large that there will not be found sufficient outlets for it . All the schemers will marshal themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for disposing of the surplus are just as good and just as much entitled to consideration as those advanced by Senators Frye and Hanna ; and in this they will be quite justified . POLITICS IN STATE INSTITUTIONS . At the Charities Conference last week Mr. George F. Canfield , President of the State Charities Aid Association , read a paper on the influence of politics on State and city institutions . The conclusions which he reached are founded upon reports received in answer to inquiries sent throughout the State asking information on this particular point . It is gratifying to learn , from the answers received , that the charitable institutions supported in whole or in part ba the proceeds of taxation are , for the most part , " free from the influence of bad politics " By bad politics is meant the kind which seeks places in these institutions for the sake of getting positions for " henchmen " or making profits by supplying goods to the institutions . The other kind of politics , which finds its way into the boards of managers , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general practice of filling all vacancies as they occur in the boards with persons belonging to the party in power , instead of reappointing , regardless of their political affiliations , those whose terms have expired This kind of partisanship does not necessarily lower the standard of management of the institutions , but neither does it tend to elevate it . If nothing worse , it tends to lessen the interest of one-half of the community in the management ; and this is a manifest harm to the State . The effects of partisanship in the administration of public charities have been exhibited within recent years in a striking manner in the State of Indiana . The political majority in Indiana has oscillated from the Repubhcans to the Democrats and vice versa ever since the civil war . Party spirit has been intense , sometimes to the point of riotous behavior , and as a consequence every scrap of political patronage has been utilized for all it was worth , and even much more than it was worth . With every change of the political control , there was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the institutions  --  not all at once , because the institutions could not be carried on without a certain number of experienced hand 's , but gradually and surely . Of course , the new appointees were selected not for their fitness , not for their knowledge of the needs of the patients in the hospitals and asylums , but for their party service and their " pull . " The result was a degradation of the service so infamous and a series of scandals so glaring and outrageous and continuous that both parties agreed to uproot and cast it out for ever . From time to time we have commented on this reform in Indiana , which put the administration of public charities on a non-partisan basis , and made the avenue to appointment , in all subordinate places , dependent upon competitive examination . Although the present Governor of Indiana has shown some signs of backsliding , . it is perhaps safe to say that its charitable institutions are now as free from partisan influence and contamination as those of any State in the Union . Those of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraging shape , but they are not beyond the reach of amendment . One of the local reports says that the superintendent of the almshouse is an inefficient saloonkeeper , and that his aim is to keep as many relatives and friends employed there as possible . Another says : " No superintendent is elected for more than two terms Partisan influence controls and out-door relief is also affected . Numerous instances have come to our knowledge in which voters undeserving of relief have made upon overseers of the poor demands upon the ground of past political support and of threatened opposition in the future in case their demands are not complied with . In purchasing supplies , they are compelled by political considerations to distribute their orders to storekeepers who charge full retail prices and often supply inferior articles , when good supplies can be purchased in bulk of wholesale dealers at a large saving to the county . Most of the county superintendents of both parties have been in the habit in a greater or less degree of using the almshouse as headquarters for their political followers , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In another place the practice existed , on the part of the superintendent , of - dis tributing favors in the purchase of supplies in return for votes . This practice had become established , and was acquiesced in as " a regular thing , " but it happened that " a Christian gentleman was elected who served without fear or favor , purchasing goods where he could purchase them cheapest . " The conseauenbe was that at the next election he " got left . " The politicians had no further use for him . In short , the finding of the investigation is that the administration of public charities in New York is for the most part good , being free from partisan influence , - but that badness exists in spots , and that here it is due to the sluggishness of local public opinion . It is a noticeable fact that in the places where the superintendents and overseers of the poor are inefficient and dishonest , " it is more frequently the public and the taxpayers than the inmates who suffer . " Reduced to percentages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the institutions , so far as the welfare of the inmates is concerned , is represented by 15 to 20 in the 100 , and so far as extrava ganCe and wastefulness of the public funds are concerned , by a percentage of 35 . The conditions existing in the city of New York are susceptible of much improvement , yet Mr. Canfield awards high commendation to Mr. Keller , the present ' Commissioner of Charities . Although a Tammany man and a pretty stiff partisan , he has given us the best administration of that department the city ' has ever had . But there still remains much to be done in the way of eliminating the baleful influences of politics . No radical changes are recommended in the methods of managing the State institutions , their condition being on the whole satisfactory . It is suggested , however , that the boards of managers should consist of not less than seven members each , and that the term of office of not more than one member should expire in any one year ; since , with a slowly changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members , and thus there will be less political pressure for places under them . The civil-service rules should be extended to the county institutions , and means for enforcing them in those places should be devised . Finally , we need a steady and enlightened public opinion , for the creation and sustenance of which we have excellent organs in the State Board of Charities , the State Charities Aid Association , the charity organization societies existing throughout the State , and in various publicatiOns devoted to the interests of charity . Altogether the outlook is cheering to those who give their time to charitable work without pay , and who find their reward in the happiness of the needy and the afflicted . 