@@473819

IT has been said that mankind is never more than three months removed from abject starvation ? an old truth that must always be new and startling . That is , if all sources of food production in the world should be suddenly cut off ? the wheat-fields failing to give forth their usual crops , and the pastures withering under the feet of the flocks and herds , ? the existing store of food would supply mankind barely a quarter of a year , and even before that hunger would have pinched thousands of the poor . In this day of overflowing abundance such a statement as this comes with something like a shock : it shows by how fine a thread the life of mankind is suspended . It has been pointed out by the pessimistic philosopher that the wheat-fields of the world are failing year by year , ? slowly , it is true , but failing ; that in many countries the land is being " cropped to death , " and already we are hearing of worn-out land in Dakota ? the paradise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen by these pessimists , is simple : The world is reaching the limits of its capacity for food production , while the population continues to increase enormously : How soon will starvation begin ? While these philosophers have been making dire predictions . however , science has been quietly but perseveringly at work to prove that mankind has only just begun to sound the world 's capacity for food production , and that it is practically limitless . The mistake of the pessimists has been that they based their arguments on the present knowledge of soil-culture , forgetting that science might make discoveries which would change every condition and suggest entirely new possibilities . Somehow , when man seems just at the limit of his resources , science and invention step in and open new fields , literally as well as figuratively . A comparatively few decades ago no one had thought of using artificial fertilizers ; now a young man in Paris is putting up fertilizers in little pressed tablets , a different kind for each different plant . They are accompanied by directions indicating how often ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , is the extreme application of a new system ; but the manufacture of artificial fertilizers for supplying the soil with just the elements that it needs to produce large crops has now become a great business enterprise , and with a constantly decreasing cost of manufacturing power ; the harnessing of waterfalls like Niagara , the use of the tides , and the possibility of the direct application of the energy of the sun promise still cheaper fertilizers and still smaller expense of transporting them to the farmer . All this will tend to maintain and even to increase food production . And then ; there is the possibility , and it is now more than a possibility , of making artificial food outright ? that is , of combining the familiar chemical elements of which food is composed and producing a food substitute that will sustain life . No one need go farther than the laboratory of Professor Berthelot of Paris to be convinced of the great possibilities in this branch of scientific activity . The work is already under way , and science stands ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to help out with wonderful new food products harvested from retorts and crucibles . ' I have barely mentioned these two branches of scientific effort to lead up to the wonderful experiments of Professor Nobbe of Germany , ? experiments which give an insight into the unfathomed possibilities which lie at the hand of the scientific investigator . Tharandt , in Saxony , where Professor Nobbe has carried on his investigations for over thirty years , is a little village set picturesquely among the Saxon hills , some half-hour 's ride by railroad from the city of Dresden . Here is located the Forest Academy of the kingdom , with which Professor Nobbe is prominently connected , and here also is the agricul-tural experiment station of which he is director . He has been for more than forty years the editor of one of the most important scientific publications in Germany , he is chairman of the Imperial Society of Agricultural Station Directors , and he has been the recipient of many honors . But the greatest of all his work is his remarkable discovery of a method for inoculating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay barren before . In times past investigators of soil and plant culture devoted their attention largely to studying the composition of various kinds of soil , to the improvement of fertilizers , and in suggesting new systems of drainage and water-supply Professor Nobbe has gone a step farther in advance , declaring that plants will grow , under certain conditions , just as well without soil as with soil . At first glance this may seem strange enough , yet here are trees , from eight to ten inches in. circumference at the base of the trunk , growing in clean water , without a sign of soil of any description . They stand in rows just back of the Forest Academy and near Professor Nobbe 's greenhouse . Each tree is suspended in a large glass jar surrounded by a green - painted case . When this case is opened one may look through the glass mid see the roots of Vox , . OVII ? No. 542 ? 117 the tree hanging there in the clean water . The oldest of the trees was planted , or rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it has grown to full size without even touching soil . Leaves and blossoms have come in the spring , and in the winter the water and the roots have frozen solid all these years , and the tree still thrives . Indeed , some of its seeds were immersed in water , and trees of the second generation have been grown to considerable size . Then their seeds were immersed , and there are now growing small trees three generations removed from the soil ? certainly a clear proof of Professor Nobbe 's assertion that actual contact with soil is not essential for plant growth . In order to produce such results , however , it was necessary to keep the trees supplied with artificial food . This Professor Nobbe prepared in his laboratory ? a certain definite amount of chlorate of potash , sulphate of magnesium , phosphate of iron , phosphate of potassium , and a nitrate . A small quantity of this mixture was dissolved in the water of the jars every four weeks , and thus the trees have been kept flourishing all these years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to plant growth that man could not manufacture atwill . Nor was this all that the experiment showed . Professor Nobbe knew to the last gramme how much food lie had given to the plant through the water ; he also knew that the water before adding the chemicals named was absolutely pure ; yet when he came to analyze some of the plants thus grown be found that they contained much greater quantities of various elements than he had supplied through the water . This constituted a proof positive that the plant drew largely upon the air for its nourishment , ? a fact well known to science , but not before positively and quantitatively demonstrated . The proportion of substance drawn from the air was found to be very large . It is said that of every one hundred pounds of wheat harvested from our fields barely one pound is actually drawn from the soil , the remainder coming from the free air and the water . And yet the effort to supply this oneone-hundredth of the plant 's food has caused most of the wars and conflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settling of new continents , and forms to - day the foundation of commerce and finance . As soon as science had convinced itself of the great truth that plants are fed largely from substances in the air , it began at once to study the problem as to how the plant is able to appropriate this eerie food . The chief chemical elements in all vegetable substances are oxygen , carbon , hydrogen , and nitrogen . Added to these are small quantities of potassium , phosphorus , iron , sulphur , magnesium , and calcium . Of all these elements the only ones about which there is any difficulty are nitrogen , potassium , and phosphorus . The others the plant obtains without difficulty , but the supply of nitrogen , especially , too often runs short . When land is said to be worn out , the meaning is that the supplies of nitrogen , potassium , and phosphorus have been exhausted by too constant cropping , by taking much away from the soil and returning nothing to it . Manure and fertilizers which are rich in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are rich in nitrogen , are thus applied to the land , thereby restoring its producing capability . Nitrogen is the all-important element . Potassium and phosphorus are usually present in abundance , or they can be easily supplied in the form of wood - ashes and other fertilizers , but nitrogen is more expensive and more difficult to restore . Nitrogen is what makes the muscles and brain of a man ; it is the essential element of all elements in the growth of animals and plants ; and , significantly enough , it is also the chief constituent of the gunpowder and other explosives with which the wars of the world are waged . A single discharge of a 13-inch gun liberates enough nitrogen to produce many scores of bushels of wheat . This fact may become , in the future , a greater deterrent of war than we can now imagine . The failure of the nitrogen of the soil and the inability to supply it in sufficient quantities by artificial means has formed the basis of the predictions of coming starvation made by Sir William Crookes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be from lack of nitrogen ; and yet if such starvation takes place it will be in a world full of nitrogen . For there is not one of the elements more common than nitrogen , not one present around us in larger quantities . Four-fifths of every breath of air we breathe is pure nitrugen ? four-fifths of all the earth 's atmosphere is nitrogen . If mankind dies of nitrogen starvation , it will die with food everywhere about it and within it . But , unfortunately , plants and animals are unable to take up nitrogen in its pure form as it appears in the air . It must be combined with hydrogen in the form of ammonia or in some nitrate . These facts have been well known to science for many years . At the same time it has been known , as a matter of experience among farmers , that when land is worn out by overeropping , with wheat or oats , for instance , both of which draw heavily on the earth 's nitrogen supply , certain other crops would still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are left and ploughed in , the fertility of the soil will be restored , and it will again produce large fields of wheat and other nitrogen-demanding plants . These restorative crops are clover , lupin , and other leguminous plants , ? a classification including beans and peas . Every one who is at all familiar with farming operations has heard of seeding down an old field to clover , thereby restoring its fertility in a degree . The great importance of this bit of the wisdom of experience was not appre- dated by science for many years . Then several German experimenters began to ask why clover and lupin and beans should flourish on worn-out land when other crops failed . All of these plants are especially rich in nitrogen , and yet they grow well on soil which has been robbed of its nitrogen . Why was this so ? It was a hard problem to solve . Botanists had already discovered that the roots of the leguminous plants ? that is , clover , lupin , beans , peas , and so on ? were usually covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were given the name nodules . The exact purpose of these swellings being unknown , they were set down as a condition , possibly , of disease , and no further attention was paid to them , until Professor Hellriegel of Burn-burg , in Anhalt , took up the work . After much experimenting , he made the important discovery that lupins which had nodules would grow in soil devoid of nitrogen , and that lupins which had no nodules would not grow in the same soil . It was plain , therefore , that the nodules must play an important though mysterious part in enabling the plant to utilize the free nitrogen of the air . That was early in the 80 's , His discovery at once started other investigators to work , and it was not long before the announcement came ? and it came , curiously enough , at a time when Dr. Koch was making his greatest contributions to the world 's knowledge of the germ theory of disease ? that these nodules were the result of minute bacteria found in the soil , Professor Beyerinck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at this time that Professor Nobbe took up the work with vigor . If these nodules were produced by bacteria , then the bacteria must be present in the soil ; and if they were not present , would it not he possible to supply them by artificial means ? In other words , if soil , even worn - out farm soil , ? or , indeed , pure sand , like that of the seashore , ? could thus be inoculated , as a physician inoculates a guinea - pig with anthrax germs , would not beans and peas planted there form nodules and draw their nourishment from the air ? It was a somewhat startling idea ; but all radically new ideas are startling , and after thinking it over , Professor Nobbe began , in 1888 , a series of most remarkable experiments , having as their purpose the discovery of a practical method of soil inoculation . He gathered the nodule-covered roots of beans and peas , dried and crushed them , and made an extract of them in water . Then he prepared a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other materials , and added the nodule extract . In this medium colonies of bacteria at once began to grow ? bacteria of many kinds . Professor Nobbe separated the Radiocola ? which are oblong in shape ? and made what is known as a " clean culture , " ? that is , a culture in gelatine consisting of billions of these particular germs and no others . When he had succeeded in producing these clean cultures he was ready for his actual experiments in growing plants . He took a quantity of pure sand , and in order to be sure that it contained no nitrogen , nor bacteria in any form , he heated it to a high temperature three different times for six hours , thereby completely sterilizing it . This sand he placed in three jars . To each of these he added a small quantity of mineral food ? the required phosphorus , potassium , iron , sulphur , and so on . To the first he supplied no nitrogen at all in any form ; the second he fertilized with saltpeter , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may readily absorb it through their roots ; the third of the jars he inoculated with some of his bacteria culture . Then he planted beans and awaited the results , ? as may be imagined , somewhat anxiously . Perfectly pure sterilized water was supplied to each jar in equal amounts . The seeds sprouted , and for a week the young shoots in the three jars were almost identical in appearance . But soon after that there was a gradual but striking change . The beans in the first jar , having no nitrogen and no inoculation , turned pale and refused to grow , finally dying down completely starved for want of nitrogenous food , exactly as a man would starve for the lack of the same kind of nourishment . The beans in the second jar , with the fertilized soil , grew about as they would in the garden , all of the nourishment having been artificially supplied . But the third jar , which had been jealously watched , showed really a miracle of growth . It must be remembered that the soil in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the first jar , and yet the beans flourished greatly , and when some of the plants were analyzed they were found to be rich in nitrogen . Nodules had formed on the roots of the beans in the third or inoculated jar only , thereby proving beyond the hope of the experimenter that soil inoculation was a possibility , at least in the laboratory . With this favorable beginning Professor Nobbe went forward with his experiments with renewed vigor . He tried inoculating the soil for peas , lupin , vetch , acacia , robinia , and in every ease the roots formed nodules , and although there was absolutely no nitrogen in the soil , the plants invariably flourished . Then Professor Nobbe tried great numbers of difficult test experiments , such as inoculating the soil with clover bacteria , then planting it with beans or peas , or vice versa , to see whether the bacteria from the nodules of any one leguminous plant could be used for all or any of the others . He also tried successive cultures ? that is , bean bacteria for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be obtained by continued use . An outline description of all the experiments which Professor Nobbe made in the course of those investigations would fill a small volume , and it will be best to set down here only his general conclusions . These wonderful nitrogen - absorbing bacteria do not appear in all soil , although they arc widely distributed . So for as known they form nodules only on the roots of a few varieties of plants , mostly leguminous In their virginal form in the soil they are neutral ? that is , not especially adapted to beans or peas or any one particular kind of crop . But if clover , for instance , is planted , they straightway form nodules , and become especially adapted to the clover plant , so that , as every farmer knows , the second crop of clover on worn-out land is much better than the first . And , curiously enough , when once the bacteria have become thoroughly adapted to one of the crops ? say , beans ? they will not affect peas or clover , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these little creatures , which has a marvellous suggestion of intelligence , is their activity in various kinds of soil . When the ground is very rich ? that is , when it contains plenty of nitrogenous matter , ? they are what Professor Nobbe calls " lazy . " They do not readily form nodules on the routs of the plants , seeming almost to know that there is no necessity for it . But when once the nitrogenous matter in the soil begins to fail , then they work more sharply , and when it lies gone altogether they are at the very height of their activity . Consequently , unless the soil is nearly worn out or very poor to begin with , there is no use in inoculating it it would be Like " taking owls to Athens , " as Professor Nobbe says . Having thus proved the remarkable efficacy of soil inoculation in his laboratory and greenhouses , where I saw great numbers of experiments still going forward , Professor Nobbe set himself to make his discoveries of practical value . He gave to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an a , ? and he produced separate cultures for each of the important crops -- -pens , beans , vetch , lupin , and clover In 1894 the first of these were placed an the market , and they had a considerable sale , although such a radical innovation as this , so far out of the ordinary run of agricultural operation , and so almost unbelievably wonderful , can not be expected to spread very rapidly . The cultures are now manufactured at one of the great commercial chemical laboratories on the river Main . I saw some of them in Professor Nobbe 's laboratory . They were put up in small glass bottles , each marked with the name of the crop for which it is especially adapted . The bottle was partly filled with the yellow gelatinous substance in which the bacteria grow . On the surface of this there was a mossylike gray growth , resembling mould . This consisted of in numerable millions of the little oblong bacteria . A bottle cost about fifty cents , and contained enough bacteria for inoculating half an acre of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of weeks after it is obtained , while it is still fresh . The method of application is very simple . The contents ? of the bottle are diluted with warm water . Then the seeds of the beans , clover , or peas , which have previously been mixed with a little soil , are treated with this solution and thoroughly mixed with the soil . After that the mass is partially dried so that the seeds may be readily sown . The bacteria at once begin to propagate in the soil , which is their natural home , and by the time the beans or peas have put out roots they are present in vast numbers , and ready to begin the active work of forming nodules . It is not known exactly how the bacteria absorb the free nitrogen from the air , but they do it successfully , and that is the main thing . Many German agriculturists have tried Nitragen . One , who was skeptical of its virtues wrote to Professor Nobbe that he sowed the bacteria-inoculated seeds in the form of a huge letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest in the ordinary way . Before a month had passed , that N showed up green and big over all the field , the plants composing it thriving so much better than those around it . Prompted by these experiments , a valuable series of tests has recently been made by the United States Department of Agriculture , and an improved method for distributing the bacteria has been devised . Instead of a moist culture in glass tubes the bacteria arc put up in a small dry mass that resembles a yeast-cake . These may be sent anywhere without deterioration ; a little soaking is all that is needed to prepare them for use in the soil . The department is now formulating a plan for introducing these cultures extensively in localities in this country which are deficient in nodule-forming germs . But the farmer must know the exact disease from which his land is suffering before he applies the remedy . If it is deficient in the phosphates , bacteria cultures will not help it , whereas if it is deficient in nitrogen , bacteria inoculation is just what @ @ @ 