@@474458

THE reader will perhaps be aston- ished to ascertain how little knowledge science can boast with respect to the problem of death . Whereas in religious , philosophies , literature , and popular - traditions the question of death occupies a notably preponderant place , in scientific works it has been accorded but limited consideration . This regrettable fact may perhaps to a certain point explain ? though it can hardly justify ? the accusations sometimes brought against science , which devotes its time to matters of detail and neglects the great problems of human existence , such as death . When Tolstoi , haunted by the desire to decipher that problem , searched for its solution in the treatises of scientists , he found none but . indefinite or insignificant answers . His indignation was thereupon kindled against those men who study all sorts of things by him judged useless , such as the world of insects , the composition of tissues and cells , and are unable to tell us what is the destiny of man and the meaning of death . We do not intend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a glance over the actual state of the question of natural death . When we speak here of natural death we mean the phenomenon resulting necessarily from the organization of a being , and not from accident . In current language , death by illness is called natural . But illness is avoidable , and not a fatal result of the properties inherent to our organization . It was formerly thought that natural death was the inevitable end of all life , and that the principle itself of an organism contained the germ of its end . It was therefore a matter of surprise to discover that in many among the inferior organisms death only follows upon accident , and that these creatures , if protected from all violent interference , do not die . Organisms composed of a single cell ( such as the Infusoria and many other Protozoa and inferior plants ) reproduce themselves by division , and are transformed into two or three new beings ; the mother organism has , as it were , dissolved into its progeny without having suffered any real death . Among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , instances are not wanting of the absence of natural death . Life may have unlimited duration , provided the intimate parts of the organism expended in vital functioning be renewed . From this it must not be concluded that natural death is unknown in the vegetable kingdom . Quite the other way . Cases are encountered at every step of plants dying without being deprived of life by any external agency . Even among organisms of closely related species some will be found exempt from natural death and others subject to it . Natural death can be put off by preventing a plant from producing seed . Thus Professor Hugo de Vries prolonged the life of his ( Enothera by cutting every blossom before fecundation . It is usual to mow the rye-grass of lawns before it begins to blossom , in order to prevent the ripening of the seed and the death of the plant . Under these circumstances rye-grass remains green and lives for several years . It is a question whether the natural death of superior plants , which it has been agreed to ascribe to exhaustion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poisoning , brought about in the course of their vital functioning . Plants often produce poisons such as can kill animals and men . Why should they not produce poisons such as can injure themselves ? There is nothing improbable in the supposition that certain of these poisons develop exactly at the moment of the maturation of the seed . By preventing the maturation one would prevent the poisoning of the whole organism . This hypothesis perfectly as the numerous eases of natural death while the soil is still far from exhausted . The equally numerous cases of partial death , such as the death of flowers while the same stalk is producing other flowers , might be explained by a local action of the poison , insufficient to affect the whole plant . however , the idea of the autointoxication. of superior plants is for the time being only a hypothesis , we are justified in accepting as true the idea of the natural death of bacteria and yeast microbes through poisoning , occasioned by their own proper products . The instances of natural death in the animal world are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for their greater variety and complexity . There seems no doubt that this manner of death established itself independently in the different groups of animals , Fifty years ago an American . naturalist , Dana , discovered on the surface of the sea a little animal of so singular a character that , he named it " Monstrilla. " lt is a small crustacean , akin to the Cyclops so common in ponds . But while the latter are furnished with all that is necessary to capture and digest their food , the Monstrilla has neither apparatus for seizing prey , nor digestive tube . It is richly provided with muscles , nervous system , organs of sense , and sexual organs ; it only lacks what is necessary to prolong life by alimentation . The Monstrilla is doomed therefore to natural death . Among the Ephemera , who offer one of the best examples of natural death , the end comes after a few hours of life in the perfect state , without the slightest sign discoverable of any degeneration of the organs . As there are other Ephemera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live several days , it is improbable that the short life of the first is brought to an end by inanition . These instances of natural death can better he attributed to autointoxication , the effect of whichmakes itself felt at different times , according to circumstances . Among the superior animate ? Vertebrate ? conditions are less favorable than among the Invertebrate for the study of natural death . Among the former all possess sufficiently well-developed digestive organs , and live therefore much longer than those inferior animals which have no such organs . Natural death therefore very seldom occurs among the vertebrates , who mostly die from external causes , such as cold and hunger , or else are devoured by their enemies or killed by infectious or parasitical diseases . There is therefore only humankind left for the study of natural death among beings endowed with a superior organization . The death of the aged , which is often described as natural death , is , in the great majority of eases , due either to infectious diseases , and especially pneumonia ( which takes a very insidious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural death is very rare among humankind . Demange* describes it as follows : " Having reached the extremity of age , retaining still the lest glimmerings of a fading intelligence , the old man feels debility gaining upon him day by day ; his limbs refuse to obey his failing will , his skin becomes insensible , dry , and cold ; warmth withdraws from his extremities , his face grows thin , his eyes hollow , end his eyesight dull ; speech dies upon his lips , which remain agape ; life forsakes the old man from the circumference to the centre ; his breathing becomes labored , and finally his heart ceases to beat . The old man has thus gently gone out , appearing for the last time to fall asleep . " Among humankind there can he no question of exhaustion from procreation as a cause of natural death , or of inanition , as in the case of the Monstrillas . It is much more likely that such death is owing to an autointoxication of the organism . This hypothesis rests upon the marked analogy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter is simply the result of poisoning by the harmful elements generated by the activity of our organs . The theory that sleep is the result * Etude Clin'ique our la Vietnesse . Paris , 1586 . Page 145. of an autointoxication of the organism was first broached about fifty years ago . It has been sustained by many eminent scientists , among whom I may mention Obersteiner , Binz , Preyer , Errera . The first two attribute sleep to an accumulation in the brain of products of exhaustion , which are carried off by the blood during rest . An attempt has even been made to gain accurate knowledge of the nature of these narcotic substances . Various scientists believe it to be an acid which is stored during the activity of our organs in too great quantity to be tolerated , During sleep the organism casts off this excess of acid products . Preyer , * going deep into the study of this problem , put forth the hypothesis that the functioning of all the organs generates products designated by him under the name of ponogena , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these substances are gathered during wakefulness and destroyed during sleep through oxidation . Preyer believes it to be lactic acid which plays the most important part among the ponogena , which view is supported by the narcotic effect of that substance . If Preyer 's theory should prove correct , a remarkable analogy would be shown between the autointoxication by lactic acid of men and animals overcome by sleep , and the bacteria which produce the same acid and whose fermentescent activity stops as a result of the accumulation of that substance . The theory of Prcycr has so far , however , not been confirmed . Erreraf holds a different one , according to which not acid products , but certain alkaline substances , described by Armand Gautier under the name of lcueornaines , are held to be the cause of sleep . Gautier has ascertained that these substances act upon the nervous centres , occasioning weariness and desire for sleep . They might therefore very well , according to Errera , be the cause of sleep , which might be supposed to come about at . the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The latter scientist believes the somniferous action of the ponogena to be direct , and to consist of an intoxication of the nervous Revue ScientiAgue. 1887 , p. 1173. t Revue Seientifique. 1887 , 2d semestre , p. 105. centres . He believes that the substances in question are eliminated during sleep and the disturbance brought about by them in great measure repaired . Every stage in the progress of science has had its effect upon the study of the extraordinarily complex and interesting problem of sleep . At the time when an important influence was ascribed to alkaloid substances ( ptomaines ) in infectious diseases , the attempt was made to show that sleep was brought about by the working of analogous substances . Nowadays , the conviction having been reached that in such diseases the preponderant action belongs to poisons of an extremely complex chemical composition , the attempt is made to explain weariness and sleep by the influence of such poisons . Among researches in this line , those especially of Weicharde have in recent times attracted attention . This young scientist vigorously sustains his position that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of particular substances which are neither organic acid nor leucomaines , but which bear a likeness rather to the poisonous products of parthenogenous microbes . Weichardt keeps certain laboratory animals executing fatiguing movements without interruption for hours , after which they are sacrificed . - Under these conditions the muscular extract is found to be very poisonous ; when injected into normal animals , these give evidence of extraordinary weariness , and sometimes , in the course of from twenty to forty hours , they die . Every effort to determine the chemical nature of the fatigueproducing substance having failed , it is impossible to speak of it with precision . Among its properties is one of especial interest . When introduced into the circulation of normal animals in a quantity insufficient to produce death , it provokes the formation of a counter-poison , even as diphtheritic poison occasions the production of diphtheritic antitoxin . When Weichardt injected the poisonous mixture productive of exhaustion with small doses of antidote serum , the animals showed no sign of physical disturbance . The neutralizing action of the countersF mecliainisahe Wochengehrift. 1904 . , Verhandlnngen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even when introduced through the mouth . As a result of his researches , Weichardt believes he will be able to obtain a substance preventive of fatigue . Although it is as yet impossible to speak authoritatively upon the nature of the substances which accumulate during the functioning of the organs and occasion fatigue and sleep , it more and more appears probable that such substances exist , and that sleep is really due to a sort of autointoxication of the organism . This theory has so far stood unshaken by any argument . In recent times Ed . Claparede , * a Genevese psychologist , has raised hisvoice against the prevalenttheory of sleep . He holds that it is contradicted by the fact that the new-born sleep much , while the aged sleep little . But this can be readily explained by the much greater sensibility of the nervous centres in the child , who manifests likewise a greater sensibility with regard to a number of injurious factors . The other objections of Claparede , such as the favoring action upon sleep of a walk in the open air , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nowise be considered incompatible with the theory of autointoxication . They are facts of a secondary order , and depend probably upon some complication which it is impossible in the actual state of our knowledge to determine precisely . Many well-authenticated facts , on the other hand , are found to be in perfect harmony with the theory of autointoxication . Without speaking of the sleep brought on by narcotic poisons , we can instance the ? disease of sleep . " It has been perfectly demonstrated that this disease is the work of a microscopic parasite , the Trypanosome gambien of Dutton , which develops in the blood and spreads through the liquid of the coats wrapping the nervous centres . One of the typical characteristics of an advanced stage of this disease is a state of continuous sleep . From all that is actually known in medical science , it can not be doubted that this state of sleep is due to an intoxication produced by the poison of the Trypanosome . Claparede opposes to the toxic theory of * Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles . Geneve , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " instinctive . " According to him , sleep should be regarded as the manifestation of an instinct " the object of which is the suspension of function : it is not because we are poisoned or exhausted that we sleep , but we sleep in order to avoid becoming so . " For bringing into work this narcotic instinct , however , the concurrence is needed of certain physiological conditions , one among which might easily be an intoxication of the nervous centres . Hunger is an instinctive sensation , like the desire for sleep ; but it is only felt when our tissues have reached a certain state of exhaustion , which we are not yet able precisely to define . There is no essential contradiction therefore between the toxic and the instinctive theories of sleep . The two theories merely consider a particular condition of the organism from two different sides . The analogy between sleep and natural death permits the supposition that the latter is the result likewise of an autointoxication , much deeper and graver than that producing sleep . It may be supposed that as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in natural death is manifested man 's instinctive aspiration toward death . The most convincing fact in proof of the existence in man of an instinct of natural death seems to me that reported by Toxarsky , in relation to an old woman . In the lifetime of Toxarsky , I begged an acquaintance of his to obtain for me the details of this most interesting case , of which I had found but an incomplete statement . Toxarsky unfortunately could add nothing to what he had published in his article . I believe , however , that I have found the source from which his instance had been taken . In his book upon the physiology of taste , * which had its day of celebrity , Brillat-Savarin relates the following : " I had a greataunt , ninety-three years old , who was dying . Although for some time confined to her bed , she had retained all her faculties , and her condition was only betrayed by her loss of appetite and the weakening of her voice . She had always shown a fondness for me , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on her , which did not prevent my watching Paris , 1834 , 4th Edition . VII. , p. 118. her with the philosophical eye I have ever had for the things and events surrounding me . ' Are you there , nephew ? ' she asked , in a scarcely audible voice . ' Yes , aunt ; I am here at your service , and I think you would do well to take a little good old wine . ' Give , ? non ami. ; one can always swallow liquid . ' I hastened ; raising her gently , I made her take half a glass of my best wine . She brightened for a moment , and looking at me with eyes which had once been very fine , " Thank you , ' she said , for this last favor ; if ever you reach my ate , you will find that death becomes a need , just like sleep . ' These were her last words ; half an hour later she had fallen asleep forever . We unmistakably have here an instance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relatively early age , in a person who had retained all her intellectual faculties . " We are at present studying a lady not far from one hundred and five years of age . Her physical strength has suffered a marked diminution and her senses a loss of acuteness , but her sentiments and intelligence are still in good preservation . She does not express the need to die , but she has become totally indifferent with regard to her death , which constitutes probably the prelude to the instinct of natural death . Monsieur Yves Delage , ? a well-known zoologist , in an analysis of my studies upon human nature , expresses his doubts as to the existence of an instinct serving neither for the preservation of the individual nor that of the species . In his mind the idea of the instinct of death is nonsense . I can not share the view of my learned critic . Toth in man and in animals many harmful instincts are known to exist , which have nothing to do with insuring life or reproduction . To this class belong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mankind , as well as the instinct which impels parents to devour their young , or that which attracts insects to the fire . These instincts are for the greater part injurious to the individual and the species . The idea that this instinct of natural death is ? in all probability accompanied Aimee biotogique. by as peaceable and pleasant a sensation as can be conceived will still further increase its beneficent effect upon humanity . We have no precise knowledge with regard to this sensation , but the few data possessed upon accidental death permit a conception of its agreeable nature . It is undeniable that in a great many cases of death , such as we actually witness , the cessation of life is accompanied by painful sensations . There are , however , diseases and fatal accidents in which the approach of death brings no pain . In our own experience , during an attack of intermittent fever , when the temperature had in a short space of time fallen more than forty-one degrees below normal , we were conscious of a sensation of extraordinary weakness , resembling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fact , the sensation was grateful rather than painful . In two cases of poisoning by morphine the sensation was as agreeable as possible : a gentle faintness , accompanied by such lightness of body that nue felt as if afloat in the air . Those observers who have given their attention to the sensations of persons who have narrowly escaped death report facts of the same character . Professor Heim , at Zurich , has given an account of a fall during a mountain climb , in which he came near losing his life , and accounts of other accidents of the kind befalling Alpine tourists . In every case he has described an attendant feeling of beatitude . If in eases of death by illness we meet this sensation of beatitude , all the more might it be expected in natural death . Preceded by the loss of the instinct of life and the acquisition of the instinct of natural death , the latter must be held to be the best ending , in accordance with the true principles of human nature . We do not pretend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This chapter upon the science of death is hardly more than begun , but it is already beyond question that the study of the phenomena of natural death in the vegetable and animal world , as well as among humankind , will furnish information of the highest interest from the standpoint of science and of humanity ,                     