@@486888

The better sentiment of the South is voiced again by William H. Fleming , former Representative from Georgia . In our issue of July 5 we commented on his able and temperate address at the University of Georgia on " Slavery and the Race Problem in the South . " - He has now written to the Augusta Citrontcle a letter in which he discusses race troubles He not merely declines to condemn a whole race for the crimes of a few degenerates , but boldly criticises some of his fellow citizens who have inflamed the mob spirit . Mr. Fleming points out that Hoke Smith " openly proclaimed upon the stump his purpose to subvert a portion of the Federal Constitution on the suffrage question by a fraudulent administration of the proposed State law , and gave his audience detailed explanations of how this fraud was to be perpetrated . " As Mr. Flem : ing says , if Hoke Smith could thus spit upon the highest law of the land , why should the mob be blamed for defying the law against murder ? ? We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking , except on the supposition that the Secretary has confused himself with Providence In Mr. Shaw 's opinion , as enunciated at the recent convention of Kentucky bankers , " it would be both wise and safe to clothe the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to , require banks to increase their reserve at certain times , when money is redundant , ' and to expressly permit the maintenance of a somewhat lower reserve at other times . " The scope of this new financial Providence is pretty vague . The Secretary does , indeed , hint that only a " somewhat lower " reserve than the law 's requirement should be expressly permitted at a time of stress ; - that is , lie doubts whether even an all-wise financial minister could be trusted without limitation . But the point is , that the Secretary of the Treasury is conceived of as the man who will know at all times what is right and what is wrong , and who , if he be placed above the law , will employ his powers without making mistakes and without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Shaw , has slight comprehension of the true meaning of the law which he proposes to supersede He lays much stress on the fact that the severe penalties , prescribed for national banks which fail to maintain the reserve required by law , are discretionary with the Treasury authorities . But he altogether ignores the fact that this discretion necessarily was left , in view of the fact that there are times  --  m 1893 and 1873 , for instance  --  when , through no fault of theirs , maintenance of the 15 or 25 per cent . cash reserve by banks becomes impossible In an unreasoning panic of depositors , the Government should keep its hands off . This is , however , wholly different from a provision that the Secretary may suddenly announce , when he sees fit , that no bank need any longer keep the legal reserve . As an illustration of the conservatism with which such arbitrary power as the Secretary proposes might be exercised , we have the famous case of September , 1902 , when Mr. Shaw himself announced overnight that banks need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public deposits . This dispensation was so full of ? dangerous possibilities that the New York Clearing House promptly forbade the banks in its membership to make use of it . - . Gen. Leonard Wood not only wishes the American garrison in the Philippines to be kept at its present strength of 20,000 men , but asks for more artillery He wants also a squadron from each of the fifteen regiments of cavalry instead of four whole regiments , as at present . This does not seem to indicate great confidence in a lasting peace in the islands , particularly as there are fully .10,000 native troops to he drawn upon . Just at present , what the Philippine Government needs more than troops , is something like a settled policy . Since 1899- there have been no less than six American governors ? Lord Cromer has represented England in Egypt ever since the occupation -- and the term of Gen. James H. Smith , which has just begun , ' will , it is understood , be of very limited duration . Indeed , Judge Magoon , who was recently appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Smith within a few months . But , after some vacillation , Judge Magoon was made ruler of Cuba ; and no one knows whether the Philippine place is to be kept open for him , or whether some one else is being sought . There is apparently no one in the islands who is big enough for the position , and the supply of men in this country with anything like , the requisite experience and tact is extremely limited . The appointment of Professor Wallace Clement Sabine as dean of the Lawence Scientific School is further evidence that , since the idea of an alliance between Harvard and the Institute of Technology has been dropped , the devel opment of scientific teaching at Harvard will be.pushed with vigor . Born 1868 , Mr. Sabine is still  --  as academic honors go  --  a mere youth , not yet forty . His undergraduate course he took at the Ohio State University . Then , after several years of study at Harvard , he was appointed assistant in physics , and has since risen steadily to a full , professorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In energy Mr .. Sabine is as worthy a successor to the late Dean Shaler as the authorities of Harvard can hope to find . As a scientist , he has been more rigorously , and perhaps narrowly , trained than Mr Shaler , whose specialty was the all-embracing subject of geology and everything else of human interest . As an administrator , Mr. Sabine has shown marked capacity . In his new position he will have ample opportunity for the exercise of all his powers ; for within a few years the Gordon McKay millions will be available . With the income of this vast fund at command , the Scientific School- of Harvard University may become the finest institution of its kind in America , and even in the whole world . At the meeting of the ' Western Massachusetts Library Club , W. I. Fletcher of Amherst made a plea for more scholarly administration of libraries . During recent years the machinery of arranging and cataloguing books has been brought to great perfection ; yet Mr. Fletcher would not have attention too largely directed to these matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be desirable , especially in our university libraries , if those who " wish to study any particular subject could have the advice of some one versed in bibliography . This is the method in many European libraries , and gives life to the dry bones of the analytical catalogue . But , of course , the engagement of men familiar with what has been written in the different sciences and arts would greatly increase the expenses of administration . Still , this office can be effectively discharged by professors and tutors , if they will take the time for it . Probably more can be done for the best students by library " clinics " than by lectures or prescribed lessons in a text-book . " The League of- the Russian People " has issued what Americans would call a platform for the elections for the next Duma . It enjoins candidates to favor , continued oppression of the Jews , by depriving them of the franchise , by excluding them from army and navy , and from the schools and universities , by preventing them from receiving Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diuggists , or journalists . This news lends special interest to a dispatch- to the Berlin ' Vortocirts , to the effect that the Social-Democratic party and the General Union of Jewish ' Workingmen in Russia , Poland , and Lithuania , have recently been reunited . The schism thus healed arose in 1903 . The principal cause lay in the peculiar conditions with which the workmen of the Pale were confronted , as members of a race exposed to exceptional treatment by the Government and to the enmity of their neighbors . But a deeper reason must have been the fear that even the triumph of the revolution would bring no absolute guarantee of fair treatment for the Jews . Indeed , it is still uncertain what part was played , during the Odessa massacres of 1905 , by that large section of the Christian proletariat of the city which must surely have been under revolutionary influences . It is a fact that they offered practically no help to the victims ; in any case , their fellow Socialists among the Jews could scarcely regard them as allies . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the terrible ordeal through which all the revolutionary elements in Russia have been passing . But we are inclined to see a still stronger influence in the close rapprochement that is being brought about between Jewish and Christian workmen . The London Times reports from Odessa : " The Christian labor organizations have issued a proclamation declaring that if there should be a fresh outbreak , they will defend the Jews to their last drop of blood . " France and Spain , which are both pushing an anti-clerical policy , illustrate capitally the right and the wrong way d'f agreeing to disagree France has cut off all diplomatic relations with the Vatican , and although the tone of the bishops becomes more conciliatory , and the Government declines to dispossess the Catholic parishes summarily , no way appears to the compromise that is plainly in the air . In the end , we presume , some representative of the GovernMent will confer with some emissary of the Pope . The present deadlock shows that it is unwise to dissolve a partnership by abruptly ceasing personal relations . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , and , though she carries forward the movement for secularizing marriage and education , and expropriating even the consecrated soil of Catholic graveyards , she does so in unbroken conference with the Vatican . Premier Dominguez evidently realizes that if it takes two to make a quarrel , it takes as many to patch one up . This lesson might be studied to advantage north of the Pyrenees . The anniversary of the peace of Portsmouth was marked in Tokio by serious disturbances growing out of the action of the street railway companies in raising the customary fare from three to four sen . This followed immediately on the merger of the three companies formerly operating independently in the capital . Cars were attacked , motormen were mobbed , and night traffic was brought to a standstill . According to the Japanese Hail , all the leading Tokio papers were in open sympathy with the rioters , and the influential Sol cumin Sltimbitm urged that the street railways be taken over by the municipality . The rioters were mainly drawn from among the jinrikisha coolies , who have felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in fact prominently concerned in the September disturbances of a year ago following the announcement of peace ' with Russia The Mail speaks of the activity of the Soshi , elsewhere described as comprising the " higher ranks of the city 's riffraff . " In Tokio they are organized in bands , presumably a relic of the old clan relationship , and may be regularly hired for political demonstrations or services of a more forcible kind , the price varying with the sanguinary nature of the enterprise . Thus it would seem that the national discipline and " efficiency " manifest themselves even in mob violence . The English magazines for October have several articles bearing on the govcinnaent of Egypt The severest critic of Lord Cromer is Wilfrid Blunt , who recently published a pamphlet entitled " Atrocities of Justice under British Rule in Egypt " He returns to the attack in the Independent Review . His chief contention is that the government of Egypt should be nationalized forthwith in order to prevent further miscarriages of justice . As between natives , Mr. Blunt .1-as no fault to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very hard upon Lord Cromer 's policy of dealing with matters like assaults upon foreigners by natives , with such severity as to surround the army of occupation " with a sanctity which puts it above the law . " In the Contemporary Review , Harold Spencer , who is far more favorable to Lord Cromer , also makes a strong argument for more self-government and for a policy which will take the Egyptians " more intimately into our counsels . " The questions before Parliament , as the London Tribune points out , will be whether the unrest in Egypt is due to thwarted national development , and just how far the Pan-Islamic scare of last summer was owing to religious and race hostil ity , or to an attempt to head off any movement granting further self-government to the Egyptians . They , like other conquered peoples , obstinately refuse to worship a higher civilization or to be content with a government of foreigners . The Chinese Government has given fresh proof of its new life by appointing a commission of inquiry into the best means of prohibiting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no other way could it more deliberately shame one of the civilized nationsEngland  --  some of whose newspapers and statesmen still talk of China as if it were a decaying nation over whose destinies they were by divine right the sole guardians . For it was England which deliberately fastened the opium curse upon China , pushing by force of arms upon an unwilling people a trade which grossly injured its morale . Before the Opium War of 1840 the Chinese ' had realized perfectly that this poison was ruining China , and had passed a law condemning opium-smokers to strangulation and dealers to decapitation . But England compelled China to legalize the opium traffic , largely owing to the influence of the Government of India , which , like its predecessor , the East India Company , was the chief beneficiary of the nefarious business . Many English statesmen , Bright , Cobden , Gladstone , and Lord Brassey , have roundly denounced this great crime . Of late , the Indian opium trade has languished , because the domestic cultivation of opium was encouraged by the Chinese , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , England would no longer insist upon it , and China would then be free to deal with the home producer In 1880 , 14 per cent . of the total revenue of the Indian Empire came from opium ; to-day it is only 7 per cent. , and in cash value the trade has decreased from $25,000,000 to $11,475,000 . Fortunately , Mr. Morley , the biographer of Cobden and Gladstone , now Chief Secretary for India , is animated by the same spirit which actuated them in their relations to the Eastern races . As far back as May 30th last he declared . his willingness to cooperate with the Chinese Government , if it honestly wished to restrict the consumption of the drug . Whether or not a total prohibition of the use of opium is possible , it would be bard to say . Probably the commission of inquiry , particularly if it should have the cooperation of Sir Robert Hart ; will recommend an attempt to diminish the use of the drug by heavy taxation , rather than by outright abolition . But whatever the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this fresh proof of the renascence of China is a significant event ; and Mr Morley 's act is a bit of historic justice which must encourage all who fight the battle of the weaker peoples against the stronger . The India Sanitary Report for 1904 , just published in England , brings out the startling fact that ' nearly a million persons-938,010 ? died of plague in that year , the ninth since the beginning of the present epidemic . In every one of the nine years , save 1900 , there has been en increased death-rate , there being 251 , - 525 more deaths in 1904 than in 1903 The total deaths in India since the beginning of the epidemic have reached the enormous figure of 3,263,810 . Naturally , the report devotes much space to the measures adopted in the effort , taus far futile , to check this dread disease . The campaign is largely - directed against the rat as the chief means of transmission ; and disinfection has been found to be of little use . But the work of enlightenment is difficult , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to deal with a religions tenet that forbids the holder to leave an infected place , with a tenderness for animal life that will not sanction the destruction of a deadly serpent , with ignorance that is convinced that plague is introduced and fostered by Government in order to reduce the redundant population , with suspicion that sees the disseminating agents in every disinfecting party , or with timidity that may be turned by an ill-considered action into fanatical frenzy " It is interesting to note that dealers in grain are nearly always among the first victims , and the mortality among them is particularly high Perhaps their premises are unusually attractive to the rats . ' Wherever the rats are destroyed there is immunity , or comparative immunity , from the disease . The subject of fatigue and rest is continually up for public and private discussion . Before the Physical Section at the last meeting of the British Association , Drs . Theodore Acland and Bevan Lewis had something to say in opposition to prevalent theories . They contended that change of occupation is not necessarily recreation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The toxic bodies produced by exhaustion of one set of centres affect centres which have been unused , so that the evil effects of an overworked brain are rot counteracted by muscular activity . The same subject has lately been discussed by M. Ffir ? , a physician at Bicetre , who also challenges the popular doctrine that rest is secured by a change of work . The only remedy for fatigue is sleep . Stimulants may induce energy temporarily , but fatigue follows all the more rapidly . At the meeting of the British Association . it was shown that there are marked individual differences in the depth and time of slumher . Those who work by day get a maximum soundness of sleep in the early hours . Night womers oegin by sleeping lightly , and the maximum soundness comes during the later hours . Neurotics have two maxima of sound sleep , one at the beginning , the other at the end of their rest Between these extremes , their sleep is so light that it is easily disturbed , and insomnia may become habitual . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dreams . When the dreaming is fantastic and incoherent , sleep is deeper than when the imagination pursues a more logical and orderly course . It is unlucky , however , that excessive fatigue , for which sleep is the only safe remedy , often produces insomnia , thus making the remedy unattainable A reactionary view of the emancipation of women is taken by a clever German writer , whose nom de plume is Felicie Ewart . She complains that those of her sex who set out to compete with men in active life usually fail . In the study of medicine particularly , while they are diligent and ambitious , they are deficient in manual skill and incapable of applying the knowledge which they have acquired In proof of this thesis , she asserts that during the last twenty-five years Germany has produced no distinguished woman-physician . She urges those of her sex who have professional ambition , to adopt work in which competition with - men is not so keen , such as nursing the sick and the hygienic care of children , in respect to which Germany is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rundschen disputes the fairness of these statements ; because women have had opportunities of professional study during a comparatively short period , and the number of them at the universities has been small . In Switzerland , for example , women have attained considerable eminence in the medical profession ; and even in Berlin some have practised with success Both the writers just mentioned advise women to be less ambitious in their ideals . Too many try to be " leaders , painters , singers , and piano-players " ; but nature is not so gracious as to give many the talent for such pursuits . In Germany , as in this country , some women of high social standing have not hesitated to join the ranks of the commergantes and of the wage-earners , and have won respect for their courage and industry . The-matter of employment for women is also discussed by a writer in the Independent . He suggests that more women should make the care of the hair a specialty  --  not simply as hair-dressers , but as scientific experts in preventing baldness . But however limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the head , many women , we trust , will still make a specialty of furnishing what is needed for the inside . While criticism has led theologians to take up the reconstruction of creeds , many of the laity have been driven by it into a kind of mysticism . J. Arthur Hill presents in the Hibbert Journal the results of psychical research as the promise of a new religion . His article is instructive as showing how a man icay fall out of the frying-pan of the old theology into the fire of what  --  for the want of a more precise term  --  may be called neo-superstition . He is sorry to give up the cherished convictions of the Christian , and he is the sorrier because none of the ethnic religions can be substituted . But he turns to psychical research , because it is the only thing that has helped us to understand " what we call death . " Mr. Hill tells us that the Society for Psychical Research has for twenty-five years been accumulating evidence which " tends to show " that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which rests upon a hypothesis , which is in turn supported only by another hypothesis . If survival after death is indicated by genuine evidence , and if communications from departed souls are possible , then we may receive some help towards the solution of religious problems We do not think it probable that Mr. Hill 's suggestions will meet with favor even from those who have parted with the old creed . Those who demand scientific demonstration will scarcely pin their faith to the data which the Society for Psychical Research publishes , nor to what Mr. Hill calls a new religion " such as F. W. H. Myers has foreshadowed in the epilogue to his great work . " If Christ and the Apostles have faded away in a haze of legend and uncertainty , neither the believer nor the unbeliever is likely to be persuaded by the prophecies of the crystal-gazer or by the apocalypse of the medium . For even admitting the veracity of the spiritualistic disciples in relating their own experiences , what reason is there for supposing that their ideas come from disembodied spirits ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consists in assuming that there is a world of disembodied spirits ( which was the very thing to be proved ) , and in then attributing to disembodied spirits the phenomena which are said to be present . The mysterious and usually foolish beings who are summoned from the realms of light or of darkness may attract the curious , amuse the credulous , and put money into the purse of the charlatan ; but even the miracle of Joshua and the adventure of Jonah are more credible than the idle tales which we are asked to accept as scientific docuanentil. -                     