@@473172

generation imagines itself standing still and watching the progress of events . The truth is we are adrift upon that stream of tendency which we cell history . Now and then we become vaguely conscious that the shores are different and that we have reached a new land , but the multitude of men pay little heed to the rate of the current or to the character of the shores . They are like deck-hands on a boat : the imperative duties and needs of that place and hour challenge their purpose and focus their attention . They are startled and often alarmed at the announcement that we are so many miles from home , and have reached new scenes and a different climate . To interpret intelligently the results of history , we must have some adequate idea of our rate of motion . We hear much of the flight of time , as if time were something which flowed over the earth like a wind . In reality , the flight of time is the wind of our own speed . We arrive at new methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when we arrive we find a very respectable stock of instruments for the new work ready at hand . Within a hundred years the methods of church administration and work have changed materially . It has not been a change involving catastrophe , but one of growth . Consider the single item of church music . Wellnigh the distance of a diameter lies between the church music of the beginning and the end of the century . Recall the dismal hymns , lined out to more dismal tunes , and the dreary fugues , as dull and involved as an Indian medicine-dance . Our fathers did not rise up on a certain day and say , " Henceforth we are done with them ! " But as the musical cultivation of the people advanced , church music perforce shared in the general movement . It is sadly true that bigotry has succeeded in holding the church pretty steadily to the rear of the advancing column , but no institution canlive wholly outside its own generation . The bigotry which has piously shut the best music out of the church is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , everything vernal in the religious life . But as the rigors of bigotry have softened in the growing warmth of general enlightenment , and the love and culture of music have steadily advanced , the church has quietly dropped its old methods , and has unconsciously taken on the new , until to-day it may be truthfully said that the best music of the world is laid under tribute for church services . Even the wicked music of the heels is sometimes so judiciously " slowed up , " and subdued in color , and punctuated with solemn pauses , that staid deacons decorously , innocently pace to their pews to strains from an opera . The old debate as to musical instruments has apparently come Lu a perpetual end in the organ . That king of instruments has become so various and facile that there is hardly a dream or a passion of music which is not answered by it . Yet the prophecy is ventured that some day we shall " take over " the orchestra from theatre and concert - hall . Nature does not always speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Who has not been vaguely conscious of an incongruity when he has stepped into the shaded church from the brilliant glories and breezy joy of a June morning ? The light winds are running in tender murmurs through the tree-tops . The air is filled with the pervasive hum of insects , and is shot through with the jollity of birds . The grass responds with the delicate pickings and flutings and strident arias of its myriads of little musicians . Why should the organ invariably give us thunder ? Why not an orchestra , free to echo that great , jocund , outside life ? the native music of God 's own world ? Some day , perhaps , the church will cease to be afraid of nature . A similar advance is seen in church architecture and furnishings and decoration . The stark severity , the determined ugliness , of our early churches may be accounted for by one word ? poverty , - poverty of ideal and poverty of purse . When men are fighting hard for a great truth they throw off as impediments all minor related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the conflict with one grim , bare ideal , and their first institutions are made in its likeness . The civic and religious ideal which our fathers brought to this shore was like Aaron 's rod before it budded and blossomed . This poverty of ideal was accompanied by the most intimate and relentless poverty of purse . Efflorescence in any department of life was simply out of the question . " The destruction of the poor is their poverty , " in a profounder sense than we are wont to think . Any affection persistently denied its object is sure to become atrophied . The love of the beautiful , when denied beautiful objects , will fade away . The poverty of the people at the beginning of the century was so great that all life was stripped down to the necessities and utilities . Whatever esthetic feeling might have existed found expression as difficult as early flowers in the rigors of a New England spring . The church simply shared the fate of the common life , except that it may have been somewhat belated by the prevailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas of the people blossomed into richer and more varied forms . Leisure , travel , culture , the multiplication of beautiful objects , came like verdure after rain . We have reached a warmer climate , and the ideas of church architecture and adornment partake in the general enrichment of life . Perhaps in no one particular has there been such marked advance as in the social life of the church . One can easily believe that a century lies between the bare uncompromising individualism of 1800 , and the commanding social ideal of 1900 , with its attendant warmth of atmosphere and variety of method . The church parlor and club-room and kitchen are not the exponents of a passing fad , but the legitimate fruitage of a great movement in religious thought . The church has advanced from the governmental idea of God to the paternal . From King to Father is a distance in thought quite astronomical , and the present generation has yet to measure it . The Divine Fatherhood is brooding , like the Creative Spirit , upon the chaos of human society . Under its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaping its forms . Not only do men now see that the church is a true home , but that the world itself is simply a household of the children of God . Everything human must he vitalized by the Spirit , and cast in the mould of the common family life . As this ideal advances to sovereignty in the church , we may expect to see the home spirit and method steadily displace the ecclesiastical . Our great temples are first pagan , then Jewish , then " degenerate Christian . " If we are to persist in calling God " our Father , " then His house must be our " home . " We are already familiar with the beginnings of this transformation . The home has moved its kitchen and pantry and parlor into the basement or the annex of the church . Why , then , should it not march into the main building , and take down the meaningless and expensive spire , lower the vaulted roof , banish the windows " richly dight , " and let in the Father 's own sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the stream of tendency will soon carry us there ? a consummation devoutly to be wished ! We need have no fear that our churches will suffer , in point of dignity or beauty , in this historic process . They will only shape themselves into purer , simpler forms , according to the pattern of the home life of the Creator and Father in His world . The more general acceptance of this belief iii the Divine Fatherhood , and the consequent human brotherhood , has resulted in various methods and agencies which were unknown to the church at the beginning of the century ; and the growth of this belief must not be regarded as something peculiar and isolated . Religious beliefs have simply suffered a sea-change in the general softening , ameliorating tendency of modern thought . In this connection consider the history of the Sunday-school , which may be epitomized in the familiar line , " We first A CENTURY OF CHURCH METHODS . endure , then pity , then embrace . " The child in the Father 's home is so central , so vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civic and religious , must crystallize around him . When , therefore , the church ? with growing clearness of conviction and breadth of comprehension ? teaches the child to say , " Our Father , " then that Father 's house must be administered with chief reference to the child . This is the true principle of development in the Sunday-school , from the crude , tentative methods of a hundred years ago to the clear , efficient , and abundant methods of to-day . Out of the Sunday-school , by the same law , have come the numerous young peoples ' societies , hands , guilds , and associations . The ecclesiastical idea of the church has slowly receded before the social idea , and from the ground so cleared these new methods of thought and work have come as naturally as grass springs when the snow has disappeared . The tendency can not be checked , or turned back . We must go with it . Furthermore , the church could not stop with the application of the social ideal to its domestic economy only . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he ceases to be an outsider , and our obligations to him become spontaneous and imperative . We are yet sufficiently deep in the evolutionary process to speak of the Young Men 's Christian Associations , our Commons , and Settlements , and allied movements as " outside agencies . " But they are simply the extension of the church life . It will be clear erelong that nothing pertaining to the family on earth can be called " outside " by the church . These Associations and Settlements are a distinct advance upon the church ideal which prevailed at the beginning of the century , when the church was generally regarded as a teacher . The emphasis lay upon preaching and instruction in dogmatics ; the emphasis has shifted slowly from a philosophy of the religious life to the religious life itself ; from a body of doctrine to a body of fact ; from a logical process to experience , Accordingly , we find that the administrative departments of our Young Men 's and Women 's Associations , and especially of our Settlements , and various Houses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religious life is given in the concrete ? men and women living religiously among their fellows . The Incarnation may yet he recognized as a necessary and universal truth . Our missionary movements , both home and foreign , are responding more slowly to the logic of history . The teaching idea is still dominant ? and at that door enter all the mischiefs of our denominationalism . Our missionaries still go forth not as " heralds of the Cross , " but as heralds of a particular kind of cross . Perhaps a few more rebukes like that from Japan will weed us of our folly " ? " We want no more doctrines . We want Christ . " It is difficult to prophesy what changes are in store for our missionary work , now that we are entering upon the scientific method , placing facts first . Instead of individual missionaries , we may he sending Settlements to the heathen , that their " eyes may see and their hands handle " the Word made flesh . A community equipped with the instruments and working in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of heathen inefficiency and degeneracy , might perhaps be as effectual as the lone missionary lifting up his voice in the wilderness . The most characteristic and important movement of the last days of the century is that of Federation , which could hardly have been more than a millennial dream to our fathers of a hundred years ago . Denominational intolerance with them was not a sin to be repented , but a virtue to he cultivated . The Congregationalist who laid low a Methodist or a Baptist was doing both God and man as valuable service as he whc shot an Indian . And in this respect the history of the church is repeating our national history . The colonies stood apart from each other , each imagining it had a life . of its own of sufficient importance to warrant a separate existence . Accordingly it sought a complete autonomy ; was jealous of its rights , suspicious of its neighbors . But common dangers threatened and common interests multiplied , until these separated , jealous , hostile colonists were compelled to see the advantages of a common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common dangers , they needed a community of interest to secure the common good , and the evolutionary blossom from those buds was Federation . It need hardly be added that our present national unity is the fruit resulting from that Federation blossom . Notwithstanding many developments , the church is still in the colonial period . The denominations are standing apart from each other in jealous isolation , and are fighting hard to maintain their autonomy . But common dangers of commanding and multiple nature threaten ; common interests , equally imperative , invite ; so that , like the colonial fathers , we denominational children are beginning to say to one another , " We must federate ; we must federate . " At first the colonies simply touched each other at points of least resistance ; so are the churches coming together , and with them the points of least resistance are their reforms and their charities . In their work of reform they are driven to consolidate by the solid front which the evils of the day oppose to them . In their charities they see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waste and friction . Federation is here . It is a vernal influence in all serious hearts . Here and there first efforts at practical methods are appearing in bud and leaf , coming by a process simple and natural , yetprofound and cosmic . The same great law of Divine Fatherhood and human brotherhood is pushing in steady , irresistible , historic process toward the consummation of the social ideal . The brotherhood of mere courtesy , which now exists , can no longer be tolerated when it has become perfectly clear that we " are all of one blood , " " one family in heaven and on earth . " The compelling power of that ideal holds and carries like gravitation . Those who love the church best are often its most impatient critics . The actual progress measured against its transcendent ideals seems to them pathetically small . Yet , if we retrace the past hundred years , we discover that the changes wrought in the spirit and methods of the church amount to a revolution . A greater rate of progress could have resulted only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be it remembered that a captain too far ahead of the company is as futile as one too far behind . Is the evolutionary process anything more than normal growth ? Every healthful organism must grow continually in. every part . The church is simply compacted in that complex organism which we call life in a true solidarity with all other institutions . Like the organs of the body , they all grow together , and each grows by what the others supply .                     