@@486623

Readers of a certain age will remember a book ( which is still sought by collectors in the earliest , and read by children in the latest editions ) entitled ' Science in Sport Makes Philosophy in Earnest . ' In it children are led by a series of experiments and observations presented as games , to ponder upon the laws of the universe  --  that is , in the nomenclature of a pre-scientific era , to become adepts in " natural philosophy . " This feeling , that sport should in some fashion serve the cause of philosophy , has led the radical golfers of England to approach Mr. Balfour on the matter of the codification and emendation of the rules of that ancient but ill-regulated game . As a lifelong golfer and a recognized philosopher , the Prime Minister could not fail to give the matter his careful attention , and the petitioners an explicit answer . He appears , in his reply , as the advocate of individualism and the opponent of standardization . He writes : " I should view with great apprehension the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the standardization of the implements to be used by the player . Such standardization can not logically be restricted to the balls , and it would be a pity , I think , to destroy the practically unlimited freedom of selection , which , among all games , belongs . so far as I know , alone to golf . " The merriment of Opposition editors and non-golfing politicians over Mr. Balfour 's dictum seems misplaced when it is remembered that his plea for individualism in his favorite sport falls in happily with Herbert Spencer 's attack upon the general " regimentation " of society , in his latest volume of essays . But , of course , Mr. Balfour had primarily in mind the interests of sport . It is indeed anomalous that a man is never so bound by rule and custom as in his playtime . Nobody may force him to conduct his business correspondence in one way rather than another , or to keep a card catalogue rather than an address book ; but so soon as he boards a yacht , mounts a horse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code which prescribes his goings and comings , the implements he uses , and the very clothes he wears . Where written rules do not bind him , a mysterious " good form " hampers his natural movements , and in many respects he becomes the slave of his recreations . The Virginia breeder who lately appeared at the Horse Show in such housings as he wears on his own farm , showed some deficiency in sense of the fitting , but he also showed a courage which his perfectly appointed associates in the Show might well envy . Probably sport has never been more free from this formalizing tendency than society at large . We read in romance that the youthful Tristan once landed at Cornwall and came upon the end of a stag hunt . The nobles were quartering the carcass in some barbarous fashion . Tristan indignantly seized the knife and made the division according to the ancient rules of venerie , giving to each his part , from the chief of the hunt to the dogs , and thus good hunting customs were introduced into Britain The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have seen old-fashioned " rounders " develop into baseball , with an elaborate legislative code and a body of diplomatic and judicial practice which covers every point of the eligibility , transfer , and even the sale of players . Football has gone very much the same way . Changes in the game and charges of false play are discussed with conciliar gravity . Even polo has renounced the advantages of its Oriental ( consequently vague ) origins , and the prominent clubs of England and America are considering a plan for abolishing the few distinctions that mark the play of the two nations . As for yachting , the dispute between Mr. Lawson and the Now York Yacht Club is still a malodorous memory , and a signal instance of the dangers that attend the standardizing of manly sport . So far as uniformity is in the interest of the sport itself , no sensible person will oppose his personal preference to the common utility . But very often the motives that lead to the adoption of the p-ball , the y-bat , or the z-target are by no means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the convenience of the player guides the choice , while if the standardization of sporting " togs " were deeply probed , there can be no doubt that natural selection would vanish behind the bland and persistent terrorism of the tailors of our generation . In fishing , shooting , and golf the individual still makes a certain stand against the game . An unwritten law tells him what is sportsmanlike , and for the rest  --  clothes , tackle , and minor matters of deportment  --  he does as he lists . In bespeaking this wholesome irregularity for the game of golf , Mr. Balfour has shown himself no less a sportsman than a philosopher . He remembers that favorable evolution depends upon the arising of favorable variations , and that an absolute rule of uniformity would first retard and finally stay the evolutionary process . This is true of games , and it is true of society at large . So , when the formalists fret over new balls of marvellous carrying qualities , and rage at those two-handed pneumatic engines which masquerade as golf clubs , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truly philosophical , golfers or otherwise , will welcome these uncouth contrivances as the sign that in one game at least the individual is free to face unterrified the overt tyranny of rules and the more subtle oppression of " good form . " The golf-links of the land remain individualistic oases in an age of universal regimentation .                     