@@486927

The President 's message has one piquant and almost sensational passage in which Mr. Roosevelt accuses Congress of wishing to prevent him from investigating " criminals in the legislative branch . " But aside from that , his last address to Congress is decidedly routine and perfunctory . As he says , " this Administration is ending . " He is done with the job . He evidently expects little or nothing from this expiring Congress , in the way of carrying out his recommendations , and the probabilities are strong that he will not be disappointed . In the long passage on law , the Constitution , the courts , and the functions and duties of judges , Mr. Roosevelt says many things that are obviously true but in general he seems unable to conceive of a law , or a principle , which sometimes works temporary and incidental harm , but which is such a proved embodiment of liberty any justice that it can not be hastily set aside . All his tests are personal . He has no large and enduring standards by which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nose of wax , to be shaped according to the desire or whim of the hour . In the section devoted to the condition of the Treasury he would apparently avoid the hard facts ; he groups figures for the past seven years  --  the time since he became President  --  shows that there has been , during that period , a net Treasury surplus of nearly $100 , - 000,000 , and calls this " an exceedingly satisfactory showing " If Mr. Roosevelt had looked back only seven months instead of seven years , he would have had to record a deficit of more than $78,000,000 in that brief time . If he had taken the last fiscal year with the part of the present one already elapsed , he would have had to confess a deficit of nearly $120,000,000 . He is at least consistent , however , in not saying one word about economy , the duty of Congress to keep down expenditures , or the need of carefully studying the public revenue . Lavish to the last , he takes pride in the fact that the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to undertake any expenditure that it regarded as necessary . " Mr. Taft 's speech to the North Carolina Society in this city Monday evening revealed again the admirable temper of the man . He was earnest , frank , sincere , desirous to end unhappy and illogical conditions in the South . His utterances were in line with his previous references to the subject in the campaign , and even prior to that , and should have a far-reaching effect in the South There the number of people who vote the Democratic ticket while hoping for Republican success is increasing ; and everywhere there is a striving for a release from the political impotence to which the South is reduced . On the negro question , which is at the bottom of the trouble , Mr. Taft touched bravely enough . Expatriation of the negro is , as he pointed out , impossible , and so is the repeal of the Fifteenth Amendment . On neither of these proposals need anybody waste a breath . The negro must remain , if only because the South can not do without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educated to be effective . The hope and the opportunity for the great mass of the negroes , he urged , must be in skilled artisanship and in farming . As for the bugaboo of social equality , Mr. Taft showed that it can not be created by law or by anything the Federal government could do . Equality of opportunity , equality before the law , at the ballot-box , and in the pursuit of life , liberty , and happiness  --  these alone are the Constitutional guarantees . This is , as we have more than once argued , perhaps the best reason for opposing discriminating laws against the negroes . Public opinion can regulate social intercourse ; in the long run , laws never can . In advanced and well-regulated communities the enforcement of racial differences by the degradation of one element in the community smacks as much of barbarism as does the setting apart of the Jews in Russian cities , and brings with it similarly the temptation to kill and destroy . It is a confession that the much-vaunted superiority of the one race can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and privileges . Against this idea Mr. Taft , the jurist , has plainly set his face . He demands , especially , equality at the ballot-box . Not that he is opposed to laws imposing educational qualifications ; but he would have both races subjected to the same test . Upon that footing the negro , we are confident , would be happy . But now , by terrorism , actual or implied , by cheating , by lying , and deceit , the educated , wealth-producing negro is denied his vote in a thousand communities . These wrongs will never be righted until some leader like Mr. Taft is absolutely frank on this point . The report that Congressman Burton will be Secretary of the Treasury in Mr. Taft 's Cabinet has elicited nothing but praise , so far as Mr. Burton 's fitness is concerned . He is one of our steadiest and best-trained public men , who has made a special study of finance , and whose convictions and courage are of the soundest . But in all this ointment there is one disagreeable - fly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His preference and the natural crowning of his career would be to succeed Foraker . But that place is wanted for and by Charles P. Taft . Boss Cox of Cincinnati , whom William H. Taft denounced , is for Charles Taft ; and the mention of Mr. Burton for the Cabinet looks unpleasantly like a scheme to remove a rival . If C. P. Taft were not a very rich man , and the brother of the President-elect , nobody would think of him as a Senatorial possibility . Mr. Burton is immeasurably his superior . If Ohio is going virtuously to retire Foraker , the field ought to be left open to something besides money-bags . Nor do we see how C. P. Taft in the Senate could be anything but an embarrassment to President Taft . The latter , far from aiding his brother 's ambition by taking a much better man out of his path , ought to call upon fraternal affection to make one more sacrifice , and avoid a contest which would surely make a bad impression . Speaker Cannon 's defence of the rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have little sympathy with the outcry against the rules , as such . Gov . Hughes , or their hopeless lack of humor . Last Friday 's conference at the Republican Club in this city was as unblushing a bit of political marketing as we remember for many a day . The little bosses - let- it be-known that they look upon the head of the , ticket elected in November as no man of theirs The others  --  the Lieutenant-Governor , the Comptroller , the , State Treasurer , the State Engineer  --  the bosses own , and these worthies have solemnly pledged themselves to delegate into Timothy L. Woodruff 's hands the appointive powers vested in them by the State Constitution . Nothing more shameless can be conceived than the authorized phrasing of the formal jobbing contract , that Mr. Woodruff is to be " the clearing-house man through whom all appointments are to be made to the State departments of " ? everybody except the Governor . Of him " those present at the conference to-day are to make no requests for appointments . " We know how it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a black sheep who simply has to be cast ? off to assure the comfortable existence of the rest ; some gambler , horse-thief , or forger . That 's Gov Hughes Mr Gompers is beginning to find one reason why he could not deliver the labor vote . Somebody else was delivering the offices President Roosevelt 's appointment of ' a third labor- leader , whom he was able to detach from Gompers , was made public last week  --  the editor of the Labor World of Pittsburgh , who is to be Appraiser of the Port in that city . The local Congressmen ' were not consulted , and neither were the Pennsylvania Senators , so that there is muttering in Washington over this irregularity . That may be left to itself ; the chief import of the matter is in the- light it throws upon Mr. Roosevelt 's methods and upon the nature of labor leaders The moral is that , in the labor world , as elsewhere , the east wind can not compete with good official salaries . Whether or not one agrees in full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines , the fact remains that we are densely ignorant of what is going on in our provinces . What American citizen knows of the successful career of the first Philippine Legislature , its altogether excellent record ? Vice-Governor Forbes returns from the islands , and says that everything is progressing magnificently , and that all is well , only we must continue indefinitely to rule the Filipinos against their will . Whereupon we slap each other on the back , exclaim over the greatness of our ability as colonial administrators , and promptly forget about the archipelago for another six months If Mr. Storey or any one else complains that the swindler who professed to make gold out of sea-water is an honored member of the teaching force in the Philippines , he is written down a bore . Our touching faith in the ability of our ruling officials to pass upon their own achievements would be sublime if it were not pathetic . It is partly due to the fact that we have no effective Opposition in Congress and are debarred from questioning Ministers as to this or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is little or no fear of criticism or restraint . All of this merely illustrates anew how unfit our form of government is for ruling subjugated peoples . are now the friend both of Japan and of China Peking is said to be discontented with the vague terms of our recent agreement with Japan . It finds therein no effective guarantees against Japanese aggression in Manchuria , carried on under more or less legal guise . But it was natural that the Chinese should be somewhat discontented with that very lack of precise obligation which is the chief merit of our understanding with Japan . To have entered into detail regarding China or any other subject under consideration , would have come dangerously near to formulating a treaty , instead of expressing a condition of mutual accord The fact remains that only a few days after our exchange of notes with Japan , a Chinese ambassador has visited the White House to thank the President for our generous conduct in the matter of the Boxer indemnity . The President 's drder in that case constitutes one of the most meritorious acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sharp change of feeling it has brought about in China since the days of the anti-American boycott , three years ago . Twelve dead and three hundred and fifty hurt  --  that is the best summary of football casualties available for the season just ended Four of the dead were members of college elevens , those of the Virginia Military Institute , the University of North Carolina , the University of Arkansas , and Utah Agricultural COllege . farger b011eges had-their usual roll of disabled players , but , as usual , the higher percentage of injuries was in the minor teams , such as those of high schools and normal schools . In view of the figures , it can-. not be said that there has been any great diminution in the risk run by the participants . On the other hand , owing to better supervision by the officials , there has been a gratifying improvement in the bearing of the players But there is still room for revision of rules , as there is a distinct drift back from open , play to line-bucking But the strongest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not to be found in the fact that the casualties have been as heavy this year as in the season of 1905 ? casualties which led to the " opening up " , the game . They lie , as before , in the distraction of the student from his studies , and the , overemphasis upon the importance of the contests , and athletics generally . By hard work professionalism has been eliminated ; brawny truck drivers are no longer induced to take a course in the veterinary department during a football season ; graduate students and freshmen have been excluded from any universty teams . For these reforms the college world is duly thankful ; but the musty professors still regret that their students do not get down to work until the " championship " is settled . President Eliot 's words of two years ago are still unanswerable ; Both at school and at college the popular , competitive sports now take away the time , and interest of the players from physical exercise which can be combined with intellectual exercises , such as country excursions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the different forms of natural history The American secondary schools have distinctly lost ground within the last twenty years ; because the afternoons are so generally devoted throughout the year to competitive games of ball , and the boys ' daily conversation runs on the games , instead of on their reading , their walks , or the sights and sounds of real life in city or country The same distractions have impaired the intellectual quality of college life A hint that Prime Minister Asquith might dissolve Parliament and appeal to the country was dropped by Mr Lloyd-George last Saturday , but probably it was scarcely more than a mild threat intended to keep the discouraged Liberal majority in line It is by no means sure that a general election at the present moment would mean a Conservative victory . The bye-elections have been going against the govern . ment , but so bye-elections in England usually do . The Liberal majority is still so enormous that the party can lose heavily and remain in power . On their side the - Liberals have the active resentment of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lords To-day that feeling might be strong enough to send the Liberals back to power with a mandate to reform the upper chamber . But in two years the soreness may be allayed , and the Liberal party may have to stand the taunt of having done little but take the cash of public office while letting the credit of fruitful legislation and public support go . But parties are , after all , made up of individuals ; and these will , as a rule , balance personal interest against the general party welfare . The tremendous- sweep of January , 1906 , landed in the House of Commons scores of more or less humble persons who under ordinary circumstances can never hope to see Westminster again , even if the Liberals should succeed in retaining power And the pressure exerted by such members , who have much to lose and little to gain , may be sufficient to make Mr. Asquith hang on . Yet it requires resolution to lie still in impotence under an increasingly galling fire ; for we may be sure that the Conservatives in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances of enacting desired legislation is inversely proportioned to the size of its majority . The German and French budgets have been recently compared by a French financial expert to the disparagement of his own country . Jules Roche , who , it is true , has long been a bitter critic of French government finance , main . tains that all this talk about Germany groaning under an unparalleled burden of taxation is foolish , Chancellor Von Bulow is quite right in asking for more revenue . The Germans can stand it . By taking the total of the revenues for the Empire and the separate States , and subtracting the income derived from the railways , telegraphs , forests , mines , and other forms of productive state industry , he finds that , in 1907-08 , 60,000 , - 000 Germans paid 3,900,000,000 francs in taxes , while 40,000,000 Frenchmen paid 3,050,000,000 francs , giving a per capital taxation of 65 francs for - Germany and 76 francs for France M Roche holds , further , that France has reached the limit of her sources of revenue , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The double system of German finance makes the best comparisons liable to error If we take Prussia alone , with a population some two millions less than France , we find that in 1906-07 , according to the " Statesman 's Year-Book , " the revenue for Prussian and Imperial uses was about 3,270,000,000 francs , which would turn the per capita taxation in favor of France But , after all , the chief point to be made is that France does manage to get on with her budget , while Germany goes on eating borrowed capital and now faces an accumulated deficit of $500,000,000.                     