@@486673

The sudden separation of the State of Panama from Colombia looks unpleasantly like a vulgar plot with " millions in it . " Have our consuls , or any of our military officers , intrigued to bring about this artificial revolution ? We can not fail to note that this is positively asserted in a dispatch of the French consul at Panama to his Government . And we see the same thing hinted in the insinuation of a German newspaper that President Roosevelt has been " working behind the scenes . " We can already see material for most unpleasant disclosures . That military " reconnoissance " of the Isthmus by our youthful army officers  --  what was that for ? Were they not really reconnoitring a revolution ? The concealed shipment of arms from this country , in aid of the revolutionists , may have been wholly legal , but was altogether suspicious . It is certain that the Navy and State Departments knew all about the revolution in advance . The " tip " was out in this city and in Washington that the affair was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our naval officials disclaim any actual knowledge of what was to occur , but say with a smile that they-made ready for it out of " intelligent anticipation . " This it was that caused the orders to the cruiser Dixie , on October 24 , to put to sea at once , despite her chief engineer 's request for time to make repairs , and with four hundred marines in addition to her regular crew  --  many of them " picked men . " As a blind , the report was that the Dixie was to go to Guantanamo , Cuba ; but it is now admitted that the real destination was Colon . If our consuls warned the Government of what was coming , did they get their information from the chiefs among the revolutionists ? Did the latter raise any question about being recognized by the United States ? What we know is that they cabled a request for recognition the moment they had launched their pronunciamiento . Certain stereotyped phrases are invoked . They always are to gloss over wrongful action . It is said that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panama and Colon  --  for there is no evidence that the revolution extended beyond those two cities . Of course , our consuls would need to find some local authority with which to transact business . In that sense , if the revolutionists remained in control , they would have to be recognized . So would a band of pirates in their place . But this is a very different thing from recognizing the " republic " of Panama . It yields no sign , as yet , of being even de facto . To deal with its officers is one thing ; to admit the validity of their claims , as against the central Government which would put them down as rebels , is quite another . The latter would he , on the principles which we as a na tion have laid down and contended for passionately , equivalent to declaring war on Colombia . No such break with our traditions and with decency should have been thought of for a moment . We should have continued to observe strict neutrality . If the alleged republic of Panama got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Government at Bogotd , then , after weeks or months , the question , of recognition would properly have come before us . At the outset our duty was to keep hands off and await developments . To attempt to force matters  --  above all , to attempt to smuggle through a canal treaty with this mushroom republic  --  was shocking . Prudence and consideration in dealing with Colombia have been the rule of the State Department from Marcy to the present day . The dispatches of Seward and Fish and Everts and Bayard are filled with expressions of the purpose of the United States to respect the sovereignty of Colombia in every way . It was once proposed by the Colombian Congress to repeal the treaty , or at least article 35 , which gives us the right to keep transit open on the Isthmus . But our Minister at Bogota urged that the American Government would never exercise its power in any unfair or unfriendly way . In fact , it was pointed out from the first that we were under peculiar obligations to uphold Colombian sovereignty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help the central Government put down rebellion on the Isthmus ; but the Attorney-General of the United States held that our obligation did not go beyond repelling attack from abroad . No meddling in Colombia 's internal affairs has been our guide . There has been , it is true , a quiet but perilous extension of our right of landing troops , and of their power when on shore . Secretary Seward once practically apologized because Admiral Pearson landed marines without first asking permission of the local authorities . We have left all that far behind . Capt . Hubbard would not permit Colombian troops to go by rail from Colon to attack the revolutionists in Panama , but he apparently allowed the latter to cross over to Colon Secretary Hay is old enough , if the President is not , to recall the vehement protests against the recognition of our seceding States by European Governments . Their mere recognition as belligerents gave bitter and undying offence , though that was doubtless required by international law . But against recognizing them as a government we strenuously argued , throughout those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , only a rebellion which we were facing , and which we would put down in time if let alone . Yet the Southern Confederacy had many of the insignia of a nation . Gladstone was not so far wrong , as a mere matter of form , in saying so . Yet we threatened to go to war with any nation which recognized that secession movement , numbering millions of men and with formidable armies in the field . The dispatches of Seward and Adams are full of protests against recognizing the revolted States . At one stroke , however , President Roosevelt and Secretary Hay have thrown ' American principles to the winds and have committed the country to a policy which is ignoble beyond words . Our position is now the humiliating one of treating a pitifully feeble nation as we should never dream of dealing with even a third-class Power ; of giving a friendly republic a blow in the face without waiting for either explanation or protest ; of going far beyond the diplomatic requirements of the situation , and that with indecent haste  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To take a stand for freedom or for republican institutions ? To avert a danger ? No ; but just for a handful of silver , just for a commercial advantage which we ought all to spurn if not come by honorably . For this we have hurried into relations with the seceded State of Panama without giving Colombia a day 's notice ! It is the most ignominious thing we know of in the annals of American diplomacy Imagine Lord Palmerston or Napoleon III . paraphrasing our specious reasoning about the " unanimous movement of the people of Panama to resume their independence , " and to set up a government " republican in form " ! They could have made out a case ten thousand times stronger for the recognition of the Southern Confederacy . And we should hope that they would have omitted the hypocritical touch in ? our notification to Columbia about the " ties of friendship " which move us to bring about her dismemberment ! And note how the President moves on to arrogate power as keeper of the peace on the Isthmus He now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to put an end to " unnecessary and wasteful civil wars " in Panama . No predecessor of his ever drew that juggler 's conclusiot out of the treaty . Of course , it is not there . The President has invented his obligation , and gives the world to understand that his hasty and unwarranted action in affronting a friendly nation , and entangling us with a band of conspirators , is only his way of establishing a Pax Rooseveltsana . In all the Administration accounts of our treaty with Colombia , it is taken for granted that it was a grievous and now intolerable burden which we took upirni ourselves in ' connection with Isthmian transit . But in the treaty itself this was described as an " advantage " and a " favor " to the United States ; and it was expressly set down that " as an especial compensation for the said advantages , " this country was to guarantee both the neutrality of the Isthmus and the severeignty of Colombia over it . This was ' obviously the View taken by Seward , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister at Bogota : " The United States desire nothing else , nothing better , and nothing more in regard to the State of Colombia than the enjoyment on their pact of complete and absolute sovereignty and independence If those great interests shall ever be assailed by any power at home or abroad , the United States will be ready , cooperating with the Government and their ally , to maintain and defend them . " Mr. Seward wrote again , on October 9 , 1866 : " The United States have always abstained from any connection with questions of internal revolution in the State of Panama , . . . and will continue to maintain a perfect neutrality in such domestic controvemses . " That was certainly the very lowest measure of our duty . But what has the President done ? He has placed the Administration under grave suspicion of actually promoting rebellion in a friendly nation , and of agreeing with the conspirators in advance to give them recognition and military aid . It is certain that he indecently rushed to the support of this most questionable republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notify Colombia that she will not be permitted even to attempt to reduce her rebellious subjects to obedience . There is a clean disregard of both law and morals in all this . Even the buccaneers who sailed the Spanish Main would have found it , too much for them . THE FUNCTIONS OF THE SENATE . In organizing a government of checks and balances , the framers of our Constitution made two notable exceptions to that mutual independence of the three coordinate branches of the Government which is the most distinctive feature of their work . They provided that the joint conclusions of the two Houses of Congress , as embodied in legislation , should be submitted to the President for his approval . They also provided that nominations to important offices by the President should be submitted to the Senate for its advice and consent . Although the practical wisdom of both these provisions has always been conceded , the very cogent reasons for them are so near the bottom of the whole question now at issue that they must be brought to mind . The widest human experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single body of men may consider a proposed measure , they are generally , such are the complexities of civilized society , unable to take a complete and undistorted view of all the circumstances which should influence their conclusion . We therefore adopted that feature of the English Constitution which provided that the independent assent of two bodies of men shall be necessary to any legislative measure . The two exceptional provisions of our Constitution are based upon the same general policy as that of legislation by two independent houses . After the latter have separately considered a measure , it is still possible that circumstances clear to the executive engaged in the practical work of executing the law may have been overlooked by them . The benefit of his experience is therefore secured before a proposed law takes effect . The provision that nominations to office shall be submitted to the Senate is based on the idea of extending the two-house system to executive appointments . It is therefore provided- that , after the President has decided upon an appointment to office , a body of responsible men , occupying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to the qualifications of the appointee , shall pass judgment upon his fitness . It follows that the relation of the Senate to the President in the matter of appointments is in no way different from that of the Senate to the House in matters of legislation , or from that of the President to both Houses when an act is submitted for his approval . Mr. Lodge 's charming and specious argument in the current Scribner 's applies equally to all three cases . He shows very clearly how much trouble is saved the overworked Executive when , by consulting only one or two Senators beforehand , he can make sure that an appointment will receive the advice and consent of the Senate , and thus insure himself against the danger of having to do his work over again through the Senate failing to confirm the nomination . He even goes so far as to recall a case which can not but suggest that the House has it within its power to enjoy a similar advantage . He reminds us that the Senate re-made the Wilson Tariff Bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " without the alteration of a single line , they became law against the bitter opposition of both House and the Executive . " The corollary is plain . If the House committee which framed the measure had conferred with prominent Senators in advance , in order to learn what sort of bill the latter would permit to become law , a very bitter contest would have been avoided , and legislation would have gone on with that smoothness which marks the confirmation of nominees to office by the Senate . No one who observes the growing power of the Senate in recent times in this and other directions can be- surprised if , before another generation passes away , this custom shall be found slowly and quietly making its way . If the corresponding arrangement with the President has- led to no abuse , why should objection be raised to this ? A tendency iq seen every now and then , among immature members of Congress , to consider the question whether the President is likely to approve a given mea sure as a very strong factor in determining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wasting argument upon this tendency , we shall invite attention to two growing evils of the present practice which are quite independent of any theory as to its propriety . For half a century past it has been evident to all thinking men that the custom of regarding public offices as rewards for political service , generally of a personal character , is a crying evil . In the case of the classified civil service this evil has been remedied so far as it is in the power of law and regulation to do so ; but in the case of offices to be filled by Presidential appointment the evil is still in full force . At Washington , communications in regard to appointments to office , especially those between the President and Senators , are regarded as confidential , so that no general statement can be made on the subject which will admit of legal proof . But it is universally supposed and never authoritatively denied that Senators do not merely suggest appointments to the President , but practically determine them . Active promoters of the political fortunes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the States of the Union , . look forward to public office as a reward for their work . The promise of such offices is regarded almost as a matter of course . When the supporters of a candidate for a Presidential office are named , a Senator will generally be found heading the list . In a word , the universal opinion is that , while it is quite Proper that the President should satisfy himself that the candidate recommended by a Senator is fit for the position he seeks , he has no business to inquire into the Senator 's motives in desiring the appointment . Subject to the limitation we have mentioned , it rests entirely with the Senator to apportion the appointments according to the zeal shown by the various candidates in promoting his political fortunes . It would be a great error to judge the effect of this policy solely by the character of the appointments to which it leads . The demoralizing influence of the feeling that appointment to high positions in the public service depends upon loyalty to an individual , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people for the good of the people , no such consideration should be allowed to have play . Another evil , less serious as a matter of principle , yet more serious in its immediate effect upon the interests of good government , is the absorption of the energies of the large majority of our Senators in managing the politics of their respective States . The public questions of national importance which come before the legislative branch of the government are such as require for their proper consideration the undivided time , attention , and study of the ninety men who now constitute the Senate . The interoceanic canal question , the tariff question , the currency question , the conduct of our foreign affairs , the feelings , views , and policy of foreign governments , and the administration of the great executive departments of our own , are subjects of which the complexity increases year by year , and which more and more demand the undivided attention of men as well fitted to bestow it as we find in our Senate . To compare their importance with that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply ridiculous . Every consideration of good policy demands that those who are officially charged with so important responsibility should be required to devote all their time and attention to the duties of their position . This is impossible so long as they are expected to take charge of political organizations in their several States . and ? decide who shall be appointed to public office . No thinking person who has watched the development , of our national administration since the civil war , can fail to be struck with the gradual reduction of our whole governmental system to a blindly operating machine , worked by forces which have little . or no regard to the ultimate effects of their action upon the public welfare . To a certain extent this tendency towards routine is unavoidable . But it is impossible to administer the Government properly by any system of mere routine . As the complexity of the situation increases , it becomes more and more necessary that members of the legislative branch of the Government shall be masters of the details of governmental administration , and thus be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency and purity There is only one way in which this can be brought about . As the reform of the civil service became possible only through the complete elimination of political influence from the requirements for office , so is the complete elimination of Senatorial influence from Presidential appointments a prerequisite to a reform which the efficiency of our public administration most urgently demands . If the principle is once accepted that the ecommendation of a Senator shall receive no greater weight or consideration than that of any other equally well-informed citizen ; that it must be impartial as between various candidates , and that personal service rendered to the political fortunes of a Senator disqualifies that Senator from directly recommend . ing the giver of the service  --  it will be the longest step toward good administration that our generation has taken . THE TIN BOX AND THE TIN PAIL . The recent drop in Steel securities is only one of a number of indications of the widespread losses that have befallen the capitalist class . It is said that there are seventy-five thousand shareholders in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as high as 101% , and the common touched 55 . In fact , the wide diffusion of the two issues may safely be said to have been accomplished in the nineties in the one case , and in the forties in the second . Yet on Tuesday the tape registered less than 50 for the preferred and 10 for the common . The former has , therefore fallen below the high point of the latter , and the common , for which at least 60 was predicted as the minimum price , has reached a figure which plainly indicates that in general estimation its days as a dividend earner are numbered . Even a tin box might be expected to perspire under such influences , and there are seventy-five thousand such boxes . Think , too , of the Amalgamated tin boxes . What comfortable pieces of property they were in the summer of 1901 , when " Copper " was quoted at 130 To-day it is worth in the market about one hundred points less . These are merely notable illustrations of how the tin boxes have suffered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receptacles of other Trust securities .. Then there are the " gilt-edged " investments ? Pennsylvania . which has declined from 170 in 1902 to about 116 ; and Chicago and Northwestern , with its drop from 271 to 153 . This list could also be extended indefinitely . But the stock-market decline is only one of the ways by which the tin boxes have been flattened out . There is the general reduction in manufacturing profits , due to the higher cost of materials and labor , and to diminished consumption . The shrinkage in this quarter has been clearly enough perceived for months past , but it is commanding increased attention just now because of the cutting of export prices in order to keep our mills in operation , and of such annual reports as have been issued lately by certain railroad companies , showing that operating expenses have increased faster than gross earnings , and also because of reductions in dividends . But the tin box can not suffer for any length of time without the tin pail being affected . Labor is fond of breathing out threatenings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inopportune season for doing so . Capital and labor stand and fall together . The one may derive a temporary advantage from afflicting the other , but by so doing it works its permanent discomfiture . Now , capital has lately received a very hard blow . It may not yet have experienced the whole setback ; but the first impact is over , and the time has come for labor to feel the effect of the same blow . It is , perhaps , too much to expect that it will meet the situation with calm-ness and good sense . Some people have a way of calling capital the brains and labor the hands of industry . But this is rather a senseless generalization . The one is as apt to pursue flighty methods as the other . And if capital was capable of being betrayed into its irrational policy of the last few years , it is reasonably certain that labor will not avoid commensurate blunders during its critical period . Every day brings to light some contemplated step by labor which , if taken , will accentuate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pail should take heed to his way , otherwise he will evolve a state of affairs as extreme as that in which the man with the tin box now finds himself . To strike or not to strike is a question which is at present agitating labor unions in many parts of the country . A general strike movement at this time would be as senseless a proceeding as the general buying movement of securities was just prior to the panic of May 9 , 1901 . That was not the time to buy stocks , and this is not the time to quit work . The man who did the first is now suffering for it . The man who does the second will suffer by and by . The success of the labor unions in advancing wages and in obtaining other concessions in the last few years has given them a false confidence ih themselves . One of the vulgarisms of Wall Street is that " any old thing will sell in a bull market " And it is equally true that the extreme demands of labor are comparatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But even the best of securities have hard sledding in times of financial depression . The lack of buyers frequently sends them below their normal values , and keeps them there for a long interval ; and labor can not hope to escape a similar fate in periods of industrial reaction . The sooner the man with the tin pail recognizes this fact , the more hopeful will be his outlook for the future . In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred , strikes are as ineffectual in times of industrial depression as was Mrs. Parting-ton 's attempt to broom back the Atlantic . When three men are seeking employment for every two places offering , somebody must , be disappointed . There is no labor union in existence that can alter this immutable law . To attempt it is only to make the situation worse . So far , 1903 has not been a favorable year for strikes . Nobody knows this better than the labor organizations , and it is to be hoped that , notwithstanding their present threatening talk , the knowledge has made them conservative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the tin pail . His wage did not go up until there had been an all-around advance in his cost of living , and experience has taught him that , as a rule , it will come down in advance of commodity prices . But that is due to an economic law which neither he nor any one else can control . The fear that he may attempt this impossible feat is one of the things which are forcing the man with the tin box into an ultra-conservative position . Capital has been rendered timid not only by what it has suffered as a result of its own folly , but also by the threatening attitude of labor . THE REAL CANADIAN FEELING . Brushing aside minor grievances aired in press or in Parliament , the real sentiment of Canada on the Alaska decision is , first , one of resentment that the Dominion was tricked into a packed court , next , of sorrow that the British Government connived at the trick for the sake of friendship with the United States This feeling is expressed by newspapers of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Jingo outcry . From Nova Scotia to Winnipeg it is expressed with surprising moderation and dignity . No one can afford to minimize this deliberate sense of injustice or ascribe it to mere irritation at an adverse award . What the Canadians resent is , not that they have lost , but that by no possibility could they have won . The United States , having rejected various proposals for arbitration , finally agreed upon a mixed commission , three " jurists of repute " to be appointed on either hand . Both parties agreed to abide by the decision of the tribunal , and the arrangement was fair , and objectionable only because of the possibility of a deadlocked court . Unfairness , in the Canadian view , crept in when President Roosevelt appointed as our three " jurists of repute " Secretary Root and Senators Lodge and Turner  --  all politicians , and all committed absolutely by their public utterances to the American contention . At the time , the candid press maintained that the selection was unfortunate and unfair , and urged the President , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change the composition of the Commission . Three days after the appointment of the American Commissioners , February 21 last , the Governor-General of Canada protested to the Colonial Office against the personnel of the Commission , and suggested the reconsideration of the treaty Lord Onslow , the Under Secretary for the Colonies , replied that Great Britain could not criticise or object to the American Commissioners , remarked that ' the only alternative was to break off the negotiations entirely , and urged the undesirability of such a course . The advice prevailed with Sir Wilfrid Laurier , who accepted the disadvantageous conditions of the judgment in preference to postponing to the Greek Kalends the settlement of a vexatious and dangerous dispute . Of the fact that the court was virtually packed against the Canadians , there is not the slightest doubt . The tribunal sat in London , two commissioners bound to the Canadian contention , three to that of the United States , with but a sinble member , Lord Alverstone , really in the position of an impartial judge . By gaining Lord Alverstone the Canadians would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American must win . No wonder , then , that the moderate Toronto Globe declares : " Everything has been make-believe . . . . The worst the Americans had to fear was a disagreement . " Or , as the Toronto World puts it ? " A deadlock was the best we could expect , and an adverse decision , through the casting vote of Lord Alverstone , was what we had to fear . " In Canadian eyes the whole proceedings of the tribunal were hocus-pocus Practically , the matter reduced itself to a hearing before Lord Alverstone , with power to grant a verdict only for the United States . But the controversy now lies between the Canadians and their own Government , or between the Dominion and the Empire . It is the British Colonial office and Sir Wilfrid Laurier , between them , that have invented in Canada 's behoof this variant of an old game ? " Heads I do n't win , tails you win . " We speak without cynicism in this matter , appreciating the force of Canadian discontent . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has declared in Parliament that Canada must appeal for the treaty-making power . The Winnipeg Telegram probably expresses a universal sentiment when it says . " The plain truth is , that Canada has no confidence in British diplomacy , except as regards its general complacency It is too aristocratic in its attitude and not sufficiently businesslike Details are passed over or yielded up with the pride of magnanimity . And there is not sufficient imagination about it to realize values and possibilities While we may have a certain respect for this attitude , we believe it to be unsuited to business transactions Moreover , we can not be satisfied to have our interests determined by it " As yet it would be premature to speculate on the future effects of this sentiment , Evidently enough , it makes strongly for Canadian independence and nationality . It must be said that the grievance of Canada is more sentimental than real . The machinery of the award was doubtful , perhaps unfair ; the award itself was , we think , indisputably just The arguments were conducted before the world  --  an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Continental critics bears out Lord Alverstone in all his findings . That their cause was slighted the Canadians may properly contend ; that due weight was not given to their plea , very few Canadians have asserted . The unequal balance of the tribunal bound Lord Alverstone to a double loyalty to the British contention One must believe that he could have been won only by overwhelming evidence This will surely be the final conviction of the Dominion . And while a stranger may hardly pass upon the family ... quarrel with England , the moral of the Alaska decision is clearly that Canada does well to do her negotiating with the United States directly . The tortuousness of the Alaska dealings is a very potent argument for the submission of future disputes to the Joint High Commission . .11011IAISEN . In this age of specialists the really great scholars , thoSe who have made the most important contributions to knowledge , have usually been specialists in more than one department . They may have tilled a limited field , but they have used the implements of more than one science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , Mommsen brought a twofold training He was at once a philologist and a jurist ; and he made himself a recognized authority in each of these departments His early studies in the ancient Italian dialects were purely philological His earliest writings , on the Roman collogio and the Roman tribes , like his later works on Roman constitutional law and Roman criminal law , were juristic . His unequalled eminence as an epigraphist was gained by his mastery of both sciences ; for his ability to divine the formula concealed behind a series of initial letters , and to supply the words that must have stood on a lost fragment of a memorial stone , sprang in many eases from his familiarity with Roman public anti private law . His success as an editor of legal texts  --  his production , for example , of an edition of Justinian 's Digest which has displaced all preceding editions  --  was due to the fact that he was not only a Roman lawyer , but also a great Latinist His greatest contribution to our knowledge of the ancient world is doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century the union , in Cujacius , of humanistic with legal learning had developed a new school of jurisprudence ; and what Cujacius and his nineteenth-century successors , from Savigny to Jhering , have done for Roman private law , that Mommsen has done for Roman private law . The work was undertaken as a revision of the second volume of Becker 's ' Roman Antiquities ' ? a title which carries us back to the purely humanistic origin of this branch of learning , but the lawyer in Mommsen discarded the customary chronological arrangement ( monarchy , republic , empire ) , and he treated each of the ' fundamental institutions of Roman constitutional law by-itself , tracing its development from beginning to end , and emphasizing its essential identity through all variations At the same time , Mommsen , the philologist and epigraphist , controlled sources of knowledge which the ordinary lawyer can use only at second hand . This happy combination of different specialities gives , of course , only a partial explanation of Mommsen 's success , and nd explanation of his unique eminence in his . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to the restless energy which displayed itself in every line of his thin , tense , almost fierce face , to an unusual capacity for rapid and sustained labor , without which the enormous bulk of his literary output would be inexplicable , and to a still more unusual combination of breadth of view with minute and almost microscopic mastery of details . He commanded his facts , not they him , and , vast as was his learning , it was digested into knowledge . But for one book Mommsen would be , to the world at large , and even to the educated world , one of those great men whose greatness is taken on faith , on the testimony of experts . In the three volumes in which he sketched the history of Rome to the death of Julius Cmsar , he spoke directly to the general reader , and with extraordinary brilliancy and power . The attractiveness of this book is in part due to the absence , not merely of notes , but ' of all citation ' of authorities and discifssion of evidence All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscures their architecture , has been cleared away In greater measure , the success of the work was due to its clear and telling style ; but most of all to the feeling ? it is hardly saying too much to say passion  --  with which it was written . The Revolution of 1848 had drawn Mommsen out of his study into the struggle of his fellows for political liberty . The part he took in the revolutionary movement cost him , in 1850 , the chair he held in ' the LeipZig law faculty , and it was two years before he obtained another academic appointment In 1854 and 1855 . he published his ' Roman History . ' In a period of political reaction he showed his discouraged fellow-Liberals , who had failed to establish either popular government or German unity , how the Romans had won political liberty , and how , as a free people , they had established the most powerful State in the ancient world . Without underrating in any way the intrinsic value of the work , its extraordinary power may fairly be ascribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has often been asked why a radical Liberal like Mommsen was so warm an ' admirer of Julius Cmsar , and why so warm an admirer of Julius Cmsar was so uncompromising an enemy of Bismarck . The answer seems to be that Mommsen 's politics , as revealed in the Revolution of 1848 , in his ' Roman History , ' and in his later political career in Berlin , were really class politics , they were primarily anti-aristocratic In the German Revolutionary movement , in 1848 , several distinct tendencies were fused in a temporary ' alliance for the attainment of common ends The tendency which Mommsen and his fellow-Radicals represented was democratic . Their attack upon princely absolutism was like that of the third estate in France in 1789 , largely a revolt against the dominant aristocracy behind the throne . The struggle of the Ro ? man plebians for a voice in the conduct of affairs , and the democratic revolt , in the last century of the Republic , against the supremacy of the Senatorial clique , were , to Mommsen , movements analogous to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman senatorial order , to whose members commerce seemed ignoble , and the supervision of agriculture or of cattle-raising the only occupation ? outside of war and politics ? that was worthy of a gentleman , Mommsen recognized the Junkerthum of the ancient world . It is in the third volume of his history , in describing the struggle between the senatorial clique and the democratic party , that Mommsen 's partisanship becomes most evident and his narrative . most dramatic and absorbing . He could , not be decently fair to Cicero , for Cicero started as a representative of the Roman merchant class and as a democrat , and ended as a supporter of the senatorial party . Mommsen was drawn to Caesar because Cmsar led the democratic party and destroyed the senatorial oligarchy . The military empire which Augustus reared on the ruins of the Republic could have had little attraction for Mommsen  --  all the less because , as he was writing his history , Louis Napoleon was establishing a similar government in France ; and it is not without significance that the fourth volume of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founding of the Em pire , was never written To the provincials , of course , the Empire was a blessing , and Mommsen published a fifth volume , on the provinces , in 1885 , but this displays none of the fire of the earlier volumes  --  it is a serious , learned work like his ' Staatsrecht . ' In 1867 the great Liberal party , to which Mommsen belonged , was divided . Those who cared more for national unity than for parliamentary supremacy became supporters of Bismarck The democrats remained in opposition , and with them Mommsen . Bismarck , who was always an aristocrat , and who had kept his promise , made in 1848 , that the name of Junker should be clothed with new honor , was disliked and distrusted by them et dorm ferens  --  even when he had given the Germans unity . To Mommsen , as to his fellow-Radicals , the new Empire was not the democratic Germany of which they had dreamed and for which they bad striven . 