@@474883

OF all the notable achievements in the realm of science during the nineteenth century , certainly none have been so pregnant for the welfare and happiness of mankind as those of scientific medicine , especially as regards the prevention of infectious diseases . Physicians of earlier periods , in complete ignorance of the existence of man 's potent enemy , the disease germ , considered sickness a necessary evil and gave their entire attention to its cure ; but now that the cause and nature of so many pestiknees have been disclosed . there is a growing realization that it is incomparably better economy to institute measures which will prevent the incidence of an epidemic than to take up the fight after the contagion has gained a foothold . During the past fifty years preventive medicine has done far more to alleviate suffering and to prolong life than the average man is aware . It is estimated that during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries the death rate throughout the civilized world ranged from 50 to perhaps 80 per 1000 . To-day in London , Berlin , and New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great decrease in yearly mortality is due principally to protection from infectious diseases now afforded to children during the first five years of life . In New York City there has been a reduction since 1873 of over fifty per cent . in the death rate of the infantile portion of the population . It is obvious that the probable lifetime has increased coincidently with the prevention of diseases to which children of tender years are especially susceptible . Dr. Hermann . M. Biggs , of the New York City Health Department , has estimated that " the expectation of life at birth in this city in 1866 was only a little more than twenty-five years , while in 1903 , calculated on the death rate for that year . it had almost doubled , and equalled aboutforty-two years . " Such statistics as these are certainly striking commentaries on the advance and triumph of medical research ; for it is true beyond cavil that this progress has been dependent primarily upon the knowledge gained in the laboratories , the harvest of persistent investigation . The victories of the Japanese in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but how much more glorious was their conquest of disease in their armies ! For the records show that in the wars of the last two centuries four men have died in camp of disease to one man from wounds received in battles , whereas according to the Japanese statistics only one man died of disease- to two from wounds ? a result due entirely to rigorous supervision and regulations . Following the guiding light of the discoveries of Pasteur and of Koch that certain diseases are caused by microbes , preventive medicine has advanced along two main lines : the suppression , by sanitary regulations , of conditions which stimulate the propagation of pathogenic bacteria and protozoa ; the use of specific vaccines , serums , and drugs as prophylaxis , viz. , to prevent the onset of the disease . In general the one safeguards the community by preventing pathogenic microbes from entering and multiplying in water , milk , and food supplies , and by stopping the spread of contagion through disinfection of habitations and the destruction of animals and insects carrying the virus of pestilences ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epidemics or prevents the development of the parasite in the host after infection has occurred . The limits of this article do not allow of more than a few words in regard to the manifold benefits which humanity has derived from the enforcement of hygienic laws and regulations . Lord Beaconsfield 's aphorism , " Sanifas sanitatting , oninia sanitas , " not only substantiates the proverb that many a truth is told in jest , but , in fact , to-day , echoes the key-note of the most effective methods of preventive medicine . In view of the knowledge which has come to us within the last generation , epidemics of typhoid fever , cholera , or dysentery are now generally inexcusable . Such an epidemic is , in fact , the nemesis visited upon a community because of carelessness in the conservation of the purity of the public water system , the milk supply , or less often of the foods which come in contact with polluted water . Infants , because of their dependence upon milk , are the first to suffer when this food becomes polluted through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great increase in their death rate each summer in all large cities . Thanks to the enlightened philanthropy of Nathan Straus in the establishment of public pasteurizing plants both in this country and abroad , there is every likelihood that this annual mortality from infantile intestinal diseases will be greatly lessened . The abatement of infectious diseases of the respiratory tract , such as pneumonia , influenza , and the " great white plague , " tuberculosis , offers problems of greater difficulty , as the specific germs are widely disseminated in the dust-laden air by careless spitting . There is good hope , however , that the last disease will rapidly decrease when each individual , realizing his duty to the community , shall be willing to observe a few personal sanitary regulations . Through the recognition of the fact that filth , insufficient sunlight and impure air , uncleanly habits , and wretched crowded quarters are the hotbeds of disease , one pestilence , typhus fever , fifty years ago very prevalent in the British Isles , has been almost stamped out , although the causative germ has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preventive medicine , let us consider at greater length the development of specific prophylactic medicines themselves , by the use of which the individual may gain a more or less transitory immunity to various contagions . It is a matter of common knowledge that VOL . CXVIII. ? No . TOG-67 a primary attack of certain infectious diseases confers almost sure immunity to these particular contagions for a lifetime . Smallpox , scarlet fever , and measles are familiar examples of this fact . Nor is the duration of this immunity especially dependent upon the severity of the sickness . A mild and hardly recognized attack of measles in childhood leaves a lasting refractive condition , an acquired immunity . This capacity of animals and man to develop within their own organization forces antagonistic to the contagions of toxins of certain diseases is the principle which underlies the use of vaccines and anti-serums . Whatever insight into the nature of this acquired immunity to various infectious diseases we may now possess has been gained entirely through experimental investigations upon animals ; and , further , whatever utilization this knowledge has received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same source . Pasteur was the first to prove that the disease - producing properties of a microbe might be either decreased or increased . By the repeated vaccination of an anima/ with an attenuated or weakened virus he was able to induce an immune or refractory condition , such that a dose ordinarily fatal might be given without ill effect . In other words , the stimulus of the vaccine caused the production within the animal 's organization of substances antagonistic to the virus of the disease , viz. , antibodies . Subsequent investigation has shown that these anti-bodies may have the property of bringing about the destruction of the invading bacteria , or they may merely neutralize the poison or toxin of the germs and thus render them harmless . The problem in the production of vaccines , then , has been the modification of the virus or microbe in such a way that there would be sufficient stimulus for the development of anti-bodies in the individual vaccinated without the production of the disease . Pasteur believed it was necessary to use living bacteria in vaccination , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extracts from bacteria may be suitable fur some immunizations . More than a century ago the first and what has proved to be the surest preventive medicine was given to the world . . Tenner , through his discovery of smallpox vaccine , conferred upon his fellow man a blessing of which the magnitude is just being realized . In his day this most loathsome disease was the most prevalent of all . From 1750 to 1800 it was the cause of fully one-tenth the total number of deaths . Smallpox was then a disease of childhood , as measles is to-day , and was considered just as inevitable . What are the results of a century 's world - wide use of Jenner 's prophylactic treatment ? In England , where the vaccination of infants has been compulsory , the deaths from smallpox have dropped from one-tenth to one hundredth of the total mortality . In Germany , where vaccination and revaccination are compulsory , the disease is rare , in the army practically unknown . Austria and Belgium , with no vaccination laws , have a death rate from this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Vaccinating Corps " was organized late in 1874 . The statistics in regard to smallpox during the following four years are notable . In 1875 there were 1280 deaths due to this disease ; in 1876 , 315 ; in 1877 , 14 ; in 1878 , only 2 . Although since then there have been six years in which the number of these deaths reached the hundreds , no wide-spread virulent epidemics have occurred , and during the past five years the average has been less than two smallpox deaths in . a population more than twice as great as in 1875 . The danger of serious complications from vaccination is now insignificant , and carries no weight in view of the fact that an unvaccinated child under ten years of age is approximately 440 times more liable to die in a smallpox epidemic than one vaccinated . It is , in fact , the unvaccinated portion of the community which keeps the fire of smallpox alight ; they , like the vulnerable heel of Achilles , present one point unprotected from attack . The brilliancy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , founded as they were wholly on empiricism , lie could have had little realization of the principles of immunity to which they were probably due . Pasteur , working in the light of a later day , gave to the world a most important prophylactic treatment ? the vaccine for the prevention of hydrophobia ? and with it certain general laws of immunity , which have been of great value in the prevention of other diseases . The various stages by which the final result was gained not only furnish a good example of Pasteur 's keenness in analysis , but , in fact , are characteristic of the experimental method to-day in the study of the nature and the prevention of infectious diseases . As the saliva of rabid animals was known to hold the hydrophobic virus , it was used in the first attempts to produce the disease in dogs . A fatal septicemia or general infection followed the inoculation and a bacillus was isolated from the blood , but Pasteur realized there was no proof of this microbe 's being the cause of rabies . Observation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacked primarily the nervous system . Accordingly a bit of the medulla from dog which had died of rabies was emulsified and inoculated under the skin of other dogs and rabbits . Most of these animals died with symptoms of rabies and without the development of septicemia . Although this was a great step in advance , Pasteur remained unsatisfied until a method had been devised by which all animals inoculated should contract rabies with a shortened incubation period . To bring this about it was necessary to increase the toxicity of the virus by a long series of uninterrupted transplantations from the brain of one rabbit to another , until finally a maximum and fixed virulence was reached . Death now followed invariably in seven days instead of in fourteen , as with the original virus . The next problem was how to attenuate this standard virus and so obtain vaccines of graded strength . Its solution was found to lie in drying , over caustic potash , bits of the medulla of a rabbit dying after inoculation with the fixed virus . This desiccation caused the brain tissue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had completely disappeared . Attempts were then made to protect dogs against rabies by vaccinating them first with the brain tissue dried fourteen days , on the second day with that desiccated thirteen days , and so on until finally the strongest virus in the brain of a rabbit , dead that same day , was inoculated . The animals were now found to be immune and suffered no ill effects from the bites of rabid animals , nor from intra-cerebral injections of the strongest virus . The long incubation period of hydrophobia in man , generally six weeks , awakened the hope that by this treatment the infection might be checked before the onset of the final acute symptoms , and such , we know , has proved to be the case . The wave of popular enthusiasm aroused by this victory resulted in the dedication of the Pasteur Institute in Paris in 1888 , primarily for the treatment of rabies cases by this method . In general the technic of Pasteur has since been followed in that institution and elsewhere , although when the bites are severe and on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now customary to use the stronger virus earlier in the treatment , and the number of inoculations is greater and may be continued for several weeks . The death rate among bitten persons who are not treated by the Pasteur method is given by Horsley as 15 per cent . This means that 85 per cent . of men are not susceptible to the rabies virus ; for hydrophobia , when once developed , is certainly fatal . Statistics , gathered from all parts of the world , indicate that between 1896 and 1900 the mortality in treated persons oscillated between .39 per cent . and .20 per cent. ; certainly a vindication of the value of vaccinations in the prevention of hydrophobia . In 1903 , Negri described certain microscopic bodies in the brain tissue of rabid animals . Subsequent investigation has shown that these " Negri " bodies are characteristic of rabies and constitute a reliable diagnostic sign . Since a rapid determination as to the presence or absence of hydrophobic virus in an animal is of the utmost importance , a method has been devised , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whereby the presence of these characteristic bodies maY be determined within a few hours after the reception of the brain . The procedure consists of making smears of the brain tissue andstaining with Giemsa 's stain . Examination with the microscope almost invariably discloses the " Negri " bodies , if the animal was rabid . The hopes enkindled by these first protective vaccines that others would be discovered as effective for the various human infectious diseases have only in a small measure been fulfilled . The attempts to curb certain pestilences of domestic animals , such as anthrax , swine erysipelas , and rinderpest , have met with much greater success , primarily because a rigorous experimental method could be applied in the origination of protective treatments ; whereas in the diseases naturally peculiar to man it is necessary to proceed with the greatest caution , and our final judgment as to the efficiency of a prophylactic is largely empirical , by reason of our dependence upon statistics . Typhoid fever is one of these distinctively human infectious diseases for which preventive vaccinations have been attempted . The results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this fever . Pfeiffer and Rolle reported in 1896 the phenomena following the injection into man of the bacillus lyphosus killed by heat . Their most important observation was that these injections imparted to the blood of human beings specific bacteria-killing properties , just as they protected guinea-pigs against fatal doses of the bacillus . Taking advantage of the almost certain epidemics of typhoid fever in military camps , Sir A. E. Wright instituted an extensive test of anti-typhoid vaccine among the British soldiers in the Boer war . The vaccine consisted of cultures of the typhoid germ grown in broth for several weeks and then sterilized by heat and an antiseptic . Thousands of soldiers were treated with standardized amounts of this vaccine . As to whether the results justified the trouble and disagreeable effects of the treatment there is great diversity of opinion . The statistics of the British War Office were considered unfavorable. and the prophylactic inoculations have been officially discontinued . Wright has claimed that the general results were favorable , and in this opinion he is supported by the majority of the medical men who followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his judgment in favor of the utility of a continued trial of the prophylactic . According to Wright , the most exact data are those in regard to the army men isolated at the siege of Ladysmith , and here there were only one-eighth as many cases among the vaccinated as among the unvaccinated , with the mortality very much lower in the former . Wright has found that especially good protection is afforded by two successive vaccinations . He now injects subcutaneously in the first dose about one million dead typhoid bacilli , and in the second , given approximately a week later , two million . The use of sterile cultures of streptococci , a chainlike microbe , as a preventive vaccine during scarlet - fever epidemics is less familiar than Wright 's prophylactic for typhoid . In Russia , where scarlet fever is at present especially prevalent and virulent , this vaccine has been employed most extensively . As the cause of scarlet fever has not been determined definitely , the most interesting feature of these treatments from the scientific standpoint is the accompanying reactive phenomena , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance in the disease . Gabritschewsky has found that 14 to 17 per cent , of the hundreds of children vaccinated in Moscow with dead cultures of streptococcus isolated from scarlet-fever cases developed an intensely colored scarlet-fever-like rash , together with sore throat , vomiting , and " raspberry tongue . " These symptoms , so suggestive of scarlet fever , disappeared within one and three days , and seemed peculiar to the use of scarlet-fever streptococcie vaccine . As regards the protective qualities of this prophylactic , Nikitin noted that of 767 children receiving one inoculation , only 8 contracted scarlet fever ; of others receiving two or three treatments , none became sick , in spite of the fact that they lived in the midst of an epidemic with a mortality of 20 per cent . Although the specific reaction caused by this vaccine seems to furnish some scientific basis for its employment , the statistics available are too few to warrant a judgment in regard to its value . Of less immediate interest to us in the western hemisphere are the specific vaceines for the prevention of cholera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention . Cholera was one of the first of the infectious diseases peculiar to man for which prophylactic treatments have been attempted . The preventive vaccine of Haffkine consists of living cholera germs attenuated by prolonged cultivation at a relatively high temperature , while that of Rolle is prepared with virulent cultures killed by exposure to 58 ? C. for one hour . In 1902 , in Japan , Kolle 's vaccine established its utility by a reduction in the incidence of the disease from 13 per cent . in the untreated to .06 per cent . among the treated . Very recently an American investigator in the Philippines , Dr. Strong , has reported favorable experimental results with an improved prophylactic vaccine . This consists of the filtrates of auto/ysed , heated and living cholera germs . By using the filtrate alone he claims to have a more potent and less toxic vaccine than those employed heretofore . The trial during a decade of the various vaccines specific for bubonic plague indicates this method of preventive treatment may be an important factor in the suppression of India 's scourge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable to the continued use of such a vaccine as Haffkine 's , prepared from killed cultures of the plague bacillus . Haffkine , in 1907 , reported that although the natives of India are more susceptible to plague than other races , the inoculation treatment reduces the liability to attack to less than one-third of the non-inoculated ; the recovery rate of the inoculated is at least double that of the non-inoculated ; inoculations of infected persons prevent the appearance of symptoms or mitigate the attack ; the immunity derived from inoculations may last during several outbreaks . It is a common practice to designate as serums a large variety of substances which are injected subcutaneously to prevent or cure disease . According to this popular and erroneous use of the term , bacterial vaccines , or organic products derived from bacteria , extracts from various tissues and organs , are all classed as serums . Properly a serum , in the therapeutic sense , is the clear fluid exuding from the clot of blood drawn from an animal immunized to some organized substance , commonly bacteria or their toxins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antagonistic to the matter injected , viz. , anti-bodies . As regards the infectious diseases , a serum may have the property either of neutralizing the toxins formed by bacteria ( antitoxic serums ) or of destroying bacteria ( bactericidal serums ) , or it may combine both properties to a certain extent . Two serums which have proved of sterling worth are the antitoxins for diphtheria and tetanus . Von Behring in collaboration with Kitasato in 1890 discovered that by injecting into an animal gradually increased amounts of the toxin of the diphtheria bacillus its organization is stimulated in such a way that a substance capable of combining with the toxin and rendering it innocuous is produced . During this immunization the antitoxic substance is formed greatly in excess of the amount required to neutralize the toxin injected , and the uncombined portion present in the blood serum constitutes the antitoxin used in the prevention and cure of diphtheria . Later researches have shown that diphtheria toxin has an affinity not only for its antitoxin , but also for certain tissues of the body . Such being the case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injected sufficient to tear away that portion of the toxin in combination with the tissue cells as well as to neutralize the free toxin circulating in the body fluids . The longer the attack of diphtheria has continued , the firmer the union between the toxin and the tissues , and hence the larger the amount of antitoxin necessary to disrupt this combination . The great value of the diphtheria antitoxin as a curative agent is now universally recognized , inasmuch as the mortality from this disease has been reduced to about one-fifth of the rate before its introduction ; its use as a protective measure for those exposed to infection is possibly not so familiar . Statistics compiled in many localities , especially in Russia , where diphtheria is very prevalent , have proved beyond doubt that where children are exposed to epidemics in institutions , in school districts , and in hospitals , prophylactic inoculations of antitoxin are of great value . The dosage is generally two or three hundred immunizing units , each unit consisting of sufficient antitoxin to protect a guinea-pig of a certain size from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain by one injection lasts only two or three weeks , and if there is still danger of infection another treatment should be given . Potency is the essential requisite of diphtheria antitoxin when used as a curative agent . It should contain 300 to 500 units in each cubic centimeter . Relatively few horses , however , can be made to produce such a strong serum . To prevent the waste of the serums weaker in antitoxin a practical method of concentration has been devised at the New York Health Department Laboratory , and has been adopted widely in other serum laboratories . This method consists in its essential features in the precipitation of the serum globulins with magnesium sulphate and the extraction of the antitoxic elements in the precipitate with a solution of sodium chloride . In this way the antitoxin in a given scrum is freed from useless serum-proteids , and may be concentrated two or three times . Not only by this " Gibson " method are serums , otherwise worthless , rendered serviceable for therapeutic purposes , but the refined product has been found to cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serum is injected . For the discovery of a tetanus antitoxin we are also indebted to Von Sebring and Ilitasato . These investigators found that the serum of an animal immunized to tetanus toxin possessed the property of neutralizing the poison and rendering it harmless . The value of this serum lies largely in preventing the onset of attacks of tetanus . After the spasms have once become established , no therapeutic method has proved of any great value . The relative impotency of tetanus antitoxin to cure tetanus after the symptoms have reached the acute stage has been explained on the ground that tetanus toxin has a stronger affinity for nerve tissue than for its antitoxin . It would follow , then , that this antitoxin is not capable of breaking up the combination of tetanus toxin and nervous tissue-cells to the same degree that diphtheria antitoxin can draw away its toxin from association with various tissues of the body . Tetanus resembles hydrophobia in the length of the incubation period , and in this respect offers the same opportunity for preventive treatment . The disease is generally contracted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spores of the microbe . These do not multiply , as a rule , nor invade the system , but bring about the fatal issue through the toxin reaching the brain , probably by way of the nerves . If the injection of serum is given early enough , the toxin is neutralized before it reaches the nerve centres . In the United States , the celebration of the " glorious Fourth " always involves the horrible death from tetanus of a certain number of the enthusiasts . Thanks to a more general realization of the dangers of blank-cartridge wounds and a more frequent employment of tetanus antitoxin as a prophylactic , the number of these deaths has been reduced from 415 in 1903 to 73 in 1907 . Tn this country during the past five years a timely injection of the serum has proved uniformly successful in aborting tetanus . The undoubted efficacy of these antitoxins led to attempts to produce antiserums for many other infectious diseases . It was soon realized that great difficulties block the way to the successful serum treatment of such diseases as typhoid fever , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The technical nature of these obstacles precludes their discussion here . However , it may be mentioned that the toxins of the germs causing these diseases are associated closely with the bacterial proteid substance , and do not diffuse from the bacteria during life as is the case with the diphtheria and tetanus microbes . For these so-called " endo-toxins " it has been impossible as yet to produce in serums effective antitoxins . The virtue of serums directed against bacteria of this class lies essentially in their bacteriadestroying properties . There is some experimental evidence for the belief that the mode of action of these serums , when introduced into the body , consists either in a direct destruction of bacteria through bringing into action a fermentlike substance of the blood called " alexine , " or by " sensitizing " the microbes in such a way that the white blood corpuscles ingest them more actively and consequently destroy them more rapidly . Although the results with most of these " bactericidal serums have not been convincing , Shiga 's anti-serum for the treatment of dysentery seems to he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use in Japan . The marked curative effect of this serum may be ascribed to the fact that it contains elements which not only bring about the destruction of the dysentery bacillus but also neutralize its poison . One of the more recent and most promising serums of this class is that for the treatment of epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis . This anti-serum was produced practically synchronously in the United States and in Germany , and was the outgrowth of the study of the severe epidemics of this disease which visited these countries during 1904 and 1905 . Wasserman and Kolle in Berlin , in April , 1906 , were the first to describe the method of preparation and the properties of an anti-meningococcic serum designed for therapeutic purposes . A month later Joclunann of the Breslau University Clinic gave notice of the preparation of a similar serum , and reported on the treatment of forty patients . He injected the serum both subcutaneously and into the spinal canal , but with only a moderate degree of success . He demonstrated , however , that intra-spinal injections could be effected without danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , director of the Rockefeller Institute , as a member of a special commission appointed by the New York Health Department , published his investigations on the biology and pathogenic properties of the diplococcus intra-cellularis meningitidis ( meningoeoccus ) . Of special value were his experiments showing that monkeys could be " infected " with this germ without great difficulty by injecting it into the spinal canal , and could be " made to reproduce the pathologic conditions in man in epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis . " Furthermore , the serum of monkeys immunized to the meningococcus seemed to exercise curative properties when injected into these animals in which this infection had been instituted . The report of Flexner and Jobling , published the first of last year , offers hope that the successful serum treatment of this disease has been attained . Of fortythree patients receiving injections of this serum there were 79.9 per cent . recoveries and 20.1 per cent . deaths , and subsequent statistics have substantiated these figures ; whereas , during the epidemic year 1905 , the percentage mortality was 73.5 . The results with the anti-meningueoccic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as striking as those with the serum of Flexner and Jobling . It is futile , however , to make a comparison , as the strains of meningococcus concerned in sporadic outbreaks in different parts of the world may differ greatly in virulence . Our final decision in regard to the therapeutic value of this antiserum must await its use in a wide-spread and virulent epidemic . Both in this country and in Germany the serum is produced through the inoculation of horses with heated , living and autolysed cultures of the meningococcus . Flexner ascribes the curative effect of this anti-serum to an injurious influence exercised on the meningococci in the cerebro-spinal fluid , both by inhibiting the multiplication of these microbes and by causing them to be taken up and digested more rapidly by the leucocytes . The serum may also have a certain antitoxic value . In their report , Flexner and Jobling lay stress on the advantage of introducing the serum into the spinal canal of the patient , for in this way " the anti-serum is brought into direct contact with the focus of infection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been injected intradurally without harmful effects . On one point there is general agreement among those who have employed this serum-therapy , and that is the importance of introducing the anti-serum as early as possible in the attack . One other method for the protection of the individual from certain infections should be mentioned , and that is the use of drugs which are specifically destructive for the parasite , but cause little or no injury to the host , viz. , the person harboring the parasite . This procedure has been found to he effective as yet only in two parasitic diseases , and in both theetiological factor is a protozoan and not a bacterium . For centuries the medicinal value of Peruvian hark in the treatment of malaria has been known to physicians , but only since the discovery of the malarial parasite , Plasmodium malarim , by Laveran , thirty years ago , has the specific parasite-destroying action of its alkaloids been revealed . The use of quinine as a prophylactic in malarial districts is now almost universal . The other protozoan disease in which a drug is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fighting this greatest pestilence of Central Africa , a much greater curse than is tuberculosis in this country , Koch has employed , apparently with considerable success , an arsenic preparation , atoxyl . By its use the etiological factor in sleeping-sickness , Trypannsoma gambiense , has been banished from the blood for ten months , and the disease in its mild form or in early stages has been clinically cured . Although some notable victories have crowned the efforts of scientists to protect man from his invisible but potent enemy , the disease germ , the knowledge acquired in the struggle has disclosed serious obstacles to further progress . For example , on the one hand it is well established that the tissues and body-fluids of man may become immune to the causative microorganisms of certain diseases , but on the other hand there are many indications that the parasites themselves by a process of adaptation may become refractory to antibodies and other protective agencies developed in the host . We know that by passing certain pathogenie bacteria through a series of animals the parasites rapidly increase in virulence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that specific animal . It is probable that the great severity of epidemics of typhoid fever in military camps is due to the increased invasive properties of one strain of the bacillus gained by frequent passages . The mounting wave of severity in the epidemics of certain other diseases may likewise be the result of adaptive changes in the parasite . Furthermore , it has been shown that the ti-ypanosoma of sleeping-sickness may become immune to arsenic and trypan red . In the past , except in the toxemias , diphtheria and tetanus , the active immunity produced by vaccines has proved of greater service in the prevention of disease than the more fleeting and less substantial protection conferred by bactericidal serums . It seems probable that the progress in the future will be in the direction of perfecting methods for inducing active immunity by vaccine . As has been stated , Pasteur considered it necessary to use living microbes , but robbed of their disease-producing properties , in protective inoculations , and it seems probable that for the prevention of some infectious diseases this procedure is safe and advantageous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the enduring immunity derived from an attack of the disease than sterile vaccines . Strong has recently advanced weighty experimental and clinical evidence that such is the case in vaccination protective against bubonic plague . The danger associated with the injection of living attenuated microbes , however , necessitates the greatest caution in their use , and probably presents an insurmountable barrier to their employment as a prophylactic for certain diseases . At present only very small quantities of most bacteria , even though sterile , may be inoculated , because of their toxic effect . In certain of these cases the pathway of progress may lie in the elimination from the vaccines of the poisonous elements of the bacteria , as Strong has done in his anti-cholera vaccine ; thus far greater amounts of the immunity - producing elements in the prophylactic might be injected with safety , bringing about a corresponding increase in the degree and stability of the protection conferred . An entirely different solution of the problem has been suggested by Ehrlich in the prophecy that our hope lies in the discovery of chemical substances which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the host . Encouragement for this line of research is found in the successful control of two protozoan diseases by drugs . The growing realization of the truth that it is better to prevent diseases than to cure has been one of the moving factors in the foundation of seven institutes in Europe and this country devoted entirely to their study . To the fruit of the researches in these institutions are continually being added the contributions from the laboratories of medical colleges and from municipal , state , and national hygienic departments . But the final triumph of preventive medicine depends not alone upon the study of the cause and nature of disease ; almost equally important is the co-operation of the public and those in authority in the proseention of researches and the application of protective measures that have been proved to be of value . The ultimate gain will fall to all classes of society alike , for disease is no respecter of persons . To-day some of the most fruitful regions of the tropics are rendered uninhabitable for the white man because of pestilential fevers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the control of yellow fever , the knowledge gained from the English and German commissions in regard to sleeping-sickness , the work of Ross and Koch in stamping out malaria , warrant the expectation that within the near future these gardens of nature may become the theatre of human progress and civilization .                     