@@486934

An Alabama Student and Other Biographical Essays . By ' William Osler . New York : Henry Frowde. $2 net . No slight excellence in the purely medical writings of the present Regius professor of medicine at Oxford is the charming fashion in which he weaves historical allusion into a narrative otherwise plain and dull , and not the least of his many services is the stimulus he has given to the study of the historical side of medical questions . How effective this has been may be inferred from the numerous historical articles in the Bulletins of the Johns Hopkins Hospital and in other professional journals in recent years Those who wish to know the method of this stimulation may learn it by studying this delightful book , which contains a baker 's dozen of essays in biography prepared as occasional addresses before various societies . The main title is given by the story of the career of John Bassett , an obscure Southern practitioner , rescued from oblivion by the chance recognition of merit in a couple of contributions buried in a journal almost equally forgotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biography ; that it is not so much the enumeration of events as the estimate of conditions and results that counts . This , of course , may come close to preaching ? in fact , at times one dimly discerns the shadow of a cassock beneath the professional gown  --  but it is a very good sort of preaching , concerning ideas and ideals of which the average medical student hears far too little Six of these essays deal with Americans : Bassett , Bartlett ( " a peripatetic of peripatetics " ) , Beaumont ( a model account of the first American physiologist ) , Holmes , Pepper , Sti116 ; and , incidentally , much is added to throw light on medical practice and instruction of the first half of the last century It so happens , quite accidentally , that stress is laid upon the rejuvenation of medicine in this country by those exceptionally brilliant students who went to Paris in the third decade ; in fact , another entire essay , a very charming one , is devoted to Louis and his influence on American medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of a later call of Europe which led no less brilliant , although perhaps less conspicuous , students , to sit at the feet of gifted German teachers and to bring back those methods of investigation in the laboratory which have done so much to put American medicine upon a proper foundation  --  a more potent influence than that of Louis and his school , we venture to think , because wider and deeper . Of these six essays the most complex is the remarkable appreciation of that really remarkable man , William Pepper . It would be interesting to know Dr Pepper 's opinion of the insight and discretion , not to say reserve , which Professor Osler shows here . The rest of the book deals with older writers and brings much entertaining , sometimes curious , information The least medical  --  on the whole the least satisfactory  --  is the essay on Keats , but it is amply redeemed by that on Sir Thomas Browne , read at a tercentennial celebration in England , in which the zeal of the biographer is almost outstripped by that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests are also conspicuous , but less so , in the account of Fracastorius , the intellectual father of Syphilus , whose disease became a scourge . Seventeen pages are devoted to Thomas Dover and his extraordinary career as buccaneer and physician , burning many kinds of powder , one of which is familiar to posterity and bids lair to survive the competition of coal tar derivatives without number . Dover is interesting to posterity also as the rescuer of the original Robinson Crusoe , although some editors are rather less certain of Defoe 's obligations to Alexander Selkirk . The essay on Locke brings out the medical side of his life and adds much to the work of other authors , being based on Osler 's own examination of the Locke manuscripts in the British Museum and the record office . In many respects the gem is the last essay of all , the Harveian oration of 1906 , in which the writer undertakes to say something fresh on a topic which has been treated hundreds of times by his predecessors  --  and succeeds . Premising that the distinction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the circulation " than " in the demon-Stratton of the method , " he proceeds to Consider the discovery as illustrating certain aspects of the growth of truth Here come out all the merits of Osler 's method in biography . In nearly all the essays , there is abundant evidence of research , of the hunt for original sources ( almost too briefly recorded for the benefit of the reader ) , and the careful use of them ; but there is no musty odor , no rattling of - dry bones , whether Osler goes back thirty or three hundred years . The reader feels that the author thoroughly understands the men of whom he writes and to an unantitoxic preparations . All this is well done , and , considering the space allowed , remarkably clear and intelligible , save that the clinical side of the subject is not quite so simple and easy , as the reader is often led to infer . The material is everywhere fresh and of the newest , not even that wandering human typhoid culture recently unmasked as the source of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Koch 's attitude , that bovine tuberculosis involves no danger to man , dangerously one-sided . In the matter of antitoxins , except for diphtheria , the Statements are very conservative , being favorable to a protective vaccination for typhoid , and to Haffkine 's inoculation for plague , but less so to Yersin 's serum ; , finding the value of tetanus antitoxin to be chiefly prophylactic , and dubious as to Shiga 's antidysenteric serum , which by one of the rare misprints is called a polivalent serum . There are also good chapters on the behavior of bacteria to milk , and concerning their redo in tanning , in the curing of tobacco , and in other industries . The bacteriology of water is taken up in a particularly instructive fashion destructive to faith in filters as commonly used . A final chapter notes briefly the infectious diseases ( smallpox , scarlet fever , mumps , yellow fever , and others ) , which are probably caused by micro-organisms not yet definitely determined . In each case the prevailing thories are briefly considered . Only for mumps and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as near at hand . There is no mention of any possible relation of micro-organisms to cancer . In this day , in which so much attention is given to the abnormal , it might well repay some psychologist to make a study of the type of mind displayed by those who delight in writing books in which they profess to advance a given science , although quite unwilling to acquaint themselves With the work of their predecessors or contemporaries . " A Theory of Mind , " by John Lewis March ( Charles Scribner 's Sons ) and " Psychology of the Will , " by James A. Ritchey ( Broadway Publishing Co. ) , are excellent examples of works of this character . Dr. March apparently glories in the fact , mentioned in his preface , that " the preparation of the theory has been accomplished almost in solitude " ; he thus accounts for the fact that he has " little to say in the way of special acknowledgment . " Dr. Ritchey seems to be familiar with Noah Porter 's " Human Intellect , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourse he has read with understanding any works much more modern . It is significant that both of these authors are masters of arts and doctors of philosophy . Surely , men who have thus been honored should feel themselves bound by the responsibilities of men who have been highly trained . No " theory of mind " can be seriously considered which does not declare its relations , perhaps hostile , perhaps friendly , with the conceptions of the great modern psychologists . No " psychology of will " can be treated with respect which does not show an appreciative comprehension of the broad field of thought in relation to this subject which is open to any one who is within reach of our public libraries. , In " Electra Metallurgy " ( D. Van Nostrand Co . ) , John B. B. Kershaw aims to give a brief , and clear account of the application Of electricity to metallurgy . The science and art of the subject dates from the experiments of Sir Humphrey Davy , who , in 1806-08 , by means of a battery separated the metals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the invention of the Gramme dynamo in 1870 . The progress in the art may be gauged by the increase in the output of products and the cheapening of price The - production of aluminum in 1889 was eighty-five tons ; in 1906 it was 12,000 tons , and the price has fallen from $14 to fifty cents a pound . The production of calcium and carbide of calcium  --  the latter forming the basis of an acetylene gas industry  --  shows even greater progress ; and a great range of new substances , among them carborun7 dum , have been discovered which are revolutionizing the mechanical and chemical industries . The application of the dynamo to metallurgy has led to a great development of water power ; and thus a country which is rich in this power is destined to . pre --  eminence in metallurgical industries The , future of Norway , Sweden , and Switzerland , , for instance , in the direction of electrical industries is greater than that of Germany . The political economist will find this book very suggestive . - The committee in charge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every two years , a fellowship of the value of twelve hundred dollars , available for study and research in physics , chemistry , or biology , in either America or Europe . Applicants must already hold the ' degree of doctor of philosophy , or be similarly equipped for the work . Application should be made before March 1 to the chairman of the committee , Mrs. Christine Ladd Franklin , Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , from whom further details may be obtained . The donor of this fund , Emile Berliner of Washington , is one of the perfecters of the telephone and the inventor of the gramophone ; he has also been of late years unremittingly active in the campaign for the prevention of tuberculosis . The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has conferred the Hayden Memorial Gold Medal for 1908 on John Mason Clarke , the State Geologist of New York , in recognition of his distinguished services to geological science . There will be a notable gathering of scientists in Baltimore during the Christmas recess . The American Association for the Advancement of Science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Health League , December 31 ; the Eastern Branch of the American . Society of Zoologists , December 29-31 ; the American Society of Vertebrate Palmontologists , December 28-30 ; the Geological Society of America , December 29-31 ; the American Physiological Society , December 29 . The American Society of Biological Chemists , the American Nature-Study Society , the Entomological Society of America , and other scientific bodies will also hold their sessions in Baltimore . The next International Congress of Chemistry will be held in London from May 27 to June 2 , 1909 . The senior astronomer of England , Andrew Graham , has just died- in Cambridge at the age of ninety-three . He was of Irish birth , and began his astronomical work in the late Col. Cooper 's observatory at Markree , County Sligo . Afterwards he was the assistant at the Cambridge observatory , where he devoted himself chiefly to observing one of the zones of stars arranged for by the Astronomische Gesellschaft . The death is also reported of a young astronomer of promise , C. C. Dolmage , who was graduated from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " The Astronomy of To-day , " was published only a few months ago . Jean Albert Baudry , the French scientist , died November 27 , at the age of eighty-one . He was educated at the College Stanislas . In 1853 he travelled in the Orient , and he then spent five years-1855 to 1860 ? in pal- ontological researches in Greece . He was made assistant naturalist at the Museum of Natural History , and in 1872 professor of palmontology in that institution His works include " Recherches scientifiques en Orient , " " Ammaux fossilcs at geologie de l'Attique , " " Enchamement du monde animal dans les temps geologiques , " and " Es-sal de paleontologie philosophique . " From Paris comes news of the death , at the age of sixty-six , of Dr. Ernest Hamy , for nearly forty years a laborious student of anthropology . With Quatrefages he classified and described " fossil man " ; he organized the ethnographical museum of the Trocadero , so rich in Americana , and , most of all , he stimulated students , museums , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1892 he had been professor of anthropology at the Museum ( Jardm des Plantes ) . Among his writings are : " Pieces de paleontologie humaine " ( 1878 ) , " Cronica ethnica " ( 1880 ) , " Origines du musee d'ethnographie " ( 1890 ) , " Rtudes historiques geographiques " ( 1890 ) , and " La Galerie americame du musee du Trocadero " ( 1898 ) . He leaves an extensive library and collection in the American section of his science , chiefly in South American documents ; the fate of this collection will be watched with interest by many students who long ago recognized his admirable equipment for his work . Drama . " THE WINTER FEAST . " It is improbable that " The Winter Feast , " the second in the cycle of plays written by Charles Rann Kennedy ? " The Servant in the House " was the first  --  which was produced in the Savoy Theatre on Monday afternoon , will rival its predecessor in popularity , owing to its gloomy and unsympathetic character . But it is , nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputation of Mr. Kennedy as a dramatist of vigorous imagination , high artistic purpose , and rare technical skill . Considered as a piece of original dramatic invention , it is one of the most notable achievements of recent years . The story is too complicated for any attempt at brief analysis here , but it may be described as a companion piece to " The Servant in the House , " being a study in human ferocity as that was an essay on brotherly love . The scene is laid in the house of an old Viking , in Iceland , in the eleventh century , and the plot deals with the desolation , despair , and slaughter arising from a bit of cruel treachery committed twenty years before the first lifting of the curtain . Of the eight characters concerned , all perish except two , the original sinner and the evil spirit who , for vengeance , sets the machinery of suspicion , jealousy , and hatred in motion . The dexterity with which this machinery is handled , the adroit and logical way in which circumstances and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the ingenuity displayed in bringing about the clash of conflicting passions , and the neatness with which the threads of a most complicated design are woven into the scheme of the final catastrophe , denote a master-workman . There is also a remarkable observance of the unities . The entire action proceeds from the one dominant motive , there is but one scene , and the supposed time of the play is no longer than the actual time of the performance . Moreover , it is to be noted that though the tale is one of slaughter , suicide , and broken hearts , all the deaths except one  --  about which there is nothing sensational  --  occur off the stage . The actual horrors are left to the imagination . In spite of this , the barbaric atmosphere , with its frank passions , its superstitions , its rude honor . its simple courtesies , and its hospitality , is well preserved . The dialogue , with its touch of the archaic , is studiously simple , but terse , forcible , and often eloquent . In several of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragedy . To sum up , this is a play of positive value , but the unrelieved and unduly prolonged gloom of it will militate against its success with the general public . It ought to be shortened by half an hour and played in much quicker time . The acting is unequal . Miss Matthison gives a superb performance of a scorned woman . Arthur Lewis is exceedingly effective as a malevolent priest , and Walter Hampden does some capital work . Other characters are less happily cast . Miss Fannie Ward will open her American engagement in Jerome K. Jerome 's new comedy at the Park Theatre , Boston , January 4 . The title of the play has been changed from " Fanny and the Servant Problem " to " A Servant Problem . " Charles Cortwright will play the chief male character . Miss Margaret Anglin is reported to have been very successful in Melbourne with her performance of Viola , in " Twelfth Night . " Warm praise also is bestowed upon the Malvolio of George S. Titheradge . It is the expressed intention of Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York next autumn , after her production of " The Awakening of Helena Ritchie . " The announcement is interesting , as she is one of the few younger actresses with whom high achievement in the poetic drama seems possible . 