@@486924

The manner in which public expenditures have swollen in recent years , under the burden of competitive armaments , seems at last to have excited alarm among those charged with responsibility for the new burdens . The increase of the expenses of the German Empire , which is leading to the search for new forms of taxation , and the constantly heavier burden of public debt in France , which is causing rumors of another large loan , are fortunately not paralleled fully in this country because of the rapidity of our growth and the elasticity of our sources of revenue It is a startling fact , however , which is set forth by Secretary Cortelyou in his annual report If interest on the public debt is excluded , the growth in ordinary expenditures for carrying on the government . including payments for pensions and many public works , was from $135,000,000 in 1878 to $638,000,000 in 1908 , or an increase in a generation of nearly 400 per cent . This increase has happily not been attended in this country , as to a large extent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the permanent debt The difference is expla-ned partly by the fact that the population has increased in thirty years nearly 85 per cent. , and the national wealth , according to the somewhat uncertain figures of the census , by about 185 per cent . Even with these qualifications , however , it is obvious that Federal expenditure has been growing at a rate which calls for serious consideration and for a careful sifting of the objects and methods It is such a sifting which Mr. Cortelyou urges upon Congress . As he points out , there is at present no single authority responsible for coordinating the appropriations for each branch of the public service and adjusting outgo to income . Congress plunges blindly ahead , making such appropriations as seem good to various committees , without any sense of proportion between respective demands . Even the Speaker of the House and the Committee on Appropriations have no responsibility , beyond that of fellow-members , for reviewing the work of other committees charged with such important appropriation bills as those for the army , the navy , the Department of Agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cobrdination is the log-rolling for local appropriations . It becomes a contest in which the member with the strongest " pull " or the greatest capacity for hustling is the winner . While there is much less direct corruption in the Federal service than in that of many of our cities , no one has any official obligation to point out that a sum of a million dollars , for instance , might be better expended for proper residences for our representatives in foreign countries than for ugly and unnecessary Federal buildings at county seats . Even if such a function is assumed by a broad-minded and farsighted Secretary of State , his recommendation weighs little against the activity of a pool of individual members of Congress which will enable each to go home and tell what he has done for his " deestrict . " Bad as the system is , it is matter for surprise , perhaps  --  and in some measure a tribute to the average of American honesty  --  that the results haaje'nbt been infinitely worse than they have been . The essential difficulty in securing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of a responsible ministry , or concentrated control of the budget . It is difficult to see how such a control can be established directly and completely by law . Much might be done , however , by a resolute attitude on the part of the Treasury Department . The Secretary of the Treasury , as Mr. Cortelyou points out , occupies a peculiar relation to Congress , and ought to be responsible , in a measure , for the total amount of the estimates and the sums actually appropriated and expended . He ought to be supported by the President in cutting down the estimates to the income of the government , unless extraordinary circumstances should demand a temporary or permanent increase of the debt . Secretary Cortelyou has taken up this subject none too early , and it is gratifying to learn that he proposes to make an analysis of income and expenditure , which will yield a clearer view of their relations to each other , and of their objects , than is afforded by the present clumsy form of Treasury statement . Something might be accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of responsibility upon Congress , if it were provided by law that whenever appropriations or expenditures exceed the reasonable esti mates of revenue , short-term obligations should be issued to bridge the deficit . If the budget were then so managed that the deficiency of lean years , like the one which has followed the panic of last fall , should be met from the surplus of fat years , a somewhat higher sense of obligation for keeping expenditure within the limits of income might be imposed upon Congress and the Administration . While the problem of fastening such an obligation definitely upon an official or a committee of Congress is difficult under our government of divided powers , it is well that attention has been sharply called to the subject by the official who comes the nearest to possessing authority and responsibility . PUBLIC MEN AND SECRECY . In Judge C. C. Nott 's recent book , " The Mystery of the Pinckney Draught , " one of the incidentally suggestive things is the bringing out of the extraordinary secrecy in which the proceedings of the Constitutional Convention were shrouded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after , the delegates remained close-mouthed . They were bound by no oath , it was simply the honor of gentlemen that forbade them to divulge secrets which , in fact , they carried to the grave with them . At the close of the Convention , it was determined that the obligation of secrecy which had been assumed while it was at work , should be continued indefinitely . The records were sealed and placed in the custody of Washington . " For thirty years and more the seals remained unbroken ; and for thirty years and more no member of the Convention spoke . " Washington 's diary had an entry , under date of June 1 , 1787 , which shows what a standard was then set when men undertook not to reveal anything : " Attending in Convention  --  and nothing being suffered to transpire , no minute of the proceedings has been , or will be , inserted in this diary . " The sense of honor in cleaii : mg to a pledged word was exhibited most surprisingly by the members of the Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of the Constitution The work was done in secret ; they employed no secretary . . . After the committee was discharged , no hint or word seems to have escaped them . No man boasted of his own part , or disparaged an-other 's . No son or daughter or grandchild has revealed a word that any member subsequently said . There were and are , for example , disputes about the part that Wilson played in draughting the Constitution . After his death , three of his fellow-members of the Committee on Detail survived . But " Rutledge lived two years and Ellsworth rune years and Randolph fifteen years , and gave no sign . " It may be partly in imitation of this high example that- the South African Convention has been sitting in absolute secrecy . The men who gathered at Durban in November had before them a task not unlike that of the men who gathered in Philadelphia in 1787 . It is a work of federation and , prior to that , conciliation . They have surrounded their labors with what the London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the press are permitted to be present . No fragmentary reports are given out . The delegates prefer that their results shall be judged as a whole , and that the successive steps of compromise and adjustment shall not be known . After the South African Convention adjourns , however , it may well be doubted if such a remarkable secrecy can be maintained as was observed by the members of the American Constitutional Convention . Since their day , a great change has come . It is a change partly in men 's minds , partly in their circumstances Public men nowadays are less inclined to keep secrets ; and the aids offered them , when they feel the impulse to blab , are infinitely multiplied beyond what they were in Washington 's day . In the habit of present-day thought , the instinct for publicity has supplanted in statesmen the instinct for secrecy . Their first thought is , not how can I keep this from becoming known , but how can I make it known so as best to work out to my advantage , or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retained secrets , the modern reporter is at their elbow to relieve them . Newspapers have murdered secrecy . For a public man to take to-day the motto lof the poet , " Oh , let me live my life unto myself alone , " is becoming more ' and more impossible . Publicity always Sits behind him like black care . Hence it is really a great achievement when a statesman can do what Lord Northcote , the Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia , has just done . He sailed for Europe Saturday , after travelling from Vancouver to Montreal , and thence to New York and Washington . During these weeks , he made what an admirer has called a " non-publicity record " He evaded interviewers , escaped banquets , refused to parade either his person or his sentiments . It would seem that he must have had more satisfaction , as well as distinction , in following such a course than in running the usual round of indiscriminate publicity For seven years past , our political life has been one long riot of publicity . Following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever lived , our public men have lost the inclination to reticence , if they ever had it . Every seal is made to be broken , every trust to be betrayed The thing is not merely to wear your heart on your sleeve , but to cut open that organ , and lecture on its anatomy . We must have no secrets from the dear public The grave continence of the Constitution-builders is hopelessly out of style . We have not even Hotspur 's safeguard that " thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know . " In the universal giving away of political secrets , many things are confided to the reporters which are neither secrets nor facts . Statesmen denounce a curious and prying press , but they are eager to make to themselves friends of that Mammon of unrighteousness , and they conceive that there is no better way of doing it than by discreet leaking of official secrets . The net result is such a general rush to tattle that the power of keeping one 's own counsel now seems among the lost arts THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Venezuelan guardships Alexis and 23 de Mayo does not make the " hostilities " appear less like opera-bouffe . The Dutch themselves explain that their act does not mean war ; that these harmless vessels , with their rusty rifles , have merely been borrowed for a short time as a reprisal in order to compel Venezuela to pay attention to just demands . It is hinted that in a day or two we shall hear that the two or three other yacht-like Venezuelan gunboats which bask peacefully in the sunshine of La Guayra , have also been taken to Curagao . But there the leisurely Dutch captains may encounter some opposition , for at La Guayra there is supposed to be a formidable , modern Krupp battery , with plenty of ammunition , perched so high above the water as to make it rather a difficult place for naval shells to reach . But granted that these toy-ships are captured , wherein will the Dutch have gained an advantage ? A country that is at this moment at odds with France and the United States as well as Holland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hardly likely to be influenced by the loss of a navy of no particular fighting strength The Dutch may , of course , take the aggressive to the extent of reducing to ashes the towns of La Guayra and Puerto Cabello , the two great northern seaports of Venezuela Such an attack would doubtless inflict heavy loss on Venezuela , but still heavier on the foreign merchants of Caracas Last spring , when President Roosevelt vainly asked that Congress give him a free hand in dealing with Castro , the American merchants trading in Venezuelan products were quick to send delegations to Washington to show that if there were any coercing they might be as badly punished as Castro , if not worse . More than that , ever since the joint bombardment of Puerto Cabello by Germany , Italy , and England in 1902 , the customs receipts at these two ports have been devoted , according to the decree of the Hague arbitrators , to the payment of the interest charges and debt of the foreign bondholders . This has been done with sufficient regularity up to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of French payments by saying that , owing to the absence of a French diplomatic representative , the money has been deposited in the State Bank of Venezuela Hence , if Holland should institute a rigid blockade of Venezuelan ports , or seize Venezuelan custom-houses , there would be loud outci.ie - from the debtholders abrOad , as well as from the American merchants who buy Venezuelan coffee and cocoa . Beyond doubt , it is knowledge of this fact that makes Castro so offensively independent in his attitude towards foreign Powers Moreover , he is well aware that if worse came to worst , and he were even compelled to retreat from Caracas , which is practically inaccessible from the Puerto Cabello side , he could still conduct a government in the interior and make sufficient money out of it , while his countrymen were carrying on the desperate guerrilla war fare of which they are capable , and in which their strongest ally would be the chill winds and fogs of the Caracas Valley , a far more unhealthy place than the sea-coast towns . Then , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foreign debtors . Holland alone could not , of course , undertake a serious invasion of Venezuela . The help of other countries would be essential For one thing , her own claim for injuries is too slight . Moreover , Castro 's marvellous talent in having some right on his side whenever he gets into a dispute with a forign country did not fail him when it came to Holland . The Dutch can not deny that M. de Reus , their Minister , was guilty of a grave diplomatic offence , their only contention is that Castro violated diplomatic procedure in sending M. de Reus his passports and expelling bun instead of informing the Netherlands government that the minister was no longer persona grata , and asking that he be recalled . The Dutch try to explain the attacks upon the Venezuelan consul at Curagao by asserting that the victim of the riots had never been formally accepted as a consul , and being without his exequatur , was not yet a consul de facto  --  rather a labored explanation . The real offence of Castro in Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulted in the practical suppression of the trade of Curagao by malung obligatory the trans-shipment of all goods from and to Maracaibo and other ports in western Venezuela , at Puerto Cabello instead of Willemstad or Curagao , as had previously been the custom . To the Dutch demand that this decree be abrogated , Venezuela replies that it alone , as a free nation , has the right to say what commercial laws it shall and shall not make . So far as the United States is concerned , under the policy laid down by President Roosevelt and Secretary Hay in 1902 , in reply to Germany 's diplomatic inquiry , there is nothing to prevent Holland 's going ahead as energetically as she pleases , so long as she does not seek to colonize or to hold any portion of Venezuela permanently . At that time it was wisely held by Mr Hay that the South American republics could not avoid punishment for wrong-doing by hiding behind the Monroe Doctrine . On similar grounds , no objection was made to the temporary British occupation of the custom-house at Corinto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fool 's errand as long as she pleases  --  without , we hope , any assistance from France or the United States Neither of these countries has , unfortunately , a clean record in its dealings with Venezuela , for citizens of both countries , who now appear as claimants for damages , have conspired to overthrow Castro 's government . EIBLIOPHILES AND BIBLIOPHILES The publication in the London Tunes and the New York Times of an account of the library of J. Pierpont Morgan has naturally excited wide interest , partly because the library itself is extraordinary , more because Mr. Morgan is commonly regarded as a financier rather than a bibliophile To the world which sees the man chiefly as a power in Wall Street , it is surprising to find a side of him devoted to the pursuit of manuscripts , tall copies , and first editions in immaculate condition . And yet it is probable that Mr. Morgan 's reputation fifty years from now will rest almost wholly on his career as a patron of art and a bibliophile . His reorganization of railways and the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his strenuous days , Will be clean forgotten ; while the fruit of his recreations , of his hours for play , will keep his memory green , at least in the world of art and letters His name will be entered on that shining roll of connoisseurs and collectors concerning whom each generation shows fresh curiosity . ' When the John Hill Burton of the late twentieth century writes a new " Book Hunter , " he will devote a long chapter to the exploits of Mr. Morgan ; and the Langs and the Dobsons of that new day will enshrine him in their verse along with Heber and De Thou And the world will be right in ranking the collector above the financier , for the financiers are many and the bibliophiles few . In his " Books and Book-men , " Andrew Lang speaks of " the famous collectors who make a kind of eatena ( a golden chain of bibliophiles ) through the centuries since printing was invented . " To secure a place in this distinguished line  --  it might almost be called royal  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corpora tion The equipment of the successful financier is chiefly energy and a clear hard head , but your successful collector must have something which can not be bought by telegraphic order  --  taste and literary judgment . Mr Morgan , of course ? and we take his name as a type  --  must consult experts ; he can not be expected to know all about illuminated missals in all tongues and to remember all the various title-pages of the first edition of " Paradise Lost " ; but he must know where the facts are to be had And without some controlling and guiding mind , itself informed and cultivated , even the largest heap of gold will buy nothing but a heap of expensive volumes  --  not a really fine library Then , too , with-your accomplished collector education goes hand-in-hand with acquisition , and to have gathered a notable lot of books is to have become something of a scholar in this field . More instructive than any description of Mr. Morgan 's library would be his own story of the process of getting it  --  his outlay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world of books , his costly mistakes , in short , that long series of lessons , that training in discrimination and connoisseurship which experience alone can afford . And from the point of view of the collector , this experience , vexing as it may often have been , is really the best part of it all . To have and to handle the boOks is pleasant ; but keener still are the joys of pursuit , the disappointments from which one recovers , the losses ultimately turned into gains , the failures that become successes , the ignorance that is the beginning of wisdom . But these delights , this edification , are to be had without a fortune A man with a very modest income can , in a limited range , make himself an expert , and by watching his chances can pick up a collection of books that will represent a considerable expenditure , if not of cash , at least of intelligence and taste The world of a book collector is wide , and even a small corner of . t assiduously cultivated may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authors is a pastime that attracts ' a number of Americans ; but the Victorian poets and novelists , or the writers of the early nineteenth century in England , or of the eighteenth or the seventeenth , offer abundant material that is intrinsically interesting and valuable as literature . In French literature  --  as in Italian , Spanish , or German  --  the opportunities are equally numerous , and a man who would supplement a good general library with one or two specialties , so to speak , need never be at a loss for an agreeable hobby . Nor is it necessary for the collector to possess that last rare item in his particular line . If you are looking for American authors , your set of Hawthorne may be very interesting without " Fanshawe " ( 1828 ) in the original boards , uncut ; and in that striking group of Englishmen of the early nineteenth century Lamb 's " King and Queen of Hearts " ( 1805 ) , with the pink paper covers dated 1806 , is not indispensable ; nor is Shelley 's " Address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a good fortune  --  in both senses of the word  --  may attain these heights , but far short of them happiness may be found For it must be remembered that the interest in an old book often lies , not so much in its absolute rarity as in the associations connected with it . In this respect it is like an old house or an old city , rendered venerable and fascinating by long human occupation The handsome new reprint , fresh from the press , may be an admirable example of the book-manufacturer 's art , but it lacks the charm of a volume which has gladdened the eyes of several generations of readers and perhaps bears upon its . leaves some trace of their appreciation We know a man who once bought for a mere trifle the " Memoirs " of Gibbon , edited by Lord Sheffield ( 1827 ) , and on a fly-leaf discovered to his great surprise Scott 's autograph , entirely overlooked by the book-seller . Who would not regard Scott 's copy of Gibbon 's Life more entertaining than any other ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unknown , we can not remain wholly indifferent to him ; for is he not an intellectual brother , a sharer of our likes and dislikes ? May we not almost visualize his face and touch hands with him across the dim centuries ' For us , at least , the most attractive volumes of the old essayists are those of the Lounger , by Henry Mackenzie , " the Northern Addison " ? and all because our set of the Lounger , not a first edition , was once owned , as a delicate signature on the title attests , by " Barbara Cockayne " Could such delicious vocables describe any but the most gracious figure of womanhood ? Who was Barbara Cockayne ? We do not know . For a hundred years , doubtless , her bones have lain forgotten in some quiet English churchyard . But these were once Barbara Cockayne 's books ; and their yellowing pages render us oblivious to Christopher North 's savage out at " Old M. " as " the greatest nuisance that ever infested any Magazine . " And here even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to all who , like the youth of whom Stevenson tells us , are moved by love of lovely names . RECENT FRENCH FICTION . Paws , November 27 . " Patrice , " a romance  --  not a novel  --  by Ernest Renan , would have been an event in the lifetime of the author ( Calmann-Levy ) Now , it is little more than a continuation , from the sentimental side , of the autobiographical notes of an undulating intellect The limpid , deliciously shaded style flows here over unexpected shallows and depths Those long familiar with It may find almost equal interest in the illustrations by the son , Ary Renan , who died before realizing his full talent as a painter . " Ragotte , " by Jules Renard of the Goncourt Academy , is likely to be the classic story-telling book of the year ( A Fayard ) It is scarcely fiction , but rather a series of dry-points , etched instantaneous portraits of men and things in the lives of our freres farouclies ( shy brothers ) ? peasants and lowly people with difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In matter of style , this writer seems to have attained absolute adequacy . The color , the poignancy of mere bits of dialogue , lift his communication of thought and feeling to high art . Moreover , it brings us understandingly face to face with human beings like ourselves , but often misunderstood because inarticulate " Les Toits rouges , " by Gaston Rou. - vier , is a very modern and readable novel by an author who has kept all the actuante and movement of his former high-class journalism ( Fasquelle ) The story turns round the fecund idea which Paul Bourget set afloat in " L-'tape " ? the danger of leaping from a lower social rank to a higher without passing by the intermediate stages The parvenu , proprietor of a red-roofed manufacturingcedtre thinks he has reached his ambition 's aim when his riches have persuaded the impoverished noble lady , who owns the neighboring chhteau , to marry him " Illusion masculine , " by the lady ( Madame A. Cherbonnel ) who signs Jean de La Br  --  te , is likely to be among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novels of this writer , for people yclo appreciate readable books which they can leave on the family table ( Plop-Nourrit ) . Madame Gabrielle Reval , in " Les Camps-volantes de la Riviera , " is , as usual , not so heedful of the young person and the conventionalities which surround her still in most French families ( Calmann-Levy ) . This lady won literary distinction by her first books , revealing life in the higher normal school for women at S ? vres , where she was trained , and in the women 's lycees , where she was professor  --  both things new and revolutionary in France . Enlarging her sphere of freedom , she now elucidates that world of cosmopolitan interlopers which has its centre at Monte Carlo So far as impression goes , it would seem that the proper romance and novel of average people is coming to the front There are no doubt commercial reasons for this ; but it would be unfair not to see in it a change in the reading public . Probably the new generation differs in character from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ des Families Paul Margueritte writes " Ma Grande " ( big sister ) . Henri Doris shows in " La Grande Deesse " ? who is Poverty  --  how an impoverished marquis is led to develop genius and attain to happiness , and so again to riches ( Pion ) Mathilde Alaric , in " La Romance de Joconde " ( Plan ) , gives an honest instance of the words of ti-at old song on revient toujours A ses premieres amours ! " Le Maitre du pain , " by Lucy Achalme , is quite as much an instructive study , as a novel , - of the family community which still exists in Auvergne ( Bonville ) The lady who signs Pierre de Coulevain ( Mademoiselle Favre ) became widely known to Americans by her novels about their European experiments , her new novel , " Au Cceur de la vie , " is told in an ultra-cosmopolitan way , from varying Continental cities Rene Thiry has something rare in recent French novels , a distinctly humorous story of practical meaning ? " Monsieur Gendron va au peuple " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pion ) Among books more in line with the foreign tradition regarding the French novel , Madame la Baronne Aimery de Pierrebourg , who has won a high place in letters under the more plebeian signature of Claude Ferval , publishes " Ciel rouge " ? a story of high and impassioned sentiment The mother who sacrifices herself to her love for her child , and so finally quenches the husband 's hatred , is as ancient as Andromache , but modern enough for any one in this new version . " L'Amour guette " is the joint work of the author of " Amite amoureuse , " and Jean de Fossendal ( Calmann-Levy ) Paul Bourget , in " Les Detours du cceur , " gives a number of those short and sometimes tragical stories of passion treated psychologically , which many of his earlier faithful prefer to his longer social romances . ' With plenty of passion also , as Balzac understood it , with abundance of personages and incident and anecdote , a young writer who should be noted , Pierre Villetard , publishes his second novel ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a mother and son toward fortune and the great world ( Fasquelle ) . " Da'ad , " by Cheltri Ganem , who must be an Orieutal , simmers and seethes with the passion of the Orient amid much local color S. D                     