@@485021

Monday 's Manila dispatches bore the leading , " First uncensored news by cable since the American occupation . " The mews itself is what might have been expected  --  a recrudescence of the insurrection so serious as to call for a general forward movement by our army of occupation . It should not be forgotten , however , that Gen. MacArthur had already begun truth-telling before the removal - of the censorship . The full text of his annual report , while very naive in its philosophical excursions , in its statement =of facts shows a soldierly directness most unlike anything we ever had from - Gen . Otis . Unlike the latter , Gen. MacArthur does not prophesy smooth things . ale admits that the islands are practically a unit against us , and scouts , almost in the words of the Anti-Imperialist press , the idea that fear is a motive " suf-Relent to account for the united and apparently spontaneous action of several millions of people . " Perhaps the most striking feature of Gen. MacArthur 's report is his distinction between the ladrones and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Administration press that the belief has " become general that the Filipino patriots are brigands , and that Gov Roosevelt 's " Apaches " was only a characteristic exaggeration of the facts . Gen. MacArthur has no patience with this suppressio ' vent . He is too good a soldier to vilify his enemy , and , in fact , his report morally accords the belli gcrent rights to the Filipinos which his predecessor and the Taft Commission have persistently denied them . He says - that while " the bands of insurgent guerrillas are not soldiers in the true sense of the word , it is a mistake to classify them as ladrones ar armed robbers . " The latter are outlaws , pure and - simple , and have preyed as well on the insurgents as on the peaceful natives - " As soon as the insurgent soldier is elim mated from the problem , " he continues , - " the extirpation of robbers from the highways will , it is believed , be easily and quickly accomplished . " It is hoped that former insurgent leaders may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well that " Filipino officers at present available for this employment are reluctant to undertake the task , as long as there is any possibility of collision with flying columns of Gen Aguinaldo 's forces . " " General , " " flying columns , " " forces " ? " I thank thee for these words " might well be the heartfelt cry of a harassed leader of his people , used to misrepresentation and vilification such as this nation has never before hurled at a weak foe . Now that the election is over , there begins to appear a general desire for facts about the Philippines . For two years we have occupied the islands ; two special commissions have reported , with several generals ; Mr. McKinley has told all the truth that was good for us in our preelection condition , and yet there is an uneasy suspicion that we have all along lacked facts . But the election is over , that queasy condition of the public digestion to which facts are abhorrent has given place to relative health , and the public is ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has first appeared near Boston . A committee , chiefly composed of friends and well-wishers of the Administration , has been formed to solicit all the facts from the President and to present an exemplary selection therefrom to the public They seek light co occidente . It is in this spirit that the historian , Prof. A. B. Hart of Harvard University , goes to Washington asking Mr. McKinley for the full text of documents that have been published only in part  --  in short , for facts in lieu of the voluminous official statements of the past two years . He comes with the appetite for facts which an historian may be presumed to have after a two years ' fast . Can the President find it in his heart to give him a atone  --  or another report of a Commission ? Hawaiian election returns are just in , and show that the ungrateful natives stood together and outvoted their white deliverers . Not only did they elect their delegate to Congress , but carried the Hawaiian Legislature as well , so that nothing but Gov . Dole 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hawaii by Hawaiians . No wonder that the beaten whites promptly declare that the natives have shown themselves " unfit for the suffrage , " and that Congress must immediately intervene to take it a-way from them . Self-government , new style , means a docile readiness to let the minority exploit the majority ; and if the silly majority object , why , they must not be allowed to vote at all . This unhappy outcome in Hawaii was foreseen by the white oligarchs , who protested , from the first , against manhood suffrage as probably fatal to their snug little monopoly of government at Honolulu . Now that their worst fears are realized , they will move on Washington to get their privileges and immunities restored by law . The burning at the stake on Friday of a negro-murderer in Colorado was attended by circumstances of deliberate ferocity , which make it the most fiendish thing of its kind ever known in a Northern State . Indians could not have gone more callously to the torturing of a victim . The ordinary excuses do not serve in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can not be said there that fearful torments must be meted out to all negro criminals in order to make the lives of whites secure . Nor was it a question of a howling mob driven to sudden and uncontrollable frenzy . A week had passed since the crime . Preparations to lynch the guilty man were made with all the deliberation of the public meeting . The form of agony by which the wretched man should be put to death was decided by a kind of popular vote . Telegraph operators were notified , and photographers advised to be ready for " snap shots " of the dying struggles . Then the prisoner was taken from the Sheriff , with every sign of prearrangement if not collusion , and the " most respectable " people of the neighborhood stood about while a fellow-being was tortured to death . Such an outrage on law , on humanity , on the fundamentals of civilization , was never before , we think , perpetrated in a Northern State . Colorado has , indeed , abolished capital punishment , and this may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned and revolting cruelty of this lynching puts it in a class by iteelf . The North has now surpassed the bloody instructions of the South . The most prosperous year ever enjoyed by American shipping interests is reported by the Commissioner of Navigation . For the first time since the outbreak of the Civil War , the dean-merited tonnage of the United States exceeds 5,000,000 gross tons It increased more than 300,000 tons last year . Moreover , the new vessels are made to an increasing extent in our own yards In 1890 , only 20 per cent . of the world 's shipping was of steel ; now the percentage is three times as great . As to the manufacture of steel , the position of this country is now well known . Steel can be produced and wrought here more cheaply than anywhere else in the world . As the Commissioner observes , " Steel has radically changed the industrial organization of the world 's shipbuilding and ship-owning . It requires expensive machinery , great capital , and the employment of large numbers of specially trained mechanics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , least of all an officer of the Administration , will question - the ability of our mechanics to do suc-cessfully any work that is assigned to them . No one can dispute the existence of an immense capital in this country , ready for any use . It is borrowed by the nations and even the municipalities - of Europe , and no enterprise here that can be carried on with profit need be hampered for lack of funds . There seems , then , no reason why ships should not be built and owned here at a profit . We have the steel ; we have the skilled labor ; we can make , if we have not now , the best of machinery ; we have the money to own and operate these - vessels when completed ; we have the coal to move them ; we have the goods to freight them withal . From this impressive array of facts and arguments , the proper inference - would seem to be that the shipping industry needs no aid from the taxpayers . The citizens engaged in it are likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . In fact , on August 15 of this year , 68 merchant steel vessels , aggregating 278,000 tons , and 47 naval vessels of 113,000 tons , were building or contracted for . Contracts since that date bring the merchant tonnage up to 350,000 tons , so that the current year will see much the largest amount of steel ship-building ever known in our history . The Commissioner of Navigation declares that in the United States " the conditions have now been established : abundance of capital , cheap materials , practical experience , constructive talent , and skilled labor " ; all that is lacking is a system of bounties to be paid by the people to those who take advantage of these conditions . No more - unreasonable conclusion than thiS was ever drawn . If the ship-building industry were -- an- " infant , " something might be said in favor of administering governmental pap . If we had to import our steel and send abroad for our machinery ; if we borrowed money in Europe instead of lending it there , and our mechanics were dull and untrained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bounty might be made . With conditions as they are , it appears to be altogether unjustifiable , and it will be generally regarded as a deliberate present to a few rich men of a number of millions of dollars taken by the tax-gatherers from the pockets of the people . The Commissioner of Navigation occupies a humiliating position when he tries to show that ship-building can not be profitably carried on in this country , and he carries his argument to an absurd extent by winding up with a proposal to increase the tonnage taxes . Aybitiation was discussed by a nember of witnesses before the Industrial Commission in Washington onThnrsday , and some interesting things were said , The feasibility of establishing a national Board of Arbitration was suggested , but Martin Fox , President of the Iron Moulders ' Union , declared himself emphatically opposed to any element of compulsion in such arbitration , He favored conciliation and arbitration . Other witnesses favored arbitration before State Boards , but they , too , apposed compulsory arbitration . The propesition for a National Board of Arbitration takes most definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Illinois Coal Operators ' Association , that employees in every great industry form an association and elect commissioners , to whom all questions arising within their industry shall be referred . Such an organization and such a commission , as we have noted , already exists among Illinois coal operators for negotiating with miners through their union , and the proposed National Board of Arbitration would be made up of these commissions and of representatives of labor organizations in different branches of industry . The idea is that there might be referred to such a board the more fundamental questions involved in such labor disputes as the St. Louis railway strike , the builders ' and contractors ' lockout in Chicago , and the miners ' strike in the anthracite coal region ; and that it could bring to bear upon every question a fund of general and special knowledge which would enable the members to get at the real causes of trouble and to deal with those causes scientifically . It will be noticed that the organization would be voluntary on the part of both employers and employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter . It would be interesting to see such an experiment tried . Platt appears to have heard spine faint echoes of the great racket produced throughout the State by his announcement that he was going to have a State Constabulary Law passed by his Legislature and signed by his Governor . There was a significant change of tone in his remarks to a reporter of the Evening Post on Friday from his uncompromising declaration of the day before , that the bill " will be passed " ? the bill , that is , which everybody ha.8 been talking about all the while . Now he says that the measure which it is proposed to introduce at Albany has not yet been drafted , and adds : " The bill that the newspapers are talking about is an old Constabulary Bill . It would be just as well for the newspapers to wait until they see the new bill and learn its terms before they condemn it . " One reason for this significant change is doubtless the evidence which has come to public notice that there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State , and that many shrewd Repub licans believe that the enactment of the proposed law would assure the victory - of Tammany in the city and of Democracy in the State at the next election ; Another influence which may already beat work is the proof , which a little in= vestigation brings to light , that many Republican Senators and Assemblymen resent the cool assumption of the boss that they are nothing but his tools , and the growing suspicion that there may prove to be enough independence in the-Legislature to make trouble for Platt . Bishop Potter 's letter to the Mayor is ' the most authoritative statement as to the disgraceful conditions of government which prevail in New York city under Tammany rule that has yet appeared . Such an indictment of the administration of the laws in the metropolis of a civilized commonwealth was-never before drawn . Think of its being possible for an eminent representative of the Church in a great city to say with truth , and with public knowledge-of their truth , such things as these to ' the head of the civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sir , is that when a minister of religion and resident in a particular neighborhood , whose-calling and character , experience , and truthfulness , are all alike widely and abundantly recognized , goes to the headquarters of the police in his district to appeal to them for the protection of the young , the innocent , and the defenceless , against the leprous harpies who are hired as runners . and touters for the lowest and most infamous dens of vice , he is met not only with contempt and derision , but with the coarsest insult and obloquy . " The Bishop declares his belief that in no other civilized or Christian community on earth does there exist such m situation as " defiles and dishonors " New York to-day . It deepens our shame-that this burning disgrace must be published to the world ; that the dreadful facts are thrust upon the attention of all in other countries who are studying the experiment of democratic government in America . But publicity is , of course , the only way of escape . The people of the city must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The public mind must be stirred to its depths , and a sentiment must be developed which will : demand reform with a force that can not be resisted . It is most distasteful work-for any good citizen , and especially repulsive to a clergyman , but it - is work that has got to be done , and the Church has its large share in. the matter . Bishop Potter has rendered the community an immense service in thus taking the lead . The scene enacted in Tammany Hall-last Thursday , in which Mr. Isidor Straus and Richard Croker took the-principal parts , will impress the public mind in more than one way . Mr. Straus-represented in this instance a society that is trying to teach the poorer classes , and especially the young , the lesson of . good citizenship , so that they shall feel the full responsibility resting upon them as a part of the American commonwealth . In the promotion of this object he and those associated with him have expended more than $65,000 of their own money in a single year , besides giving their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rev. Mr. Paddock found while laboring among the same classes  --  that certain depraving influences were working in the contrary sense , sowing tares while they were sowing wheat . " I refer , " said Mr. Straus , " to the immorality in tenement houses and the immor , ality in the streets ; the manner in which the boys and girls are threatened with the temptations held out to them on every side . We realize that , no matter how strong our influence may be , if the children are destroyed before they come to us , our whole work is destroyed . " Naturally so . Naturally , too , Mr. Straus mentioned the matter to Richard Croker when he met him , just as Marcus Cicero might have mentioned to Julius CEesar any abuse he was cognizant of in old Rome , instead of bringing it before the consuls and the Senate . He would bring the matter before the head man wlio was out of office , instead of the underlings who were in office , in order to save time and avoid waste of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Tammany Hall , " he said . " See the Executive Committee . Give them as good a lecture as you have given me " He did not say : " Come with me to the Mayor , or go to the Board of Police . " He acknowledged tacitly as to the Government of New York , c'est Lord Salisbury 's new Cabinet is now complete , and it is evidently his own handiwork . The predicted dominance of Mr. Chamberlain does not appear in the personnel of the new Government . Some spiteful opponents are remarking on the number of the Premier 's nephews and other relatives who figure in the Cabinet ; but Salisbury would doubtless say that he has simply followed Conservative precedent in turning to the great governing families , and if the Cecils are among them , it is not for him to pass by a great house simply because he is the head of it . The Marquis of Lansdowne no doubt owes his elevation to the Foreign Office to his being a " grand seigneur . " That he has , besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is one of the very few Englishmen in public life who speak idiomatic French . His courtesy and amiability are expected to furnish the needed counterpoise to Mr. Chamberlain 's brusque manners and blunt speech In the Colonial Office . Indeed , bis appointment to his delicate post is felt to be Salisbury 's way of rebuking Chamberliin 's liking for the " new diplomacy " ? the kind , that is , which blurts out threats and complaints against the GOV ernment with which you profess to be trying to reach a friendly understanding . All this seems to be now better understood by the English press , which has modified its first bitter criticism of Salisbury 's action in promoting an unpopular Minister of War . The London Times , while recalling none of its strictures upon Lord Lansdowne , admits that he was a hard-working official , and adds the delicious remark , " Had the war not broken out , he would have easily ranked as the best War Minister of recent times . " This may be intended for an ironical adaptation of the nisi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high encomium of a war correspondent on an English General : " He is a splendid General when there is no enemy to upset his calculations . " It is a rather important fact that Emperor William thought it necessary to apologize for incurring large expense in sending an expedition to China without summoning the Reichstag and securing its assent beforehand . The Constitution of the Empire requires the sanction of that body for all war expenditures and for the sending of troops out of the country . No such assent was given , or even sought by the Emperor . He not only made war and incurred debt on his own sole responsibility , but he made undignified and gloomy speeches which agitated the European world , and made his own subjects apprehensive that he was losing his wits . He has lost prestige at home and has awakened fears abroad . Of course , the Reichstag will sanction the steps he has taken because they are irrevocable , but the sanction ought to be accompanied by an explicit declaration that it is not to be taken in the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation , whose civil liberty resides there , and it has none that it can afford to lose . A tyrant usually begins by helping himself to the public treasure , and if the representatives of the people make no objection , even the formality of an apology will presently be omitted . Chancellor von Bulow 's statement in the Reichstag on Monday was an official confirmation of the press reports concerning the terms which the Powers have determined to impose on China . The only new item is one proposing to compel the Chinese Government to make " such changes in existing treaties regarding trade and navigation as the foi eign Governments deem advisable . " This is but one step more in the extinction of Chinese sovereignty . Together with the other extreme demands  - -  for an indemnity which may be made elastic enough to ruin Chinese finance ; for the razing of forts and the prohibition of the purchase and importation of war material ; for the execution of princes and officials whose beheading vs , uld practically destroy the Chinese throne  --  it amounts to an exaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be of no use for the Powers to say that they desire to avoid a conquest of China . They are already treating the Chinese Empire as if it were a derelict , of which they are entitled to take full possession . We can not help feeling that this throws an inevitable air of hypocrisy over the whole negotiation What the Powers profess is a sincere desire to restore peace at the earliest possible moment ; to hasten the recuperation of Chinese industry and commerce ; and , above all , to prevent the recurrence of the outrages which took the civilized ssorld by surprise . The prompting of elementary wisdom , then , would seem to prescribe , as Pierre Leroy-Beaulieu argues in the Revue des Deux Mondes , avoidance of " the very errors of conduct which brought on the explosions . " It was undue foreign aggression which caused them , therefore , to prevent their return , make foreign aggression more overweening and exasperating than ever ! It is worthy of note that the King of the Belgians could sign , as he did a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exposition , a decree providing Government pensions for workingmen , without occasioning any considerable comment . In any other country than Belgium , the proposition to pay to all workingmen sixty-five years of age life pensions of 65 francs ( $13 ) a year , could hardly be taken as so much a matter of , course , but Socialism has been for years powerfully influencing Belgian legislation . The royal decree takes effect on January 1 , 1901 , when workingmen sixty-five years of age , and in need of such assistance , will come immediately into the enjoyment of their annuity . Those fifty-eight years of age on to_the , e.t date will have the same privilege at the expiration of their sixty-fifth year . All others , however , as a condition of drawing a pension , must have paid into the public bureau of pensions , during a period of three years , not less than 3 francs a year , and a total amount of 18 francs . To this extent in its ultimate operation the Belgian scheme is a sort of workingmen 's insurance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , make it obviously a pensioning , rather than an insurance of workingmen . A bill has recently been introduced into the Chamber of Deputies in France , providing for compulsory insurance of workingmen . It is proposed that the expense of this insurance shall be divided between employer and employee , the employee paying a certain per cent . of his wages , and his employer contributing an equal amount . When these amounts combined , however , fall below a given sum , the Government is to make up the deficit with a subsidy .                     