@@430307

It is a remarkable fact that much of the historical writing emanating from England within the last five years professes to draw its inspiration from the teachings and precepts of the late Lord Acton . His brief six years ' tenure of the position of Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge resulted in a deep-seated belief in the universality of his knowledge and a trust in the correctness of his ideals . The editors of that monumental work now appearing , the " Cambridge Modern History , " asserted in the preface to their first volume that they were striving to follow the plans outlined by Lord Acton , who was to have been the editorin-chief of the undertaking . Historical essayists , as well as the authors of more ambitious historical productions , have confessed themselves inspired by the teachings of one whom they regarded almost as a master . And yet Lord Acton himself was not a producer , and has nowhere stated definitely and at length his ideals of historical study and historical writing . It is partly with the purpose of emphasizing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of personal acquaintance a true knowledge of Lord Acton 's great qualities , that two volumes have recently appeared from the pens of close friends and admirers . The first of these , by Abbot Gasquet , is wholly taken up with the letters of Lord Acton to his fellow editors of " The Rambler , " and later of the " Home and Foreign Review . " Acton became part proprietor and one of the editors of " The Rambler " in 1858 , and after the discontinuance of that magazine engaged himself , together with several of his colleagues , in the organization of the short-lived " Home and Foreign Review . " Bath of these were Catholic publications , and by far the greater part of the letters in Abbot Gasquet 's volume have to do with questions of policy and attitude relating to parties and controversies within the Roman Catholic body . The editor himself remarks that many of the points involved were , even at the time , understood by none but educated Catholics , and that most of them have since almost dropped from memory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume are in general quite beyond the understanding or appreciation of the non-Catholic reader of to-day . Yet even such blind reading . can not fail to impress one with the truth of the claim for Lord Acton of a universality of knowledge . His interests were never insular ? though he always exhibited a thorough British patriotism ? but extended to all modern lands ; whenever during his frequent sojourns upon the continent he wrote of contemporary political conditions , his criticisms showed keenness of immediate perception as well as thoroughness of historical knowledge . But such letters are infrequent in the present volume , and were it not for a careful historical  | preface one might easily miss the point of Lord Acton 's attitude as editor of a Catholic magazine . That attitude reveals at least one of Lord Acton 's ideals in historical study , ? namely , a devotion to absolute and accurate historical truth . He was a devout Catholic , but he was equally devout in his love of truth , and was never willing to let his loyalty to the Church relax in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous Church conditions or persons . Abbot Gasquet brings this out very clearly in his preface , and quotes an article in " The Rambler , " not written by Lord Acton , but perfectly representing his principles . " We Catholics have to encounter the belief that we are not only crafty and false , but actually afraid of the truth 's being known . This belief has to be vanquished , not by an angry denial of its justice , not by taunts , not by bragadocio , but by proving our courage by our acts . It is useless to proclaim that history and science are in harmony with our religion , unless we show that we think so by being ourselves foremost in telling the whole truth about the Church and abort her enemies . " The policy maintained by " The Rambler " had the quiet support of Cardinal Newman and of many of the most thoughtful Catholics in England ; but it was attacked with vigor by a faction really , though not avowedly , directed by Cardinal Wiseman , and the originality and daring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervous distrust to the general and more conservative Catholic body . " The Rambler " and the " Dublin Review " were far apart in their treatment of Church history . Abbot Gasquet writes : " In historical matters , the policy of ' The Dublin ' appears to have been to avoid , as far as possible , facing unpleasant facts in the past , and to explain away , if it could not directly deny , the existence of ' blots ' in the ecclesiastical annals of the older centuries . ' The Rambler , ' on the other hand , held the view that the Church had nothing to lose and much to gain by meeting facts as they were . And acting up to this , it did not hesitate to discuss the conduct of the Popes of the Renaissance and the characters of canonized saints , etc. , with entire freedom , on the ground that no supreme office nor assumed sanctity was an a priori proof of impeccability , and that it should not shield the one class or the other from legitimate criticism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the rehabilitation of ' bad popes , ' and would desire that all should shut their eyes to the unpleasant facts of Church history , as being plain ' whitewashers . ' " Many attempts were made to smooth over the difficulties arising from these two diverse points of view , but in the end the situation became an impossible one , and " The Rambler " suspended publication , as did its successor , " The Home and Foreign Review , " after a brief existence in which an unsuccessful effort was made to keep away from controversial topics . Neither of these publications was suspended , says Abbot Gasquet in contradiction of ordinary historical accounts , because of direct intervention from Rome , but rather because Lord Acton and his friends yielded to the conviction that such controversies tended to over-emphasize what were , after all , unessential differences within the Church . They yielded their active assertion of opinions by publication , but retained the opinions . And Abbot Gasquet asserts also that to-day the criticisms and opinions of the Catholic circle , as he likes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities of the Church . But the preface to the volume of Lord Acton 's " Lectures on Modern History " gives a different impression of the results of this controversy ; for here it is stated that Lord Acton , wearied and unsuccessful in the contest , welcomed the quiet promised by his appointment to Cambridge , and in the almost passionate devotion he exhibited for the concrete truths of history evidenced the bitterness remaining from the struggle through which he had passed . The lectures here printed include the Inaugural lecture of 1895 , and nineteen lectures covering the period from the Renaissance to the American Revolution , delivered in the academical years from 1899 to 1901 . According to the editors of this volume , much of Lord Acton 's influence arose from the enthusiasm for his subject manifested by the lecturer , so that when placed in cold type the lectures may seem inadequate in comparison with Lord Acton 's reputation . It is certainly true that a first impression derived from a rapid reading is that the lectures contain little that could not be found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one reads more carefully he realizes that every statement of fact , every idea expressed , has been carefully selected , or thoroughly weighed ; that the simple language used is purposely chosen in order that no confusion may arise ; that the few facts cited and illustrations given , from the multitude , that might have been employed , are the exact ones best suited to the lecturer 's purpose ; and above all , that there runs through each lecture an ideal of the progressive development of modern history so delicately stated as to be wholly unobtrusive , yet so clearly conveyed as to be perfectly unmistakable . It is easy to assert the unity of the history of modern states , or to philosophize upon it and choose isolated illustrations by way of proof ; but the highest form of art in historical writing is that which narrates  | events without specifying directly the ideals it is sought to convey , and yet does emphatically convey such ideals to the reader . Of this form , Lord Acton 's lectures are all excellent illustrations ; while that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his Inaugural lecture , Lord Acton used a more direct form ; and here he stated quite clearly his ideals of the real purpose of historical study . He told the contributors to the Modern History series which he had planned , that " the recent past contains the key to the present time " ; and in the Inaugural , delivered some years earlier , he emphasized the usefulness of history in freeing the mind from " illusions or unsifted prejudices . " " Its study fulfils its purpose , even if it only makes us wiser , without producing books , and gives us the gift of historical thinking , which is better than historical learning . " And again he said : " For our purpose , the main thing to learn is not the art of accumulating material , but the sublimer art of investigating it , of discerning truth from falsehood and certainty from doubt . It is by solidity of criticism , more than by the plenitude of erudition , that the study of history strengthens and straightens and extends the mind . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study , asserting its practical character and emphasizing the love of truth for truth 's sake ; but in treating of historical writing he elucidates that which was the great characteristic of his own lectures ? the unity of modern history , and that a constant " progress in the direction of organized and assured freedom is its characteristic fact and its tribute to the theory of Providence . " In fact , the two ideals that dominated Lord Acton 's plan for the " Cambridge Modern History " were , the study of historical conditions that the present time might be rightly interpreted , and a conception of history based on the thought of universal progress . These ideals were to be made manifest by the pens of men who were masters of the particular epochs of which they wrote . In the preface to their first volume , the present editors of the series state that they " have adhered scrupulously to the spirit of his Acton 's design . " But the editors of Lord Acton 's Lectures evidently do not agree that these ideals have been strictly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have published as an Appendix Lord Acton 's original letter to the contributors outlining his purpose . In this the most striking paragraphs are the following : " The recent Past contains the key to the present time . All forms of thought that influence it come before us in their turn , and we have to describe the ruling currents , to interpret the sovereign forces , that still govern and divide the world . " " By Universal History I understand that which is distinct from the combined history of all countries , which is not a rope of sand , but a continuous development , and is not a burden on the memory , but an illumination of the soul . It moves in a succession to which the nations are subsidiary . Their story will be told , not for their own sake , but in reference and in subordination to a higher series , according to the time and degree in which they contribute to the common fortunes of mankind . " The second paragraph of the preceding quota tion is given , with some slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Modern His tory series in their Inaugural preface ; but it is exactly in the purpose here indicated that the later volumes have more and more departed from Lord Acton 's ideals . It is true also that the original plan of having each chapter written by the best qualified specialist has not been followed . In the present volume on the Thirty Years War , for example , twelve of the twentyseven chapters are contributed by the editors themselves . It may well have been discovered , however , that it was impossible to secure the one recognized specialist supposedly available for each minute period and topic , and certainly no just criticism can be directed against either the matter or the method of Mr. A. W. Ward 's six chapters in the present volume . But when Lord Acton 's main purpose is considered , ? the purpose of leaving on the mind of the reader an indelible impression of the continuous development of modern history , ? it can not but be acknowledged that no single author in this volume has succeeded in conveying such ideas as Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , Lord Acton 's lecture on Richelieu with Mr. Stanley Leathe 's chapter on the same character . Lord Acton first guards his hearers agains , t an overestimation of Richelieu 's abilities by stating his " low-water mark " ; he then analyzes what Richelieu really accomplished , and this analysis , accompanied by pertinent illustrations , renders the final dictum convincing . Mr. Leathes gives pages of exact and careful detail in relation to Richelieu 's acts and policy , gradually building a feeling of the greatness of his supposed hero ; then , in a few pages of adverse criticism , he destroys the figure he has created . In fact , his criticism is not really criticism , but rather merely a bald denial of the merits usually credited to Richelieu , and reads much like a condensation of Avenel 's dicta . Lord Acton presents Richelieu as but the tool of his time ,  | the personification in France of the ripening age of political absolutism ; his acts and policy , as in the toleration he showed to Protestants , indicative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this period , was a leader . In short , Lord Acton depicts Richelieu as an evidence of progressive development in modern history . All this Mr. Leathes does not see , or at least does not state even by implication ; with the result that his detailed accuracy fails utterly to give to Richelieu a distinct place or purpose in history . Thus the genius and the art of Lord Acton in conveying ideas while strictly adhering to historical truth are wholly lacking in this , and in by far the greater number of specialized chapters in the " Cambridge Modern History . " It may be that the ideal of Lord Acton of a new history that should present " a continuous development . . . not a burden on the memory , but an illumination of the soul , " has been found impossible of realization by the present editors ; or perhaps they are among those historians who would deny that such an ideal is compatible with a truthful and accurate narration of historical events . It is not here necessary to repeat what has previously been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still remains a wonderful compendium of historical knowledge , to be trusted in details , and containing many unusual aids for the student and the investigator . Yet its claim to a wholly original method is not well founded , for other works of a similar character have been equally devoted to accurate historical monographs written by specialists , while Lord Acton 's conception , ? the conception of a modern history that should move " in a succession to which the nations are subsidiary , " and should be " not a burden on the memory , but an illumination of the soul , " ? has , either intentionally or by lack of ability to evolve it , been wholly set aside .  |                     