@@430412

The most significant change in the character of the professional library press during the past few years , at least in England and America , is the particular emphasis laid on questions of Extension , ? bow to reach the various classes of readers , how to give the library its proper place in the community , and the relegation to the background of the more technical questions of cataloguing and classification , the disappearance even of the minutia of library technique , the renewed emphasis on the book itself . ( See in this connection Mr. Koopman 's articles in " Public Libraries " : " Lest We Forget , in the Multitude of Books , the Few Great Books . " ) The question of open access to the shelves , once vehemently discussed on both sides of the Atlantic , is the subject of only four papers , two American and two English , none of them particularly significant . The fiction problem . though the subject of only two or three papers , still attracts , and the last word has not yet been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children , which seems on the way to be relegated to its proper dimensions . Cooperation in cataloguing having been solved , at least in America and Germany , the larger question of inter-library loans enters the field again . The interest in foreign affairs is reasonably lively in this country and in Germany , while England takes on the role of greater self-satisfaction , which is shown in the few cases where American conditions are incidentally touched upon .  | Turning now to the individual articles , we find , naturally enough , the most significant to be those dealing with extension of the work and influence of the library . Easily first in importance under this head is Professor L. H. Bailey 's address at the Lake George meeting , ? " Library Work for Rural Communities " ( L. J. , Oct . ) . Here are new problems presented in a forceful and attractive way , and the work of libraries put in relation with the whole movement to improve rural conditions . The particular message of Professor Bailey we find in the statement that while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to cause persons to read for entertainment , " the needs of the countryman are different . He is , consciously or not , a fatalist . " His work is largely in the presence of the elemental forces of nature . " This develops in him either " a complacent and joyful resignation " or " a species of rebellion which leads to a hopeless and pessimistic outlook on life . " " The countryman , " therefore , " needs to read for courage . " It is significant that the rural problem has been touched in England also , in the address before the Library Association at Brighton by its President , Mr. C. Thomas-Stanford ( L. A. R. , Sept . ) . To make country life attractive to men and women " emancipated by education from the ascriptio glebce which was the lot of their fathers , " is one of the great problems of the day , and one way to meet it is to increase among them the opportunities for reading . A further extension of the possibilities for usefulness of libraries has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association with the National Home Reading Union , an organization of somewhat the same character as the Chautauqua Reading Circles . The October " Library Association Record " contains a statement of the new developments of the Union , including the agreement between it and the Library Association . A feature of this cooperation is the publication of a " Readers ' Review " issued by the two bodies , through which the readers in public libraries receive guidance in the choice of books and subjects for reading . Closely related to these phases of library extension are the questions of how to select the most suitable books for the public library and how to arrange them . The classification of fiction is not a new matter in this country , or in England ; but it would seem that the article by Professor C. Lausberg of Dusseldorf , on " Die Gliederung der schongeistigen Literatur " ' ( B. f . V. July-Aug. and Sept. - Oct. ) , is the first serious discussion of the subject in the German professional press . The librarian of the Dusseldorf Volksbibliothek has convictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are directed against adverse criticisms of the system used in the library of which he has charge , He claims that in a popular library the borrowers are looking chiefly for recreative reading , and the books should be arranged on the shelves so as to help then to select that which suits their taste . In fiction the reader is led in his choice " by temperament rather than by intellect . The tastes are as a rule permanent . " And the author goes on to cite several instances of highly cultivated men and women , by no means adverse to " heavy " reading even outside of their professional work , but who , when choosing books for recreation , select writers of a decidedly light character . " And if a poor seamstress or a downtrodden saleswoman asks for books of the Heimburg and Schobert kind for her lonely , tired evenings , let her have them to the end of her days . " " I have never , " he says , " thought much of the education of readers to ' higher things . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always been a special feature of " Blatter fur Volksbibliotheken . " Each issue contains a number of notices of current books , both fiction and others , short and to the point , enabling one to see at a glance the character and point of view of each . Besides this regular department , most issues contain special articles about well-known writers , estimating especially their work , as " Volksschriftsteller . " Among the writers discussed during the past year we find Gottfried Keller , Heinrich Steinhausen , and Karl Emil Franzos . Mr. Ernest E. Savage , in a paper read at a monthly meeting of the Library Association , discusses " Some Difficulties in the Selection of Scientific and Technical Books " ( L. A. R. , Ap . ) . He deprecates the lack of competent guides to the best books . He seems rather too much given to the cult of the books " hot from the press , " and presents incidentally his compliments to the " A. L. A. BookList , " which he finds to contain chiefly " evaluative gush . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Library Association Record " for June , by Mr. James D. Stewart , on " The Cult of the Child and Common Sense . " Mr. Stewart opposes the introduction of exaggerated work with children from American to British libraries ; the story hour especially he thinks should be avoided . " The library is primarily for the adult and secondarily for the juvenile , and if this is kept in mind the efficiency of the institution will gain , and much money and energy will be saved . " Mr. Stewart quotes with approval from the report of the Examining Committee of the Boston Public Library , which , he says , " possesses one of the most sanely managed children 's departments . " It is interesting to find , in the April " Library Journal , " a paper by a former chairman of the subcommittee on branches of the Boston committee , Miss Caroline Matthews , on " The Growing Tendency to Over-Emphasize the Children 's Side , " in which the writer says : " Nothing has astonished me more than this new development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance before the adult . " As chairman of the subcommittee on branches , Miss Matthews has especial opportunity to study the children 's rooms and the work with children generally . She sums the matter up in this sentence :  | " I grew to have a horror of children 's rooms ? as distinct from children 's departments . Intellectually , physically , morally , Ibelieve them harmful . Neither can I see their necessity . " If tendencies are apparent to relegate the work with children to a less prominent place , the needs of the workingmen and the industrial classes in general are receiving more attention . It is evidenced , however , by the articles on this subject that appeared in the March " Public Libraries , " that American librarians here stand before a problem that is new to many , and one which they do not quite understand . Mr. Sam Walter Foss hits the nail on the head when he says that " we are not keeping step in this country to the new industrial music as are some of the European nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little masculinity in its over-feminized collections " is to the point , and might be made to cover methods and surroundings as well . While the journals whose contents have hitherto passed in review discuss mainly the questions of everyday life in public libraries , the case is different with " Zentralblatt fur Bibliothekswesen . " This journal caters to the workers in the large libraries , or at least to those of scholarly character . The problems under discussion are therefore to some extent , though not altogether , different . The question of local collections , for instance , which was presented by Dr. Keysser of Cologne at last year 's meeting of the German librarians , is of interest to the workers in any public library , and Dr. Keysser 's paper should be read with profit by them . He is particularly competent to speak on the matter , as the City Library of Cologne not only makes particular effort to collect books of local character , but is one of a group of libraries along the middle course of the Rhine which have joined together for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Besides the proceedings at the annual conference of German librarians , this journal contains the papers read at the library section of the eighth International Historical Congress in Berlin . The general subject for deliberation at the section was Cooperation , ? union catalogues , inter-library loans , and the like . Dr. R. Fick , the head of the Bureau of Information of the Prussian Union Catalogue , Dr. F. Eichler in Graz , and Dr. H. Escher in Zurich , reported , respectively , on the work in Prussia , Austria , and Switzerland . Dr. Aksel Andersson of Upsala presented , after a survey of the present situation in matters of inter-library loans , a resolution , which was adopted by the section for presentation to the International Association of Academies , which organization has lent its powerful aid to the development of direct relations between the libraries of Europe . The resolution expressed the appreciation of the section for the efforts of the Association , and presented some desiderata tending to a further simplification of the direct lending of books from library to library . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been dormant in this country , was revived by Mr. W. C. Lane in his address at the dedication of the new library building of Oberlin College , the concluding portion of which was printed in the December " Library Journal " under the title : " A Central Bureau of Information and Loan Collection for College Libraries . " It is a carefully worked out plan for the organization of a central office or agency for loans between libraries , which gradually should collect a library of such works , chiefly long sets of serials and other expensive works , as are not available for loan through other libraries .  |                     