@@486630

Mr. James Creelman at last gives us Addicks 's apologia in the ' World . Stripping off the accessories of Italian art and domestic felicity in which the narrative is embowered , the apology comes down to this : that Mr. Addicks had rehabilitated the Republican party in Delaware . Towards this disinterested work he had offered a slight contribution of $10,000 a year , and the total cost of his leadership in Delaware , he is " quite certain , " has been , not millions , but a trifling $250,000 . The fact of the matter was , said Mr. Addicks , that all the trouble had arisen because he ( Ad-dicks ) had been a Theodore Roosevelt out of due time . As he said this blushingly , he presented to Mr. Creelman 's untroubled gaze " a pale sapphire ring , an inheritance from an O'Sullivan ancestor in Ireland , who caused the family motto , Modestia Victrix , ' to be engraved under the rampant lions , the wild boar , and the deer of the family crest . " Mr. Creelman avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while Mr. Ad-dicks , as " a gentle breeze scattered the yellowed leaves of trees among the dying flowers and the drooping bushes , " explained how he had " simply got around " a Massachusetts law regulating the capitalization of gas companies . In this connection he felt that attempts to control great corporations by the State were ill-advised . Trusts were best " let alone , " and matters would soon " adjust themselves along natural laws . " Finally , the forerunner of Theodore Roosevelt felt that in the matter of the Byrne appointment the actual Theodore Roosevelt has acted " gracefully and properly . " Since Mr. Addicks had already explained that he was not " an ignorant , vicious vulgarian , " his opinion on a matter of personal propriety should be given due weight with the President . If Platt has rendered any public service entitling him to the honor of reelection to the United States Senate , the fact should be known . Will none of his friends come forward to tell us what it is ? We and the vast majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if any exists . What has he done for the State ? Wherein has the city benefited by him ? As Senator , what act of his deserves praise or recognition ? Platt 's offences we know . The objections to him are mountain-high . But what can be said in his favor ? We ask his admirers , his defenders , even his apologists , to tell ' us . Is it not an extraordinary condition of things when the State of New York is called upon to elect a Senator for whom not a word can be said ; who is to be elected amid universal silence and hanging of heads , for whom even his private adulators will not speak up in public ? This municipality was flung by him into the arms of Tammany in 1897 . When reform triumphed last year , the most that Platt did was to keep out of the way . If he aided in the election of the anti-Tammany ticket at all , it was only because Mr. Jerome wakened vast enthusiasm by his fearless linking of Platt and Croker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . Since then he has done nothing to show that he was not justly placed in that category . State legislation has been of a highly important character during Platt 's term as Senator . He has touched it only to make trouble . There have been sweeping changes in taxation ; laws passed vitally affecting the civil service , the dependent classes , the forests , the canals . With which one of these measures has Platt 's name been connected , except malignly ? It is not that he has kept his- hands off State affairs , He has professed to direct them . But what has he done ? He has urged a- bill to take away the police power from New York city  --  a bill so bad that a Republican Governor was forced to break with him on that issue . He has affronted and assailed the judiciary in a manner so flagrant that the voters rose up to give him a stinging rebuke . If Mr. Platt has done anything else for this State , we should like to be told what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can point to a speech made by Platt ? Who to an important bill introduced by him ? Being in Washington simply as an office-broker and patronage-hunter , he made no pretence of being anything else . A vacant chair , or a lay figure to vote when a button was pressed , would have been as good a Senator as he . Without any wish to prejudge Mr. Mitchell 's case , we can not resist a certain pleasure at seeing him so neatly cornered by Mr. MacVeagh . For some months John Mitchell has been cornering both his friends and opponents . He actually snubbed the President for his offer of a commission , without leaving him  --  any grounds for a retort , and later he calmly annexed the President to the strikers ' side without possibility of protest . Not that Mitchell need wholly be ashamed of the chase he led Mr. Wayne MacVeagh on Monday . On the contrary , the angel of peace himself could not have been more inflexibly opposed to all acts of violence , by whomsoever cornreified , than was the man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described as " intolerable " conditions of disorder . But his attitude was clearly that of resignation , not of indignation , and in an unguarded moment he admitted that the dynamite outrages were presumptively the work of the strikers . For this means of terrorism he was careless enough to assert the advantage that it had been bloodless ; an admission which proved that such intimidation had been deliberately planned . The time is ripe for society to take action to protect itself against all boycotts . This evil has reached such proportions that freedom of action , and even freedom of thought , have been annihilated in some localities , so that men go to their daily work trembling in fear of an unseen monster , the boycott . In some places two or more boycotts are raging at once . The boycotters boycott each other , and then threaten all men , women , and children who refuse to obey the orders which they discharge against each other . This was what Mr. Samuel Gompers referred to in his opening speech at New Orleans last Thursday , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ways of organized labor , the unions would be fighting each other behind barricades in the streets . Yet Mr. Gompers goes in for boycotts when he has the making of them himself . No man who believes in the boycott at all is fit to put a limit on the use of that anti-social , uncivilized , un-American weapon . The Board of Supervisors of Warren County , N. Y. , has asked the boards of the neighboring counties of Saratoga and Washington to join in an appeal to the Legislature for an appropriation to pay the bills caused by the riotous strike on the Hudson Valley Railway . It was this which made necessary the keeping on duty of the various companies composing the Second Regiment , N. G. N. Y. , for a number of weeks . It is to be hoped that this appeal will fail . If the daily reports of the incidents of the strike were correct , the rioters received no little encouragement from the attitude of the people in the towns and villages connected by the railway 's lines , particularly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mechanicsville , and Waterford . Indeed , the number of employees on strike was relatively so small that it would have been impossible , without the assistance of a large number of unruly local sympathizers , to organize riots so serious as to make necessary a call for State troops . In this view of the case , the people of the neighborhood affected by the disturbances were largely to blame for the outbreaks ; and it would be ? a wholesome lesson for them to be compelled to pay the fiddler after their dance . It is now plain that neither the Governor nor the State military authorities can take any action with a view to punishing the Schenectady labor leaders who are engaged in an attempt to injure the National Guard of this State . It is not treason to deprive a man of his employment because he has chosen to become a citizen soldier ; it is probably not even a conspiracy against the State , as that term is at present defined . The injured militiaman might properly bring suit individually against the leaders who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve the State . As far as the State authorities are concerned , however , they are powerless to act in the matter , and their helplessness will undoubtedly lead to efforts to secure legislation on the subject as soon as the Legislature meets , particularly as this is not the first case of union hostility to the militia . Were the efforts of the labor unions directed towards discouraging enlistments in an over-large and menacing standing army , there might be some excuse for the attitude taken in Schenectady and elsewhere . But there is nothing whatsoever about the character or organization of the National Guard which can be construed as menacing the liberties of the people , or as threatening the right of laboring men to work or to strike whenever they see fit . When troops have been called out on strike duty , there has never been an instance , to our knowledge , where the soldiers have taken sides with one or the other party to the dispute They have in every case confined themselves to the duty of policing the districts into which they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the lawless . In remarkably few cases have the troops fired upon the crowd in their efforts to- uphold the law , Strikes often collapse on their mere appearance ; but no large strike of moderately skilled labor , such as motormen , freight-handlers , switchmen , etc. , is likely to succeed unless public opinion is emphatically behind the strikers . Mr. Griggs 's statement , in last week 's preliminary hearing of the suit of the United States against the Northern Securities Company , opened what is perhaps the most important line of defence He alleged that during several years , before even theanti-Trust act of 1890 , many important American railway companies " had acquired all or a majority of the shares of the stock of competing railway companies , or had acquired by purchase or lease the control of parallel and com peting lines of railway , and that this state of things was a matter of common knowledge , and was reported to the Interstate Commerce Commission , and by it to Congress . " Mr. Griggs further maintained that Congress never intended , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations . Whatever may be said as to this latter inference , Mr. Griggs 's statement of facts is correct , and was , of course , amply sustained by the copies of annual railway reports submitted in evidence . This phase of the matter has , in fact , been from the first the most significant . Even people who were more or less in sympathy with the Governments purposes in the Northern Securities suit , have asked , with some concern , how a decision against the company would affect such well-known railway aggregations as the New Haven or Pennsylvania Companies . It is natural that the defence should push to the front this argument in its case . The argument was anticipated , however , by Attorney-General Knox in his brief of March 10 . The Government 's position , as then outlined by Mr. Knox . forestalled with a good deal of skill contentions that the pending suit was really a suit against all existing railway systems , formed through purchase and consolidation of outlying properties . The Attorney-General maintained . " The defendant , the Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase and pay for the stocks of the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific Railway Companies . It was organized solely to incorporate the pooling of the stocks of said companies , and to carry into effect the unlawful combination or conspiracy aforesaid . The Northern Securities Company is a mere depository , custodian , holder , and trustee of the stocks of the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific Railway Companies , and its shares of stock are but beneficial certificates issued against said railroad stocks to designate the interest of the holders in the pool . The Northern Securities Company does not have , and never had , any capital sufficient to warrant such a stupendous operation . " The ingenuity of this plea has been much commented on by lawyers . It was met , in the defendant 's answer of last May , mainly by allegation that " this defendant is not a railway company , and has no power to operate or manage railways or make or control rates of transportation , " and , moreover , " that every share of stock issued by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same , for full value paid for it , either in cash or its equivalent . " The interesting part of the legal battle in this case will be the effort of the defence to assimilate the Northern Securities combination to the smaller railway purchases and consolidations which preceded it , and of the prosecution to distinguish it from them . Gen. Chaffee has manfully assumed the unpleasant responsibility for every thing done in the Philippines during his tour of duty as commander-in-chief . It must be noted , however , that he limits this responsibility and his approval to the written orders issued by his subordinates . " Hell-Roaring Jake 's " instructions to kill and burn in Samar were , it will be remembered , verbal orders . Gen. Bell 's severe course in Batangas Gen. Chaffee heartily approves , because it was " for peace and not for war " that he was contending . Gen. Chaffee also furnishes us with a new description of reconcentration , " separation with their effects from those not disposed to peace , " which should be added to the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to minimize their cruelties . But Gen. Chaffee is in danger of being considered over-optimistic when he thinks that the end of the insurrection is surely accomplished . It is easy enough to call small bands " ladrones " and outlaws , but when the Civil Commission finds these robbers increasing in such numbers as to compel it to call on the military for aid , as it did last week , the disguise grows thin . Like Gen. Young , Gen. Chaffee has great praise for the soldiers ; but he qualifies his belief in their exerting a good influence on the natives with the phrase , " unless the alleged demoralizing influence broadens so as to make the presence of the white race as a race demoralizing to the native races . " Plenty of proof of this is to be found both in. and out of army circles in our four years ' occupation of the unhappy Philippines . A telegram from Washington says that the report of the Philippine Commission recommends the establishment of the gold standard in the islands at the earliest possible moment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Government of about $1,000,000 during the past six months ; that is , since the adjournment of Congress . The public revenue is collected in silver , while purchases are made for the most part on the gold basis . Payments of salaries , if made with silver , cause loss to the recipients , who are mostly Americans . President Taft himself is a sufferer in this way . The condition is like that which compelled Japan , in 1895 , to adopt the gold standard . At that time the gold dollar was worth , as bullion , exactly two silver dollars Now it is worth two and a half , and yet the State of Colorado went Republican in the last election . The latter fact should embolden the United States Senate to adopt the Conant bill for currency reform in the Philippines before the price of silver falls materially lower . According to all reports received from the islands , their financial condition is desperate . The Government is obliged to borrow large sums of money to meet its necessary expenses and to avert starvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war have come in the usual form of pestilence and famine . A change in the currency system will not cure these afflictions , but it will improve the country 's credit , and enable the Government better to cope with the evils confronting it . Careful readers have formed the habit of suspending judgment on all matters relating to the Danish West Indies until the statements of evidently biassed cablegrams have been either verified or , as has usually been the case , contradicted by the Danish papers . Many of our enthusiastic editorial writers , however , have not learned wisdom from past errors , and the result is a fresh outburst over the report that the opponents of the sale have been unable to make good their promise to support a steamship line between Denmark and St. Thomas . But it is now stated on no less authority than the Berlimgske Tidende of Copenhagen , the Government organ , that the full capital of the new company has been guaranteed , and that all that is lacking is the subscription of additional shares for the extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list of the directors of the company , which includes some of the strongest names in the Danish commercial and aristocratic world . Danish capitalists are not in the habit of backing out of an engagement once made , and it was a slur on the national character to suppose that they had done so in this case . Hardly less unfair is the statement , often made since the rejection of the treaty by the Danish upper house , that this action was taken solely in order to embarrass the present Liberal Ministry . It may be that political motives played a part with many , but in the main the hostility to the sale was along national , not party , lines . Georg Brandes , the leader of the Danish radicals in literature , was among the first to give voice to the national conscience , and it is childish to suppose that he would act in the interests of Danish conservatism . It is not so long ago since Congressman Grosvenor solemnly warned the nation , under penalty of dire financial distress , not to elect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except in the matter of the Democratic Congress . Depreciation in securities and the prospect of falling prices for commodities have come as promptly to time as if the nation were chilled and prosperity checked by the prospect of Democratic ascendency . The awkwardness of , continued semi-panic conditions following upon a rousing vote for the Republican party and prosperity is sufficiently obvious . It is not too much , however , for the Republican oracles . What would have been very like an expression of Divine wrath for a vote against the " god of things as they are , " becomes now a beneficent chastening for the common good . That is , a Democratic bear market is a high political offence , but a Republican bear market is a casual incident of speculation , for which the party assumes no responsibility . The speculator who burns his fingers under Democratic depression has the sweet savor of a martyr ; the speculator who liquidates a losing account during Republican depression is a foolish fellow who suffers the natural penalty of his own recklessness . All of these things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world whose panic it is . But such reflections yield imperfect consolation to those who believed Congressman Grosvenor and voted the Republican ticket to hold the market up . The fact that October 's import of foreign merchandise , as shown by Saturday 's official figures , was the largest ever reported for that month , is not in itself especially surprising . The country is wealthier than it ever was before , and better able to buy what it chooses from foreign producers and manufacturers . Comparison of the year to date with previous years , however , makes the showing a little startling . In the ten completed months of 1902 , this country has imported $61,700,000 more foreign merchandise than in 1901 , $94,600,000 more than in 1900 , $131,500,000 more than in 1899 , and $261,900,000 more than in 1898 . As compared with the last-named year , the rate of increase in our imports has been very nearly 50 per cent . Whatever the immediate cause or meaning of the movement , it disposes of several theories entertained during this trade revival by philosophers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things in American finance . Judged in the light of these more recent developments , we do not seem to have learned how to dispense with foreign purchases , while we do appear to have discovered how to dispose of a " foreign credit balance . " " Everything ends in songs , " said that apparently frivolous but really wise Frenchman , Beaumarchais . If he were living in New York to-day he would have probably said , " Everything ends in dinners . " It was in recognition of this principle that Senator Depew and Mr. James H. Hyde assembled the notable company that on Saturday bade farewell and godspeed to Ambassador Cambon . It will not be invidious to say that so representative a gathering could hardly have been made in honor of any other member of the diplomatic corps at Washington . M. Cambon had exceptional responsibilities , of which he acquitted himself with rare skill . During the late war he represented with rare dignity the interests of Spain . No doubt , the perfectly correct attitude of the French Government at that time was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every reason , then , for making such public and hearty recognition of his eminent services to this country as can most fully be offered in the post-prandial hour . That hour has its perils , as was amusingly shown in the case of Secretary Root , who spoke for the Administration . Something of the " Visigothic " warmth of Mr. Root 's political prophecies has been eliminated from the press reports , but enough remains to show that he charged M. Cambon to create " a great Latin republican empire on the continent of Europe , in which the Seine and the Guadalquivir will flow in unison and harmony . " In other words , he authorized M. Cambon to overthrow the sovereign to whom he is accredited  --  diplomatic credentials of an unusual order . At this point M. Carabon 's English , which had previously served him admirably , failed him utterly , and he gave no signs of understanding Secretary Root 's rearrangement of the map of Europe . In the privacy of his first interview with Premier Combes , he will possibly find occasion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marines , " which in France falls to the Naval Minister ( the original inventor of the " champagne speech " ) , is in America performed by the Minister of War . The German Reichstag has by a large majority given the Government authority to proclaim retaliatory tariff schedules against all nations which discriminate against German products By a curious coincidence , this vote was taken only a day or so after President Roosevelt 's declaration before the Chamber of Commerce that " the voice of the just man armed is potent " Naturally every nation must be considered just by its own legislature , and the Reichstag made a prompt and justifiable application of the President 's dictum in taking up arms . Probably the German Foreign Office will assure our State Department that the new tariff weapon is not for use , but merely for potency . It is hard to see how we could object to such an explanation . For years it has been our boast that we held up cheap foreign products and inferior European labor . That " just man armed , " Brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the pistol point , will have no real grievance if some day Hans draws not his purse , but his snickersnee . It was , in fact , precisely President Roosevelt 's argument that " arms " were necessary which the Agrarians used in the protracted debate of Thursday . How fallacious is that reasoning which sees in fumbling with deadly weapons a means of keeping political and industrial peace , no one who has observed societies in which every gentleman " wears a gun " will need to be told .                     