@@430408

A LITTLE more than a year ago the Century Magazine contained a vigorous and convincing article by Mrs. Isaac L. Rice , entitled " Our Barbarous Fourth . " It was a protest against a condition of affairs in the United States which had long attracted attention but which no one , up to that time , had criticised in such emphatic terms . " The grim statistics of the Fourth of July , " said the article , " probably furnish a sadder commentary of human folly than that afforded by any other celebration in the world . " It is worth while to present in detail the indictment upon which the article in question arraigned the nation . It showed the heavy penalty which this country has for many years paid to ' the god of gunpowder under the mistaken notion that noise was patriotism , and that civic and national pride were measured by the explosion - of firecrackers and canon . The figures gathered from accurate sources , although admittedly incomplete , were startling in their presentation . They showed that during the celebration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1,153 persons were killed and 21,520 were injured . Of the injured , 88 suffered total , and 389 partial , blindness ; 308 persons lost arms , legs or hands , and 1,067 lost one or more fingers . " But these figures , startling as they are , " commented Mrs. Rice , " convey only a faint idea of the suffering , both physical and mental , Which went to swell the total cost of these five holidays ; in this we must include the weeks and often months of anguish of the injured , the suspense of entire families while the fate of some loved one hung in the balance , the horror of a future of sightless years , the pinching poverty now the lot of many because of the death or maiming of breadwinners . " It is true that a few thoughtful people had in more or less nonchalant manner observed the terrible toll of death and injury which the evil celebration of the day demanded . Quite a number of newspapers ? notably the Chicago Tribune ? were questioning the wisdom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death of 164 people , and the injury of nearly 5,000 . " How can any satisfaction , " asked the New York . Tribune , " be taken in the perversion of a holiday to purposes of disorder and destruction , and how can any pride be felt in methods of observance which inevitably condemn hundreds ? if not thousands ? to be shot , burned , maimed , and otherwise disfigured and tortured in propitiation of the great god of senseless uproar ? " The St. Paul Pioneer Press deplored the fact that a day which ought to be the most enjoyable in the calendar had become a day of general carnage ; while the New York Commercial characterized the popular celebration as ridiculous and senseless . Notwithstanding these occasional utterances of truth , which indicated a growing sentiment , the fact is , that at the time of the appearance of " Our Barbarous Fourth " there was only one city in the country wherein any curb had been placed upon the insensate and reckless custom of observing the Fourth of July with dynamite and gunpowder . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no one in authority seemed courageous enough to call a halt for fear of being charged with lack of patriotism . I believe , however , that the article in question appeared at the psychological moment . It was so straightforward in its presentation of the facts , so earnest in its appeal and so logical in its assertion that there were numerous sensible ways of celebrating our national holiday , that it made a profound impression everywhere . At any rate , the fact is , that before that article appeared only one city in the country had prohibited the sale and explosion of fireworks , while within a short period after it had been printed the authorities in several cities took radical action along the lines therein suggested . It is no exaggeration to say that within the next ten years the old barbarous Fourth of July will have entirely disappeared , and it is also within the bounds of accurate statement to add that the one greatest individual factor in accomplishing the much-needed reform is the author of the Century article . All this is by way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sane Fourth of July was tried this year in the National Capital ; and in the belief that its details will prove of general interest , they are herewith recorded . If , as now seems to be the case , we are on the verge of a revolution in the customs which have been in vogue for half a century , the methods by which the change is to be accomplished are not without their value and significance . The celebration of the national holiday in the capital a year ago had been marked by so many accidents and fires that some protest against the indiscriminate use of fireworks was uttered , and the Commissioners who govern the city declared themselves in published interviews in favor of a safer and saner observance of the day . No definite action was taken , however , until last November , when the question became acute because hundreds of dealers in fireworks in the city were naturally anxious to know whether they would be permitted to handle explosives . Inquiry of other cities brought forth the fact that Cleveland had already enacted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a copy of this ordinance was secured . In Washington , as ought to be generally known , there is no common council or board of alderman , but all regulations governing the municipality are promulgated by the three Commissioners under authority delegated to them by Congress . The question whether Washington should undertake the experiment'bf a non-explosive Fourth rested , therefore , with these three men , and it did not take them long to reach their conclusion . One of them had , more than a year previously , formally expressed his sympathy with the object sought to be attained by the opponents of the barbarous Fourth , and his colleagues were , happily , of the same opinion . In November , therefore , eight months before the arrival of the holiday , the following regulation was enacted : No firework , squib , or other fireworks of any kind ' shall be sold and delivered , discharged or set off within the city of Washington , or the fire limits of the District of Columbia , or in the more densely populated portions of said District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exhibition fireworks may be discharged or set off on special permits issued by the Commissioners defining the time , place , storage and such other conditions to be observed in reference thereto as they may deem necessary to the public safety . No gun , air gun , rifle , air rifle , pistol , revolver , or other firearm , cannon or torpedo shall be discharged or set off within the city of Washington , or the fire limits of the District of Columbia , without a special written permit therefor from the Major and Superintendent of Police , nor within five hundred yards of the Potomac River , Eastern Branch , or Anacostia River , Rock Creek , or any public road , highway , schoolhouse , building or buildings , shed , barn , outhouse , public park , reservation , graveyard or burial place , playground , golf course , tennis court , picnic ground , camp ground , or any place where people are accustomed to congregate , inclosure for stock , railroad track , outside of such fire limits for the District of Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereof and a special written permit from the Major and Superintendent of Police . " No law or regulation can , however , be effective unless it is sustained by public sentiment . The Commissioners were fortunate in securing the voluntary and enthusiastic support of the members of the Board of Trade and the Chamber of Commerce , the representative local organizations , and , in general , the citizenship of the capital was favorably disposed to the new order of things . Committees were formed for the purpose of providing two patriotic public entertainments , one in the morning to consist of the reading of the Declaration of Independence and appropriate addresses , and the other to include a fine display of fireworks at night upon the ellipse south of the White House . The funds for the latter were promptly supplied by public subscription , and the affair was managed most successfully by a volunteer committee , no less than forty thousand people witnessing the display . In the meantime , the residents of various sections of the District undertook to uphold sympathetically the Commissioners by devising their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district , there was a public meeting with a programme of fireworks handled by experts , while Bloomingdale , another well-settled section , enjoyed a day of athletic sports , speeches and aerial fireworks . In short , the people of the District of Columbia cheerfully accepted the proclamation , which was issued by the Commissioners , inviting attention to the police regulations which had been adopted " to provide against the dangers incident to the manner of observing the Fourth of July and Christmas , which previously prevailed , " and appealing " to the people of the District of Columbia heartily to second their efforts by observing and counselling the observance of these regulations . " Nor were the entertainments already mentioned the only forms of celebration . The Washington Post conceived the idea of an automobile floral-flag parade , and this event proved to be a genuine spectacular and artistic success . There were over a hundred motor cars in line , and the decorations were extremely novel and pleasing . One automobile was reconstructed into an accurate representation of the Confederate ram Merrimac , and was manned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a yacht with masts and sails ; another was a floral boat apparently drawn by an enormous white swan ; and still another was in the form of a pergola , decorated with wistaria vines and blossoms . An electric machine which elicited the applause of the thousands who lined the route of parade was apparently a huge wicker basket of pink roses , in the centre of which and surmounted by a canopy of roses was seated the lady who operated the car . Another electric machine was a symphony in red , white and blue . Altogether , the event proved to be a most unique and beautiful celebration , and the committee of artists who awarded the cups and other prizes , valued at $1,500 , was confronted by a most difficult task of selection . When it is considered that the affair was the first of its kind in the National Capital , and was merely suggested as one form of rational enjoyment , its successful execution occasioned deserved felicitation , and when it is repeated next year , as it will be , the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The real value , however , of'the experiment in the National Capital still remains to be recorded . Instead of a long list of dead and injured , there was not a single gunpowder accident in the city , and the two minor alarms of fire were not occasioned by explosives . The contrast between the recent Fourth of July celebration and those of previous years , is strikingly shown in the following figures : Number of persons treated at local hospitals for injuries from explosives : Before the Fourth there was some division of opinion as to the outcome ; after the Fourth the public sentiment was practically unanimous as to the humanity and wisdom of a safe and sane celebration . This sentiment found editorial expression in the daily newspapers , and those communities which are considering the advisability of abolishing the dangerous customs of the past , might with great profit read these comments . They are here incorporated almost in their entirety : Washington Herald : Having celebrated the Fourth of July in a safe and sane manner , it is reasonably sure that Washington will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unsafe , and insane way of observing the anniversary of the country 's independence . It is true that the day , for the most part , was so quiet as to be almost Sabbathlike ; but , thanks to an ideally delightful spell of weather , every hour , from dawn until the night festivities concluded , was full of wholesome enjoyment . A welcome relief it was , indeed , to be spared the affliction of the ear-splitting firecracker and toy cannon nuisance and kindred evils that made other Fourths so hideous . And a more welcome relief still is the knowledge to-day that Washington , at least , has not a long hospital list of maimed and suffering victims of the reckless use of explosives . Washington Times : On the day following the Fourth , it will be difficult to find many people who will not give their approval to the innovation . Nobody 's home was burned up , nobody succeeded in killing himself or his neighbor ; there are no incipient cases of lockjaw under observation . The tendency to those other forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheers ? and perhaps deafens ? was less marked than ever before . The police and the hospitals alike had an easy time of it . Not a single accident worthy the name , of the distinctive variety which has made Independence Day an occasion of carnage and terror , took place in Washington . - That is a remarkable record . Safety and sanity , in short , vindicated themselves to perfection . Promiscuous noise was simply impossible because of the strict prohibition of the sale and use of fireworks and other abominations in the racket-making line . Altogether , it was a glorious day , and it is sincerely to be hoped that it will come in similar fashion once per annum , and in time lead people to a cheerful ability honestly to rejoice that their country did attain its freedom . Papers in unsafe and insane communities please copy . Washington Star : After yesterday 's experience it is doubtful whether Washington will ever return to the old customs of Independence Day celebrations . The " safe and sane " Fourth idea was carried out in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some form of entertainment to the greatest possible number tirougheut the day , without contributing a single accident of any kind to the records . Taken in detail , yesterday 's celebration features were calculated to please all classes . For those who wished to dwell seriously upon the patriotic aspect of the occasion there was the open-air meeting , where exercises appropriate to the day were held . For the children there was no lack of amusement , with the daylight fireworks diverting them on three different occasions . The floral automobile parade was a novelty that drew large numbers to the line , while the day was appropriately closed with an exceptional exhibition of fireworks , concluding with the illumination of Pennsylvania Avenue . An ideal day in overhead conditions , yesterday afforded the best opportunity to try the new idea of Independence Day celebration . In consequence of all the arrangements and restrictions there was a remarkable lack of noise from morning till night . There were no fires and the hospital ambulance was less busy even than on ordinary occasions . The policemen had an easy time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points of congregation . There was a noteworthy lack of public intoxication . In short , Washington demonstrated that it can enjoy itself in a dignified , decent manner . With the experience of yesterday in mind , the authorities and citizens who engage in such enterprises can proceed next year to organize an Independence day celebration that will be even better . It has been proved that it is possible to stop the promiscuous discharge of firecrackers and other forms of explosives . This is in itself an immense advantage . There is no reason to doubt the ability of the Commissioners to maintain order in the same manner next year . It may be suggested that the 1910 programme should include more public music of a patriotic character at intervals during the day and that the chief feature of the occasion be some form of historic pageant . In the face of this splendid and sensible record , it is appalling to read the reports from other cities . The death of Arthur Granville Langham , uncle of the Baroness von Sternberg , which occurred in The Appalling Louisville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Record cracker , was especially tragic , but the occurrences in Elsewhere other municipalities are none the less sad because the victims were not as prominent in social and financial circles . Here are some of the figures : NEw YORK . Five killed , 197 injured by fireworks , 82 injured by pistols , 23 injured by cannons and 3 injured by torpedoes ; also , 1165 fires started by explosives . Notwithstanding this list-of victims , one of the most prominent New York papers remarked that New York had broken all records for a safe and sane Fourth of July . PHILADELPHIA . Five dead , 3 fatally injured , 8 seriously injured and 420 painfully injured ; 80 fires . ST . Louis . Four dead , 205 injured . WILKESBARRE , PA . Four dead . PITTSBURG . One dead , 295 injured ; fire loss , $50,000 . MEMPHIS , TENN . A crippled newsboy burned to death . WHEELING , W. VA . One dead , 50 injured . BUFFALO . Fifteen children injured , 40 fires . BosToN . One hundred and ten persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a fifteen-year-old boy blinded for life . KANSAS CITY . One death from lockjaw . ELMIRA , N. Y. Two deaths from lockjaw . WooNsocKET , R. I. One dead and a dozen persons injured . Other cities , without regard to section , afford a painful repetition of casualty . It seems strange that this annual holocaust should be toler ated . There is not a civilized country in the world which pays such a fearful debt to alleged patriotism as the United States . There is no question as to the devotion of the Japanese to their country , and yet their three national holidays are not marred by sad fatalities . Germany cele brates the Emperor 's birthday with the greatest enthusiasm , but without wholesale death and injury . France is patriotic , and yet France observes its festal days in a safe and sane fashion . In the City of Mexico , as the writer knows by personal experience , the celebration of Independence day is a great popular success , and yet not one firecracker is exploded . The experiment in Washington demonstrates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and patriotic enjoyment of the day . Surely the time will come when other cities will appreciate the impor tance of celebrating in some manner which will appropriately mark the day , and yet not leave a sanguinary trail of dead and wounded . It goes without saying that the safe and sane method will not be departed from in the National Capital . In that city , at least , there will be an example of common sense which other municipalities might well emulate . There will be ample opportunity for the expression of patriotic sentiment , unaccompanied by death and disaster , and in less than a decade the people will look back to the ancient and barbarous customs , and wonder how they were ever tolerated for a single hour . Next year new methods of entertainments will be devised , and more consideration will be given to the children . This year the pupils of the public schools sang patriotic songs at the various gatherings , and the children enjoyed the automobile parade and the fireworks . The Fourth of July , however , is essentially Young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a municipality especial consideration should be given to the little ones . With this detail not overlooked , there will be no question of the real success of any Fourth of July celebration . Certainly the experiment which the National Capital has successfully inaugurated has proven worth while ; and if the example is generally followed by other cities , there will be safety and sanity everywhere , nor need the splendid fervency of our full-blooded patriotism suffer loss .                     