@@430170

 | The emphatic pronouncement of the Republican party in its last national platform in favor of the reduction of the Congressional representation of certain Southern States , the introduction of bills at the recent session of Congress by Senator Platt and Representatives Sherman and Morrell to carry out the Republican mandate and the popular agitation to which these proceedings have given rise make it worth while to inquire into the purpose and meaning of the second section of the Fourteenth Amendment and to consider some of the practical difficulties that seem to stand in the way of the enforcement of the constitutional provision . The clause in question provides that when the right to vote is denied to any of the male inhabitants of a State , being twentyone years of age and citizens of the United States , or in any way abridged , except for participation in rebellion or other crime the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to offer an inducement to the States of the South to grant by voluntary action the right of suffrage to the freedmen who by the Civil Rights Act had already been made citizens and by the Reconstruction Acts had been allowed to vote for delegates to the several conventions which framed the reconstruction constitutions in 1868 . At that time it was believed that the advantages of increased representation in Congress would appeal strongly to the white people of the South and that the penalty of a reduced representation with the corresponding loss of influence in national affairs would deter them from discriminating against the negro in granting the franchise . Before , however , an opportunity had been afforded for testing the efficacy of this provision , the Republican leaders reached the conclusion that the inducement offered would prove insufficient to accomplish the chief end for which the amendment had been adopted , namely , the enfranchisement of the negro . The Fifteenth Amendment was therefore proposed  | and ratified for the purpose of correcting what was now regarded as an error of judgment on the part of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment . The new amendment , to use the language of the Supreme Court , conferred upon the negro an exemption not only against the power of the States , but also of the United States from discrimination on account of race or color in determining the right of suffrage . In the place of a premium or inducement it imposes upon the States an obligation to treat both races alike in bestowing the franchise . Thus what the Fourteenth Amendment permits subject to a prescribed penalty the Fifteenth forbids . It is a question , therefore , worthy of more attention than it has received , whether the second section of the Fourteenth Amendment has not been superseded by the Fifteenth and consequently rendered obsolete . The debates on the proposed amendment in Congress seem to indicate that some of the prominent leaders believed that the purpose of the new amendment was not merely to supplement and perfect the plan embodied in the second section of the Fourteenth Amendment , but to supersede it altogether with an entirely new rule . Mr. Blaine admits that the " effect and potency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " seriously modified " by the adoption of the Fifteenth , and that by it " the nation neutralized and surrendered the contingent right it before held to exclude him the negro from the basis of apportionment . " Continuing he says , " Congress is thus plainly deprived by the Fifteenth Amendment of certain powers over representation in the South which it possessed under the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment . Before the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment , if a State should exclude the negro from the suffrage , the next step would be for Congress to exclude the negro from the basis of apportionment . After the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment , if a State should exclude the negro from the Suffrage , the next step would be for the Supreme Court to declare the act unconstitutional and therefore null and void . According to the view of Mr. Blaine , therefore , the penalty prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment for abridgement of the suffrage has been abrogated by the Fifteenth . This is certainly  | the logical and reasonable interpretation . The Fifteenth Amendment empowers Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment creates , but it does not authorize Congress to permit an abridgement of that right , provided a State is willing to stiffer the penalty prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment . The penalty prescribed by the Fifteenth Amendment for race discrimination in the bestowal of the franchise is not reduction of representation , but the absolute nullity of the State law which allows it . And where , as in the Mississippi case , the Supreme Court of the United States holds that there is no discrimination there is of course no punishment . Admitting , however , that the second section of the Fourteenth Amendment was not superseded by the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment and that Congress did not thereby lose its power to enforce the penalty prescribed for the denial of the suffrage to certain classes we are confronted by several practical obstacles which make an equitable enforcement of the constitutional mandate a difficult if not an impracticable task . In the first place , there must be an actual denial or an abridgement by the State or by those who act for the State in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment . Denial by individuals or associations of individuals , however effective , is not denial in the sense of the constitution , for the Supreme Court has interpreted the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment as being directed against State action and not against the action of individuals . Notwithstanding this rule of interpretation two of the bills introduced in Congress at the recent session , for the enforcement of the second section of the Fourteenth Amendment include in the list of States whose representation it is proposed to reduce , several whose constitutions and laws contaro no restrictions on the right of suffrage except the usual age and residence qualifications . Apparently these bills were framed on the assumption that the suffrage although allowed by the law is in effect denied in these States by fraud , violence or intimidation of individuals . Again , the question arises whether it is a denial of the suffrage to impose reasonable preliminary conditions such as the registration requirement as a means of protecting the electoral privilege against fraud and regulating the exercise of the right . Undoubtedly this requirement deprives thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of failure to register at a specified time whether on account of sickness , temporary absence , change of residence or other cause . The State courts in the absence of constitutional provision on the subject have always upheld the registration requirement as a legitimate regulation for the protection of the suffrage privilege and not a denial of the privilege . But if Congress should hold otherwise then it would be necessary to ascertain by some practicable means how many adult male citizens in each State are actually deprived of the right to vote by the registration requirement . How this information could be obtained is difficult to see . According to the census of 1900 there were 325,943 males of voting age in Louisiana . Of these only 93,000 are enrolled as voters . Is it to be assumed that the 233,000 persons whose names are not on the registration lists have been denied the right to register or is it reasonable to assume that a large portion of them voluntarily neglected to register or through sickness , absence or inconvenience voluntarily remained away ? In the latter case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reduction of representation . Only those who upon application within the time fixed by law are refused the right to register for reasonable causes should be excluded from the basis of apportionment and the numbers of such persons must be ascertained by Congress before it can take intelligent action . Likewise the size of the vote cast at the election can not be accepted as any indication of the extent to which the suffrage has been abridged . In Mississippi for example there are according to the last census 349,177 male inhabitants twenty-one years of age and over . At the recent presidential election but 58,500 votes were cast in this State . It is of course preposterous to assume that the other 290,000 adult males who did not vote were denied the privilege of doing so . It is well known that in the Southern States where a nomination is equivalent to an election there is an appalling lack of interest in the general elections and that only an insignificant proportion of those qualified ever take the trouble to go to the polls . Abstention from voting therefore does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a reduction of representation . As an aid to a more intelligent understanding of some of the difficulties involved , the following table based on the census of 1900 and the election returns of 1904 is submitted :  | page deleted  | From this table it will be seen that the principal qualification for the suffrage in those States is either one or more of the following : payment of a tax , usually a capitation assessment ; ability to read or write the English language ; sufficient native intelligence to understand the ordinary meaning of a passage in the constitution ; and ownership of a small amount of property . Commenting upon the question of whether the representation of a State which prescribes such qualifications as the above should be reduced in accordance with the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment , the late judge Cooley , one of the foremost authorities on American constitutional law declared , " It is not likely , however , that any such position would be sustained . To require the payment of a capitation tax is no denial of suffrage , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be classed with registration or observance of any other preliminary to insure fairness and protect against fraud . Nor can it be said that to require ability to read is any denial of suffrage . Ability to read is something within the power of any man : it is not difficult to obtain it and it is no hardship to require it . On the contrary , the requirement only by indirection compels one to appropriate a personal benefit he might otherwise neglect . It denies to no man the suffrage but the privilege is freely tendered to all , subject only to a condition that is beneficial in its performance and light in its burden . " If , however , these restrictions are to be construed as amounting to a denial of the suffrage , Congress must ascertain the aggregate number in each class who are thereby deprived of the right to vote . Obviously this is impossible . Where the payment of the poll tax is voluntary as in Mississippi thousands of persons neglect to pay the tax not necessarily because they are unable to do so but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comply with this reasonable requirement . If , however , there be any who from pecuniary circumstances are unable to pay the tax required , to such persons and to such only is there a denial of the suffrage and they alone should be excluded from the basis of apportionment . Certainly there is no practicable method of ascertaining their numbers . The problem of ascertaining the number of those excluded from the suffrage by the educational test is less difficult . At present  | the decennial census returns show the number of male illiterates twenty-one years of age and over in such States . But , as the percentage of illiteracy is rapidly decreasing , it would be necessary to take the census biennially in order to obtain an equitable basis of exclusion . The problem , however , is greatly complicated where , as in Mississippi and as was the case in South Carolina from 1895 to 1898 , the " understanding " provision exists as an alternative qualification . By the terms of the Mississippi constitution every illiterate man of reasonable intelligence white or black is eligible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have always insisted was intended to enlarge and not restrict the suffrage . Whatever may be said against it as an ingenious device for admitting the ignorant white man and excluding the negro the Supreme Court of the United States has declared , in a case in which this question was the main issue , that there was no evidence that this provision was taken advantage of to discriminate against the negro and that it was not therefore in violation of the Fifteenth Amendment. * Congress , therefore , has no right to assume that all of the 118,000 male illiterates of voting age in the State are denied the suffrage . In fact the contrary should be the more natural presumption . Certainly those who advocate a reduction of representation would be the first to admit this as regards white illiterates . If this be true Congress must ascertain the aggregate number of illiterates who upon application to be registered have failed to pass the " understanding " test and exclude them and no others from the basis of apportionment . There can be no denial until there has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few of the illiterate classes ever feel sufficient interest in the election to submit to an ordeal which might prove embarrassing to them , it would be necessary for Congress to require them all to make application for registration and submit to the " understanding " test and through some agency of its own ascertain the number who failed to pass . This is of course impracticable . The same difficulty is presented in ascertaining the numbers actually excluded by other provisions in the Southern State constitutions . The bills introduced in the Senate at the recent session of Congress by Mr. Platt , of New York , and in the House by Mr. Sherman , of the same State make no provision for ascertaining  | this indispensable preliminary information but merely assume that the suffrage has been denied . " Whereas " runs the preamble to their bills , " Congress is satisfied " that the right to vote in certain States has been abridged in certain proportions , therefore be it enacted that the representation of the said States in Congress be reduced in the same ratio . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills that they are directed against negro disfranchisement yet strangely enough both include in the list of States whose representation is to be reduced the names of at least five ( Arkansas , Florida , Georgia , Tennessee and Texas ) none of whose constitutions or statutes contain any provision which by reasonable construction can be said to be aimed at the disfranchisement of the negro . The only requirement of these States which might exclude any considerable number of persons is that the voters shall have paid a small tax. * On the other hand Maryland , Missouri and Kentucky , all of which States contain a negro population of voting age in numerical strength not far different from that of Florida , are to suffer no loss of representation under the Platt and Sherman bills . Looked at in the most charitable light the Platt and Sherman bills are unequal in their operation , lacking in consistency and are based on mere assumptions as to the number of persons in each State who have been denied the suffrage . The bill introduced by Mr. Morrell is more in accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assumption that before Congress may reduce the representation of the State it must ascertain the proportion in which the suffrage has been denied to the male citizens of such State . It authorizes the Secretary of the Department of Commerce and Labor to procure this information through the Census Bureau by means of a biennial census and report the same to the Speaker of the House of Representatives on the 4th of March , 1907 , and biennially thereafter . The bill does not , however , undertake to settle the all important question of what constitutes a denial of the suffrage . Nor does it lay down any rule or standard for ascertaining the extent of denial in the various cases described above .                     