@@430211

 |p1177  THE interminable struggle for existence among living organisms always has been and yet is the basic law of progress . Because of it the weaker individual , the weaker race , is relentlessly forced to give way to the stronger , the more vigorous , the more unapproachable type . The better survives and the best is never reached ; nothing is permanent . We may assume that this law is inviolable , in material things at least , and that , so long as life lasts upon the globe there will be no cessation , no peace , however much the law may be modified . There are living upon the earth at the present time less than three thousand species of the great class of vertebrates which we call mammals . More than forty-five hundred extinct species of the same class have already been cataloged , and since nearly one-half of this number have been discovered within the past twenty-five years , one-third indeed within the boundaries of the Argentine Republic alone , we may confidently expect that twice or thrice that number will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even will be but a fraction of the great numbers which have lived and perished in the past . If we estimate very conservatively that there are now in existence upon the earth two millions or more distinct species of animals and plants , we may , without doing violence to sobriety , place the number of forms which have lived and become extinct in the past at twenty millions or more ; indeed , were we to say forty millions we doubtless would come much nearer the truth . Faunas and floras have been repeatedly swept away to be replaced by new ones , and always , upon the whole , by ones of higher rank . The very meaning of evolution is that the sum total of specializations in living organisms progressively increases from year to year , from age to age ; and such , indeed , has been true so far and well as we have traced life through the millions  |p1173  of years of the past . We have not yet reached the beginnings of this history ; we probably never shall . We have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume , of the first half perhaps , but we may confidently believe that such of the history as we have read teaches no different lessons than would that unknown part were some good fortune to unseal its pages to us . To say that evolution is the law of progress is but to say that the early forms of life were generalized forms , potential forms , having within them the possibilities of higher development . In the border village of fifty years ago the artisan did many things equally well and equally poorly . But he had within him the possibility of higher things ; with increased competition he became a specialist , doing fewer things , but doing them better . But he still has as much to fear from competition as ever , for there are now many other specialists of his kind . The earliest true vertebrates , the fishes , were all potential forms ; unthinkingly we might even say that some of the earlier ones were higher forms than those which succeeded them , forgetting that specialization is merely the closer adaptation of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the well-being of the species , tho not necessarily of the individual . Some of these early fishes breathed air in part , as do a few of their descendants now living , and doubtless gave origin to the great class of amphibians . But the fishes , for the most part , went on into a greater specialization as purely aquatic animals , peculiarly fitting them for those places in life which offered the greater opportunities . They are to-day , so far as numbers and varieties are concerned , perhaps the dominant type of vertebrate life . Those which were left behind found neither avenue of freedom open to them , the land or the sea , and they have at last nearly succumbed , onl ' a few hundred kinds being left among the thousands of their relatives . And the history of all succeeding vertebrate life has been a repetition of that of the fishes , tho to some , as the amphibians and the reptiles , fate has seemed less kind . From the early amphibians , long ago , in Paleozoic times , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I may use such an expression ? that is , a very potential branch ? the reptiles , which very soon divided into many groups , the most of which sooner or later rose to prominence , only to disappear forever . Of the fifteen or twenty main divisions of these animals only four or five have survived , and some of these are decadent . Soon after the birth of the reptiles and from their more potential types there arose the two classes we call birds and mammals , which the earlier of the two we do not know , and from these early forms , still potential types , but with possibilities of larger things than specialization seemingly had left to the reptiles or fishes , have come the dominant forms of later times . Not all at once . While birds and mammals were still potentialities , still generalized and lowly , the reptiles had become actualities , in the air , the sea and upon land , and , through long millions of years they had to await their turn , gradually gathering strength for the contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it included intellectuality , and intellectuality , other things being equal , always has conquered and always will conquer . High specialization , then , has been a factor in the extinction of the many animals of the past . Not over-specialization as an organism ? for such over-specialization must mean the acquirement of organs and functions of no use to the species , an improbability , to say the least ? but that over-specialization which limits too closely the sphere of activities , or prevents the possibility of adaptation to new environments , or that one-sided specialization which weakens the reproductive energies . That peculiar skill which made in olden days the stage driver best fitted for his work , best fitted to compete with others of like vocation , especially unfitted him for the vocation of a locomotive engineer . Stephenson 's Rocket was a potentiality which has driven out or will eventually drive out the stage . That high specialization has not proceeded with equal step is also apparent . The turtles , tho highly specialized reptiles , have remained for long ages with but little change , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  |p1174  by the turmoil of modern life since the time of Guttenberg . Branches have gone from the turtles , it is true , seeking greater freedom , but coming to grief after brief seasons of mighty power , as exemplified by the monstrous sea-turtles of the later Mesozoic , animals measuring twelve feet across the shells . The lowly lizards , after waiting since Triassic times , have now acquired a dominant position among the reptiles for themselves and their descendants , and , like the bony fishes , will in much probability soon be the only representatives of their class upon the earth . As a corollary to the fact that high specialization has inevitably led , directly or indirectly , sooner or later , to the extinction of the species is also the fact that , other - things being equal , high specialization means a briefer existence for the genus , the species , and , possibly , for the individual . Certain individual reptiles have been known to live more than one hundred and fifty years , and a goose even has a greater span of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longest known life of any species is that of the brachiopod Leptena rhomboidalis , which began in the Ordovician and ended in the Carboniferous , a long span as we measure time , tho of only respectable geological longevity . But there is no such example of longevity among vertebrates , and briefest of all was the geological range of the higher mammals of the past . No living species of mammal is known to reach back of the Pleistocene , and no genus goes further than the Miocene , in all probability . This fact , the briefer duration in time of the higher vertebrates , is well understood by geologists , a fact often enunciated by the late Professor Marsh . It is because of this brief duration and restricted distribution of such species and genera that the testimony furnished by their remains in the rocks is so conclusive as to the age of the strata containing them . A living organism finds relative peace only in so far as it can adapt itself closely to its peculiar environments . In the natural course of events it must , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confronted with impending dangers , and for all other creatures , as for us , eternal vigilance is the price of liberty . If it can not flee from those dangers it must meet them ; if it is strong and powerful it will resist for a longer or shorter period , and perhaps conquer . But in the end it must adapt itself to those which it can not conquer , or " go out of business . " Were the glaciers again to come suddenly from the north far to the south , a tortoise or a snake must be driven to perish in the gulf , but a pigeon finds safety in flight across the waters , and a rabbit takes on a warmer pelage and burrows in the snow . A species , then , like an individual , finds safety in adaptation to new conditions , just so long as it is possible , just so long as it is itelf plastic . But you can not teach an old dog new tricks , and the species must eventually become extinct , like the individual , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things . Were physical conditions absolutely fixed , were light , heat and moisture absolutely unchangeable , following each other with mathematical precision and in unvarying quantities , it might be assumed that the equilibrium of all nature would follow , and evolution cease . Possibly under the Agassizian view of multiple creation such a condition of stability under fixed conditions would be a corollary . But I can not believe , nor do I think that any naturalist can , that were such fixed environmental conditions suddenly to become operative organic nature would become stable . There are hereditary influences at work , the accumulation of forces which have acted through past ages , physiologic forces , which affect more or less profoundly the action of environmental conditions . Birth , growth , decay and death are the inherent attributes of the individual , and I believe that they are the inherent attributes of species , genera , families and orders as well that , in other words , nothing of life is eternal , unending , no matter what the surrounding conditions may be . Perhaps we may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the extinction of the animals of earth , but it is a very convenient theory at least in explaining many things which otherwise seem inexplicable . Horses , forms doubtless allied to those  |p1175  page deleted  |p1176  those limits there are , speculatively , vast possibilities yet . The species as a whole is not decadent , or at least we have no evidence that such is the case . Everything goes to show that his physical and reproductive energies are , upon the whole , as great as they ever were , tho there may be partial race suicide ; and certainly his mental powers have not waned in historic times . From the standpoint of race ? that is , variety ? the same struggle for supremacy exists and always will so long as he exists . The stronger and more vitalized will succeed , the weak will fail ? not necessarily the most intellectual , for man must advance in both physical and mental powers pari passe ; otherwise , like the saber-toothed cats , one-sided development may become weakness by lessening his potentialities . And those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now deem inferior . The Mongolians , in our arrogance , not long ago we looked upon as inferior to us , but we are rapidly changing our opinions in these days . Even as the mammals themselves remained so long in a humble station to at last overthrow the then lords of creation , so , too , it is not impossible that some race in the obscurity of to-day or to-morrow will be the stock from which other and dominant races , yea , even other species and other genera than Homo sapiens , may eventually arise . Will man ever become extinct ? If we are to apply the conclusions derived from the history of the past he will eventually . If so , when ? The answer to this question is so purely speculative that no one of rational mind would presume to answer definitely . The paleontologist , unless forced , never ventures to estimate in years the duration of any form of life in the past . How idle , then , to conjecture for the future ! If he ever becomes extinct will he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a generalized stem . Such has been the history of the past . If so , from what animals ? Here the limits of sane speculation have been nearly reached . 1MIay we assume that his line of descent is a dominant one and indefinitely perpetual ? That from it will arise in the future new species , new genera , new families ? Possibly . I see no fatal objections to such an assumption ; indeed , no great improbabilities . In late geological history at least the law of brain development as emphasized , if not suggested , by Professor Marsh seems to hold good ? that is , there has been a general advancement , in a physiologic sense at least , in the size of the brain as a characteristic specialization of the higher , perhaps all , forms of life . This brain evolution seems to have reached its ultimate possibilities in the genus Homo , but one would be rash to say that an even greater potentiality is quite impossible for other lines of descent , for other mammals , for birds or even reptiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanishing point , as we descend the scale below the primates . These , then , are the conclusions of a paleontologist : No present species or genus of life will endure forever ; that man the species , man the genus , man the family will eventually become extinct , to be succeeded by some higher organisms , his descendants or the descendants of some other creature now living . So far as these speculations deal with the past they may have value ; so far as they deal with the future they are hardly worth while , not at all worth while , were it not that such speculations as to the future destinies of our kind are closely interwoven with present and earnest beliefs . And , furthermore , even these speculations , tenuous as they are , may be vitiated by the existence of a Higher Power . Is there such ? I know not . I have only faith and hope .                     