@@485980

NEW YORK , THURSDAY , DECEMBER 12 , 1001 The Week . President Roosevelt and the Senators and Representatives who immediately follow his example in proposing measures to punish anarchist 's and end anarchism , illustrate the same difficulty which was encountered by the people who , directly after Mr. McKinley 's assassination , demanded the passage of laws to " stamp out anarchism . " " No man or body of men preaching anarchistic doctrines , " says Mr. Roosevelt , " should be allowed at large , " and he suggests the propriety of prohibiting the coming to this country of " anarchists or persons professing principles hostile to all government . " Senator Burrows of Michigan has introduced a bill forbidding the landing of any " alien anarchist , " and providing for the return to his native country of any alien who may slip in and is afterwards " found to be an anarchist . " But all this is based on the assumption that an anarchist is as easily identifiable as a negro or a Chinaman . What makes a man an anarchist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Mr. Burrows apparently thinks that , in some cases at least , he may be detected by inspection of his body , as in the days of witchcraft . His bill provides that the investigation by immigration authorities which it authorizes may " even go to the extent of examining the persons of suspected aliens for marks indicative of membership in anarchistic societies . " The presumption is that the Michigan Senator has heard of cases where members of anarchist societies have had some sign tattooed on their bodies which would " give them away . " But anarchists would , of course , abandon this practice if they found that it got them into trouble . As for testing an alien 's sentiments about anarchism by questioning him , the difficulty is that any man who disbelieves in government of any sort is likely to lie to a Government official . It is very hard to see how we can go far beyond punishing the man in this country who incites to the murder of officials and the forcible overthrow of government , and keeping out the man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Burrows 's proposition is outdone in absurdity by Senator Hoar 's advocacy of an international scheme by which all countries having lawful governments should deport anarchists to some island , " where they could put their theories to the test ... " If the Massachusetts Senator were given to jesting , we a desire to show how ridiculous the current cures for anarchy really are It is hardly possible to treat the suggestion seriously . Men who try to overthrow all governments are really either criminals or lunatics , and should be treated as such . The public opinion of no civilized nation would justify the treatment of criminals or lunatics in any such fashion as putting them on an island by themselves . No more will the public opinion of the world . The moral objections to the policy are conclusive , even if it were not obviously in itself wholly impracticable . President Roosevelt has evidently been imposed upon . Among the nominations which he sent to the Senate on Monday was that of Henry D. Saylor of Pennsylvania for United States Consul at Dawson City , Yukon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Roosevelt doubtless looked no further into the application of Mr. Saylor for a place than to learn that he has been a member of the Pennsylvania Senate and has been endorsed by some people of standing in his State , as any office-seeker is pretty sure to be . The truth , however , is that he is one of the most disreputable politicians that the Quay machine ever developed , and that he was detected only a few years ago in an attempt to defraud the Treasury of his State . Exposure caused such a scandal that Quay feared to let Saylor run for reelection in the close county which he represented , and decided to unload him upon the McKinley Administration . He was therefore endorsed by the machine for a place in the consular service . As soon as this scheme was made public , the business men of Philadelphia sent a committee to the White House to protest against such an appointment on moral grounds , and to tell the President that it " would be regarded as scandalous by the right-thinking people of Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. McKinley promised the Business Men 's League to give their protest " due consideration " ; but when the Quay organization insisted upon the carrying out of the job , he yielded , and Saylor was nominated for Consul at Matanzas , Cuba , in October , 1897 . The breaking out of the war with Spain , a few months later , deprived him of his place , and Mr. McKinley never gave him another . A formal petition in behalf of reciprocity in trade has been presented to Congress by the Cuban delegates . They ask that Cuban sugar and molasses be admitted to the United States free of duty , and that other Cuban products be adlevied and collected under the tariff laws of the United States upon similar products of the most favored nation . " In return for these concessions , they offer to admit all products of the- United States at half the rates of duty levied and collected under the tariff laws of Cuba on similar products of the most favored nation . Probably these delegates have learned from our own favored producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect to get , so that , when the business is taken in hand seriously , they may have an ample basis for compromise . Nobody expects that Cuban sugar will be admitted free of duty . Probably the Cuban delegates do not expect a reduction of more than 20 per cent . This would put their industry on a prosperous footing . If granted , it ought to be extended to the other West India Islands on the same reciprocal basis . In any event , the United States ought not to bind itself for all time to grant better terms to one foreign country than to others . Besides this , we have no interest in ruining our customers in the other countries south of us by giving a preponderant advantage to Cuba . Gen. Chaffee 's first annual report is not a very encouraging document , despite his praise of the military government of Manila and his belief that a majority of the inhabitants of the islands wish for peace There is no assurance that , even where they desire the cessation of hostilities , the natives are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebels , it appears , are still in arms , all efforts to bring about a general surrender in Southern Luzon having failed Nowhere does Gen. Chaffee make use of language which confirms the view expressed by President Roosevelt in his message , that " the insurrection has become an affair of local banditti and marauders who deserve no higher regard than the brigands of portions of the Old World . " Exactly the same language is used by Chamberlain and the most rabid supporters of the English Government about the Boers . Yet the English troops feel that it is a very respectable kind of guerrilla warfare with which they are contending , just as Gen. Chaffee speaks of his enemies as guerrillas . Two of the General 's recommendations are quite opposed to the views of the Government . He urges that no further material reduction of troops be made before January 1 , 1903 , and opposes Gen. Corbin 's plan of concentrating the troops in large bodies except in the vicinity of Manila . Gen. Chaffee also declares that there is but one sure way of ascertaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the army . There was a meeting of the Chicago Branch of the American Transvaal League at the Auditorium on Sunday evening . Mr. Bourke Cockran delivered an address , which was listened to by an audience of 4,000 . At the conclusion of his speech , Mr. Cockran expressed the opinion that President Roosevelt might put an end to the war in South Africa by a single word . " One word spoken to the English Ambassador or in the hearing of the English nation , " he said , " would restore peace , establish justice , secure liberty to those burghers , promote enormously the prosperity of the human race , and bring immeasurable glory to the American nation . . . . Will Theodore Roosevelt improve this opportunity for himself , his country , and the whole human race ? " We think that he will not . No President of the United States who holds that the Filipinos are banditti who must be put down with fire and sword , can offer any advice to a nation that holds the same opinion about the Boers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's message to Congress a disposition to regard the future independence of the Philippines as an open question He has said no word which commits him to the policy of holding a foreign race in subjection . He has held out some encouragement to those who regard such a policy as destructive of the principles of self-government . But there is still a long bridge to be crossed before he , or the American people as a whole , can set up for tutors to Great Britain in the science of Imperialism , or colonization , or conquest , or whatever name may be given to the doings in South Africa . Gov . Boutwell , or Herbert Welsh , or William J. Bryan , if occupying the Presidential chair , might say words to the British Ambassador which Mr. Roosevelt could not say , and never will say while we have an army hunting down the so-called banditti in Luzon and Samar . Recent revelations of the costliness of the army transport service have revived the discussion as to whether this part of the Government service should not be under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the army . During the past year , over four millions of dollars were expended on the fleet of antiquated vessels bought in 1898 at prices far beyond their value . One of the largest , it appears from an official report , " carries practically no freight , requires constant repairs , and burns enormous quantities of coal , besides being too cumbersome . " Very few of the fleet are suited for transports , the report declares . Moreover , there have been a number of accidents , and several complete wrecks , while some ships have been sold at but a tithe of their original cost . ' Under the circumstances the navy could hardly do worse , while English experience shows that the service would be in much better hands were trained naval officers in charge . It is altogether probable , however , that before this change can be made , the transport service will be abolished . The traffic between Cuba and Porto Rico has now been given to private companies , and Secretary Root , in his annual report , states his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large passenger and freight fleet in competition with merchant steamers in time of peace . There is not much more to be said at the present time , regarding the wild performances of Amalgamated Copper shares on the stock market , than that the whole episode illustrates in the strongest way the need of that publicity of accounts urged by President Roosevelt . The Copper Trust , as every one knows , has never published any report whatever . Even when its promoters asked the investing public , a year and a half ago , for $75,000,000 to use in buying up copper mines , nothing was said as to what the Trust already owned , or what was the earning power of the mines to which it held option or title . Nobody outside the management has at any time known , since then , what the Trust was actually earning . It was suspected in some quarters that the concern had been organized , like the famous Barnato Bank of 1895 , as a convenient vehicle for " unloading " on the outside public , at extravagant prices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recede from the high-water Mark of the period 's prosperity . There was no way of verifying or refuting such assertions ; all that the outside investor knew was that certain men were in the company . " Even in this regard , he could not know , of course , whether they were not cautiously climbing out . That the Stock Exchange value of the shares of such a company should be cut in half within ten weeks of the first development of unfavorable bona-fide news , need hardly cause surprise . The ' question now is , how to prevent recurrence of such scandals , and it is not easy of answer . The Stock Exchange , which practically puts such securities in touch with the investor , - has been appealed to in the matter , and some reform of methods here is doubtless possible . The Exchange lays down an excellent code of rules as to what a company must show when its shares apply for admission to the official list . But in the case of enterprises like the Copper Trust , it nullifies the whole of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for trading , where no report whatever is required . Sooner or later , this rather naive anomaly must be reformed ; but , unfortunately , the reform can not be retroactive . Statements of earnings can not well be exacted from companies whose shares are already on the so-called " unlisted list , " and it is doubtful if they could be required even in the listing of a block of newly issued shares by a company already represented on the list . The single safeguard left , apparently , is compulsory publicity , under the auspices of the Federal Government . To this , in our opinion , the situation must eventually reduce itself . Since the Amalgamated Copper episode , and the subsequent publication of the Steel Corporation 's earnings , we do not believe that the plan will be seriously opposed by any properly and honestly conducted trade organization . The Nebraska anti-Trust case has been finally closed by a decision of the Supreme Court of that State . The suit was brought by Attorney-General Smyth , who contended that the Standard Oil Company should be excluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the acts passed in 1897 . Those laws gave an elaborate definition of a Trust as " a , combination of capital , skill , or acts by any person or persons " to control prices or monopolize industries , and made the organization of such Trusts a criminal conspiracy . As a penalty for violation of the acts , they imposed fines , and provided that the charters of domestic corporations should be forfeited , while foreign companies should be prohibited from doing business within the State . The outcome once more demonstrates the inefficiency of anti-Trust legislation , and it further illustrates the difficulty of getting evidence even from the books of the corporation itself , since the turning-point in the case was the investigation of the accounts of the Standard Oil Company by a referee . This inquiry resulted in a report recommending that the suit be dismissed , and the present decision is the necessary sequel to the referee 's findings . No exceptions to the findings were filed . " There are no Trusts , " exclaimed Senator Hanna , a year ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fictitious issue . " It is apparently in this Hannian sense that Privy Councillor Goldberger of Berlin has declared that the German sugar Martell , or combination , is not a Trust . It is not secret , he says ; it does not include all sugar manufacturers , and its members " do not lose their financial independence . " Of course it maintains prices , regulates production , receives a bounty from the Government , and keeps new factories from starting  --  but then , he ingenuously adds , what use in discussing these things ? They are merely incidents in business organization . Herr Goldberger 's argument takes on even more the aspect of a " business proposition " when he contends that foreigners have no cause for complaint , since they , get their sugar cheaper because of the German combination . This sounds strangely like ? some of the discoveries of our Industrial Commission concerning foreign prices for American goods . German consumers do not worry over the conditions of American production because they get our goods cheap , so why should we not return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany who are annoyed by the Trusts , but they belong to the same stupid class with Americans who want removal of protective duties on Trust-made products . Dr. Paache , a member of the Reichstag , and one of the speakers on the new German Tariff Bill , is a professor in the University of Halle , and , therefore , ought to know better than to say that Germany must put herself in an attitude of defence against the American tariff policy . Apparently , he means by this that , if the United States enacts a prohibitory duty on German textiles , Germany can defend herself by increasing the duties on American food products . This policy is sometimes called retaliation , and sometimes patriotism , and sometimes simply defence . We in America know the value of words in concealing ideas on this subject , and we recognize Dr. Paache 's dexterity in the use of them . We know also their real meaning as commonly employed in tariff debates . The only effect of the new German tariff is to change the distribution of the earnings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and some less than they now get . This change affects mainly the laboring classes , because they are the great majority of the people . The special aim of the new German tariff is to make the laborers pay more for their food , but there is not a line in the proposed measure which promises to give them more work to do or more pay for what they are now doing . To call this scheme by the name of patriotism or of defence is a complete inversion of terms . Instead of defending German industry , it constitutes a deadly attack upon it . Instead of being a patriotic movement , it favors other nations , and especially England in her rivalry with Germany as a manufacturing and exporting country . As for retaliation , nobody in the United States will feel the blow half so much as Germany herself if . she passes the pending bill . The enthusiasm called forth by Herr Bebel 's speech on the new German tariff on Thursday shows what a powerful weapon the new bill has placed in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should benefit the agricultural laborer , as it pretends to do , the result would be merely to tax 85 per cent . of the population for the advantage of the 15 per cent . who work the soil . Herr Hebei , however , was correct in maintaining that the advantage=would accrue to the land-owner , and not to the farm laborer , since there would be nothing to compel landlords to pay out their larger profits in the shape of higher wages . His contention that the condition of German agriculture is , if anything , better than formerly , although he adduced some striking facts in support of it , is perhaps not so sound as his argument concerning the effects of the tax . The Government 's defence of the tariff as a weapon to be used in securing favorable commercial treaties is misleading , since little short of a national uprising could secure the ' withdrawal of such special favors when once granted . Moreover , the effectiveness of the bill as a measure of retaliation is a hypocritical pretence . The erection of a monument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enthusiastic , if somewhat tardy , tribute by French men of letters to the illustrious exile who passed his later years in Paris The fact that practically all attempts to pay honor to the memory of Heine in Germany have been thwarted , by either official opposition or religious intolerance , seems to show that there was something temperamentally un-German in the most brilliant " writer that Germany has produced ; for it is impossible to believe that resentment of his satire is still a living issue . Possibly the grievance against Heine is not merely that he was in some respects un-German , but that he was more than German . He was , in fact , the most cosmopolitan writer that Germany has ever produced , and a cosmopolitan writer is never fully honored in a nationalistic community . It should be remembered that , in spite of the admirable educational facilities of the nation , and the uncommon knowledge of foreign tongues which its people possess , the German temperament remains irreducibly German . Germans annex certain territories of foreign literature for the intellectual profit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign field for the sheer pleasure of that kind of journeying The dilettantism and tolerance of a Heine are genuinely antipathetic to so stalwart a nationalism . He will remain an especial delight to a small class of Germans , as he will to the reading world at large ; but even while they sing his songs , his fellow-countrymen will feel , and perhaps justly , that he is so unlike themselves that honor to him could be paid only as to a distinguished foreigner . He certainly is more at home in Paris , where he lies , and where people delight to honor him . It remains to be seen whether the dispatch from Paris announcing that the appointment of M. Lucien Guitry to the stage-managership of the Theatre-Frangals has restored peace to that institution will be justified by later " devel opments . When the jealousies of actors have once been aroused , it is generally a long time before they are quieted . There is no more susteptible , vain , or suspicious class in the world . But ut is plain that the meditated rebellion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been nipped in the bud very effectually , and it is not likely that anything more will be heard of it for some time to come , at all events . The abilities of M. Guitry as a stage-manager are more or less uncertain , but , as he took the second prize for tragedy at the Conservatory twenty years ago , and has since then won high reputation as an actor at the Odeon , the Gymnase , and other theatres , as well as in the support of Sarah Bernhardt , it is only reasonable to suppose that he understands his business pretty thoroughly . As for M. Claretie , he can now devote all his energies to the choice of good plays , which the company will have to act , in accordance with his direction . This is as it should be . He and the Theatre-Francais are to be congratulated upon his notable victory . The Compulsory-Arbitration Bill has been finally approved in New South Wales . It modifies the New Zealand system in several important respects . Any inefficiency of compulsory arbitration as there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No such complaint can now be made in New South Wales . The weak and quarrelsome boards of conciliation are abandoned , and the sole and ultimate power of deciding labor disputes is vested in a Court of Arbitration , to which disputes are to be carried directly . Furthermore , New South Wales does not , like New Zealand , leave any loopholes for private labor controversies Strikes and lockouts are prohibited by the act , and even the suspension of industry in order to remove a dispute from the jurisdiction of the court is made a misdemeanor , punishable by a heavy . fine or by imprisonment . It would be hard to imagine more inclusive powers than those vested in the Court of Arbitration . It may practically determine its own authority in concrete cases , prescribe its own rules of procedure , investigate the business of firms and individuals , and , at any time , vary its own decisions and reopen any dispute . No body of men could more closely approach the authority of an earthly Providence . It need hardly be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as they are called , " industrial unions . " Individual laborers have practically no standing before the Court , and it is even provided that minimum wages may be fixed , and that the members of unions may be given preference in all cases over non-union men who apply for work . This statute will at least put the theory of compulsory arbitration to a thorough test .                     