@@430295

 | PRINCESS PALATINE , who tried to forget her political disappointments by studying philosophy , wrote one day to Descartes and asked him to explain to her in a letter the mechanism of the relationship between soul and body . It was , of course , necessary that the letter be not too long and that it be , at the same time , clear . The philosopher was able very easily to meet the first condition , but it was not the same in regard to the second . This was only too evident from the obscurity which characterized his reply . The embarrassment which I have experienced in the preparation of this article resembles that of Descartes on the occasion just referred to . I am asked to crowd into a few columns of a periodical an account of the studies ma d e concerning the evolution of matter which I originally developed in a big volume of some four hundred pages . All I can do under the circumstances is to point out the results of my investigations , without entering into any details as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the first place , I must call attention , in a few words , to the ideas which prevailed scarcely ten years ago concerning the permanence of matter , even tho transformation may occur . The indestructibility of matter is one of the small number of dogmas which modern science has accepted from ancient science without modification . From the time of the great Roman poet Lucretius , who made it the fundamental element of his philosophical system , down to the days of the immortal Lavoisier , who planted it on a base that was considered eternal , this sacred dogma had never been weakened and nobody dreamed of calling it into question . Matter itself appeared to be inert , and to give it animation some outside force was necessary . Modern science considered this force to be a transformation of a grand entity , energy , to which had been given the attribute of immortality ; so that while everything else in the universe was condemned to perish , two elements alone , matter and energy , escaped this fatal law . Tho undergoing ceaseless transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts brought out by my researches and the results springing there-  | from prove , on the contrary , that matter is not eternal and can vanish without return . They establish , furthermore , that the atom is a reservoir of an energy never before suspected , tho it surpasses in its might all the forces with which we are acquainted and is perhaps the origin of most of them ? especially electricity and solar heat . In fine , they reveal the fact that between the ponderable and the imponderable , which up to the present have been considered as separated absolutely , lies an intermediate world . And these researches have led me to formulate the following principles , to the demonstration of which my book , " The Evolution of Matter , " is devoted : 1 . Matter , which was formerly supposed indestructible , gradually diminishes by the continual dissociation of the atoms which compose it . 2 . The products of the dematerilization of matter constitute by their properties substances which are intermediary between ponderable bodies and the imponderable ether ? that is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered as widely apart as the poles . 3 . Matter , heretofore looked upon as inert and unable to give out . more energy than had been communicated to it , is , on the contrary , an immense reservoir of energy , intra-atomic energy , which it can spend without borrowing anything from without . 4 . It is from this intra-atomic energy , which manifests itself during the dissociation of matter , that spring most of the forces of the universe , especially electricity and solar heat . 5 . Force and matter are two different forms of the same thing ; matter represents a stable form of intra-atomic energy , while heat , light , electricity , etc. , represent unstable forms of the same energy . 6 . By dissociating the atoms ? that is to say , by dematerializing matter , the stable form of energy called matter is simply transformed into its unstable forms known under the names of electricity , light , heat , etc . Matter , therefore , is being continually transformed into energy . 7 . The law of evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple bodies ? chemical species are no more invariable than living species . Very numerous are the facts which go to prove that the atom is susceptible of a dissociation apt to lead to forms where it loses all its material qualities before disappearing in the ether . Among the most important of these should be noted the emission by all bodies of particles animated by a tremendous velocity , capable of rendering air a conductor of electricity , of traversing obstacles and of being divided by a magnetic field . No known force being capable of producing such effects , and especially this emission of particles whose velocity approaches that of light , it was evident that we were in the presence of phenomena of which we were completely ignorant . Several theories were advanced for their explanation , only one of which ? that of the dissociation of atoms , which I formulated at the origin of these researches ? has resisted all criticism ; and for this reason it is almost universally accepted today by the scientific world . A small number of bodies , such as radium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid dissociation , and this it was that lead to the discovery of this phenomenon . But all bodies possess in a feeble degree this same characteristic which the radio-active substances possess to such a high degree ; and this can be increased thru the influence of certain agencies , such as light , chemical reactions , etc . The dissociation of matter is therefore a general law , which may be formulated as follows : Under diverse influences , of light , chemical reactions , electrical action , and often even spontaneously , the atoms of simple and corn . pound bodies are dissociated and emit effluvia belonging to the family of cathodic rays . We do not yet know all the products of the dissociation of matter , but so far the following have been established : Emanations , positive and negative ions , electrons , cathodic rays and X rays . By their properties they form intermediaries between matter and ether . Whether they be engendered by the cathode of Crookes 's tube , by the radiation of a metal under the action of light or by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thorium , radium , etc. , the products of the  | dissociation of matter are of the same nature ; they undergo the same magnetic deviation and the ratio between their charge and their mass is the same . Their velocity alone varies and this velocity is always very great . The products of the dematerialization of matter are especially recognized by their properties of rendering air a conductor of electricity and of being deviated by an electric field . The last of these characteristics has made it possible to measure their velocity . It may cause astonishment to declare that it is possible to measure the velocity of particles which travel at the rate of some sixty thousand miles per second . But this is easily done . A narrow pencil of rays emanating from a very radio-active body is thrown on a phosphorescent screen , where it produces a spot of light . This pencil of electrified particles can be deviated by an electric field , can be deflected by means of a magnet placed in such a way that its line of force is at right angles to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the luminous spot on the phosphorescent screen marks the deviation of the particles caused by a magnetic field whose intensity is known . The force necessary to deviate to a certain degree the projection of a known mass , making it possible to determine the velocity of the latter , it is evident that from the deviation of the cathodic particles it is possible to estimate the velocity . It is a little less than one-tenth of the velocity of light , or about i8,000 miles per second , and sometimes attains nine-tenths of the velocity of light . When the pencil of rays contains particles of different velocity they trace a line , more or less long , on the phosphorescent screen , instead of producing a single point , and thus the velocity of each one of these rays may he computed . We may , then , declare that if matter can not be created it can at least be destroyed without any possibility of return . For the old scientific adage , Nothing is created , nothing is lost , must now be substituted , Nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burn a body or try to destroy its elements by any other means , these elements are simply transformed and are not lost , because the scales show that the weight of the body has not OF MATTER I85 changed . But the elements of the atoms which are dissociated are , on the contrary , irrevocably destroyed . They have lost all the characteristics of matter , including the most fundamental of all , weight . The scales no longer give any sign of their existence . Nothing can bring them back to a material state . They have vanished into the immensity of the ether which fills space , and no more form a part of the universe . Whence does matter draw the enormous amount of energy required to project into space particles , dissociated from itself , with a velocity that can exceed sixty thousand miles per second ? This projective force is tremendous . To transmit to a Lebel rifle ball a like velocity it would be necessary to have an arm that could hold 1,340,000 barrels of powder , each weighing over one hundred pounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy was in matter itself and not outside of it . Matter is , in fact , an immense reservoir of energy composed of a body of imponderable elements held in equilibrium by the rotations , attractions and repulsions of the parts with which it is made up . From this equilibrium spring the material properties of bodies , such as weight , form and apparent unchangeability . This conception of matter leads us to consider it to be a variety of energy . To those forms of energy already known ? heat , light , etc. ? must now be added that of intra-atomic matter or energy . It is characterized by its colossal powers and the largeness of the amount in proportion to the smallness of the volume . It follows from the preceding statements that by dissociating atoms we simply give to the variety of energy called matter a different form , such as electricity or light , for example . But in what forms can intra-atomic energy exist ? How can such immense force be concentrated in such very small particles ? At first sight the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because we are always accustomed to associate greatness of mechanical power with the dimensions of the apparatus which produces this power . Thus a machine of a thousand horse power has a certain bigness . This comes from the principle of the association of ideas , and  | produces a false conception due to the inferiority of our mechanical systems . A simple calculation shows how false it is . Thus one of the elementary formula of dynamics establishes the fact that one may increase at will the energy of a body of constant size by simply augmenting its velocity . Let us , therefore , imagine a machine formed of a pin 's head turning in the bezel of a ring . If its gyratory force were sufficiently increased its mechanical power would equal that of several thousand locomotives . I have calculated that a little bronze sphere ( density , 8.842 ) , with a circumference of three millimeters , and , consequently , weighing one gram , turning in a vacuum around one of its diameters with an equatorial velocity equal to that of dissociated particles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of 203,873 millions of kilogrammeters , which would be about equal to the work performed in an hour by 1,510 locomotives of an average power of 500 horses . Such is the quantity of energy contained in a small ball in rotation whose velocity would be equal to that of the particles of dissociated matter . If matter contains such an enormous amount of energy would it not be possible to utilize this energy for industrial purposes ? This will be the grand problem of the future . But at present we can dissociate only infinitesimal quantities of matter . Let us suppose , however , that we could dissociate one gram , and then let us see how much energy would be produced . Let us take , for instance , a fifth part of an American five cent piece , which weighs one gram , and also let us suppose that we could succeed in entirely dissociating it . Now , the energy of a moving body being equal to half the product of its mass by the square of its velocity , a simple calculation gives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving with the velocity we have supposed . This equation gives 510 billions of kilogram-meters , a total which would correspond to about six milliards eight hundred millions of horse power if these kilogram-meters were expended in a second . If this quantity of energy were properly distributed it would suffice to move on a level a freight train reaching round the earth more than four and a quarter times . To move this same train by means of coal 2,830,000 kilograms would be required , which , at the rate of 24 francs per ton , would cost about 68,000 francs . This figure of $68,000 represents , therefore , the market value of the intra-atomic energy contained in a nickel . The magnitude of these figures , which at first glance appear impossible , is due to the enormous velocity of the mass put iu motion , a velocity that could not be approached by any known mechanical device . Tho the one gram mass is very small , its velocity is very great , and consequently the effect produced by it is also very great . Energy increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ velocity . This is the reason why the tendency of modern artillery is to reduce the caliber of the projectiles , but to increase their velocity . The equilibrium of intra - atomic energy is very stable , since matter is dissociated so feebly that for a long time it was thought indestructible , as has already been said . The stable equilibrium of what is called matter also influences our senses in the same direction . But the other forms of energy , light , electricity , etc. , are characterized by a very unstable disequilibrium . The origin of intra-atomic energy is not difficult to explain , if we accept the statement of the astronomers that the condensation of our nebula alone suffices to account for the constitution of our solar system , for a like condensation of the ether would be enough to engender the energies found in an atom . Roughly , we might compare the atom to a sphere into which , at the origin of the world , had been compressed , to billions of atmospheres , a non-liquifiable gas . The practical interest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy will appear only when the means is found of easily producing a rapid dissociation of bodies , when an almost unlimited amount of energy being placed at the disposal of man and at no cost , the condition of things as they now exist will be radically changed ; the poor will become the equal of the rich and the social question will thus be solved .                     