@@473847

Is English Becoming Corrupt ? B Y THOMAS R. LOUNSBURY Professor of English , ' isle University SECOND PAPER I N the preceding article was given an account of the melancholy views which have been expressed at times by various writers of eminence in regard to the condition of the language . The historical survey made , brief as it was compared with what it could have been , renders it clear that there is nothing peculiar to any period about these utterances . Illustrations of the same nature could be multiplied endlessly , never more so than now ; though it is fair to add , rarely in any age from men of the intellectual grade of Swift and Landon . The Beatties and Miss Bowdlers will never die out . Furthermore , it is to be said that from views of this sort there has never been much dissent . Dryden indeed , writing in 1070 , maintained that the language had been improving since the era of the great dramatists , instead of degenerating . But in this instance , as in so many others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not speaking as a judge . It is plain from his further words that the opinion he expressed was not the opinion generally entertained . He admitted that many in his time insisted that from Ben Jouson 's death to their own day English speech " had been in a continual declination like that of the Romans from the age of Virgil to Statius , and so downwards to Claudian . " In truth , if we take for authority the contemporary opinion of successive periods , there is no escape from the conclusion that , for the past two hundred years at least , our tongue has been steadily deteriorating . There is in it an innate depravity which tends to make it go wrong . As if this were not enough , there are always certain mischievous and irresponsible persons who are engaged in the work of destroying its purity . In Swift 's time it was the frequenters of the court , the theatrical writers , the translators from the French , and the poets . In Beattie 's time it was the political pamphleteers and essayists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the favorite one to accuse of corrupting the language is the newspaper . Exactly why this particular form of literary production should be deemed responsible for the ever-impending ruin is not very clear . The writers for the press , at least for the leading journals , are generally a picked body of men . They suffer indeed from the necessity of producing work under the pressure of instant demand . To counterbalance this disadvantage , they are , as a rule , in earnest . They are partisans , and sometimes bitter partisans . In consequence they are usually in a state of wrath against something or somebody . No one needs to be told that few things conduce more than wrath to impart clearness , directness , and energy to expression ; and these are qualities that contribute to purity of speech and not to its corruption . Accordingly the dangers to be anticipated from the newspaper are really little more than creations of the imagination . At this point attention must be called to the falsity of the belief , once widely and perhaps generally entertained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language is evidence of the influences at work in it tending to produce corruption . Men , it was held , should he content with what sufficed their fathers . On the contrary , the number of new locutions which at any given time are presenting themselves for admission into a tonzue is a pretty accurate indication of the degree of intellectual activity prevailing among those who speak it . The largeness of the number of words struggling for entrance is a sign of the health of a language , not of its decay . To these aspirants , indeed , the words of Scripture arc specially applicable . Many are called , but few are chosen . Out of the army of terms that offer themselves for admission in every generation , but a very limited number find lodgment in the speech . Nor do these , save in the rarest of instances , displace or make obsolete those already there . The fundamental error which vitiated the conclusions of Swift and his contemporaries consisted in their belief that the language was steadily moving in a straight line away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became what they called fixed , their own writings would in process of time become unintelligible . They complained accordingly that length of fame was denied to modern writers . These could hope to live at best but a bare threescore years . As Pope expressed it , and illustrated it by an example , Our sons their fathers ' failing language see , And such as Chaucer is , shall Dryden be . We are now in a position to take a farther step . The various expressions criticised by Swift and Beattie and Iandor constitute but a pitiful handful of the number that have from time to time been denounced ? often too by men of ability ? as barbarisms and corruptions . Yet nearly all of them are now employed unhesitatingly ? ordinarily too in complete ignorance of their once scandalous reputation ? by those who are engaged in pointing out the present perils of the same sort which threaten the speech . Indeed , no more curious chapter in the history of our tongue could he furnished than one giving a complete account of the words in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been taken , ranging all the way from mere disapproval to severest condemnation . In the list , it may he added , can he found the now somewhat noted adjective strenuous . There can be no question as to the fact that during its history the language has absorbed very many locutions and constructions which , according to the purists of the past , were destined if adopted to prove its bane . There is not , however , any evidence that its health has suffered the slightest in consequence . This condition of things awakens the hope , and indeed conveys the assurance , that all thealarm about the language is based upon utter misconception of what the real agencies are which impair the efficiency and purity of speech . This involves the comprehension of two points . The first is that , strictly speaking , there is no such thing as a language becoming corrupt . It is an instrument which will be just what those who use it choose to make it . The words that constitute it have no real significance of their own . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them all the efficacy they possess . Language does nothing more than reflect the character and the characteristics of those who speak it . It mirrors their thoughts and feelings , their passions and prejudices , their hopes and aspirations , their aims , whether high or low . In the mouth of the bombastic it will be inflated ; in the mouth of the illiterate it will be full of vulgarisms ; in the mouth of the precise it will be formal and pedantic . If therefore those who employ it as the medium of conveying their ideas lose all sense of what is vigorous in action and of whet is earnest in belief , all appreciation of what is pure in taste and of what is lofty in conduct , if , in fine , they become intellectually coarse and morally corrupt , the speech they use may be relied upon to share in their degradation . Never was there a mere ridiculous reversal of the actual order of events than that contained in Landor 's assertion that " no nation bath long survived the decrepitude of its language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is that the history of language is the history of corruptions ? using that term in the sense in which it is constantly employed by those who are stigmatizing by it the new words and phrases and constructions to which they take exception . Every one of us to-day is employing expressions which either outrage the rules of strict grammar , or disregard the principles of analogy , or belong by their origin to what we now deem the worst sort of vulgarisms . These so-called corruptions are found everywhere in the vocabulary , and in nearly all the parts of speech . Words arc spelled and pronounced in utter defiance of their derivation . Letters have been added to them as a result of slovenly pronunciation . On the other hand , they have been deprived in the same way of letters , and even syllables , to which they are entitled , and the full proper form has in some instances been replaced by a mere fragment of the original . Plurals of nouns have become singulars , and singulars in turn have become plurals . Yet a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a return to barbarism . Any attempt of that nature would be sure to be denounced as an assault upon the purity of the tongue . Even if permitted in any given case , it would produce upon most of us the effect of something peculiarly grotesque . It is in two parts of speech ? the pronoun and the verb ? that the most flagrant examples of these so-called corruptions are exhibited . The neuter pronoun of the third person has dropped its initial h . Hit , the proper form , has been replaced by it . ' Ouse and ' cad are really not any worse , save that in the instance of the one we have got used and therefore attached to the corrupted form , and the two others we regard with distinct aversion . Worse than this , the confusion between the nominative and the objective case , which shows itself in several of the pronouns , has succeeded with the plural of the second person in establishing the original dative and accusative as the regular nominative . Hence we all , ungrammatically from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strictly correct ye . No better account can be given of the verb system . Etymologically considered , that is little more than a mass of corruption . In the course of their history the two conjugations have been so confounded that were it not for the light thrown upon them by comparative philology , we should be unable to bring any order out of the chaos which has come to prevail . To all this add the fact that in the case of several words the literary language now uses a corrupted form , while the really proper one has been relegated to the speech of the uneducated . Proof will naturally be demanded of propositions so sweeping . Out of the host of examples which present themselves it is well to select one which has about it the interest of present controversy . Let us take our first illustration from the verb system . This abounds , as has been said , in corruptions which time and authority have converted into the best possible usage , often indeed into the only possible usage . In it we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly be considered as a candidate for acceptance or rejection . But before its exact status , however well known to many , can be made clear to all , two or three preliminary explanations must be given . The English verb , like that of its sister Teutonic languages , is divided into two conjugations , called respectively the strong or old , and the weak or new . One characteristic of the former is here to he specially noted . Its past participle always had originally the termination - ea . In modern English this ending has in some instances been regularly retained , as in given , taken , fallen , and risen . In others it has been dropped entirely , as in sprung , sung , and drunk , the present representatives of the earlier sprungen , sungen , and drunken , . In others again the e has been dropped while the -n has been retained , as in born , torn , and known . In still others the verb has kept the fuller and the shorter form side by side , as in eaten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally there are a few verbs which have dropped the original participial form almost entirely , if not entirely , and replaced it by the form of the preterite , as held for holden , sat for sitfen , and stood for stonden . These last , it hardly needs to be said , are corruptions of a peculiarly atrocious character . None of these changes , however , affect the fact that - en is the distinctive termination of the past participle of the strong conjugation . On the other hand , the past participle of the verbs of the weak conjugation regularly ends and has always ended in -d or -t . With this explanation we are in a position to consider the case of the disputed form selected . This is proven . The verb to which it belongs is a verb of the weak conjugation . The past participle is therefore properly proved . In consequence proven is etymologically a corruption . It came into the literary language , so far as it exists in it , from the northern English dialects . These from an early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the root of weak verbs . The verdict in Scotch criminal trials of " not proven " was in all probability the particular agency which made this form familiar to southern ears . Every scholar will admit the fact that etymologically proven is a corruption . Accordingly why should not its use be debarred at once and forever ? But questions of usage are not settled in this easy offhand way . The men who prefer to employ the word may naturally ask , Why not make your reformation complete before you object to the introduction of this particular form ? Hide and chide are also strictly verbs of the weak conjugation . In the sixteenth century , and perhaps a little earlier , they added to their weak past participles hid and chid the termination - en of the strong past participle . In this way hidden and chidden were formed . Both are certainly corruptions of a character not essentially different from proven . But they have become so sanctioned by the best usage that we no longer think of disputing their correctness ; in truth , but few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their history is repeating itself in the word now under discussion . The adoption or rejection of proven is not a matter to be decided by scholars , but by the attitude assumed towards it by the great writers of our speech . At this time usage is discordant . Some authors of repute employ it ; some avoid it . In Tennyson 's works it first appeared in " Aylmer 's Field , " published in 1864 . After that date it occurred pretty frequently a fact showing that his choice of it was deliberate . It hos also been used by Bulwer , by Lowell , by Thackeray , by Herbert Spencer , and doubtless by many others . It is more than likely that it is destined to establish itself permanently in the language of literature . It certainly looks now as if the large majority of the users of speech will prefer to sin with Tennyson and Thackeray and Lowell than to be etymologically virtuous with all the grammarians . If such be the result , we can rest assured that the language will he no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been ruined by the previous adoption of hidden and chidden . Let us now take up the consideration of one of the corruptions which has livedthrough its day of trial and has been long received into the best literary society . It is the abbreviation mob . This is nothing but a fragment of the full Latin original mobile rulgus ? " the fickle common people . " First the noun vulgus was dropped . Mobile , coming into common use , was in a few years cut down to mob By Swift it was abominated to his dying day as a peculiarly odious kind of slang . Addison sympathized with this feeling . In No. 135 of the Spectator , mob is put down by him as one of the ridiculous words which he fears will in Lime be looked upon as part of the speech . There must have been then a host of minor defenders of the purity of our tongue who bewailed its increasing use , and pointed to that fact as evidence of the growing degeneracy of the language . Rut the assailed form stoutly held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been realized . The abbreviation has thoroughly established itself . Accordingly a word which their predecessors stigmatized as a corruption of the vilest kind is now used unhesitatingly by the most precise of modern purists . The reason of its prevalence is obvious . It came to supply a very genuine want . There is no other single word that conveys definitely the idea of a particular sort of riotous assemblage . Still , in these matters it must be conceded that language is largely capricious in the preferences it exhibits , unless we choose to credit it with possessing the keenest sense of what it needs . It adopts one form and rejects another according as it suits its will , or perhaps its whim . Good usage which frowns upon pants , which stigmatizes gents as utterly odious , or designates by it human beings of a particularly odious species , would regard the loss of the similar formation mob as impairing the resources of the speech . In truth , in this matter of so-called corruptions we are all a bundle of inconsistencies We condemn in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some particular word we look upon as a vulgarism of the worst kind ; a precisely similar form of another word we regard as the only possibly correct one . We hear occasionally from the lips of the uneducated drownded as the past tense of drown , itself frequently pronounced by the same persons as drownd . We properly consider its use as an evidence of illiteracy . There is no question that it has all the marks of those corruptions which , according to some , are ultimately to ruin our speech . A letter has been added to the end of the word which destroys the correct pronunciation , and furthermore causes the form to deviate from its original . This is perfectly true . Yet it is the mere accident of usage that all of us are not saying it now as well as merely a certain number of the uneducated . It was employed in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries by reputable writers . Had during those centuries the form been generally adopted by authors of the highest grade , whose works were regarded by all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be saying drownd and drownded for drown and drowned , and withal be ignorant that he was using what was in its origin a corruption of the worst kind . But , after all , say the upholders of purity , this form did not establish itself . It effected an entrance indeed , but it was too gross a corruption to be permanently endured . The literary language came in time to recognize its real character , and in consequence left the employment of it exclusively to the unlettered . The example , therefore , instead of sustaining the view put forth , proves that its contrary is the only true position to take . A corruption may through carelessness or ignorance creep into the speech . There it may maintain itself for a while . But its nature can not always continue unknown . Once let the attention of the users of language be called to it , and its ultimate proscription is merely a question of time . This would be a most comfortable doctrine to hold could the facts only be persuaded to accommodate themselves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of English , and that its introduction , had it been effected , would have wrought , so far as its influence went , an irreparable injury to the speech . What are we , then , to say of corruptions resembling it precisely which all , educated and uneducated alike , use without scruple . The d of drownded is an evnr. ? No. 644-2.5objectionable and unauthorized letter . Therefore this form of the preterite is properly denounced by us as a vulgarism . But this same letter has been added to other words with the like result of destroying the original pronunciation , and hiding , as ' far as it can , the derivation . Let us take two verbs as we find them in the following lines from Chaucer : A harp , That sound bothe well and sharp . " Low me a mark , " quoth he , " but dayes three . " Here are correct forms of two most common English words , sound and lend . The former came to us originally as a. noun through the Anglo-Saxon from the Latin son-us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The latter verb comes from the Anglo-Saxon keno ? . In neither has the existing -d any right to the place it holds . But after Chaucer 's time the unauthorized letter intruded itself into these two words . The corruption doubtless showed itself first in the popular speech , and from that gradually made its way into the language of literature . The forms with -d are now the only ones recognized by the Englishspeaking world . Comparatively few of us know that they are strictly corruptions ; that , for instance , in saying sounded we are using a formation precisely similar in character and origin to drownded . The examples just given are very far from being the only ones that could be cited of words which have assumed to themselves final letters to which they are not entitled ; but the object aimed at here is not to furnish a catalogue , but to illustrate a principle . Even this is not the worst . It is bad enough for the educated to use a corruption of the very kind which they reprobate in the uneducated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employing what is really a corrupt form , leaving the one strictly correct to the illiterate , and then pointing it out as an evidence of their illiteracy . Even in our preference of corruption we are not consistent ; for while we accept it in one case , we discard it in another which is precisely similar . Let us take for illustration the four words again , along , amid , and among ? all at the outset both adverbs and prepositions . In addition , besides the simple form , all had a COTresponding one with the adverbial ending - es , giving us in consequence ? variations of spelling being disregarded ? againes , alonges , amiddes , and arnonges . Each one of these latter , either in the fourteenth ur the fifteenth or the sixteenth century , added to this ending in - es the letter t . It was of course a corruption . Not only did it establish itself , however , but the corrupt forms terminating in - st supplanted in the language of literature the correct forms terminating in - es . Consequently in using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are using forms which have no etymological justification for their existence . But we did not stop here . The history of these four words shows that not the slightest consistency has been observed in their treatment . For a long while the corrupt forms kept their place side by side with the simple forms , and were used interchangeably both as adverbs and prepositions . But in the seventeenth century a/onosi ? never , in fact , so common as the others ? practically died out altogether . Along came in consequence to be the sole form employed both as adverb and as preposition . But though we have discarded alongst , we still retain amidst and amongst in conjunction with amid and among , exhibiting , besides , a preference , on the whole , for the corrupt form in the case of the one and of the simple form in the case of the other . Furthermore , while we continue to treat amid and among as prepositions , it is only the uneducated that can venture so to employ again ? usually pronounced agin ? instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is a method of expression limited to the vernacular of the unlettered . Yet , as the account just given shows , the form of the preposition employed in it is purer than that which has taken its place . Once , too , it was in the best literary use . A story not essentially different can he told of betwixt . This corrupt form has supplanted entirely the earlier betwix . As a further illustration it may be added that the fortune of while bears a close resemblance to that of these words just described . Here whiles , the allied formwith the adverbial ending - es , took to itself the letter t . So doing , it experienced the usual fate . It was supplanted by the corrupt form it had generated by this addition , and has practically disappeared ; but whilst exists to the present day along with while . Finally it may be said that alt these words ending in - st , which we use with perfect propriety , are of exactly the same nature as wont or wanst , a vulgarism occasionally heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which in turn is itself a corruption of ones . This is the kind of melancholy story ? if we choose to consider it melancholy ? that meets us on every side . Whichever way we look we light upon corruptions which usage has made familiar and custom has made correct . The lesson such a survey enforces is important ; but it must not be misunderstood . It does not release any man from striving to make his own usage conform to the best usage , so far as he is able to ascertain it . It does not deter him from doing all in his power to prevent the introduction and spread of words and meanings and locutions which he deems objectionable on the score of inadequacy or impropriety . But it does teach him the folly of the belief that the ruin of the language is impending because he can not have his way as to what it should accept or reject . The final decision as to propriety of usage rests not with individuals ? neither with men of letters , however eminent , nor with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the whole body of the cultivated users of speech . They have an unerring instinct as to its necessities . They are a great deal wiser than any of their selfconstituted advisers , however prominent . Fortunately , too , they have the ability to carry their wishes into effect . They know what they need ; and they can neither be persuaded out of it nor bullied out of it . They try many things ; they let go very many which they try ; but what they approve they hold fast . Protests , no matter from what quarter coming , are of no avail . If , in spite of clamor , they retain a word or construction , it may be generally taken for granted that it supplies a demand which really exists .                     