@@486802

SIR : Allow me to thank you for the editorial in your issue of September 29 , entitled " The New York Situation . " The feature of your paper that I have most valued , for the many years I have been one of its readers , has been its independence , believing that standing by honest convictions was never to be varied from in favor of party success . This editorial is of value not to the voter of New York State alone , but to every other in the United States who wants to be honest with himself and with his country . Reading it , he should feel thankful that there is one paper , anyway , so straightforward , and take fresh courage for the struggle that is always be-for us. ? Yours , etc , T J LE MoTNE . ISEAIr , Timm , October 8 , 1904 . Notes . Macmillan Co. have in preparation a new edition in ten volumes of the Writings of Franklin , edited by Prof Albert H. Smyth of the University of Pennsylvania . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editors The same firm will issue at once ' William Blake . A Study of his Life and Art Work , ' by Irene Langridge , with fifty reproductions from b:s chief works . Houghton , MlfHin &; Co. are to publish Mine and Thine : , poems by Mrs Florence Earle Coates ; and ' Cain . A Drama , ' by George Cabot Lodge . ' Romantic Ireland , ' by M. - F. and B McM . Mansfield , copiously illustrated by Blanche McManus , is soon to appear from L. C. Page &; Co , Boston . Mr Jonathan Nield 's ' Guide to the Best Historical Novels and Tales ' ( London ? Elkin Mathews ; New York . Putnams ) enters upon a third edition with much improved arrangement and with a carefully considered list of " Fifty Representative Novels " for approval or criticism American publishers as well as English are indicated , if not exhaustively . The index of authors and subjects is retained from the second edition . The collection is avowedly select , tempered by the desire to be as widely embracing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poorer work has been admitted occasionally . Perhaps the fifty list is not unaffected by this leniency . At least we think Fritz Reuter 's little gem , ' In the Year ' 11 , ' might have been taken in by reason of intrinsic worth , to the exclusion either of Shorthouse 's ' John Inglesant ' or Besant 's ' Dorothy Forster . ' a Mr. Nield 's discursive chats with his readers can but propitiate them . ' Mr. It G. Thwaites 's " Early Wmitern Travels , 1748-1896 " ( Cleveland . Arthur H Clark Co ) proceeds in volume vii with a reprint of Alexander Ross 's ' Adventures of the First Settlers on the Oregon or Columbia River ' ( 1849 ) , in connection with John Jacob Astor 's expedition to establish the Pacific Fur Company . This is another Lewis and Clark sequel , and possesses no little interest and authority . As the voyage of the Tonqui , n , begun September 6 , 1810 , was by way of Cape Horn , we have a glimpse of the Sandwich Islanders ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faithfully described ? Ross himself took a wife from them His testimony is , that , " in the wide field of gymnastic exercise , few Indians ? I might say none  --  have been found to cope with civilized man In all trials of walking , of running , of fatigue , feats of agility , and famine , even in the Indian 's own country , he has to yield the palm of victory to the white man In the trials of the hot bath alone the savage excels " There are some just observations on the want of preparation on the part of missionaries of the day , and their sectarian warfare . At the end of the volume are Chinook vocabularies - Sidonia V Johnson 's ' Short History of Oregon ' finds its justification in the coining centenary of overland exploration . But compendiums have their pitfalls , and the romance of the railroad which opened to the State a continental gateway is here evaporated . into these four frigid lines ; " When the last spike was driven on the Northern Pacific Railway in 1883 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Tolstoy 's pronouncement against the war in the Far East , first published in the London Tames , has just been reprinted for the International Union by Gina &; Co , Boston , and may be had for ten cents ( Bethink Yourselves ' ) It comes , too late , we fear , for a Presidential campaign document , but it will help train the rising generation to abhor all theories of conduct and all public policies which rest upon human combativeness , whether labelled , Imperialism , Expansion , Sea-Power , or the Strenuous Life . ' Westminster Abbey : Painted by John FulleyloyeaR I. , Described by Mrs. A. Murray Smith , with 21 full-page illustrations in color ' ( London ' Black ; New York . Macmillan ) , is in point of text a much abbreviated reproduction of the work by the same author entitled ' The Roll-call of Westminster Abbey . ' In each , the historical and legendary records of the Abbey , and of the persons whose monuments it contains , form the groundwork of the narrative , which is skilfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the history and biography are treated very fully ; in the present much smaller book many of the same stories are told in briefer form , and there is a closer adherence to the order of the monuments within , and , beginning with page 121. to the exterior of the building , with its details and its subordinate structures . The illustrations are of a character common to the cheaper modern processes of color-printing . They can give satisfaction to nobody as studies of the Abbey within or without . The halftone prints in the ' Roll-Call ' are , of course , much more valuable as a record . It is probable , too , that many persons will think them more comely . A fairly successful photographic print , keeping all its gradations and intelligible in its details , will please where these slight and vague and untraceable prints , no longer Pure black and white , and yet not in any true sense of the word color , will repel judicious students . Max Beerbohm 's ' folio colored pictorial satires . ' The Poets ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mead &; Co. ) , boldly introduces Omar with his bored Thou , his bough , his loaf , his jug , and his book in the wilderness ; and , despite its impiety to the poet , this cartoon is as amusing as any in the book . Others that may raise a smile are Browning taking tea with the Browning Society , Tennyson ( focussed large in the foreground ) reading " In Memoriam " aloud to Queen Victoria in perspective , and Dante in Oxford . The rest we can not think inspired humor . They ' range from Goethe , Wordsworth , Coleridge , and Byron to Walt Whitman and Kipling . Dante 's ' De Monarchia ' is a book so important , and at the same time so difficult to understand in the original Latin , that a good translation is a boon , not only to the general literary or historical reader , but even to the scholar . Church 's version has long been out of print , and Wicksteed 's , privately issued , is not readily accessible . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Aurelia Henry 's ' The De Monarchia of Dante Alighieria published by Houghton Mifflin &; Co The new translation is a good one ; while not quite so literal as Wick-steed 's , it is very exact and sufficiently , close , and it reads easily , either with or without the Latin text . One might , indeed , if inclined to be hypercritical , find fault with its smoothness , as not accurately reproducing Dante 's somewhat crabbed Latin style ; it is certainly a relief , however , to be enabled to grasp the author 's thought with so little effort . The abundant foot-mites show careful research in various fields , they supply the student with a key to the numerous references and citations , an indication of the sources of Dante 's philosophical doctrines , and parallel passages from his other writings  --  all done into English . An index adds to their usefulness . A modest introduction explains Dante 's conception of Empire , and sets forth the place of ' De Monarchia ' in his life-work Exception may perhaps be taken to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' is essentially a religious treatise . A cautious discussion of the date of composition points toward the period between 1308 and 1313 The Macmillan Co. is agent for the Cambridge ( England ) Biological Series of textbooks edited by A. E. Shipley of Christ 's College The latest issue is a ' Natural History of Some Common Animals , ' by 0 H. Latter , M A. , senior science master at ' Charter House . The main object of the volume is to set forth the natural history of the animals which usually serve as types ' of animal structure in elementary courses in biology , especially such as are large enough . to be studied without recourse to a microscope . ' Technicalities are avoided as much as possible , and emphasis is laid on the life histories of the various creatures as well as their structure The series treated of includes worms and leeches , crayfish , cockroaches , dragon-flies , wasps , ' the fresh-water mussel , snails , frogs , and some internal parasites . The account of the special type selected is supplemented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which that type belongs , and a reasonable number of well-selected illustrations are scattered through the text . Though the animals treated of are British , most of them have closely analogous representatives throughout the temperate region , and 4-ha naoAc of instr.nrtnrs of biology an America as well as northern Europe The data furnished , as far as we have tested them , appear to be accurate and well selected , and the little manual may be recommended as well adapted for the purpose its author bad in view . In ' Thirty Years in Madagascar ' ( A. C. Armstrong &; Son ) the Rev T. T Matthews of the London Missionary Society gives an account of his work , largely educational , among the natives It is replete with incident , partly humorous , showing both the difficulties in dealing with a childlike people not thoroughly weaned from heathen vices , and a practical , common-sense way of meeting them , which makes the book exceedingly helpful and suggestive to all engaged or interested in similar work . Some of the difficulties are peculiar to the Malagasy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not to conviction , but to the fact that it was the religion of their rulers . In many places the pastor of the church was the village chief , chosen for his social standing , not for his fitness for the post . There are also numerous instances , ' in the sketch of the early history of the island , of a steadfast ' faith in the face of death , such as has characterized the Christian martyrs of all ages . Much space is given to the story of the French conquest and the attempts to drive out the English missionaries , on the natural supposition that they were inimical to the new regime . This is told largely by quotations from a French writer , and ample justice is shown to the fairness of the Governor-General , Gallieni , and his endeavors to right the wrong done the English and their converts when he became convinced that their aim was in no sense political , but simplythe welfare of the people . The author apparently is unable to give a word-picture of the country and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a measure supplied by the numerous illustrations , some of which are interesting reproductions of native sketches . In his fourth volume exhibiting the Japanese system of physical exercise and self-defence , Mr. H. Irving Hancock treats of Japanese feats of attack and defence in personal encounter , under the title aimjitsu Combat Tricks ' ( G. P. Putnam 's Sons ) , Thirty-two photographs reinforce the text . A study of this book , revealing the rougher side of the art , shows why the boxer has such small chance against the agile user of the hand-edge stroke . How to harden the little finger edge of the hand for smiting and disabling purposes , to the power of which competent witnesses can bear testimony , is here explained with the clearness of a practical teacher , who knows vastly more of his art than of Japanese history or general hygienic conditions among men and women of the empire . Many of the tricks here noted may result in death . Lest some may fear that the publication of such craft secrets will provoke in our cities a fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sandbagger , we remark that four years is the average time of a course ' in the Japanese training schools . The September number of the Library Journal contains a notable article by Miss A. R. Hasse " On the Classification of Numismatics . " Miss Hasse had been asked to work out a system of classification for a collection of literature on archives ; in the ennrse of her studies she ma On same digressions into neighboring regions and stumbled on numismatics , among other topics . She compares the treatment of this science in the Decimal Classification ( both in its original simplicity and its international expansion ) , ha Mr. Cutter 's Expansive Classification , and in some European library catalogues . From all these the inadequacy of the theoretical classifications became quite apparent . ' This is a discovery which , we think , most specialists will make in trying to adapt an " ideal " classification to their own specialties Any ' attempt to construct a classification of literature out of your own consciousness will result , if not in failure , in some very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Decimal and the ' Expansive schemes are classifications of ideas and not of books is much to the point Her article should prove interesting to both classifiers and numismatists . Mr. J. ' C. M. Hanson 's article , " Subject-Catalogues or Bibliographies for Large Libraries ? " in the same number was originally written for the Mittedungen des Oesterreichen Fereins fgrBibliotheksivesen , at the request of its editor , as part of a symposium on the subject . Mr. Hanson argues rightly that not even a very complete collection of special bibliographies can take the place of a well-prepared subject-catalogue of the actual resources of a - library . The Geographical Journal for August contains an account of western ' Uganda , by the : Rev. A. J3 . Fisher , which throws some light on the origin of the natives of that region and their probable contact with ancient civilization . The war-horns , for instance , of the Bahuku , a forest tribe , are minute ivory tusks shaved down and scooped , famger down the annals of his country from Chaucer to the present hour , characterizing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment here and - there on individual writers . Shakspere 's political opinions come in for notice , and his views of " the mystery of existence and the other world " And when Giordano Bruno visited England and became " the centre of an intellectual circle which sat with closed doors , was Shakspere perchance one of that circle ? " The Baconians are : dismissed in the sentence , " No person of sense , it may be presumed , doubts that Shakspere wrote his own plays " ; the one strong point in their case being the miracle - of the product from such an humble origin and education . Of Pope , Mr Smith says ? " Nothing in its way excels ' The Rape of the Lock , ' or , indeed , in its way the translation of ? the ' Iliad , ' little Homeric as the translation is . " " Unsurpassed in his own line , " too , is Burns , " one of the foremost in the second class of poetry , " Whose character is too much thrust upon our sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to be about the greatest of Anglican divines . " Shelley " is not the first of poets in mental power , but he is , it seems to me , the most purely and intensely poetic . " Scott 's " Marmion " is " the most truly epic thing in our language . " Tennyson " was one of the greatest of poets , " and " has been called a great teacher . But he has nothing definite to teach " Matthew Arnold 's poetry is " simply high art " Browning 's " characteristic poems do not give me pleasure of that sort which it is supposed to be the special function of poetry to give " Finally : " We seem now to have come to a break in the life of poetry in England , " and " the phenomenon appears to be common to Europe in general . Is science killing poetic feeling ? " ? This number of the Review is notable in other ways . Professor Edwin G Bourne discusses the Naming of America in a comprehensive and judicial manner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery . He has a bone to pick with John Fiske for the latter 's too ardent advocacy of Varnhagen 's views on the subject , Mr. Worthington Ford contributes some notes discovered by him among the Hamilton Papers in the Library of Congress and acutely determined to be those made by Hamilton during the debates in the Federal Convention of 1787 . The clue once found , Mr. Ford was enabled to put them in order and compare them with Madison 's , as is here done , with the result that many gaps are filled , as in the case of Randolph 's remarks on June 1 , from which we quote one item : " Seeds of destruction ? Slaves ? cornier Continental army struck out might be safely enlisted . " Under June 6 and 8 , there are comments on Madipon 's theory . " Observ : large districts less liable to be influenced by factious demmagogues than small . Note ? This is in some degree true but not so generally as may be supposed ? Frequently small portions of the large districts carry elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole. ? Demagogues are not always inconsiderable persons . " We may call attention also to excellent papers from first-hand researches on " The First Stage of the Movement for the Annexation of Texas , " by Professor George . P. Garrison , and on " Nova Scotia and New England during the Revolution , " by Emily P. Weaver . The latter suffers by too exclusive devotion to Nova Scotia as at present bounded . Consequently , the writer has overlooked the Revolutionary manifesto of the New England colonists of the St. John River on May 14 , 1766 , to be found in Kidder 's ' Maine and - Nova . Scotia ' and an the Massachusetts Ar-chives . ? The October Harper 's opens with Edwin A Abbey 's illustrations to " Othello , " to which Mr. Swinburne contributes the critical comment . The violence ( shall we call it ? ) of Mr. Swenburne'e enthusiasm for Shakspere does not abate with years . The dazzling heights of his praise for the au- thor of " King Lear , " two years ago , are fairly surpassed when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " it was his and his alone to set before us the tragic problem of character and event , of all action and all passion , of all evil and all good , all natural joy and sorrow and chance and change , in such fulness and perfection of variety , with such harmony and supremacy of justice and of truth , that no man known to historic record ever . glorified the world whom it would have been so utterly natural and so comparatively rational to fall down before and worship as a God . " This is interesting , ' but it is only with a latitude of expression such as that of Mr. Swinburne himself that it can pass under the heading of " critical comment . " Henry Van Dylie contributes an essay on the " School of Life , " somewhat disconnected , as one might expect , from the subject , but interesting for the original flavor of the sugar with which its ethical pellets are occasionally coated . Lucy Scarborough Conant tries in prose to communicate something of the mystic charm of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poem , the " Marshes of Glynn . " We imagine that most readers to whom that phase of the marsh appeals at all , will agree that the nearer approach to the real heart of the subject was made by the poet . The editor continues his championship of " the direct appeal " in literature , the truth of life free of all masquerade . The literature which falls under the domination of this spirit , we are told , is the only literature which marks any real advance over the achievements of the past . The stirring , picturesque drama which forms the ideal of most story writers is good enough in its way , and its execution often displays high artistic power , but it marks no step forward in the path of human culture . The general movement away from the picturesque , of which this literary movement is but a part , is to find its compensation in greater practical utility so far as the outward investiture of life is concerned ; the inward life-is to get its gain in the greater freedom from external @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important campaign , to find together two such presentations of the issues involved as the October Atlantic presents from the pens of Samuel W. McCall and Edward M. Shepard . Each supports the party with which he has been connected in the past , but each with the frank admission of serious weaknesses in the political instrument which he feels constrained , under existing circumstances , to employ . The two are substantially at one on the two most important questions of current political discussion  --  the tariff and imperialism , Mr McCall hoping that the Republicans will follow their few more enlightened leaders in tariff reduction and return to their former faith in the rights of man , Mr Shepard trusting to the force of historic Democratic traditions in . both cases , backed by Mr Parker 's known views and forceful character . If the level of political intelligence and candor were generally as high as it is in these two papers , it would be a safe prophecy that one of the writers would soon be governor of his State and the other would occupy a seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful study of the Intelligence Office as a means of supplying household service One of the points most forcibly established is the character of many of these offices as active agents in the demoralization of the young women whom they profess to serve . It would seem that phil  --  nthropic agencies might well undertake Pto supply free of charge the means of communication between householders and help , at-least to a sufficient extent to make it entirely unnecessary for any self-respecting girl or woman to resort to any agency where she " could not be absolutely sure of honest and civil treatment . An article on the Japanese Spirit , by Nobushige Amenomori , is notable for its frank acceptance of the military ideal , and should be suggestive reading for missionary enthusiasts who have so far forgotten their original character as to welcome armed conflict as an entering wedge for Christianity . " Having early realized that , despite the progress of international law and the humanitarian professions of the Powers of the world , might is still right at bottom in the intercourse of nations , Japan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military arts and sciences of the West " Japan will evidently wait for the " more convenient day " when Christian nations themselves shall trust less in the big guns and more in the herald of peace and good will . ? The military papers relating to the American Revolution which were deposited in the Royal Institution of Great Britain by M. Morgann , secretary to Sir Guy Carleton , were calendared by the late Benjamin F Stevens . and the first volume of his calendar is now published by the Royal Historical Manuscripts Commission . What Mr. Stevens did on the American portion of the Dartmouth papers , and his wide experience gained in preparing his Facsimiles and his monumental Index of American Papers in European Archives , naturally prepare us- for a careful . and intelligent treatment of the Carleton manuscripts , or , more properly , the British " Headquarter " papers . Matters of supplies and accounts form a principal feature of this first instalment of the calendar , beginning with a document of 1747 , and ending with July , 1779 . Each commander turned over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading subjects of commissariat , exchange of prisoners , appointments and negotiations with the enemy and the Indians . Consisting , as it does , largely of copies , and lacking in the more personal details that lend so much color to history , the material , though of a very important character , has been little used , even Sparks and Bancroft merely sampling its quality . Mr. Stevens died before the calendar was in type , but the proofreading has been very well done by Mr. Henry J Brown , who was so long associated with Mr. Stevens in his historical investigations . ? The most interesting incident recorded in this calendar is the treatment by Congress of the Convention troops Burgoyne asserts that he was obliged to surrender because his army " would not fight and could not subsist , " adding the rather foolish boast that , ? had his force been British , he would have made his way through Gates 's army . But even Burgoyne was surprised at the favorable terms obtained , at the generous treatment of officers and - men , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " after the capitulation Differences soon arose over the disposition of the Convention troops , and we find General Phillips protesting against the use of the word " prisoners " as applied to them . " We have considered ourselves as passengers under the sanction and virtue of a Treaty , not as Prisoners " Gates blundered , but that does not excuse the subsequent conduct of the Continental Congress in this matter . There is mention of many papers relating to the Hessian troops in America , to the tricks of the British contractors , who would send over bad flour and mouldy bread in spite of inspectors The Loyalist corps receive notice , including one to be composed only of Roman Catholics . Affairs in the Southern colonies are prominent , and here is to be found an incident connected with an alleged violation of the navigation privileges on the Mississippi . A strike among the carpenters of the Waldeck regiment at Pensacola because of insufficient pay is graphically described in a letter from Brigadier-General Campbell This " unmilitary conduct " is matched by the difficulties encountered by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the licentiousness arising from a superabundance of employment . " ? The Committee on the relations between Libraries and the Book Trade , which was appointed at last year 's conference of the American Library Association , has done some very effective work during the year of its existence It has confined its attentions to the libraries , and has issued to date eight small but closely printed bulletins of about the size of a postal card , designed to inform librarians how to get books at reasonable prices . They contain addresses of American and English secondhand dealers and dealers in remainders , and tell how to import books from England and how to buy at auction . In choosing this line of activity the committee has taken a very practical step which can not fail to be effective . Booksellers are merchants , and their object is to make money . If they find that it does not pay to ignore the request that libraries he treated with more consideration than other bookbuyers , they will presumably mend their ways in this respect . The movement to reduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cheap book-post in 1873 gave new impetus to the undersellers , and also to the forces which worked to abolish the discount . During the eighties and nineties a determined fight was kept up between the organized booksellers and the isolated undersellers , which ended only in the present century with victory for the Borsenverein der Deutschen Buchhandler and its affiliated organizations . In Germany as in America the booksellers had particularly antagonized the libraries . In this country the general public seems not to have taken-much cognizance of the matter , while in Germany the university men , at least , felt seriously hampered by the new regulations In the spring of 1903 an Academic Protective Association was founded , and the leader in the movement , Prof. Karl Bucher of the University of Leipzig , issued in the summer , under the auspices of the newly founded association , a book entitled ' Der Deutsche Buchhandel and die Wissenschaft , ' which created a perfect storm among the booksellers . He claimed that the book trade had failed to follow the development of modern commerce , that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transforming it on new lines The publishing and selling of books was in his eyes merely a commercial and industrial affair like the manufacturing and selling of any other article , while the booksellers always have regarded their craft as more or less of a profession ; this claim Professor Bucher ridiculed . ? The booksellers were naturally not long in answering the attack Their organizations issued formal protests , and the Borsenblatt fdr den Deutschen Huchhandel was filled with articles replying to the accusations of the Protective Association and its spokesman . The matter was finally brought to the attention of the Imperial Ministry of the Interior , and an investigation was ordered as part of the investigation of the Trusts which was being conducted in Berlin under the authority of the ministry . Professor Bucher maintained that the book-trade organizations , in their action to abolish the discount on books , partook of the character of a Trust . This the booksellers denied . The proceedings of the investigating commission have been published ( Kontradiktorische Verhandlungen uber Deutsche Kartelle , Heft 7 . Borsenverein der Deutschen Buchbandler ' ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions of the two opposing sides clearly and forcibly . Perhaps the most interesting feature is the constantly recurring word duels between Professor Bucher and the President of the Borsenverein , Albert Brockhaus , head of the well-known Leipzig firm of F. A Brockhaus . The personalities of these two men , both powerful and strongheaded , impress the reader the more as the cause for which each is fighting is not selfish with either . The result of the conference was in the main negative . The question whether the Borsenverein was a Trust was not answered , and the opposing parties both held to their former positions It was finally voted to refer the questions in dispute , particularly the grievances of the libraries , to a special commission of representatives of both sides . The deliberations of this committee , which met in Leipzig , unfortunately resulted in nothing but a sharpening of the differences . After a stormy session the university men left the room .                     