@@486417

The Czar 's response to the zemstvo petition is more generous than might have been expected . On the subject of a parliament he is silent ; no other course , in fact , could be looked for at present . On every other count the Czar meets his petitioners half , way , admitting the justice of their appeal , and promising the gradual working out of the required reforms . A mere enumeration of the . eight heads of the proclamation will exhibit its amazingly liberal temper . The Czar approves equal administration of law for all classes , extension of local self-government , unification of judicial procedure , factory laws , modification of the notorious condemnation by administrative process , religious toleration , freer passport regulations , reasonable freedom of the press . How , in the face of this roster of promises , some American editors continue to interpret the ukase as a check to the reform movement , baffles all ordinary ingenuity . For the case must be judged not so much by the actual laws that may be promulgated in the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanently upon reformers in Russia . That a constitution should be granted at the request of the first national assembly was beyond even the wildest expectations . In fact , it was freely predicted that Prince Mirsky 's Congress would receive an open rebuff , on the ground that their proceedings were virtually seditious . As things stand , the recent convention finds the major part of its programme approved , and thus there is given every encouragement for other reform assemblies to renew the work so auspiciously begun . Yet one should not rashly assume that the Czar is fully committed to the inferences which will be drawn from his response . He knows well that freedom of movement and education for the peasants  --  as planned in M. de Witte 's report  --  can not be suspended when they begin to be troublesome to autocracy . He realizes undoubtedly that successful local governments will emphasize the desirability of a parliament , that free transit of foreigners means the spread of liberal ideas , and that liberty for the press involves the awaking of the people to political self-consciousness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look with equanimity . Indeed , one may believe that he has yielded rather to the pressure of a disastrous and unpopular War than to , any personal zeal for reform . The fears of a Plehve may play a considerable part in his decision along with the generous hopes of a Witte or Mirsky . But , willingly or unwillingly , the word is said , and Nicholas II . stands openly committed to the views of his liberal ministers . Under easier conditions he may be tempted to listen again to the reactionaries , but he can not decree forgetfulness of the hope he has himself held out to his people . " Corollaries of the Monroe Doctrine " depend altogettier upon person and place It was , for example , long held in Europe as an unquestioned corollary of the Doctrine that the United States should keep its fingers out of the Old World pie Hence , when Uncle Sam suddenly appeared as the boastful owner of the Philippines , Punch asked him quizzically , " Any relation of the late Col Monroe ? " But the corollary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Thursday night related to this continent , and to our duty to make all American republics " just . " He declared that the correlative of saying Hands off to foreign Powers was saying ourselves Hands on . We can not , he affirmed , justly assert the Monroe Doctrine " unless we also say that the American republics are themselves to be just . " Easily said , but no one knows better than a lawyer and statesman like Mr. Root that there is no harder question to answer than " What is justice ? " It is immensely more difficult than " What is truth ? " Jesting Pilate asked that question , but did not stay for an answer We would gladly wait for Mr. Root to explain what he means by the American republics being compelled by us to be just . Is the quality of justice strained ? Can a people be filled with the spirit of justice at the same time that they are with cannon shot ? Do we mean that the republics to the south of us will be just when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which confront its when we begin wandering among corollaries of the Monroe Doctrine . - Rumblings at Washington indicate that Venezuela is to be the first material in the great experiment of " making American republics just . " The President is represented as being exceedingly " impatient " over the course of government in Venezuela ; and everybody knows that there is nothing like an impatient temper as a preliminary to a lofty act of international justice . We have altered the proverb , so as to make it read , Indignatio tacit fitstasam . The details of Venezuela 's great offending are a trifle vague . We read that her customs revenue is falling below the estimates . If that , however , were a heinous crime , Secretary Shaw knows who would have to flee the officers of justice For a nation with a big deficit to coerce another because it has a little one , would , we fear , make the world laugh instead of stand in awe . There is also complaint that the high courts of Venezuela interpret and apply the law of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . This is said to be an outrage , and they are all honorable men who affirm it The case being thus strong , we think it a mistake to drag in anything about asphalt concessions and the Asphalt Trust . That is to incur the risk of defilement with what the melancholy Philadelphia bankers used to call " pitch " ? probably because their money so hopelessly stuck to the asphalt securities . Man or nation that sets about making another " just , " must be sure of justice in the party of the first part . Even the Big Stick would not look pretty all dripping with asphalt . Secretary Hay washes his hands of the Hague Conference with an excellent good grace . Recalling without rancor the unwillingness of Russia to be represented at The Hague and the qualified adhesion of Japan , he congratulates himself upon the cordial response President Roosevelt 's invitation met from all other Powers . With these preliminaries he regards the incident as temporarily closed , and is content to " let the future conduct of the affair follow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr Roosevelt 's gallant appeal for peace That it has been wasted , we decline to believe . The subjects of neutrality and of contraband need as much as ever to be threshed out . They have , as Mr. Hay pertinently remarked , been thoroughly advertised by the abortive attempt to reassemble the Hague Congress Meantime , several decisions by Russian prize courts will serve as valuable precedents when the matter finally does come up . So President Roosevelt need not regret in any way his magnanimous project of calling a peace conference in the midst of the greatest war of recent times . To thank the President for a Supreme Court decision may be only a recognition of the activities of the Attorney-General 's office in the case . Or , again , it may be merely a courtesy of the Japanese kind which acknowledges that all victories are due to the " puissance of the Emperor . " But it is shrewdly to be suspected that Chief Hanrahan of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers , who last week congratulated Mr. Roosevelt on the successful termination of the coupler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled the matter in favor of the brakeman in order to please a President who wants a " square deal " for all Be this as it may , Mr. Roosevelt has done nothing to discourage the impression that he is the " whole thing , " and if we hear of appeals to him to help in discovering lost children , why , after all , should he not be pictured as whispering humane opinions to complacent sitters upon the Supreme Court bench ? Such a view of the Presidential office is but an exaggeration of that neo-Federalism into which we are driving deeper every day . Gen. Wood has discovered that the Filipino soldiers are too well fed . He reports that they do not work so well on Uncle Sam 's generous rations as when they had only a little fish and rice to eat . This may be proper matter for a military report , but it reflects unconsciously the true Imperialist point of view . The chief end of the natives is to work for their conquerors  --  or to be " worked " by them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the London Morning Post recently , in discussing the labors of missionaries among the Kaffirs . Might not Christianity disincline them to work ? Hard labor was the real blessing for them , and beside it " a knowledge of spiritual technicalities " was unimportant , gravely said this organ of British Imperialists . And then , with delicious inability to perceive its own humor , it added that the missionaries ought to be warned that " what they preach about religion is readily applied to politics by the half-educated Kaffir . " The implication is , of course , that the fully educated Englishman keeps his religion and his politics severely apart . As Miss Alice M. Robertson pointed out in a late discussion of the movement for inserting a prohibition clause in the enabling act when Congress authorizes the admission of Indian Territory , either as a separate State or in company with Oklahoma , it is not an attempt " to bring in prohibition where there is liquor , " but " simply to continue prohibition where it now exists . " To the testimony of the newly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A. S. McKennon , one of the original " Dawes Commission , " and the observation of Mr. Bonaparte . What is being urged upon the Senate now by the Indian Rights Association is that an amendment be added to the bill which has already passed the House , reserving Federal jurisdiction in this matter for ten years , or until satisfactory local laws shall be enacted . Lacking such an amendment , Government control in Indian Territory will cease after March 4 , 1906 . It is but scant justice to include such a provision in the enabling act ; agreements made between the various tribei and the United States in 1897 , 1898 , and 1902 contain positive guarantees of perpetual prohibition nf the sale of liquor . All the peculiarities of the Wisconsin Republican situation did not disappear on election day . A United States Senator is to be - elected this winter if possible . The Stalwarts ? " National Republicans , " as they were called on the ballot  --  who fought the direct primary tooth and nail in the campaign , now demand that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the choice of a successor to Mr. Quarles . The Senator himself has gone so far as to file nomination pa- , pers under La Follette 's law . Meanwhile , the Governor 's adherents , who have now won their four years ' fight for direct nominations , are prepared to choose their Senator this year by the old plan of a legislative caucus The reason for the reversal of positions is plain enough Quarles can not possibly be chosen by the caucus , while he might conceivably have a plurality in the primary . There are about 50,000 Stalwarts ? that number , at least , was about Peck 's lead over Parker , and Roosevelt 's over La Follette. in the State There are more than 220,000 La Follette Republicans If they should split between four or five candidates , and some should favor Quarles on personal grounds , there would at least be hope . Gov . La Follette himself was bound to remain at his post so long as the reforms for which he stood were still to be fought for . But to-day all have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Legislature will not oppose him this year . One of the obvious possibilities is a deadlock on the Senatorship , lasting until the rate bill becomes law Then it might be that the Governor would feel freer to enter the national arena at the call of his party . Connecticut Republican politicians will be as indignant as Lord Melbourne at the attempt of the Rev. Dr. Smyth of New Haven , and other clergymen , to make religion appear to have a bearing on public life . These impertinent ministers are organizing a movement among the churches to secure a worthy United States Senator in succession to Hawley . They have the impudence to assert that neither of the two candidates before the Legislature , Fessenden and Bulkeley , is fit to represent the State . It is not , with them , a question of being happy with either were t' other away , but of being disgusted with both , and of feeling that Connecticut is disgraced by being shut up to a choice between two such men . Dr. Smyth and his brother-clergymen are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and for " bringing the Church into disrespect . " But we suspect they know their own business . If religion is to sit by without lifting a finger when corruptionists are put forward for public honors , she will soon not only despise herself , but be despised of all men . The Connecticut example is one for ( ) trier States to follow . There is no interstate commerce law forbidding its transit across the New York boundary . Election day in Colorado was a mere preliminary to the fight between the two parties this year . The Governorship is to be bestowed , apparently , not on the candidate for whom the largest number of votes was deposited in the ballot-boxes , but for the one who is able to have the largest number of votes for his opponent thrown out as fraudulent . The two sides , however , are using entirely different weapons . When a Democrat has been implicated in election frauds , he is punished for contempt of court , while the Republican charged with identical practices is indicted in the regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be regarded as a contest of efficiency between the two methods , government by injunction is badly beaten . A recent census shows that in Denver only eighteen Democratic election officers are in jail for violating the Supreme Court 's extraordinary order , while in Pueblo no less than thirty Republican workers are under indictment by the grand jury . The throwing out of five precincts in Denver cuts down Adams 's 11,000 plurality considerably . The face of the returns in them showed 1,386 Democratic to 339 Republican votes It is said that the same action will be asked by the Republicans in three more precincts . One of the most peculiar features is that the Democrats are barred from taking the case into th ) Federal courts because the court did not interfere with the vote of the disputed precincts for Presidential electors . It appears to have decided , in effect , that precincts too corrupt to be allowed to affect the election for Governor were nevertheless fit to take part in the choice of a President . Commissioner Pallas 's advertisements in front of the Public Library @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be beyond the Commissioner 's powers and illegal . The decision is important , because it may cover many other cases in- the borderland of law . Judge Scott emphasized the fact that the parks existed for certain well-defined beneficial purposes , none of which was furthered by the letting of advertising space . Accordingly , " the Commissioner had no authority , either by the express terms of any statute or by any reasonab ! e implication , to grant a license for the exhibition of advertiseMents . " The Court further held that the facts that the surface thus let was a temporary fence , and that the - contract provided revenue for the city , altered in no way the essential illegality of the act , The case is further interest-ing because it was won on a taxpayer 's suit brought by Mr. Calvin Tomkins , president of the Municipal Art Society . His good success shows that substantial redress for official negligence and wrongdoing may be more quickly and easily secured than is generally imagined . And while the decision is a precedent only for park advertising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the matter of Subway adverts. ing . With the reappearance of the Biondi case in the courts , we have a very interesting case of implied contract . Biondi held from the late director of the Metropolitan Museum an agreement to exhibit the now famous group , " The Saturnalia " This colossal bronze was shown privately , and the trustees declared that it was unsuitable for exhibition , so it was withdrawn from the statuary hall , and Signor Biondi was offered an indemnity for the expense occasioned by the contretemps . He declined this indignantly , and , holding that he had a formal contract with the representative of the museum , sued for damages . The affair is of a mixed sort , and a decision might bring into the realm of law a class of transactions-usually conducted ? informally In fact , the business aspect of loans to museums might well tax the acumen of any judge , for it must be admitted that a museum gives a quite tangible return for the temporary possession of rare works of art . Often a timely loan saves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the publicity given to his art treasures increases their potential value at a sale . But it is a question whether these incidental advantages are in any sense a part of the contract. - They can not be estimated accurately , nor are they ever paid for expressly . It seems , then , that in accepting a loan a museum is merely offering a facility not promising a service ; and that the lender , again , is merely doing a courtesy , and not rendering a service for valuable consideration . In short , it seems that agreements of this sort quite lack the quality of true contracts , and fall under the class of gentlemen 's agreements . The petition for a paid football coach , signed by fifty-four Harvard graduates , contains sentiments that , from gentlemen of their dignity , erudition , and love of learning , are surprising : " We ? would rather see football discontinued than see Harvard continuously represented by teams that might have won , but do not win . " The object , then , of football is merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ athletics had their chief justification in their incentive to physical exercise and a wholesome life . What becomes of all those disinterested college presidents and professors who have assured us that football is the mightiest moral agency of the present generation ? What becomes of those fervid speeches ending in mens sane an corpora sanor What becomes of the conviction that the self-restraint exercised by the football player is a sublime lesson to undergraduates ? What becomes of the theory that the football field is our finest school of manly strength and of all the cardinal virtues ? Would football cease to confer these priceless benefits upon Harvard even if Yale continued to win forever ' Is not the exercise as good when Harvard is defeated ? Is there not the same splendid opportunity to exhibit self-restraint ? Has this " magnificent sport " suddenly become brutal and tricky because Harvard can not succeed at it Wall a paid coach and a succession of Harvard victories restore the game to divine favor and invoke upon the players the blessings of heaven ? Imperial Federationists will welcome the report that Sir Wilfrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But if these ships were already patrolling the two coasts of the Dominion , the real problem of sharing in the work of Imperial defence would ' be little nearer a solution . In fact , all plans of this sort are highly abstract They rest upon the sense that it is unfair that the colonies , which enjoy the protection of England 's military and naval establishment , should contribute little or nothing to its support . But is there really any practical remedy in sight ? Colonial sentiment would be strong against direct contributions to the naval and military budget . In Canada it was impossible to get Parliament even to pay the expenses of the contingent of troops sent to the South African war . On the other hand , any contribution to Imperial defence that is indirect is largely valueless . For example , a tiny Canadian navy and half-a-dozen similar fleets , none of which , presumably , could constitute a serious fighting line , would do very little to strengthen the British navy . At most , it would relieve a few cruisers from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time of war would be a vexatious matter ; good fleets are not made in that way . In fact , no really business-like apportionment of expense for Imperial defence seems possible short of a visionary pan-British Parliament . Mr. Chamberlain 's protectionist speeches avail at least to bring out the sordid and socialistic nature of his doctrine . In a foreigner , we can always see a vice more clearly than in ourselves . Our own -- high-tariff orators bamboozle us freely , but we see through Mr. Chamberlain with ease . In his latest deliverance at East London , he went further than ever in promising a millennium under a protectionist regime All he wanted was to give every British workman employment all the year round at higher wages , and a customs duty was the true magic to do the trick With rare magnanimity , Mr. Chamberlain asked only for the votes of those who did not think they were ? " as well off as they ought to be , " and who were not ready to admit that " their condition can not be improved . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain claimed as his own Like another Jack Cade , he bids his followers " be brave , for your captain is brave and vows reformation " ; nor does he forget to add : " All shall eat and drink on my score " No little stir has been created in Germany by the announcement of the discontinuance on January first of the National Zeitung , long one of the most influential organs of public opinion in that country . Writing in the Berlin 2 ? Tatton on this " regrettable ending " of so valuable a journal , Dr. Theodor Barth declares that the event would not have attracted so much attention if it were not in a sense typical . There are many other newspapers , particularly those of a political cast , he says , which are on the verge of dissolution , or which can be carried on only with heavy losses and increasing difficulties The old idea that a newspaper is a sort of pulpit from which certain fixed theories are taught and fundamental principles of art , politics , and literature are defended , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to influence the minds of the public has been displaced by the wish to make every possible cent out of the sale of a print-covered piece of paper . " Along with the cigarette guaranteed free from nicotine and the wine which is without alcohol , we have the newspaper which is guiltless of any convictions " On the other hand , the Socialist newspapers offer examples of journals which have particular doctrines to teach , and which , so far from reflecting the views of the capitalists , are often supported by Collections among day-laborers . The continued influence of Dr. Barth 's own weekly , as well as the unusual success of that political free-lance , Maximilian Harden , editor of the weekly Zukunft , show that the man . of ability who has opinions to express can still find his audience . And it must be noted that in Vienna Dr Singer 's liberal Zeit has grown from astrugsling weekly into a strong and widely read daily . Finally , the commercialized newspaper and the newspaper trust have not yet been with us long enough to make their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 