@@675564

txt An extraordinary incident has occurred on the farm of Charles Seliechter , in Gill TownShip , three miles south of New Lebanon . Thomas of Palestine , Ill. , was engaged in digging a well on Monday and when 1 , ? , reached a depth of thirty feet the sand and curbing above caved in suddenly . covering him above the shoulders , his head alone remaining above the sand . The curbing completely filled the opening , forming a perfect a " ch above his head . , although he was tightly wedged in by the sand and entirely hidden from view , was able to talk to those who went to his rescue , and he advised with them what was best to do . A large force of men soon gathered , and they worked all the afternoon and until midnight in running a tunnel . Their efforts were apparently of no avail . as the earth caved in as fast as it could be displaced . Late at night the would-be rescuers were unable to determine if was still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had been suffocated. they returned to their homes . Early yesterday morning it was discovered that MePheeters was still alive , and after much exertion a two-inch rubber hose was run down , through which he received soup and other nourishment . Forty men were then placed at work and a large hole was dug alongside , after which a tunnel was run through , all of which was curbed as rapidly as completed . The work continued unremittingly until S o'clock this morning . when was rescued after thirty-eight hours ' imprisonment . lie received no injuries with the exception of a bruised shoulder . BURGLAR PREPARED A MEAL . Robber of a Brooklyn Flat Regaled Himself with Lamb Chops . These are days fraught with ease and comfort for the Brooklyn burglar . With no worry as to the police , he seems to be taking life easy and enjoying himself hugely . Time was when his business in Brooklyn was an occupation attended by risk and danger . But that , it seems , is a day now gone . Then the knight of the jimmy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly from the scene of his operations . But now the Brooklyn burglar makes no such haste . He gathers his booty together leisurely , and , this work done . sits down to regale and refresh himself from . the larder of the family he has despoiled , before taking up his burden and going on his pleasant way . A burglar of this comfort-loving stripe visited the apartment house at 323 Putnam Avenue on Tuesday afternoon .. He learned from an obliging tenant that N. C. Oldson , who occupies apartments on the second floor , was out , and also that the family of H. S. Smith , whose apartments are across ? the hall from Oldson's. were not at home . The burglar thanked the accommodating tenant and promptly proceeded to get into the Oldson flat . He spent some time making selections of things there and then visited the Smith apartments . Done with his I work there , he felt somewhat weary . Finding a brace of lamb chops in the refrigerator he put them on to broil and then set about preparing a pot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of crab apple jelly completed the feast , to which he coolly sat down . His meal over . the burglar shoved the coffee pot back on the range , piled up the dishes . and , picking up his bag of loot , went calmly off to realize on his plunder . When the Ohisons and the Smiths returned home many things of value were missing . Mrs. Smith also found the half emptied coffee pot on the range and the dishes piled on the table , and marveled at the nerve . of the burglar . About $10 worth of jewelry and silverware was stolen from the Oldson apartment , while the Smiths lost about $50 worth of jewelry , two lamb chops , and a half pot . of coffee .                     