@@677089

txt As a result of a meeting of the City Committee of the Citizens ' ' Union last night , the Union probably will go back Into the Fusion movement . While the action of the Citizens ' Union Nominating Committee in withdrawing from the Fusion conference for the reaeons advanced by R. Fulton Cutting , the Chairman of the committee , was approved . the sentiment of the committee was overwhelmingly in favor of fusion if an agreement of the anti-Tammany organizations could be reached , and a resolution was adopted practically instructing the Nominating Committee to resume negotiations with the Republican organization and the Municipal Ownership League if that could be done without any loss of self-respect on the part of the Committee . The Nominating Committee will meet this afternoon in the office of Mr. Cutting , and there is hardly a doubt that ccimmunieation between the committee and the Chairman of the Conference Committee , William Halpin , will be re-established . There were 125 members of the City Committee present at the meeting last night at the headquarters of the Citizens ' Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attended meetings ever held by the committee . Many of those who ' attended did so with the expectation that there would be a stormy session and perhaps a break in the organization . Expectations on that score were not realized . While the sentiment of the committee was decidedly in favor of fusion being effected , if possible , there was no harsh criticism of Mr. Cutting and his colleagues for their action in seceding from the Fusion Conference , and the meeting broke up with appai-ent good feeling prevailing , although the accounts of what occurred varied somewhat according to the bias of the person interviewed . Friends of Mr. Cutting endeavored to make it appear that lie had been cordially and unanimously sustained , but the radicals in the organization intimated that Mr. Cutting had simply been let down easily . The first-motion made after the meeting tied been called to order by President Ctitting was that the Nominating Committee:see:Mid be sustained in its action niaIbifittlIiklhe Fusion Conference . That leinePreealled without dissent , after friiide a statement to the committee , which ' was in substaece the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night in explanation of the Citizens ' Union 's Nominating Committee 's desertion of the conference . In brief , it was that the Citizens ' Union Committee had reached the conclusion that it was not the intention of their allies to conter with them , but rather to keep them in suspense until they were ready to spring on them a nomination of their own , which they would be prepared to force through with the aid of the Municipal Ownership League representatives . August H. Stebbins then offered a resolutica that the Nominating Committee be instructed tO resume conferences with the Republicans and the Municipal Ownership League . His motion was ' voted down . James B. Butler made a motion that three names be placed on the Citizens ' Union list of candidates eligible for the Mayoralty , the names suggested being those of ex-Senator John Ford , Calvin Tornkins , and Judge Samuel Seabury . A Motion to lay Mr. Butler 's motion on the table was carried . Reference was then made by Mr. Cutting to the fact that at the last conference of the Fusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he had announced to the conference that the Union had the name of a candidate which ' it was willing to bring before the conference for discussion . The name of that candidate was Martin W. Littleton , President of the Borough of Brooklyn . Mr. Cutting admitted after the adjournment of the City Committee that he did not know whether Mr. Littleton would accept the nomination , John Brooks Leavitt offered the following-resolution. which was unanimously adopted by the committee : Whereas , This body has unanimously approved the withdrawal of the Committee of Sixteen from the conference of the anti-Tammany organizations and has done so on the ground that the other parties to the conference had steadily omitted to confer , therefore be it Resolved . That the Committee of Sixteen be requested to take steps to ascertain whether the other bodies to the conference are now willing to enter into a real conference , and if so , that said Committee of Sixteen is authorized to confer with them . President Cutting was asked what steps would be taken by the Committee of Sixteen to re-enter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comInittee at the meeting to-morrow , " he said . " We are still out of Fusion , and whether or not we will again go into it will depend altogether on the attitude of the other organization toward us . " " If overtures are made to you to return they will be accepted , will they not ! " " That depends on the nature of the overtures ... " Are you personally in favor of fusion ' ? " " Most assuredly , if we can get real fusion . All we insist upon is that we shall have real conferences . " ? Will you insist , if you go back into the Fusion movement , that the other parties to Fusion shall confer with you on all names they may have In mind ? ' " Their refusal to do that is what led to our withdrawal . and our course in withdrawing has been approved by the organization . " Ex-Senator Ford and some of the other members of the organization were Inclined to the opinion that the Citizens ' Union Nominating Committee would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Municipal OwnSoldfrship forces to come back Into the Pinion                     