@@678425

txt Assemblyman FRANCIS , who has charge in the lower house of the Legislature of the bill to permit the erection of an art gallery in Central Park . has done a public service in expressing his views of the subject to a reporter of Tan NEW YORK TIMES . " I have no bynipathy , " says Assemblyman FnAavCIS , " with the sort of opposition which succeeded in preventing the Seventh Regiment in years gone by from obtaining a small part of Central Park for a parade ground- " A parade ground for one regiment would have meant parading ground for all . The sort of opposition aroused by that precious proposal is exactly the sort which has vigorously developed against the invasion of the Park by the National Academy of Design . The preposterous parade ground scheme was beaten . do can the new scheme be beaten . But its opponents must not relax their energies . Plans of Park invasion now fill the air . The grave suggestion that after the Queensboro Bridge Is opened to public traffic a strip along the southern edge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the erection of theatres and other places of amusement on Fifty-ninth Street is a fair warning of what may be expected if the bad precedent is established . The only argument In favor of the proposed new building in Central Park which has any color of reason is that it would be a more sightly structure than the old Arsenal . But when the old Arsenal is removed Its site should be covered by the landscape gardener , not the builder . The demand for a new gallery for the National Academy of Design , a commodious and suitable , place for the exhibition of new pictures , Is reasonable ; but that gallery can not be in Central Park . The opposition to the scheme of encroachment is strong and sincere , and is making itself felt . It is to be hoped that when these invaders have had their repulse there will be a clearer understanding in the community of the inviolability of Central Park . It is esteemed by traveled Frenchmen a finer park than the Bois de Boulogne , by Englishmen superior to Hyde or Re. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intelligent and . beautiful landscape gardening and architecture in this country . To be sure , it reminds Mr. J. CARROLL BECKWITH , one of the supporters of the projected invasion , of a rural cemetery , but that does not matter . It will probably be , in some sort , the cemetery of certain hopes . But the fight must be kept up .                     