@@676387

txt President Roosevelt bade farewell to San Francisco to-night , his ' last day , like the others here , having been so completely taken up that it served to verify the smiling remark he made yesterday , that the city of the Golden Gate had given him everything except sleep . The President began his day 's work by participating in the dedication of the mag , nifieent monument erected in commemoration of the victory of the American navy at Manila . The monument consists of a high shaft of white California granite surmounted by a bronze figure of Victory , holding in one outstretched hand a wreath and in the other a trident . The President was escorted from the hotel to Union Square by marines of the warships in the harbor . On the stand from which he delivered an address were the officers of the warships in San Francisco Bay and . vicinity - and officers of the Grafton , flagship of the British Pacific Squad ' ron . In a few words Chairman James G. Phelan presented the monument to the City of San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schmitz on behalf of the municipality . President Roosevelt said San Francisco should glory in commemorating the navy 's victory at Manila , as it had opened the Pacific Ocean to American commerce , and , more than any other event , had contributed to give the United States a high place among the naval powers . He dwelt on the necessity of preparing ships , armament , and men for the navy . Naval battles are fought in advance , and the Americans won at Manila because they had made ready for-'the strike . Since the last war the naval strength of The United States has rapidly been increasing , and under the wise provisions of the last Congress has particularly advanced . He urged practical work at sea , particularly-in marksmanship , saying : " Remember that the shots that count in war are the ones that hit . " The President was then driven to the United States transport dock , whence the party proceeded to Berkeley to take part in the commencement exercises at the University of California : The citizens of Berkeley united'with the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in tendering a tremendous ovation to President Roosevelt and party . Leong before the hour set for arrival- of the special train , the school - children of the . city , gayly festooned with flowers . assembled on either side of the street - leading to the university entrance . The . thoroughfare had been brilliantly . decorated for the ' occasion ; and when the Presidential party passed up ' the streets , the avenue was carpeted With blossoms . - Carriages - and a committee-of representative citizens were in waiting at the station , and the drive to the new amphitheatre at the univeraity , where the Commencement exercises were held , . was taken up immediately on , the arrival of the President . As he stepped from his carriage and made his way to the amphitheatre , he was surrounded by sixteen cavalrymen. - He wore a hood and- gown in conformity with the degree of Doctor of Philosophy . The programme had been timed so that the Presidential party arrived just before the conferring of degrees by Gov . Pardee to the members of the graduating class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the head of the Nation with the Harvard yell . He gave approval by nods and smiles . President Benjamin Ide Wheeler then conferred degrees upon the four huadred collegians who sat upon the stage with cap and gown . After this the President was- introduced by President Wheeler , who simply . said : - " Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United States . " Then as the Chief Executive , attired ina black academic robe trimmed with purple , stepped into the sunlight , President Wheeler said : " Theodore Roosevelt , by authority of the Regents of the University of California , I confer upon you the degree of Doctor of Laws . This is the highest honor the State knows how to confer on you . Its best it gives gladly . " President Roosevelt then addressed the assemblage . eulogizing the State , its people . and the university , speaking in affectionate terms of his old-time friend , President - Wheeler . At the close of the exercises the President left for Oakland , where he was escorted through the principal streets , accompanied - by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reception Committee . In front of the High School the President delivered a short address . He was then escorted to the water front en route to the Mare Island Navy Yard , where an inspection was made . Following came a visit to Vallejo , where the cornerstone of the Navy Young Men 's Christian Association Building was laid , and the party returned to attend the Union League Club banquet this evening . Shortly after midnight the President left to view the Yosemite Valley .                     