@@677357

txt If District Attorney JEROME consents to become a candidate for Governor , and if the Democratic organization chiefs believe he would be a candidate acceptable to the party , , then they ought to do everything in their power to cause him to be nominated at Buffalo on Sept. 25 . The talk of an independent nomination for Mr. JEROME is madness . Is Mr. HEARST so weak and negligible that the anti-Hearst strength may be safely divided ? If Mr. HEARST should secure the Democratic nomination all Democrats who are not actually determined upon the ruin of their party , all Democrats who are unwilling that the public affairs and private business of the State should be put in peril would vote for the Republican candidate . That would assure the defeat of Mr. HEARST . The candidacy of Mr. JEROME by an independent nomination would open to Mr. HEARST his only chance of election . Tne people of the State of New York , and in particular the Democrats of the State , would find it worth their while to consider seriously what the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not without profit , we suppose , to inquire who are his supporters and why they support him . It is much more profitable to inquire who oppose Mr. HEARST , why they oppose him , and what would happen not merely to them and to their interests , but to everybody 's interests should he be installed in the Executive Chair . The Hearst men think that of late they have had capital on the run , corporations on the run , the large business interests on the run . Mr. HEARST 'S newspapers encourage that belief . and are doing their utmost to accelerate the pace of the running . Do they really believe that capital , the corporations , and the business interests are now actually trying to save themselves ? Oh no , they are mistaken . When the flight does begin , when capital and business really do take measures for their own protection  --  and they know how to take care of themselves  --  there will be not the least possible chance of any mistake about it Everybody will know what has happened , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late then for sober second thought , too late to say , hold on , let us be conservative . Now is the time to think about these things . The intimation that Mr. JEROME would accept the nomination for the Governorship indicates a practical way of thinking about them . It points out a practical way to save the Democratic Party from disaster and disgrace . Mr. JEROME made an astonish-1 ing canvass in this county last Fall , and was elected . Since he came very near being accepted by Tammany as its candidate then , is it not probable that he would now receive the support of the Tammany delegation at Buffalo , and of the Kings delegation ? If he Is the man , if he is willing to run , then there should be no more talk about an independent Jerome ticket . He must be the Democratic candidate if he is a candidate at all .                     