@@676594

txt Much interest , though rather technical than popular , attaches to the announcement that the electrical engineers of the New York Central terminal improvements have finally decided , for reasons which they consider satisfactory , upon the adop'tion of the direct current instead of the alternating current in their distribution system . The reasons for this decision are found in the specific local conditions , and are declared to have no weight as establishing a precedent , or fixing unalterably the choice between the two systems in future installations or on other parts of the line . The Street Railway Journal , in editorial comment , says : The decision reached is fully comprehensible whatever may be one 's judgment as to the purely technieal issues . Of these lattei the most serious is that of the actual status of the alternating-current apparatus , taking into account the magnitude of the proposed operations and the impotence of immediate action . It seemed , therefore , to the responsible officials of the New York Central that for handling the great complex traffic of the system as it exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by no means shown immediate fitness , however hopeful the outlook might be . This position , we must admit , is well taken , in spite of our belief in the commanding future of alternating currents In electric traction . This judgment involves no criticism of the , strong advocacy and unqualified guarantees of the alternating system on the part of big electrical companies . It simply voices the fact that alternating-current traction on such a scale is as yet untried , and that the railway system which controls the entrance by land to a metropolis of hard upon 4,000,000 inhabitants is not exactly a conservative place in which to try it . The concern of the public in this matter is chiefly , if not wholly , in a satisfactory service . The chief concern of the management , besides a saving of time , I would seem to be to ad pt a system at least permitting the interchange of trains with the elevated and subway systems of Manhattan . This is probably not now contemplated , but it is impossible to say What the requirements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rapid development of the art of electro-mechanics may , and probably will , give us better and cheaper systems of distribution than the best of those now available , but that the machinery now installed will become obsolete before it is worn out is not expected by those who know most about it .                     