@@677174

txt The great National disease Is officialism . It breaks out on the surface like measles . It was said of old that there is a " divinity cloth . hedge a King . " But nowadays there is a divinity cloth hedge every Federal official who Is small enough to avail himself , of it . Let us say , however , that this does not include anything like a majority of them . Invisible bayonets are waiting at the entrance of every public office with which to prod the unlucky wight who thinks he has business on which to enter . It is a day of strenuous things . Aft the Capitol the lines are being drawn tighter and tighter against the commonalty . The doors through Which plain citizens- may pass are fewer in number every year . Committed rooms are barred against hearings except for the elect . The galleries are apportioned off to diplomats , to Senators , and members and their families , and to reserved seats for those who can secure tickets for them from Senators and members . Elevators are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens . At the White House new rules multiply . The executive department there is always in secret session . Sub deputies ' assistants decide who shall see the President and who shall not . The most ordinary transactions , which were always in times past treated as news , are now important state secrets . Cabinet officers are not permitted to speak of common affairs . There is a substantial censorship of the press . The existence of the independent reporter is threatened . There is all the time less and less room for him in Washington . For thirty years the corps of newspaper correspondents in this city has been increasing in intelligence , industry , reliability , honor to source of information , and usefulness to the public . Their honorable occupation is diminishing . Many names among them could be given that would adorn any legislative or executive position . They not only presented the news , but intelligent comments upon it . They were trusted by Senators and members and by Cabinet officers , and none of them eier betrayed their confidences . Places in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There they have their organization , and only reputable men can participate in the privileges allowed them by each house Of Congress . Let us hope that the officialism which limits their usefulness at the White , House will not extend to Congress and 4abolish the reporters ' galleries . The great master in the discussion of human motives deprecated the action of those who , " Drest m a little brief authority , play such fantastiO tricks before high heaven as make the angels weep. - Perhaps a wholesome public opinion may bring about a reaction against the offensive tendency toward pompous and conceited officialism and give us back the Americanism which it struggles to displace.                     