@@676253

txt Though the Venezuelan situation is still extremely delicate and a false step at any time may produce serious results , it is felt to-day that very satisfactory progress has been made toward a solution of the difficulty . While no formal assent to the reference of the case to The Hague tribunal has been received , the State Department has been informed of the willingness of the allies to have the matter so arbitrated . It is understood that a preliminary protocol is under consideration . This protocol will contain the conditions for the arbitration . and , it is expected , the conditions on which the blockade will be withdrawn . No hint is given of the probable character of these conditions , and it is apprehended that some of them will be of a character which will make the European assent to arbitration at The Hague without effect . If one of the considerations includes an apology by President Castro , there is not much doubt that it will be readily accepted . The condition about which fear is felt is one which may compel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some cash . At that point it is feared that Castro may balk , Ind if he does the blockade with its infinite possibilities of danger will go on . That Germany will require the payment of certain acknowledged debts as a condition precedekt to arbitrating the other questions at issue is considered almost certain ; the doubtful question is whether the sum required is large or small . Berlin reports indicate that it will mount up into the hundreds of thousands of dollars . It is considered utterly improbable that Castro can or will raise such a sum of money and pay it over . Intimations are given to-day , however , that these reports are not accurate , and that Germany will demand a smaller sum than has been suggested . If these intimations are correct , Germany 's condition precedent may be such as Venezuela can accept . Germany 's position is simple . The money referred to . it is claimed , is owed without question . These debts have already been passed upon in court and Venezuela has acknowledged the debt . It would therefore be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the amount which Germany will require will be too large for Venezuela to pay , the consent given by the powers to arbitration at The Hague will be valueless and the situation will remain about as it is . The only way in which Castro , in all probability , could raise such a sum would be by having some . big banking concern come to his relief . One New York house , it may be pointed out , has already shown itself Interested in Venezueld 's troubles . If the protocol is accepted and the conditions ore complied with by Venezuela , the next step will be to draw up a second protocol , which will provide for the reference of the questions at 5issue to The Hague tribunal . The theory that Germany is countenancing the candidacy of Gen. Matos for the Presidency and is scheming to get Castro out of power , in the expectation or with the understanding that Matos will pay the German debts , is disputed here by friends of Germany . It is pointed out that the allies purposely delayed their naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer in doubt . In order to avoid the suspicion that they were aiding in the overthrow of Castro or were interfering in any way in Venezuela 's internal affairs , they kept their hands off as long lone- as there seemed to be any question of the result . It was not until Castro had driven Matos out of the country and practically conquered the rebels that they began their pressure . Sena Lor , Cullom , Chairman of the Committee on ? Poreign Relations , called upon the President to-day and talked about the situation . He said after the conference that it seemed likely that the Venezuelan question would be referred to The Hague tribunal , though he could not speak , definitely on the subject . He had confidence in the State Department 's ability to arrange a satisfactory settlement . " The Monroe doctrine is not threatened , " he said , " so long as the allies do not attempt to occupy any territory and hold it indefinitely . " Being asked what he meant by " indefinitely . " he replied : " Ah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual lives ' indefinitely ' often means a few months . In the lives of nations ' indefinitely ' might mean a decade or twenty years . " The whole matter was discussed at the Cabinet meeting to-day . Secretary Hay presented the results of his cable correspondence with the European Governments and reported their assent to The Hague proposition . He is. it is said , preparing a note to the powers , in which he expresses the gratification of this Government at the course taken by them .                     