@@678554

txt Evidence Goes to Show That He Favored a Quarry Company and Land Development Concern . The removal of Louis P. Haffen , Borough President of the Bronx , against whom the Commissioners of Accounts some time ago lodged charges of misconduct in office with Gov . Hughes , is recommended in a report submitted to the . Governor last Thursday by Wallace Macfarlane , the lawyer , who , as Commissioner , presided at ' the hearings in the case . His report was made public yesterday : There were in all twenty-two charges against Mr. Haffen . In a general way they were based on allegations of irregularity in the letting of contracts , waste in the public expenditures of the borough and administrative methods loose enough to sweep away , approved checks and safeguards and render collusion , fraud , and theft of the public funds easy . Nearly all the charges grew out of the public irnProven , ants carried on under the.Flaffen1 regime in the Bronx . Commissioner Macfarlane recommends that eleven of the twenty-two charges be dismissed , Of the remaining eleven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , " singly or taken together , they are not of sufficient gravity te warrant a recommendation of removal , and that with some of them , indeed , the respondent is not directly connected . " It is on the strength of the evidence brought forward to prove three of the twenty-two charges that Commissioner Macfarlane recommends Mr. Haffen 's removal . In the petition for his removal these charges are numbered 13 , 15 , and 10 . The first of these is an echo of the Bronx Court House scandal which was exploited in the newspapers some months ago , when it became known that Mr. Haffen had appointed Michael Garvin , Tammany leader of the Thirty-second Assembly District , architect of the new Court House , though Garvin is not an architect . Three Serious Charges . But charge 13 deals with another phase of the Court House affair . The three charges follow : H. He has permitted the use of specifications for a contract subsequently executed March , MUG , for the building of the Bronx Borough Court House , Which , in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - to wit : Buck 's Harbor  --  to be found only at a certain inaccessible quarry in Buck 's Harbor , Ma , in which Quarry his political associates were interested , 15 . He , as Borough President and as Chairman of the local board of Morrlsania , with veto power , recommended , influenced , and brought about the conversion , partly at general city expense , of an old dirt road in the remote , unsettled section known as Clasen 's Point into a hundred-foot thoroughfare , in the absence of any demand or public need for such a thoroughfare , and he failed to cause to be remedied a defect known to him to exist in the original proceeding for taking title , and he delayed transmitting to the law department , after request therefor , final damage maps in this proceeding front April 15 , 11108 , to . Nov. 5 ? 190S , and has thus delayed the levy upon , the property benefited of any assessment for such benefit : that such action and conduct were largely in the interest of a realty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haffen and members of his family were large stockholders : that , upon the request of Haffen. the Board of Estimate on June 15 , 11100 , directed title to vest in the city on Aug. 1 , 1900 , and interest has been running to the property owners from Aug. 1 . 1900 , while the assessment has been delayed . 16 . He , as- Borough President and a Chairman of the local board of Iforrisania , with veto power , recommended , Influenced , and brought about the acquisition by the city at general city expense , for use as a public bathing place , shore property at Hunt 's Point . on the East River , that is wholly unfit for such use by reason of the close proximity of a public sewer . Friendly to a Lender . The evidence taken before the Commissioner disclosed the fact that ' William E. Morris , Tammany leader of the Thirty-fifth Assembly District and a close political friend and supporter of Mr. Haffen , was interested in the Buck 's Harbor quarry , and that the company operating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morris . Evidence . was introduced also to show that the great delay in building the Court House was due to the lack of adequate facilities at the Buck 's Harbor quarry for dressing the stone as well as to the necessity of transferring it twenty-one -. miles before it could be prepared for shipment to New York . ' The charge relating to the Hunt 's Point purchase was supported by evidence showing that the land which the city purchased for $232,118 had an assessed value of only . $4,300 . It is not contended that Mr. Haffen had any pecuniary interest in the transaction . " I do not think this is any excuse , " says Commissioner Macfarlane in reviewing the evidence . " Municipal officers holding administrative positions of great itiportance owe to the public many obligations besides the duty to retrain from peculation . " In his conclusions Commissioner Macfarlane says : Probably the most vicious manifestation of municipal extravagance is the establishment of needless positions and the employment of excessive members of officials and laborers , as well as the appointment to necessary offices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In considering these charges I have expressed my opinion that the respondent has loaded his payrolls with e. very excessive force , very much greater than the public work of the borough requires . The charge is one difficult of proof , and there is , it is true , a conflict of evidence on material facts between the foremen of the respondent 's maintenance force and the witnesses presented in support of the charges . The matters involved in the thirteenth , fifteenth , and sixteenth charges are of a very different description . They substantially charge the defendant with sreious Personal misconduct . and if any of them bas been clearly proved . a proper case for removal will be presented . Neglect of Doty . Thd thirteenth charge , that relating to the borough court house , has not been proved as alleged , but enough has been disclosed to show that the respondent has in this matter subordinated his duty as a . public official to his political friendships and personal interests . A. great building , which by traditional usage , by its intended purpose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most conspicuous public monuments in the borough , might properly have invited the competitive zeal of the most distinguished architects in the profession ; but the respondent . by an abuse of power , delivered this undertaking into the hands of an influential political ally , professionany Wholly unoualified for the task . - To oblige another political friend he caused the stone to he used In the construction of Ms building to be obtained from a vmarry in . Stains , hitherto unknown in New York , ? ' in a very inaccessible locality , and conducted by a company without either the financial resources or the ? necessary plant for supplying the stone promptly and efficiently . The result has been the forfeiture of one contract , great delay , and undoubtedly increased expense . This building has apparently cost already nearly $500,000 and will prcbahly cost a million or more before It is finally completed . Charge 15 relates to the respondent 's in ? terest in the holdings ' of the Sound View Land and Improvement Company on Clason 's Point Road . In considering that charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induced to bring about the construction of that long and costly highway by his desire to Increase the value - of his own and his associates ' holdings in the Sound View Lana and Improvement Company . A Borough President who buys land in a locality In which he contemplates constructing a great highway that will in all probability enhance the value of his investment and then causes the ' highway to be built , thoueli it is both . a costly and premaew ? improvement , briefs duty and selfInterest Into relations sure to be prejudicial to the public welfare and fatal to the faithful administration of his official trust . The responeent denies that he was ever the beneficial owner of any stock in the Sound View Company . and his nephew cor-. roborates het . On the evidence presented to me , and after closely observing these witnesses I discredit their testimopy . Consideratiori of the testimony which the respondent gave on the subject of this charge during the ' investigation by the Commissioners of Accounts in the Summer of 1905 , In ' the light of his - admissions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Impossible for me to-place any reliance upon his ' Statements unless they are corroborated by disinterested and reliable evidence . There is little doubt that Gov . Hughes will act on the recommendations of the Commissioner and ? remove Mr. Haffen. possibly granting him a hearing before he acts . Among Tammany politicians it was pointed out that the Haffen case was analogous with that of Borough President Ahearn , whose removal was ordered by Gov . Hughes on charges less serious than those preferred against Rot-ten , Choosing His Successor . It will remain for the Bronx members of the Board of Aldermen , with the Mayor presiding , to elect his successor , The opinion was expressed in Tammany circles that , although Mr. Haffen is somewhat unpopular with the Bronx Democrats just now , like Ahearn , he would be elected to succeed himself as the only way of dealing with what is certain to become an issue in the approaching city election . Mr. Haffen could not be reached yesterday . afternoon and evening , Louis G. Van Doren , . his counsel , . aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care to make any ' comment . I , haTe ; tine strueted . my client to maintain a ' stmii'ar attitude ? of silence . What we have-to Say we will say before the Governor , who ' , I am assured , will either give us  --  a personal hearing or permit . us- to submit briefs . " Commissioner of Accounts John Purroy Mitchel , who prosecuted the charges against Mr. Hoffer ' . said he was - well satisfied with the ' report , and that no other conclusion could have been reached . " The most important thing and the most encouragieg about this report , " said Mr. Mitchel , " is that it establishes- a new standard for public officers . The conclusion was reached that it is ' not sufficient for a man in public office to be honest and keep out of the meshes Of the criminal law , but that he also must live up to a reasonable grade of efficiency. ? . The Haffen case dates back to 1007 , when the Civic League of the Bronx , intent upon getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , petitioned Gov . Hughes to order an investigation of the Borough President 's office . The Governor referred the league to the Commissioner of Accounts , who took up the matter under the direction of Mayor McClellan Their investigation , which began in February of last year . was of several months ' duration , and culminated in the bringing of charges by the Commissioners before the Governor . The Governor appointed Mr. Macfarlane his CornmissiOner to hear the evidence . The hearings before the Commissioner were in progress almost daily from Jan. 2 . to April 8 , when the case was closed .                     