@@678022

txt The legislative position in respect to the bills prohibiting race-track gambling is that of a deadlock . The motion to reconsider might be taken from the table by a majority vote , and in the case of a tie the casting vote of the Lieutenant Governor might bring the bills again before the Senate . In order to pass them , holyever , the vote of at least one Senator who voted in the negative on Wednesday must be se-mired . There is quite as much probability , however , that the opponents of the measure would win one or more votes as there is that the affirmative side could secure a recruit . There remains the expedient of the extra session , a resource which , in the hands of a resolute Governor/is potent . Many persons who are opposed to racetrack gambling will be much inclined to doubt whether , from the point of view of public morals alone , the bills are of sufficient importance to justify the calling of the Legislature in extraordinary session , particularly as there can be no assurance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the faint-hearted supporters of the bills who would hardly have the courage to rote against them might absent themselves , and so defeat them . There is no way of escape from the reasoning of the Governor 's message when he tells the Legislature that it is its plain duty to enact the legislation commanded by the Constitution . That instrument declares that no " pool . helling , bookmaking , or any other kind of gambling " shall " hereafter be authorized or allowed within this State ; and the Legislature shall pass appropriate laws to prevent offenses against any of the provisions of this section . " The Governor Is , therefore , upon firm ground when in his message he says : You are not asked to accomplish the Impossible or to write upon the statute books a visionary ' scheme of moral reform . You are asked to rid our law of a vicious discrimination whereby offenses equally condemned by the Constitution are punished as crimes if committed in one place and are encouraged by the absence of suitable penalty if committed in another . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members of the Senate when the bills failed of passage as they are now . The Governor could not make them any plainer . The obdurate opponents of the prohibition of racegambling may pay no heed to him , but at any rate he has discharged his duty , and the Senators who voted In the negative will defy the moral sense of the community if they persist in withholding what he asks .                     