@@676636

txt The extremely extremely interesting reports from Soul and Tokyo which we printed yesterday inculcate the same lesson , and that the same which all the events of the war thus far have inculcated . That lesson is that the Russians were entirely unprepared for war , even after the representatives of Russia in the Far East had done everything in their power to provoke it . They simply did not believe that Japan would fight . The elaborate and widely proclaimed preparations of Russia , naval and military , were in a great degree real . But the intention of them was not to beat Japan , but to impress upon Japan the hopelessness of a conflict . The Japanese refused to be impressed , and events thus far have emphatically vindicated their refusal . They have managed to debark upon the Asiatic mainland a large army , perfectly equipped , and the operation had been so thoroughly thought out beforehand that the execution commands the unstinted admiration of military critics of all nations . But it is perfectly evident that such a debarkation would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had already been neutralized , not to say nullified . The embarkation , transport , and landing of such an army would have been unimaginable in the face of a vigilant enemy strong at sea . The naval force of Russia in the Pacific is regarded by her enemy as negligible , within a month after the beginning of hostilities . And this con elusion is not invalidated by the sortie of some of the Russian ships front Port Arthur . That feat indeed showed gallantry and enterprise and vindicated the Russians from the imputation of taking up an attitude of merely passive resistance . But , as to the general progress of the campaign , it was merely episodical . We can see no reason for accepting the rumors that Port Arthur has been evacuated . Those rumors are very likely the hasty expression of a belief that Port Arthur is untenable . And this seems to be at least a plausible military judgm ? nt . There is no question that the force which Japan will be able to push across the Korean frontier , as soon as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the point of contact , ' to any force which Russia can bring against it on the Manchurian branch of the railway below Mukden , if not below Harbin . The reported determination of the Russians to fall back at least as far as Mukden is therefore probable . But to do that would isolate Port Arthur completely by abandoning to the enemy its sole communication with the country behind it . The place may be strong enough and well garrisoned and well provisioned enough to stand a siege of indefinite duration . Upon that point we have no sufficient knowledge . But its garrison will in that case be withdrawn from the force available for the real Russian campaign , upon which it will be a mere incubus now that , by the Japanese command of the sea , the place has ceased to be a " port " at all . Every military consideration seems to be in favor of withdrawal , and in favor of remaining only the injury , which to be sure would be very serious , that withdrawal would inflict upon Russian prestige , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world at large , but of Manchurians in particular and Chinese in general . In the present aspect of affairs the boast of Gen. KIIROPATICIN that , after driving the Japanese out of Manchuria and Korea , he would cross the straits and " take their islands " seems much too premature to be either impressive or dignified .                     