@@676801

txt Three freight cars got away from a crew of switchmen at the Nesbit Street crossing of the Delaware , Lackawanna. and Western Railroad at 3 o'clock this morning and two crashed into the three-story brick residence of School Commissioner James Snape at 76 Sheffield Street . The first car , which was loaded with oats , demolished the front of the structure . Then it tumbled through the parlor floor into the cellar . ' The second car , loaded with hay and grain , was turned sideways against the front of the house . The third , a huge gondola car laden with coal , landed in the centre of Sheffield Street . its trucks burled in the earth . The train- was being shifted from the elevated siding at Nesbit Street to the main tracks , but the switch leading to the freight yard on Sheffield Street was open and the train dashed down the incline at breakneck speed . A brakeman , who was standing on the front car , realized the situation and barely escaped injury by jumping . There y r ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swift did the cars descend the hill that this was demolished , while a six-foot fence surrounding the freight yard was crushed like paper . Across the street the cars dashed , and the front of the Snape residence was crumbled like an eggshell . Mr. and Mrs. Snape , their two little daughters , and a six-year-old son , were asleep on the second floor . Mr. Snape occupied the front room over the parlor and was thrown twenty feet by the force of the crash , while his wife and daughters , who were in an adjoining room , were thrown out of bed . The boy was in a crib and was not even awakened . Mr. Snape was badly bruised , but his wife and daughters escaped with only a bad fright . LONG ISLAND TRAINS CRASH . Two Firemen Are Killed and Passengers Are Shaken Up . in the outer yards of the Long Island Railroad in Long Island City yesterday morning two men were killed and Many lives endangered by the collision of an incoming and an outgoing train . The accident was apparently due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firemen , sitting on the left of the two engines , were instantly killed , but the engineers escaped injury .. The firemen were Benjamin Roach of Locust Valley and Arnold Cordts of Morris Park , L. I. The east-bound train was piloted by Engineer Charles - Thorpe . The west-bound train had at the throttle David Service of 94 West Avenue , Long Island City . Both men were arrested and afterward released - on bail furnished by the Long Island Railroad Company . . . That none of those in the crowded cars was seriously hurt is ascribed to the fact that the-vassengers-had risen from their . seats in the smoking car to leave the train , and , finding the front door locked , had turned to the rear door . The left side of the front part of this car was wrecked , and nay one in the first four seats could not have escaped death or serious injury . As It happened , no one in the cars got anything worse than a shaking up . Coroner Leonard Ruoff is investigating the accident , the second within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred a few days ago under almost similar circumstances , but with the trains going more slowly . It was said yesterday that there is trouble in the switchyard ; that , owing to the improvements in the station , the switch tower is not in complete operation ; that much of the switching is done by the old hand switches , and that this caused the trouble yesterday . This was denied by the employes . They said that one of the tenders had lumped the track because of a faulty wheel . David Service , in charge of the engine drawing the incoming train , says he got the signal to go ahead , and was just getting under way when he reached the point of collision . To his surprise the open engine was shunted obliquely across the track , and it was too late to avoid a collision . SWIMMER SAVED BLIND HORSE . Hungry Cab Animal Went Overboard ? Steam Lighter Helped . Arthur Powers 's blind cab horse walked into the river at the foot of Broad Street yesterday afternoon while his master was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hundred boatmen a full hour to rescue the animal . Powers thinks that the horse became hungry himself and started out to hunt for something to eat on his own hook . Unfortunately , he was pointed toward the river . Closer and closer to the water 's edge he moved . Finally the cab hit a post and the animal walked clear of the shafts and over the bulkhead , hitting the water with a mighty splash , which brought a crowd of ' longshoremen and boys to see what the trouble was , The horse swam blindly about , fetching up every now and , then against the bulkhead or the steam lighter Defiance . into which he made vain efforts to climb . Attempts made to lassoo him failed . Powers appeared on the scene , and in answer to his appeals for help Arthur Greer , a boatrrtan and a fine swimmer , plunged into the water and undertook the task of putting a rope about the animal 's body . For a time he was unable to achieve the task , so wild with fright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horse with his rope . leaving a length trailing behind him , and when he came up on the other side , managed to accomplish his end . The rope was then attached to the derrick on the lighter and the horse pulled aboard , dripping and utterly exhausted . Powers gave the animal a big drink of whisky , while the crowd was cheering Greer , and it e as not long before the steed was strong enough to be led home .                     