@@675742

txt AN EXPERT WITNESS ON CHINA . Sir ROBERT HART is undoubtedly en- tliked to speak with more authority on Chinese politics than any other foreigner . With the possible exception of some missionaries , he is about the oldest foreign resident in the country , and his official position has given him a better opportunity than any missionary could have for knowing the ways of thinking and of feeling of the Chinese official classes . His account of the siege of the legations was one of the most interesting that were given , and his reflections upon those events were very suggestive and enlightening . His conclusions were extensively dissented from in his own country . But that was because they amounted to a disapproval of the British course in comparison , for instance , with our own . Observation of the practiCal workings of " the concert , " as we pointed out yesterday , have brought some of his critics to his and our way of thinking . Nevertheless , it is difficult to understand the sentiments expressed in an interview which he has just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially his contention that it was a mistake for the Powers to fortify their legations in Peking . Theoretically , there I is , of course . force in the suggestion that if you can not trust a country to observe the inviolability of your official representatives it is idle to hope for peaceful relations . But , in the first place , it is evident that the sanctity of the legations has been violated , and that with the connivance of the Chinese Government . In the second place , the fortification of the legations would enable their inmates to hold out , against a mere mob attack until the Chinese Government could come to the rescue . We may perhaps suppose that the Chinese Government has been too bitterly admonished of the result of leaving the legations open to attack to repeat that offense . But Sir ROBERT seems to give away his whole case when he admits that if the foreign troops were entirely withdrawn " there would not be a foreigner left alive in Peking Amorrow . ' . Possibly he means that Peking , after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese Court , would relapse into a condition of absolute anarchy . In that case , both the Powers and the Chinese Government would have reason to congratulate themselves that the legations were fortified and victualed to stand such a siege as a mere mob could bring against them . There will , however , be no dispute on this side of the Atlantic that the Director of Chinese Customs is in the right in saying that the Powers are in the wrong in failing to take , or at least to allow for , the Chinese point of view . It is matter for congratulation that we ourselves have avoided the mistake that has marked and marred the proceedings of " the concert , " and that our forbearance is appreciated in China . It will doubtless be worth much to us in our future relations with the empire .                     