@@678704

txt Since the Fourth Avenue Subway is to be built there can be no part of the city that will not wish it success . The very boroughs which are prejudiced by the unfair weight of public money thrown into the scales against their development must wish that the subway shall be a money maker , thus lessening the demands upon tax money , and even perhaps establishing a precedent for building other city subways if perchance this one belies expectations . But there 's the rub . The outlook is so discouraging that It is common prudence to look the facts in the face , and thereby take every possible precaution against realizing the pessimist fore-east . The section now begun is a link in the so-called tri-borough route . It would be ideal if railways could be built by merely drawing lines with a rule , and neglecting traffic considerations . The proportion of passengers who will wish to ride over this road from end to end is negligible . There is little joy riding in a subway , and , if there were much , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent are a debit to the profit and loss account . But this road is ingeniously located to evade sources of short-distance profit-paying passengers . When completed it will not tap the business sections of either Brooklyn or Manhattan Borough , and it will not serve the social and theatrical and retail districts which provide the present Subway with so much business at otherwise idle hours . This subway is planned for those who wish to pass between the Bronx and Brooklyn , or to ride to the seashore in Summer . Otherwise it must create its own means of support . For this reason it has been twice reported against by engineers who think that routes of railways which shall earn their living must be related to traffic rather than to considerations of politics , or to the idealizing of the conditions of population . It is in this latter respect that the road will prove the greatest disappointment . The Fourth Avenue Subway owes its existence largely to perception that congestion of population is a sanitary and moral evil which the city should minimize . It is because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be built by public funds . What is likely 11 to happen is the production of another congestion of population , without remedying the old congestions . Flats and tenements will spring up near the stations , and there will be another densely populated narrow strip , reproducing the characteristics of Manhattan Island  --  which was the thing to be avoided . Either this will be so or the road will ' be a tax-eater . The expenses of building and operating subways are so great that they can not be profitable without congestion of population . Now congestion in an office district has advantages as well as objections , but congestion in a residential district Is an unmixed evil , and the district tributary to this subway must always be residential . There can not be two office and theatre districts , with armies of short-cliztpace riders . And if there could be , one could not be plaCed along this new route , so ingeniously placed to avoid the settled centres ofiraffic in New York . The prospects of the section for which ground is now broken are worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridge and runs part way to the ocean . Nobody wants to go to the end of the Manhattan Bridge , and whoever is landed there must pay another fare to get somewhere else . Starting thence there will be relatively few wishing to ride to the districts reached by this link . The gross income of fifteen lines serving this district  --  including the Coney Island traffic  --  is $2,500,000 annually . This must now be divided under the disadvantage that this subway enjoys no facilities for exchanging traffic by transfers . Being without feeders or distributers , it would be fortunate to get one-third of the business . A deficit of a half million would be moderate . It would be a brave operator who undertook such a forlorn hope . But the city is superior to all such considerations . Instead of enticing an operator into a contract by promising to con-street a road to suit , the road is to be built , and Providence is to be looked to to relieve the enterprise from ern. barrassment . This is the regular thing . This road is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anywhere in particular , but just wants to pay 5 cents for the privilege of paying 5 cents more to get somewhere else . The city builds subways for elevated roads , and provides elevated tracks over bridges where there are no such roads , and forbids those who build facilities at their own expense to use them . It is an odd way of scattering population , but it is An object lesson in municipal construction . We must all wish the city a safe deliverance                     