@@675922

txt The financial affairs of the Everett-Moore syndicate , owning or controlling a number of urban and inter-urban electric railways and an extensive system of local and long-distance telephone lines in Ohio and Michigan . passed into the control of a committee composed of seven prominent bankers of this city to-day , This action was taken , ft is stated , as the result of temporary financial embarrassment on the part of the syndicate , which has been affected for some time past by the stringency in the money market . The committee has been at work investigating the affairs of the concern , and expresses the firm belief that the concern is entirely solvent , and that its embarrassment will be only temporary . The syndicate is said to control more than 1,200 miles of electric lines , with many new extensions still in course of construction . Among the telephone properties owned outright or controlled by the corporation are the Cuyahoga Telephone Company of this city , with about 10,0u0 subscribers ; the United States Telephone Company , Federal Telephone Company , Stark County ( Ohio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company , People 's Telephone Company of Detroit , Wood County ( Ohio ) Telephone Company , and a number of others in which the Federal is the controlling factor . Among the more important electric street railroads in which the syndicate is largely interested are the Cleveland Electric Railway Company . Detroit United Railway Company , Toledo Railway and Light Company . Northern Ohio Traction Company , Cleveland , Painesville and Eastern Railway Company , Detroit and Toledo Shore Line Railway Company , and the Lake Shore Electric Railroad Company . The aggregate capitalization of all the various properties owned or controlled by the syndicate is said to be about $130.000 , - 000 . Henry A. Everett and E. V. Moore refused to-night to be interviewed concerning their affairs , declaring that the statement issued by the committee of bankers covered the entire matter . WHAT THE COMMITTEE SAYS . The committee organized by electing IL R. Newcomb as Chairman and E. C. Tillotson as Secretary , after which the following statement was given out : " it became apparent some time ago to some of the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account of the tight money situation in the different centres where they were financing aunty of their enterprises , although in their opinion they owned several million dollars ' worth of property over and abut their liabilities , they would be unable without temporary assistance to meet their o6-liga.tions . Many of these obligations arose from the fact that the syndicate was engaged in the construction of a number of enterprises which were nut yet fully completed , requiring large sums of money to pay for labor and materials in the construction . " The syndicate was also recently disappointed in being unable to complete the negotiations for the raising of a large sum of money upon certain of its bonds and stocks , which would have furnished . t with ready funds , and which negotiations it had reason to believe , until ten days ago , would result favorably " Some of the members of the syndicate , when it became apparent to them that many of their liabilities , which were coming due about Jan. 1 , could not be met , called together some of their personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be done . These men examined very fully all of the affairs of those composing the syndicate and were furnished with very full and complete information . They found further from their investigations that in the telephone situation , while among its different elements it had many companes that had fully completed their equipment , and were on a paying basis , there were others that needed material assistance . They also found that so far as the personal affairs of the members of the syndicate were concerned their equities were , in their opinion . largely in excess of their liabilities , and that , in their judgment , all of the personal creditors could be paid without doubt front the assets and several hundred thousand dollars put into the completing of the properties . " They found that there were in Cleveland upward of thirty banks that were their creditors , and that these banks held the choicest of the securities and the most equities . " Messrs . Everett and Moore stated that they were perfectly willing to turn all of their matters and properties over to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection with themselves to preserve the most equities , with the belief that , when their properties were developed and creditors paid , there would be a substantial amount to return to them . The personnel of the committee is as follows : R. R. Newcomb , Myron T. Herrick , J. J. Sullivan , Calvery Morris , Kaufman Hays , E. G. Tillotson , and W. C. Mather These gentlemen were selected , not especially on account of any interest directly involved , but because of their well-known ability and integrity , " In the meeting at which Messrs . Everett and Moore were present , more than fivesixths of all of the Cleveland indebtedness was represented . The parties attending the meeting expressed themselves unanimously in recommending to their institutions that they should extend the indebtedness of the Everett-Moore syndicate . and its allied interests for a period of not exceeding eighteen months , conditioned upon the committee named having entire charge of all of the affairs connected with the syndicate and its various interests . " Papers looking toward such extension and the empowering of the committee to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the members of the EverettMoore syndicate , and are now being executed by the Cleveland banks as rapidly as possible . All other creditors are to be asked to unite with the Cleveland creditors in granting the extension . " Expert accountants have been employed to examine and report upon the condition of all the various companies . MYRON T. HERRICK 'S STATEMENT . Col. Myron T. Herrick gave out to-night the following signed statement : " Personally I have had no connection with and no knowledge of the operations of the Everett-Moore syndicate . Although I am named as one of the members of the committee for the reorganization of their affairs , I have now no actual knowledge of their condition , except as informed by another committee of Cleveland bankers , which has spent more than a week in malting an investigation . while I have taken no part in this Investigation , the bankers who conducted it are among our safe and conservative men , and whose report should inspire confidence . The entire affairs of the syndicate are now undergoing a thorough investigation with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . in ns judgment , feel assured that the interests of all classes of creditors will be conserved by competent business management at the hands of the committee chosen . " As a result of the announcement of the financial embarrassment of the syndicate , a run was started on the Dime Savings and Banking Company , of which Messrs . Ever -- ett and Moore are Directors , late this afternoon . All demands were promptly met , and President Watterson said that the bank had ample funds to pay all depositors who desired their money . The institution is one of the city depositories . When its last report was ' issued In October , the total resources were placed at deleted 2 lines                     