@@676805

txt Imprisonment during eight hours in a vault four feet square was the fate yesterday of two bookmakers trailed by detectives of the gambling detail . The prisoners had nothing to eat and little air to breathe during this time , and finally were released by their employer , " Jack " Barry , after they had burned all Incriminating papers In the safe . Two detectives sat patiently In front of the vault during the eight hours and convinced Barry that it was their intention to remain there all night if the prisoners did not make an appearance . Tills situation was the result of a raid made on Barry 's new office on the fourth floor of 167 Dearborn street at 3 o'clock by Detective Sergeants Schubert and Dennehy and Detective Larson of Assistant Chief Schuettler 's Mike . Suspicious Sounds in Vault . The detectives found Barry and three of his assistants engaged in writing out leases and filing bond and mortgage papers when they entered room 904 , labeled " Investments . " They hovered aroundthe place all afternoon , and finally took Barry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " Jack " O'Brien  --  to the Harrison street station , leaving Larson still watching the big vault in the corner , from which issued occasional suspicious sounds . " They either will come out or be smothered and starved , " said the determined and disgusted Larson , who , as the only " private " in the detail , was left to his lonely vigil . Larson Begins Long Vigil . The vault was Just large enough to turn around in . It was fitted with telephones and other paraphernalia for use In taking down the " Investments " of the unwary . When Barry returned to his office , having ' been released on bonds , he regarded the waiting Larson with an ironical smile . " Would n't you like a cup of coffee or something ? " ho said . " You wo n't find any one In there for a long time . " " I have a good mind to smash the door , " said Larson . He was dissuaded from this plan by his superiors , and with this added companionship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking up at the lighted windows , stood several " bookies " and racetrack men . The news had spread quickly that Barry was trapped . In the hall below stood the wife of one of the imprisoned men , weeping . Hours passed and it was 9 o'clock . " It must be getting pretty hot in there , " remarked Dennehy. .0 Are n't you getting hungry ? " he called . There was no answer . " Better give It up , " suggested Barry . Then 11 o'clock came . Barry became the most disgusted of the party . " How long are you going to wait ? " he finally asked . " Until the men either are smothered or starved , " said the detectives in chorus . Well , I give up , " he said . Perspiration Covers Prisoners . Barry threw open the vault ' door after working over the combination . Out stepped two sheepish appearing men , covered with Perspiration . Behind thorn was a mass of burned papers . They gave the names of W. J. Rollins and Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harrison street to s b ktnaker , while Smith was held as an inmate . " I certainly was an inmate of something , " he said . The mystery of their being alive was then explained . On the inside of the vault was an electric fan . " This Is an outrage . " said Barry , as he followed his men to the station to sign their bonds . " These detectives snake my life a burden . They have driven me from pillar to post , and now I have to go into a cave like a rabbit . . I have my cables run into the vault , and all the real business is done there , I 'll make these detectives sick . "                     