@@676909

txt Nithin the lest week or two several dozen members of congress , not including party leaders , have called on President Roosevelt and assured him positively that no other general economic proposition has taken such a Compie:o hold on the people entirely aside from politics as the declaration in his message that the interstate commerce commission should be empowered to fix reasonable rates for the rafircads and that those rates should stand until reviewed by the courts . These members of congress who have talked Itith the president come from Agricultural Mricts , from manufacturing sections , and from commercial cities . They are unanimous fa ' declaring that the country will not be satisfied with any compromise whatever and that no legislation will meet with the approval the people unless it embodies the bread , general principle that the commission shall have power to fix rates and not merely recommend . : tirthertnore I am told ' the president has been essured by nine out of ten members of congress who came to call on him , aside from the big leaders , most of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people expect and approve an extra session of congress for the express purpose of taking up the . railroad question . These callers almost invariably recommend to the president that he shouts discuss the railroad rate question and tariff revision In his inaugural message omost to the exclusion of other topics . Would Sound . Public Sentiment . It also has been suggesten uruc ee announce at that time his purpose to call a special session so as to set the minds of the people at rest and give them a chance to eonfe : ' with their representatives and senators , so when congress does meet it shall have full Information as to the condition of Public sentiment on this subject . As a specimen of this class of callers , one might take Representative Brick of South Lend , hid . his district includes the chief manufacturing city in the north end of the state , with a large sweep of agricultural counties above it , and fairly typifies the . tiestern congressional ; district . The . South Pend representative has been in congretls long enough to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public sentlultra. lie informed Frimident Roosevelt , without hesitation , that the stand taken by the administration in favor of granting power to the interstate commerce commission was indorsed by the people of Indiana almost unanimously and without regard to party affiliations . Furthermore , he reported that the people in his section of the country Insisted that congress : Mould take action and would heartily support the president if lie called an extra session for the express purpose and no Matter how early . Indorses President 's Course . As he left the White house , Representative " kick said with an enthusiasm which was mere significant becausia he was fresh from his interview with the president : " I believe in moderate tariff revision and I also , believe legislation ought to be put through congress at this time along the lines asked for by the president in his message on the railroad question . The country demands such legislation and the country is absolutely right in this regard . If nothing can be done at this session of a satisfactory nature , I think there should be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put oft much longer the people will be likely to think congreSs Is trilling with them , and is influenced to an improper extent by railroad interests . " sti In spite of the optimistic views expressed by some republican leaders , rcannot personally see much chance for any real reform legislation at the present session . It would be simple enough to get through some sort of subterfuge or compromise or mere bluff at reform , and this is the program the great railroad managers have set themselves to accomplish . There scarcely is a railroad President in the United Lates today who honestly favors giving to the interstate commerce commission the right to 11x rates which Will remain until reviewed by the courts . It was at first supposed that some big railroad men favored this action , but the lines are being sharply drawn and the railroad Influence here , while not openly antagonistic to the r resident , 13 being thrown strongly and with great skill to secure the passage of a characteristic bluff which will confuse the situation and prevent more radical legislation . Some railroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " investigate , " which is a favorite device of the people who want to have nothing done In sPite of overwhelming public sentiment . Another Plan by Railroads . Another plan of the railroad interests is to secure the passage of a bill on lines that are hew being drafted by Mr. liepburn of Iowa Which ostensibly follows L. ? recommendaNna of the president 's message , but which In practical operation leaves matters much Where they are ' now . Almost any kind of legislation can be put through the house by the copperation of Speaker Cannon . A large majority of the rank and file of republicans and an overly/miming percentage of democrats will vote Is , : any legislation to strengthen the hands of the interstate commerce commission . Such a bill could be presented one day and acted upon by the committee the next , and passed at the third session of the house if the way should be smoothed for it by Speaker Cannon and the republican majority of the committee on rules . The only difficulty in the house lies in the interstate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president 's recommendations as ever it was , the only dif ? ferenee being that a majority , having he-come convinced that some legislation was necessary , are now endeavoring to make a bluff at doing what the president has urged . Some Sort of Bill Assured . ounlo sort Or . D111 surely W1/1 DO passeu by the house before it adjourns on March 4. it will not ho a bill satisfactory to the pee : Die if it is prepared by Col. Hepburn and those who are associated with him on the Interstate commerce committee . For this reason it is deemed to ho important that when the committee on rules meets with speaker Cannon at its head it should report a rule merely to provide for consideration , leaving the house free to amend it as seems best during the debate . Otherwise one of the alleged " compromises " now being prepared by half a doien railroad attorneys will be jammed through the house on a special rule and members will vote for it because they will be forbidden to offer amendments . It is the habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this will be the case with railroad legislation unless the people are warned of the danger and in turn let their representatives know that no railroad substitute will be satisfactory . There 18 no chance at all of the senate , according to present , opinions , passing any bill at all which provides that a railroad rate once fixed by the interstate commerce commission shall stand until reviewed by the courts . The interstate commerce committee of the senate is opposed to this legislation , root and branch . The same men who beat the Cullom bill in 1000 are on the committee now , and as every one knows the Cullom bill was the simplest and most scientific measure which has yet been presented In congress in the direction of real government control of railroad rates . Senate Favors Delay . Sentiment In the senate favors a commission or joint committe to " investigate , " which always means , in senatorial language , " to delay . " Failing in that , the committee might agree to pasS a measure like that now being prepared by Col. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in thirty or sixty days after the rate is fixed by the commission . but which also provides that the rate shall not go into effect until fixed by the courts , this being the exact opposite of the recommendation made by President Roosevelt . With the senate so strongly opposed to any action which really would relieve the situation , the chances of any real reform at the present session of congress are remote . Even If that were not so , It is said . President Roosevelt would veto any measure in the nature of a compromise which did not specifically grant to the Interstate commerce commission the right to fix rates and keep them fixed until the court intervenes . The president is too wise a man and too good , a politician to be guilty of making any threat of his future use of the veto power , but those who know his disposition fully believe that if one of these railroad subterfuges Is sent to the White house at this session it surely will be returned to congress with the president 's written disapproval , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such character that radical legislation nt the special session of congress would be inevitable . Problem Is Presented . There is one reason for delay which has not been frequently commented upon , and it is that the vastness of the subject has begun to stagger even those men who honestly represent the wishes of the people and who are loyally following the president . It is an open secret that neither Attorney General Moody nor any one else as yet has drafted any bill which seemed to be simple enough and at the same time broad enough in its scope to meet the situation . Quite recently some of the best friends of reform legislation have had it impressed upm them that no adequate regulation of railroad freight rates can be accomplished unless the commission has power to create and enforce a uniform national classification as provided for in the Cullom bill , which Mr : Elkins sat up nights to kill five years ago . Practical railroad students have pointed out that If the commission fixes a rate on any particular article the railroads to a large extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grading up different articles on different roads and in different localities in such a way as to foster legal rebates and discriminations under the eyes of the commission . Besides that it is asserted that no national commission intelligently can fix interstate commerce rates unless at the same time it establishes uniform classification , a uniform bill of lading , uniform terminal charges , and , in fact , a geenral national system of freight handling , as well as of freight rates . For this reason there is growing up a sentiment in congress that the simplest way out of the diMiculty may be after all to take up the old Cullom bill , pass it through the house , and force the senate to go on record on this measure prepared by the senator who was the author of the original interstate contmerce act . RATE LAW PERIL TO COMMERCE . Railroad Opposition to Proposed Legislation Voiced by W. D. Rinds of Atlantic Coast Line . Washington , D. C .. Jan. 19 . ? W. D. Hinds , representing the Atlantic Coast line and the louiville and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the railroads before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce today . Mr. Hinds said he could not escape the conclusion that the power proposed to be given the commission was absolute authority over the earning mulcapitai of the railroads and over the com. , th , ree of the country . At the same time the personnel of the commission could be changed every three years at the option of any president , Mr. Townsend asked If the commission had abused the power to make rates , which it ' iva s supposed to have had during the first ten years of its existence . Mr. Hinds said the commission made many antes during WO time which the railroads never observed . Involves Commercial Rivalry . A fundamental error on the part of the advocates of government rate making , Mr. Hinds believed , was a reference of questions involving commercial rivalry between localities to any tribunal . Such a method , lie said . would put the government In the attitude of dispensing prosperity to some localities , which action would withhold It from some other locality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Undue discrimination regarding the long and short haul , he maintained , could be corrected under the law as It stood today . There was a reason , he explained , for a difference in the rates on the long or short haul . If a short haul rata was a reasonable one for the service performed , It Should not be necessarily compared to a less rate for a longer haul on freight destined to a still further point , and which rate had to be made to meet certain commercial conditions . Compares Chicago Rates . ' Mr. Stevens asked : " What should be done when the rate on oil from Cleveland to New Orleans is 20 cents and from Chicago to New Orleans 24 cents , the Cleveland rate being considered a fair and reasonable rate ? " The reply was that there was no reason for comparing the two rates ; the Chicago rate on oil . should be compared with the rates from that city to New Orleans on other commodities , and If the rate on oil was found to be lower than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency would be to reduce rates In case action should be taken by a goverment tribunal . The tendency towards reduction was universal on the part of all state commissions , and the only reason It did not work greater disaster to the roads was that state commissions could not touch Interstate commerce , which constituted the bulk of the business of the roads .                     