@@675593

txt The most remarkable feature of the Weis Library is its location . It stands at the junction of two country roads known as the Valley and the Thomas Road , in Mill-creek Township , Erie County , Penn. , about six miles from the City of Eric . Its immediate surroundings are a well-kept grass plot , dotted here and there with flower beds , and neat gravel walks , bordered on each side by roses and hardy hydrangeas . BeyOnd these are acres of fields and pasture land , with a background  --  viewing from the front of the building ? of woods , along which runs a shady lane to a near-by farmhouse . Sixty acres of this beautiful country belong to the library , generously given In his will , together with the money necessary to build and furnish the building , by John Weis , a prosperous farmer , who lived the greater part of his life on the farm upon which the library now stands ,  --  and died there in 1392 . In addition to the gifts already mentioned , John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving several houses to be rented and used by the Trustees for that purpose . The kind and generous forethought of this man was productive of other provisions of much importance to the visitors of Weis Library . Though the exterior of the building is not elaborate , being a square brick structure , plain but neat , the interior arrangements bear evidence of having been devised by a person thoroughly acquainted with the practical working of such a library as the building was intended to accommodate . A portion of the hall is occupied by the Weis Library Post Office , that being a most convenient place for the families in that portion of the country to get their mail . The reading room , entered directly from the hail . is furnished with three long tables , upon which can be found all the late magazines and periodicals , together with several farm papers , which are doubtless of much interest . as well as instructive to the patrons of the library . On the walls of the reading room are several racks , well filled with all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reading room is the book department , containing about 2 ; 000 volumes of history , fiction , and reference books , all of which are free to be taken from the library by any responsible persons . The book department contains also the private library of John Weis , which is composed of not more than fifty volumes , deleted about 10 lines Everything is kept in order by the custodian , who also acts as librarian . He lives with his family on the second floor of the building , and has two rooms in the basement . ? Every department of the Weis Library- . is free to the public on every day but Sundays and holidays , the only requirements being a strict adherence to the rules of the Trustees , which call for perfect quiet in the reading room , a fine for the abuse of books taken from the building , no liquor , dancing , or seines of chance to be indulged in by parties enjoying the use of the public hall or grounds , and the giving of at least forty-eight hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishing to use the basement . Everything in the management is done very systematically , according to the wishes of John Weis , who owed a great part of his success in life to his ruling characteristic  --  that of doing things systematically and with great care . Had he been a man of less prudence , economy , and perseverence , there woulld be no Weis Library , and the people in that neighborhood would have no such opportunity of gaining a knowledge of good literature . Who can tell what benefits may some day be derived in other farming neighborhoods from the example and generosity of this man ? His deed is worthy of attention even from those who will never visit the building that stands in the fields six miles from Erie as a monument to his memory and a Potent inspiration to the world at large .                     