@@677478

txt Chancellor James R. Day of Syracuse University told the university 's New York alumni at their annual dinner last night that trades unionism was the greatest despotism on the face of this earth , that the corporations as constituted to-day are not big enough , that the railroads , instead of being discouraged by Congress , should be encouraged , and that the people should rise up and demand that the direction of large things should be given to large men . Chancellor Day 's speech followed addresses by J. G. Phelps Stokes and Mrs. Stokes , and , although he expressly stated that he was not engaged in any personal argument , those present nevertheless construed his remarks , to a certain extent , as a reply to the doctrines advanced by Mr. and Mrs. Stokes . Mrs. Stokes said ' that she was now a " full-baked Social- , ist " and deprecated the existence of what ' she termed a condition by which the few who live in luxury are able to enjoy onehalf of what is produced by the great majority who produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . In introducing Chancellor Day . the Rev. Dr. William Harmon Van Allan of Boston , who was the toastmaster , said that Chancellor Day differed with ' Moses , in the Moses had touched the rocks and the springs had gushed forth . Chancellor Day , he said , touched the springs and the rocks gushed forth . Dr. Day 's subject as stated on the list of speakers was ? Millionaire-phobia . " " I do n't know who thought of this subject , " said Dr. Day , " but I want to say right here that I am not going to use it as the subject of my speech to-night . I could talk on it , but I wo n't . I have listened with great interest to the speeches that have preceded me , and I said to myself , How about the rest of us ? Are we in this businzss ? And remember that the gentlemen who have been associated with me for years are doing this very thing to-day . " I find a man I have known for years I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those afflicted with incurable diseases can be treated . Then I find him interested in a home for unfortunate little waifs on the banks of the Hudson . Then again I find him helping poor young men and women to equip themselves for lives of usefulness . Then again I remember that right here in the City of New York building- is nearing completion to-night that - is to be the , kindergarten neadquarters of this great city , and it all is being done so quietly that many of you may not have known of it before . " Then I remember that Mr. Huyler can be found almost any night at the rescue missions giving away nis thousands not only in gifts , but in personal labor . So let me tell you that there are men working in this com. - nunity as conscientiously and as honestly to improve these conditions of which we have neard as any man or woman identified with Settlement work , " I like to remember that there is a mightier march going on than some of us imagine . I love to remember that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for eight years , even if it is sometimes referred to as a bad city , still gives more to charity and does more to uplift the outcast than Chicago , Milwaukee . Cincinnati , Buffalo , and other cities combined . " You know that I am constituted as I am constituted . I ca n't help my optimism . I appreciate my difficulties , but I ca n't help having faith in men and faith in destiny . I feel a deep sense of gratitude to all workers . I think about all these things , and I think that the poor are getting - wages for all that they do ; and that a great percentage of them are getting payment for more than they do . They can support 10.00 , saloons between the Battery and Harlem , and I am not going to charge it all up to the corporations . We must instill into them their duty to temperance , thrift , and labor , as well as our duty to them . " I have studied the labor question . I find that certain men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as possible by doing as little work as possible . The laboring man is not a bit anxious to get to the scene of his work ahead of time , but he is the quickest man on the face of this earth to hear the 12 o'clock whistle and the same whistle again at 5 o'clock . " It is no longer a question with him of ' how much I can do for the man who gives me employment . On the other hand . it is ' how little I can do for the most money . ' I saw a man who was building a house the other day and there was only one mechanic working on it . I asked him why , and he replied that it was because men are no longer permitted to become mechanics . I tell you that no greater despotism reigns on the face of this earth than trades unionism , and I know whereof I am speaking . " So I say that we must look at this question in all of its aspects . As one : swallow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imp of a devil does n't make a perdition . I believe in large things . I believe in a large country , and I believe that today corporations are not anywhere near great enough . I believe that our railroads are actually handicapped by the tremendous trade that they have to handle , and that instead of being discouraged by Congress they should be encouraged . The public should rise up and demand that large men should be given the direction of large things . " Mr. Stokes . in his speech . which lasted over an hour . told of his e.vii nd his fellow-workers ' experiences in settlement work in this city . He said that he went into the work recognizing that a young man reared in - wealth and luxury and whose associates had all belonged to a certain class of men and women must inevitably acquire an opinion of life that Is more or less one-sided and incomplete . He told of his medical student days and of the impressions made upon him by the unfortunates who came under his care in his hospital work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many instances tile sufferings of the unfortunates were traceable directly to environments which it was beyond their power to control . Mrs. Stokes , after declaring that she was now a full-fledged Socialist , said that she thought sometimes there was something wrong with the capitalist system . She did not refer to individuals , but to the system , she said . John D. Archbold , Syracuse University ' ? greatest benefactor , was among those at the speakers ' table last night . It was to Mr. Archbold , it was said , that Chancellor Day referred when he spoke of the numerous charities which were made possible by the generosity of one man . After the speaking a bold watch was presented to Myer Prinstein , the jumper , who won the running long jump at the recent Olympic games in Athens , Greece .                     