@@781377

txt After a lengthy discussion to-day the International Agricultural Congress postponed to the next congress further consideration of Count von Schwerin Loewitz 's proposition for a European zollverein against American competition . The discussion on what is styled " Europe 's declaration of war against America " aroused great interest . The discussion opened with the presentation in the name of Julius Rubinek , a Hungarian Deputy , who was unable to attend , of a proposal to establish an accord between the European nations for the purpose of checking oversea competition , especially that of the United States , by applying higher duties to American products . Count von Schwerin Loewitz presented and explained his proposition for a European zollverein adding that he wished Europe to defend herself not only against the United States but against all other non-European countries . He also wished to find a practical means of securing an early commercial union of the European countries . Signor Luzzatti , who has been three times Italian Minister of the Treasury , and who is considered the highest Italian authority on questions of commerce , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariffs just voted by Germany and Switzerland and the tariff now being prepared by Austro-Hungary , any dare suggest a European customs union to oppose American competition . Is there hope for a European agreement , he asked , before declaring war on the United States ? It would be ridiculous to threaten war , he said , without an understanding among the allies . Even the renewal of the present European treaties was difficult , The existing tariffs were so enormous that they were threatening to put back Europe economically to the Middle Ages . How was it possible under such conditions to fight the United States , of which he must speak with respect ? Her greatness imposes prudence while her force commands . Italy , especially , can not take the matter too lightly , as she not only sends zoods to America , but men who are going to seek their liberty , work , and prosperity . The present threat was not serious , because a customs union was impossible among the European nations . ' tit was possible , America would defend herself , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could ' do ? He hoped that the commercial treaties would be renewed , for they , containing the most-favored-nation clause , alone Might lead to a sort of European customs union . Signor Euzzatti asked if the responsibility for the much-condemned trusts lay on . America or on Europe . " I shall support-those States . " he exclaimed , " who have no representative here to demonstrate that their sins are not worse than ours . Let us abandon the idea of a " European league against any one and advocate a conference of the representatives of the whole world , to take measures against the trusts and leagues which are perturbing the natural equilibrium of the markets . " M. Meline declared that it was impossible to establish the same duties throughout Europe , which had such different products and needs . " America is such an extraordinary country , " he said , " that I am frightened when I think what she may became when she . has reached the height of her development , but if some American products threaten us , others are absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population also increases , thereby increasing the home consumption . We must study a legitimate organization of defense , not a zoliverein which would be war . It will be imprudent to adopt the proposition before the Congress , which is an unnecessary threat and an unripe measure . " Baron Riepenhausen , a member of the Reichstag , said that the greatest threat of the United States was for the European industries , but agriculture was also menaced . This situation must be faced , bearing in mind the proverb that " Attack is - the best defense . " The fact that Europe exported men to the American continent was no reason for sparing America . Germany had exported 15,000,000 men , who are now fighting Europe worse than the Americans themselves . In conclusion he proposed that a committee of twelve  --  representing France , Italy , Austria , and Germany  --  be appointed to study the best way for Europe to fight American competition . M. Menne suggested that representatives of Belgium and Holland be added and moved the postponement of the matter until the next Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  