@@678373

txt The interest and importance of Lincoln 's career as President have natural- ' , ly created Ilia impression that his life i was largely devoted to politics and that he was an extrakrdinasily successful politician . The truth le , however , that he spent comparatively little of his time in theepolltical arena prior to the civil war , and his record there was mainly a series of disappointments and defeats . He served four consecutive terms in the Illinois Legislature during his early years , and one term in Congress , but that was his entire experience as an office holder . The explanation of this is apparent upon the surface . He was not regarded as a " practical " politician or a generally available candidate . When he first entered the political field party rule and discipline had not been effected in Illinois . Theenominatiens for office were not made by conventions , and any man who chose to pr9ent himself as a candidate could del so by the simple expedient of announcfpg that fact hnd stating his individual opinions concerning the queStions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they now exist were practically unknown .. Nevertheless there were p even then partisan cliques and leaders who made their influence felt and Lincoln had not been long in office before he asserted his independence of them and braved the displeasure of the public . His Career Foreshadowed . In his twenty-eighth y.ear the Illinois Legislature passed a series of resolutions condemning the formation of Abolitionist societies , upholding the " sacred " right of property in slaves , and declaring against abolishing the institution in the District of-'Columbia . This : entirely-W-adcordance with the preSeiatiMent in ' the ' State at that tilde , and any young legislator who opposed it d1 so at his peril . Of this Lincoln was fully aware , and with every reason for wishing to avoid injuring his political future , he might well have been content to cast an inconspicuous negative vote . prudent . politician , , conscientiously opposed to the reecatitions , would undoubtedly have adopted this course , but Lincoln proceeded to demonstrate that he was neither a prudent nor a " practical " politician by attempting to induce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the majority . It was a , very cautious and inoffensivs3- document Which he prepared , but it was sufficiently alarming to be almost unanimously rejected . Indeed , only one other man had the temerity to put , his name to the paper , but despite this , its sponsor had it spread in full upon the records . In this action Lincoln 's whole political career is plainly foreshadowed . Where principles were at stake he had no prudence and knew no fear . Balza &; says that the wiliest politician . Is he who , sWitnining in the river of events , 1ceeps his head above the surface and , floating with the current , appears to guide its course . From this viewpoint Lincoln has no standing as a politician at all , for he never permitted himself to be . carried with the tide of popular opinion unless it tended in the direction of his goal . Opposed Mexican War . Dieting the war with Mexico , when the whole ? country was aflame . With military ard &; and flushed with the brilliant achievements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war as utterly unjustifiable . Worse politics than this can scarcely be I imagined , for criticism of one 's ' country in time of war is popularly regarded not only as unpatriotic ibut positively traitorous , and he who atteripts It has little knowledge of human nature if he hot ? es for even'a respectful hearing . Lincoln certainly had no illusions concerning the effect of his attitude , but firmly believing that the invasion of Mexico was an attempt ' to extend the boundaries of slavery , he re- fused to be silenced by the roar of the conquering cannon or the enthusiastic ; cheers . , To the slogan , " Our country Iright or wrong ! " he preferred " Our country when right to be kept right ; when wrong , to be put right . " But this , to the practical politician , was displaying not the courage , but " the foolhardiness of his opinions ? " and there was much wagging of wise heads when he was retired to private life , from which he himself never expected to emerge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man . He had a natural instinct for leadership and desired to earn and achieve political promotion . No man ever campaigned more keenly or carefully than he . But he was not greedy for office . He was not vain . He did not think his personal success more important than the triumph of the principles for which he contended , and these qualities often proved insurmountable obstacles to his advancement . Thus , in 18:55 , when , after seven years ' absence from politics . he re-entered the field to contest for the United States Senatorship , he allowed his devotion to principles to ruin his chances , for , against the violent protest of his friends , he withdrew in favor of a Democrat to insure the election of out anti-slavery Man . ; Puzzle to Office Hunters . It is no wonder that there wer e those who regarded him as an ineffective candidate . To the offic e hunter , who is always more interested in his own advancement than in the furtherance of any cause , he must have seemed quite as futile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for whcise efforts both " the man on horseback " and " the man in the street " alike have an indulgent smile . Nevertheless , this politician , who would not think as others thought , did not disappear from view , while others who echoed popular opinion and did . what they were told . were . soon forgotten . The people liked his courage. , and he was finally selected as ' their champion against Douglas in the , great contest for the Illinois Senatorship which preceded the civil war . It was a forlorn hope which was thus intrusted to Lincoln 's charge , for his opponent was one of the most powerful and popular leaders of the Democracy , and that party was in control . Under such circumstances the ordinary candidate would have been extremely nareful to speak no word which could possibly offend ' and otherwise curried favor with the voters . But Lincoln 's genius for " bad politics " asserted itself at the very outset , for in his Perilous " **28;686;TOOLONG " speech the declared that the Union could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most men knew in their hearts that this was true , but for a candidate to hint at the dissolution of the Union at the very opening of his campaign was , at that crisis , almost courting defeat . Failures That Succeeded , But Lincoln was undisturbed either by the dismay of his friends or the elation of his foes . He knew that he was telling the truth and sooner or later . the truth would prevail . Indeed , the fight had not much more than begun before he was guilty of far greater rashness , for he determined to question Douglas and force him to define his position on the issues of the day . Most earnestly his advisers warned him that his ingenious opponent would certainly answer in such fashion as to convince the people of Illinois and insure the defeat of the Republican ticket . But Lincoln was a leader who refused to be lea and , knowing that what satisfied the people of Illinois would offend the slavery men eliewhere , he deliberately sacrificed his own chances for the Senate by drawing admission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years later not only ruined his chances for the Presidency , but brought disaster to his party . A man of different calibre might easily have become discouraged and imbittered by his repeated failures and rebUffs . But Lincoln did not care to win success at the expense of his cause , and after the most. , heart-breaking of his disappointments he was able to write : " I am glad I made the late race , and though I now sink out of view , I believe I have made some marks which will tell for the cause of civil liberty long after I am gone . " It ' was this spirit that in the end made his record a story of failures that succeeded , and his example heartens those who , with high purpose , strive for principles " in the dust of defeat . "                     