@@678351

txt Not since the days of Alfred R. Goslin 's raid on Brooklyn Rapid Transit stock , which cost him a six months ' term on Blackwell 's Island , has Wall Street been favored with such a crop of tips as have been peddled about among reporters , newspaper offices , and Stock Exchange houses for the last week affecting the Chicago Great Western Railroad . Goslin 's tips were all on the bear side and were published over the signature of " Truthfinder . " The Chicago Great Western tips come in the guise of " confidential information " from " a private secretary , " a disgruntled " stenographer , " and by telephone in the name of a prominent financier . They differ from the criminal action of Goslin chiefly in that they have been on both sides of the market . Yesterday 's tip , which was sent through the mails to prominent brokerage and banking houses , was typewritten on a forged letterhead of the Chicago Great Western , and may lead to action by the officials of the road : None @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Starts the Plot . The first of the Chicago Great Western bits of " confidential information " was carried around to newspaper offices on last Wednesday night by a gray-haired man who said he had been ' private secretary of Vice President Oppenheim , He told of having absolutely certain information that there would be no assessment on the shares of the company . Inquiry made at the offices of the company next day disclosed that no man of his description or of the name he had given was employed in the offices of the management . Thursday afternoon a genial voice called up THE TIMES 'S Financial Bureau and asked for one , of the reporters by name , telling him that the man at the other end of the wire was President of one of the largest industrial corporations in the country , a man who happened to be well known to the reporter . His voice and manner were so different from the financier whose name he used that tLe ritponter doubted his identity , particularly when he told him about a private cablegram ; he : ha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Western to dall for an assessment on the ghares . The reporter located the call at a small shop in East Forty-fifth Street , and called back , locating the false financier there and tried to make an appointment with him . The man repeated his statement that he was the industrial President , and said he was willing to be quoted . At the shop an hour later the proprietor told a Trams reporter that the man who had called up THE TIMES was his nephew , mentioning the name of a brother of the financier who had been impersonated , and gave his address as one ' in which the prominent Wall Street man had until recently lived . It was later learned that the corporation President whose name had been falsely used was out or town , and the brother 's house was closed up . Railway Letterhead Forged . The next and most tangible piece of falsification which the tipsters have so far used was mailed on Saturday to various houses in Wall Street over the name of Agnes Harrington , who calls herself " private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written on paper bearing a head which officials of the road said yesterday had never been used by the company , and which they pronounced a forgery . It read as follows : I CHICAGO GREAT WESTERN RAILWAY . A. B. Stickney , Chas . H. F. Smith , Receivers , General Offices : Metropolitan Opera House Block , St. Paul , Minn . Office of A. Oppenheim . Vice President , 31 Nassau Street . . New York , Jan. 18 , 1909 . Gentlemen : In Introducing this letter permit me to state that up to this afternoon ray vocation was that of private secretary to Mr. Oppenheim , Vice President of this company . Through the enmity and unpleasantness , however , created by one of the managers of the divisions I have resigned my position , and knowing of the high character of your firm through a gentleman friend of mine I have information to Impart in confidence that should be very valuable to you in your operations . I , of course , am not in a position to take advantage of this fleancially . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll place the matter before you and trust to your generosity to mall me a check should your financial dealings therein be successful , as they certainly should be with this advance information . Since the abandonment of the purchase of the Great Western by the Canadian Pacific the plans of reorganization and assess " ment of this road on a basis of 10 per cent . on the common stock and the balance in average proportions have been fully completed , and are now in possession of the company . Same will be given out for publication before noon on Monday , and my knowledge is that they will go short on the opening of market . Now , gentlemen , all I ask is fair play with me . Very respectfully yours . AGNES HARRINGTON , Care Mrs. Howard . 206 West 52d St. " Agnes Harrington Under Cover . Vice President Oppenheim denied yesterday that he ever had as secretary Miss Harrington or that she had ever worked in the office in any capacity . At the Fifty-second Street address yesterday afternoon the maid denied all knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street man who called up on the plea of having important business with Miss Harrington was told that she could not be seen , but a message might be left for her . A woman who said she was Mrs. Howard said It was true that " Agnes Harrington " had worked until last week for the Chicago Great Western , but when Mrs. Howard was told that officials of the road denied all knowledge of ? her , she said she knew only what Miss'Harrington had told her . Miss Barrington had lived there six months , she said . The Wall Street houses which received the " private secretary " letter were not caught . Like . the other tips the latest failed to ) affect the market . After selling only 2,300 shares yesterday the common stock of the road closed % of a point down , while the preferred B shares , after , sales'of only . 500 , were off .                     