@@677235

txt The Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst I preached yesterday morning to a congregation which completely filled the Madison Square Presbyterian Church , on the relations of so-called Christian nations to those that are pagan , and especially on the recent killing of Moros , and President Roosevelt 's congratulatory dispatch . His text was from Psalm cxlvii , 20 : " He hath not dealt so with any nation . " " The unfortunate historic fact , " said Dr. Parkhurst , " is that the information which heathen peoples have acquired concerning nations nominally Christian has gone a great way toward discrediting Christianity among them . The ' open door ' is a great stimulus to traffic and to interchange of ideas , but the trouble is that any kind of a man can go through it , and as matter of fact a great many more knaves and sharpers go through it than people of the other kind . " So the poor pagan is not to be blamed if , after having tasted the questionable delights of foreign machination and the uncertain joys of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross , they are a little disposed to hug an indigenous religion rather than to grant naturalization papers to one that is exotic . " After describing our governmental attitude toward the Chinese , Dr. Parkhurst went on : " Consider , also , the easy and self-satisfied way in which we regard the mowing down of the savages and semi-savages in the Philippine Islands when they stand in the way of the national purpose of which after eight years of ' benevolent assimilation ' we have just had a most startling and heart-rending example in the bombarding to death of six hundred men , women and children collected in a crater in the Moro Islands . " The National ambition , the financial ambition , being what it is , we are not here to discuss the question as to whether the slaughter of six hundred Moros was or was not a military necessity . But there are two things to be said about the jubilant congratulation sent by the Chief Executive to Gen. Wood . The first is in reference to the designation of the performance as a ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the reports rendered by Gen. Wood . it was no more a ' brilliant feat of arms ' than smoking bees out of a hive or rats out of a nest . " But a far sadder feature of the Executive communication to Gen. Wood is that it contains not one word of sympathy , one note of tender distress , in view of the indiscriminate slaughter perpetrated ' in honor of the American flag . ' " Now , we have been taught to believe , and we like to believe , that the President has a great heart . And so I prefer to think of that cablegram , composed as it was in the presence , practically , of mangled men , torn women , armless and headless children , I prefer to think of it not as being the expression of the man Roosevelt , but of the President Roosevelt , in whom officially the heartlessness and the greed of unregenerate nationality is functionally represented . I want to find a way out for Roosevelt ; for the performance on the dole Island has a ghastly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exception of the maintenance in the South of negro slavery , there has been , should say , nothing sadder in our history than the National attitude in which we to-day stand toward the little brown people of the Philippine Islands . " Secretary Taft said to a friend of mine a few days ago  --  and this friend repeated the remark to me ? ' The passage of the Philippine Tariff bill will be a test of American sincerity . ' And you know what the situation is in that respect . The Nation paid for the Philippines in dollars , and they are still contemplated by the Nation as merchandise . " Everything in our National life then at least tends to centre around money . National politics is shaped by it , National ethics are determined by It . And as a single means toward National regeneration we who are Christians must make our influence felt more largely in the selection for positions of high trust of men who have the grace to contemplate great questions of policy from other than the mercantile standpoint . " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York is represented in the National Senate ; there is no use in confining ourselves to generalities that I know of . The regeneration of a nation involves the putting into places of great national trust men to whom there is some sweetness in the world besides sugar , other productions in the garden of the Lord besides tobacco , and other administrative principles in God 's government besides tariff . "                     