@@675652

txt Very few of the people of the United States know that the " most gigantic busine ; s enterprise in the world " is the United States Postal Service , conducted " through their trustee , the Federal Government . " This is the starting point of an article by HENRY A. CASTLE , Auditor for the Post Office Department , in the current number of The North American Review . The total financial transactions of the Post Office now are about $715 , - 000,000 a year , of which $409,000,000 are the receipts and expenditures of the service , and the remainder are the issue and payment of money orders . As Mr. CASTLE points out , in the last 110 years the population has increased 19 times , and the wealth of the country 40 times ; but in that period the number of Post Offices has multiplied 1,000 times and the revenues 2,700 times . The object of Mr. CASTLE 'S article is to show that this enormous growth has not been accompanied with corresponding provision for the careful , accurate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system of accounting are such that the greatest credit is due for the degree of efficiency and soundness actually attained ; but with the growth of the service it will be more and more difficult if not impracticable to keep up the present standard . ' Mr. CASTLE says : Whether such an enterprise under Government auspices and subject to the vicissitudes of National politics , not only as to its general policy , but as to the changing personnel of its executive heads , can continue to expand indefinitely is a question for serious consideration . If our greatest railway systems , for example , were liable to have their ten or twelve leading officials changed every - four years for purely political reasons , by which change new and entirely inexperienced persons were to be brought in , with all the risks incident to such a change , it is probable that the financial results on the market value of - their securities would speedily reflect popular distrust of such methods . That the Postal Service is now so efficient is unquestionably due to the honest enforcement of civil service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exceptionally able , devoted officials who have , by good fortune , been evolved through a very hazardous scheme of political selection during recent years . Whether that good fortune can be trusted in the future to provide competent heads to manage the indefinite expansions of this great institution remains to be seen . It is absolutely certain that to break down the civil service system now prevailing among subordinates , and to restore the whole department to the tender mercies of political manipulators , would bring chaos and confusion . In other words , we have built up a gigantic industrial and financial enterprise , the continued efficiency of which as yet depends far too much on the mutations of National politics . This is the real peril not only of the Postal Service , but of the entire service . Mr. CASTLE predicts what would happen if the present system of appointment and promotion for merit were to be broken down . He might have put it , if the actual process of breaking down the merit system begun under Mr. is not discontinued . The beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more discouraging because it is in direct violation of the pledges , and , as we believe , the convictions , of the President . It is not confined to the Postal Service , and it can not be laid at the door of the Postmaster General alone . It is a victory of the " political manipulators , " as Mr. CASTLE calls them , and they have unquestionably carried the outer defenses of the merit system . It will be for the President to say in the next four years whether they shall be driven out or whether they shall be allowed to seize the inner works . His is the power to determine  --  his and no other  --  and his is the responsibility .                     