@@676071

txt United States Labor Commissioner Carroll D. Wright had a conference by appointment yesterday afternoon with the representatives of the coal carrying companies , at which the companies ' side of the differences between the striking anthracite miners . and operators were submitted to him at his request . The conference took place in the office of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company , .21 Cortlandt Street . The operators were represented by J. F. Baer , President of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal Company ; W. E. Truesdale , President of the Delaware . Lackawanna and Western Railroad , and President Robert M. 01Yphant of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company . After the conference Mr. Wright said : " It will not be necessary for me to go to the mining regions now . I have heard both sides , and had the facts presented to me both from the standpoint of the miners and the operators . My mission is completed , and I have now to submit my report to President Roosevelt . " Speaking of the prospect of a general strike of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the soft coal men who have signed contracts should strike , by doing , so they would be violating their agreement , and thus put their unions at a decided disadvantage and forfeit the sympathy of the public . This action would put the unions on the defensive in every arbitration that would follow the outbreak . None of the strikers thus far were bound by contracts . " After Mr. Wright had left the operators the other Presidents of the coal-carrying roads were communicated with , and decided to make a full statement of the facts in reference to the strike of the coal miners as given to Mr. Wright . President Baer gave out the statement in the New York office of ' the Philadelphia and Reading Company , Jersey Central Building , 143 Liberty Street , and in doing so said : " The operators have heretofore hesitated about making public the correspondence between Mr. Mitchell and the coal Presidents . The President of the United States having requested Mr. Wright , the Commissioner of Labor , to investigate the strike , the Presidents of the coal companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this correspondence , and it is now ? given to the public . " THE OPERATORS ' STATEMENT . The statement begins as follows : The United Mine Workers of America , with , headquarters at Indianapolis , Ind .. was an organization of bituminous coal miners . About 1899 they sent emissaries into the anthracite coal fields , and began the organization of the anthracite coal miners . In 1000 they felt themselves strong enough to inaugurate a strike . The strike was settled by the operators agreeing to make a 10 per cent . advance in wages . This agreement abolished the sliding scale , which had worked satisfactorily In the Schuylkill and Lehigh regions for many years . Under this sliding scale the wages of the miners were regulated by the market price of coal . In April , 1901 , the operators agreed to continue . the advanced rate of wages until April . 1902 . Under date of Feb. 14. 1902 , the United Mine Workers of America . In a letter dated Indianapolis , Ind. , invited the representatives of the railroads and coal companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a joint conference of operators and miners on March 12 , at Scranton . Penn. , the object of the conference to be the formation of a wage scale for the year beginning April 1 , 1902 , and ending March 31 , 1903 . " The Presidents of the various coal companies promptly replied to this letter . The replies were all addressed to John Mitchell . President , and others , at Indianapolis . The correspondence between the railroad Presidents and President Mitchell of the United Mine Workers and others relative to the demands of the miners is then given . They include letters written to President Mitchell of the United Mine Workers declining a conference , and in reply to other demands written by George F. Baer , President of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad ; William E. Truesdale , President of the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western Railroad ; Alfred Walter , President , and V. B. Thomas , Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Erie Railroad ; Thomas P. Fowler , President of the New York , Ontario and Western Railroad ; Irving A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Robert M. Olyphant , President of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company . PRESIDENT BAER 'S REPLY . In a reply to the first letter from Mitchell President Baer says , among other things : In the judgment of the companies . I represent it is impracticable to form a wage scale for the whole anthracite region . The mining of anthracite coal is entirely different from that of bituminous coal . How far success has attended your organization In creating a uniform scale of wages in the bituminous regions satisfactory to all the interests concerned , is a question which it is not necessary to discuss ; but , the dissimilarity between anthracite and bituminous mining is so great that t does not follow that any success attending the creation of a uniform wage scale in the bituminous region could be repeated in the anthracite fields . This company does not favor the plan of having its relations with the miners disturbed every year . The proposition to unsettle all the labor conditions of the various anthracite districts each year by holding a conference between persons who are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical knowledge of the varying conditions at each colliery is so unbusinesslike that no one charged with the grave responsibility of conducting industrial enterprises can safely give countenance to it . We will always receive and consider every application of the men in our employ . We will endeavor to correct every abuse , to right very wrong , to deal justly and fairly with them , and to give to every man a fair compensation for the work he performs . Beyond this we can not go . The experience in the past year has not been satisfactory . There can not be two masters in the management of business . The objection to your proposition is not alone the impracticability of forming a uniform scale of wages , but it is to the divided allegiance It creates . Discipline is essential In the conduct of all business . it is ' of vital importance in mining operations , where the disobedience of one man may endanger the lives of hundreds of his fellow-workmen . You can not have discipline when the employe disregards and disobeys the reasonable orders and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - officer , relying upon some outside power to sustaif him . Two or three unreasonable men can , because of this divided allegiance , stop the operations of a colliery in the belief that their organization will support them , whether right or wrong . Your organizations have no power to enforce their decrees , and thereby insure discipline , and we have no power to maintain discipline except the power to discharge . The moment we exercise this power w I would be subjected to an inquisitorial and ineffective supervision , without any certainty as to how or when it will be possible to reach a righteous decision or to enforce that decision when reached . A careful analysis of the results of last year 's operations shows that the efficiency of our own mines has decreased 1,000,000 tons , because the contract miners have worked only 41/2 to 6 beans a day . The number of tons produced by each miner has decreased from 11 to 17 per cent . The average shows a. decrease of about 121,6 per cent . This has added an increased burden on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers . With no disposition to interfere with labor organizations in all honest efforts to better the welfare and condition of the working classes , we respectfully decline to join in any conference for the formation of a wage scale for the next year . President Truesdale in his reply says : No good or convincing reason has ever been given , nor does the management of this company conceive of any that can he , why the employes in or about its mines should ask to have their wage matters singled out and handled in the radically different way suggested from that fixed by the company in dealing with all other classes of its employes . He then points out that the situation in the anthracite mines is different from that in the bituminous mines . awing to the depth and thickness of veins , with other conditions , being different at every colliery . It is not therefore possible , he says , to create a scale of wages covering the Whole anthracite field . 102 INTERRUPTIONS TO WORK . Mr. Thomas replies at great length to the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 102 interruptions to work have been occasioned by what he calls the unwarranted demands and agitation of members of the union . This has resulted in a loss of over 900 days ' work and over 600,000 tons of production of coal . The condition of unrest caused by the younger members of the union and the disposition to prevent men not in the union from working has made it more desirable for the company to deal with its own employes . It is , " he adds . ? ? the inalienable right of a man to labor without regard to eationality , creed or association . To seek to prevent it is a crime and we can not even by implication sanction such a course . " The other coal presidents reply practically to the same effect to other letters and telegrams from Mr. Mitchell and his colleagues , and their letters are given in full in the statement . which continues : On March 14 , 1902 , the operators vested the following nonce at each colliery : " The rates of wages now in effect will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , subject to sixty days ' notice . Local differences will , as heretofore : se adjusted with our employes at the respective collieries. ? ' The demands of the miners , which have already appeared in the leePers , are given In the statement . which refers briefly to the conferences in this city between the representatives of the operators and the miners before the Civic Federation , and continues : Alter discussing at great length the anthracite coat situa t ion , an adjou  --  nment was taken for thirty days . At the expiration of t he thirty days another meeting was held with the Civic Federation . with Mr. Mitchell and his Distlict Presldens , together with a large committee of miners . Another full and free discussion took place w ; thout reaching any conclusions . At the suggestion of the Civic Federation a eemmittee composed of Mr. Mitchell and his District Presidents and Si , ssrs . Thomas . Truesdale , and Baer were appointed to further consider ' ire points at issue and report to the Civic Federation at a date to be fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a friendly discussion without obtaining practical results . The Civic Federation was not again reconvened . Mr. Mitchell , however . convened his District Executive Committee , and on May S he sent the following dispatch : " Scranton . Penn. , May 5 , 1902 . " Conscious of the disastrous effects upon mine workers . mine operators . and the public in general which would result from a prolonged suspension of work in the anthracite coal regions of Pennsylvania , and with earnest desire and hope of avoiding the impending calamity , the representatives of the anthracite mine workers have authorized us to submit the following proposi-tions : " First , inasmuch as the anthracite mine operators have proposed to continue the present wage scale for one year , and inasmuch as the anthracite mine workers have unanimously resolved to ask that an increase of 20 per cent . should be paid on present prices to all men performing contract work , that eight hours should constitute a day 's labor for all persons employed by the hour , day . or week , without any reduction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighed and paid for by weight wherever practicable , and Inasmuch as in our recent conferences the anthracite mine workers and mine operators have failed to reach an agreement upon any of the questions at issue , we propose that the industrial branch of the National Civic Federation select a committee of five persons to arbitrate , and decide all or any of the questions in dispute , the award of such board of arbitration to be binding upon both parties , and effective for a period of one year . " Second ? Should the above proposition be unacceptable to you we propose that a committee ccmposed of Archbishop Ireland , Bishop Potter . and one other person whom these two may select be authorized to make an investigation into the wages and conditions of employment existing in the anthracite field , and if they decide that the average annual wages received by anthracite mine workers are sufficient to - enable them to live , maintain , and educate their families in a manner conformable to established Atherican standards and consistent with American citizenship , we agree to withdraw our claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing that the anthracite mine operators agree to comply with any reeommedations the above committee may make affecting the earnings and conditions of labor of their employes . " An immediate reply Is solicited . " JOHN MITCHELL , Chairman . " T. D. NICHOLLS . Secretary. ? ' Mr. Baer wrote the following letter in reply : Philadelphia , May 9 , 1902 . John Mitchell : I was out of town : therefore the delay in answering your dispatch . By posted notices the present rates of wages accre ca. 0.1 , ... , 21 til pri 1 1005 , and 2 kaa. , - c- a rtee subject to sixty days ' notice . Local differences to be adjusted as heretofore with our employes at the respective collieries : by written communications , by full discussion before the Civic Federation , by protracted personal conferences with yourself and the district Presidents we have fully Informed you of our position . We gave you the figures showing the cost of mining and marketing coal , and the sums realized therefrom in the market . in the hope of eon-WI-icing you that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion that the price of coal should be increased to the public , our answer was that this was not only undesirable . but in view of the sharp competition of bituminous coal , it was impossible . We offered to permit you or your experts to examine our books to verify our statements . Anthracite mining is a business and not a religious , sentimental , or academic proposition . The laws organizing the companies I represent in express terms impose the business management on the President and Directors . I could not , if I would , delegate this business management to even so highly a respectable body as the Civic Federation . nor can I call to my aid as experts In the mixed problem of business and philanthropy the eminent prelates you have named . GEORGE F. BAER . Other letters in reply to Mr. Mitchell , which were in substance to the same effect . were written by Presidents Truesdale and Olyphant.                     