@@677583

txt Nearly one thousand of Buffalo 's foremost business Men gathered at the banquet given ' by the Chamber of Commerce to-night and cheered to the echo the speakers ' predictions of a greater Buffarb . The magnificent new home of the Chamber of Commerce was formally dedicated to-day . Robert R. Hefford , chairman of the building committee , turned the new structure over to President William H. Gratwick , who received it on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce . The building is thirteenstories in height and faces on both Main and Seneca Streets . In his introductory remarks at-the banquet to-night at the Ellicott Club President Gratwick declared that it was not visionary to forecast an industrial Buffalo that would cover the Niagara frontier from Lake Erie to Lake Ontario . Gov . Hughes 's Speech . After recalling that in fifty years the population of Buffalo had increased from 84.000 to over 380,000 , and its manufacturing capital from $4,000,000 to $151,000 , - 000 , the Governor continued : " We sometimes hear voiced a. feeling of resentment against the assertion of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the business interests of the country . A sullen and defiant attitude toward public opinion ill becomes an American citizen . Both unprincipled attempts to corrupt it and despotic efforts to defy it must , in this land Of sound common sense , inevitably fail . " One of the dangers of the rapidity of our development is overstrain . Brain and nerve have never been subjected to such tests as are now imposed - upon those who are charged with the responsibilities of success , either in commercial , industrial or professional life . A railroad man told me the other day that for the purpose of securing necessary as : sIstants in the enlargement of his railroad facilities he had sent to one of the largest railroad corporations in the country for a list of available men : He had received the names of- a considerable number between 35 and 45 years of age , among whom he recognized many who had won distinction for their abilities , and against all was the note " broken down . " That I suppose was the reason why they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Now , in a situation like this , where executive ability is crowded to the lit. most , and the demands of the day are ultiplied , while the hours of the day reMain inexorably fixed , there is danger of an undue tenseness and of a tendency to disorganization . If I were to put in a phrase the special demand of the hour upon all those engaged in the discussion of public and economic questions affecting the business interests of the country , I should say : Let these questions be upon your conscience and upon your heart , but not upon your " nerves , " " The prevailing sentiment in this country is wholesome and just ; it is Idealistic ; it rejoices in the extension of commerce and the development of industry ; it takes pride in the ability that- invents , in the talent that can organize effort and make cooperation productive ; it honors honest toil of hand or brain ; it prizes sagacity and thrift ; it extols prudence ; it reverences achievement . But et also demands honesty . It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It believes in freedom of opportunity , not that a few may exploit the many , but that each , working according to his talent , may receive a just return and that the rights of all in their community relations shall be paramount to the selfish Interest of any one . " The people draw a clear distinction between the builders and the destroyers of our Commonwealth . Work is honorable and no true . American begrudges the workman his well-earned reward . For the rank and file who are toiling to develop the resources of our country and to facilitate the exchanges of commerce ; for the great army of workers in their varied fields of effort who are giving their lives to industry and making posse . ble our commercial development , people have naught but praise . The ? ' are not against business , but against abuses ; and to preserve the Interests of the former the latter must be stopped. ? Enemies of the Republic . " Who are the enemies of the Republic/ They are not those who are doing an honest day 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and decent conditions . " They are not those who manage industry and commerce with just regard for those who are under their direction and with proper recognition of public rights . " They are not those , who , husbanding the resources they have lawfully acquired , seek to enlarge the field of enterprise and to afford opportunity fer new and useful employments . " They are not those , who. taking socount of the evils that afflict society , at ? tempt to provide adequate remedies . " There are two classes of enemies to the prosperity of this country . " The first consists of the unscrupulous , who have no sympathy with democratic ideals , and who , by their abuse of the privileges obtained from the State and their cynical indifference to public obligations . bring law and government into contempt . " The second class consists of those who seek profit in unprincipled agitation . " The second thrives upon the evils created by the first . " Now the great progress of the country so strikingly exemplified in this favored city must give us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can not find it unless the public confidence is maintained . This means efficient government and adequate public regulation of public service . There Is no measure more truly conservative than that which commands the public restiecto as conserving the public ) interest . Favoritism in publics service is au iniquity that the people will not and should not toler ; .. ate ; : it is an evil which the business men of the countreeare-determined to end . Tired of financial Jugglery . " The public is entitled to be assured that the business which is conducted by . - virtue of the franchises they grant is ' conducted as the public interest requires . They desire extensions of facilities ; they mesh to encourage betterments ; they have - no " inclination to hamper industry , but . they- are tired of financial jugglery , and they demand proper service . There is no reason why those who are endeavoring to meet fairly public obligations should suffer by the improper practices of others engaged in the same business . The remedy is to provide such regulation - of public service as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the investigation of every question , and that each matter will be decided according ' to its merits in the light of day . But equally important is it to insist upon the maintenance of the highest standards of administration in government and not to tolerate any prostitution of public office . to selfish purposes . " Now , I - aye confidence in the people . ittad I have no confidence in those makeshifts which result from distrust of the - people . But whether you have confidence cr not in popular judgment , let me assure you that-in this country it is idle to in ? Neigh against it . You must abide by it . . - And - the security of business is in the provision of adequate means for responsible ' ' government . in holding officials strictly to account for their performance M duty , and in a compliance on the part of-those in charge of our great business enterprises with the obvious demands of juStice . " W. C. Brown 's Appeal . W. C. Brown . Senior Vice President ! of the New York Central &; Hudson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroads of this country , and the increasing demands upon them for greater facilities of transportation . He said in part : " Money for the great improvement and extension of our transportation facilities , If these necessary improvements are made at all , must be provided as the money for the original construction of these facilities was provided . e. , by private capital ; and , in order - to secure the vast amount of money re.quired , the investment must be made reasonably attractive and secure - " 3f the development and the extension of the Nation is to go on , if the progress made during the last ten years may be accepted as in any respect a measure of ' Progress to be made during the coming decade , almost as much money will have I to be expended in increasing the facilities of existing railroads , and in building additional railroads , as has been expended during the eighty years since the beginning . - " But unless assurance can be had , not of ' condoning wrong-doing , or winking of abuses , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every fair and . legitimate manner against oppression and injustice ; of such guarantee as the Government can give of protection from legislation which will prevent earning a ? reasonable return of money invested . and a fair participation in increased values and general prosperity which investments of this character aid in promoting . it is going to be impossible for the railroads to obtain the money necessary for such improvements and extensions . " Hundreds of millions of dollars ' worth of necessary improvements have been stopped , and will not be undertaken until a restoration of confidence can be had , which will make it possible to float large issues of railroad Securities , both at home and abroad . Opinion 31olded by the President . " It is doubtful in the history of the United States , and upon any great national question or issue , public opinion has been so molded and directed by the President as it has in the consideration of and attitude toward great transports- I tion interests of the country . This powerful influence has been exerted fearlessly and forcefully in correcting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be exerted just as fearlessly and effectually in protecting the railroads from injustice . " I am firmly and unalterably in favor of the regulation of railroads and all other corporations by the Nation and the States . The people created these - corporations and have the undoubted - right to regulate them . I would not , I could , materially change the laws thus ' far enacted by Congress . ' " The appalling blow to the credit of our railroads is not so much the result of what has been- done as from the manner and temper with which it has been done and the fear of what may follow . The business of the railroads should be as open and public as that of the national banks ; rates should be reasonable , stable , and absolutely equal to all . This and this alone will fully and finally restore confidence and promote that industrial and commercial tranquility so necessary to permanent national prosperity . ' Railroads Not Overcapitalized . John P. Thayer , Jr .. Vice President of the Pennsylvania lines , speaking on the general subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studied the question of overcapitalization , watering of stocks , and dishonest financing would eeeee , oneb , sion that the railroads of this Country were not overcapitalized , but L:11 ene contrary their capitlization did not represent their real value . The socalled water which was originally in the securities of some railroads had long since been squeezed out , either by bankruptcy and reorganization , or by increase in the value of the property . The " watered " securities merely represented the speculative chances which the investor took in putting his money into a speculative railroad , and in money instances he not only never realized on the water , but lost the actual cash besides . He did not deny that there had been dishonest methods in financing some railroad transactions , but would venture to assert that the proportion of dishonesty among railroad financiers , or among the rank and file of the men directly Charged with the management of railroads , was less than in any other line of business in this country . ' Mr. Thayer denied that the Wall Street financiers dictated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The railroad situation , he declared , was misunderstood , and he believed that if the full facts could only he presented intelligently to the people there would be an entire change of sentiment , and there - would not be such pressure of legislation sae that which now confronted the railroads . Proposes Second Legislature . : Henry J. Pierce . President of the Inter- , national Railway Company and Chairman i of the Municipal Railroad Terminal Com-I mission of Buffalo , suggested that'in each State the Governor call a second Isegis- ? lature , to be composed of the- heads of Chambers of Commerce , and to meet at the Capitol after the regular Legislature had adjourned . " It should not meet for a day , but for weeks , if necessary , ' he said . ' It should discuss every question of interest or at Issue in any way affecting the public service of the people . Its members should aid to bring about a thorough understanding of corporation business from the business standpoint . It would result in a better understanding , and during that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the State 's Chief ' Executive and other officials would ascertain , the practical business side , apart from the technical legal side , for subsequent use in such amendment as might be found necessary . " The convening of such an assemblage would mark a new era in our country 's development . Certainly no harm could come fr .. m hearing all sides of every question . Then we could ; ascertain just what charges of corruption , if any , in public service corporations ' were true , and just what accusers and accusations were untrue . " Here in our own State the people surely would uphold the Governor if he should call in conference representatives of all of the Chambers of Commerce of the State and discuss with them questions pertaining to the regulation of public utilities , and invite the criticisms and suggestions of these practical men . " I believe the Governor would find that they , knowing the wants and necessities of the corporations which they represent , would be able to give him advice and suggestions that he would be glad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a measure , if any were deemed necessary , would be drafted whose requirements could be observed without hardship by the corporations , and that would , while safeguarding the interests of the people , meet the approval of business interests , and that the State of New York would have a public utility law that would be so workable , sane , and practicable that it would be a model likely to be adopted by the other States . "                     