@@675610

txt Thirty-six of the Republican members of the City Council joined against Mayor Harrison yesterday . A quasi-Council meeting was held in the afternoon at the Great Northern Hotel , the attendance representing a majority of the Aldermen , and plans were laid for united action against the Mayor where-ever he interferes with the wishes of the Aldermen . Alderman Mayor , who presided , was given authority to appoint a special committee " to steer " the campaign against the Mayor . The first point of attack will be on the redistricting ordinance , which the Mayor is expected to veto on Monday night and suggest amendments . If the veto is sent in the attempt will be made to pass the ordinance over the Mayor 's disapproval . It was not all unanimity at the caucus and the Republicans are not certain that they have sufficient votes to force the ordinance through . The special " steering " committee is expected to arrange for this . Tired of Being Led , The Republicans at the caucus said they were " tired of being led by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few questions to a " showdown " with the Mayor . As the Mayor has promised to take the ordinance into court if passed over his veto the success of the Republican attack Is not certain . Neither is it certain that the Mayor will displease the Republican members with the recommendations he sends with his veto . The Republican majority in the Council has been at variance with the Mayor on numerous occasions since the partisan reorganization of the Council , but since that reorganization the majority has not worked in harmony against the Mayor . Without any recognized leader , the Republican members have been as helpless as if they were in the minority . While they usually managed to become divided on a question the Democratic members have stood together . When the redistricting ordinance first got into the Council in the form of the majority committo report the plan was one which was favored by most of the Republicans and some of the Democratic members . The opportunity of passing the measure was lost for lack of organization . To bring the majority faction into control Aldermen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hotel . Of the Republican members there were but three absentees , Aldermen Corkery , Oberndorf , and Keeney . As the Republicans can secure the cooperation of some of the independent Aldermen , especially for the redistricting ordinance , they have a good majority of the Council , but are not yet positive that they are strong enough to force matters against the Mayor . Mayor Stands by His Figures . It is claimed that the Mayor has made out a bad case for the redistricting ordinance by using incorrect figures to prove unequal distribution of population by wards . Alderman Bennett gave examples of the inaccuracies alleged to exist in the Mayor 's table of figures . The Mayor vouched for his figures . He professed not to be alarmed over the combination against him . In regard to the special point of grievance held against him by the Republican members he said : " How do they know that I shall not recommend changes to the Council which will prove acceptable solutions of some bad problems and will be perfectly agreeable to every one ? There is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is passed over my disapproval It will go Into the courts for a test before It beeorin                     