@@676660

txt The Chicago Board of Health has a statistician  --  who is unusually ndowed with imagination . It has frequently been pointed out that the statistician needs imagination , but whether he needs quite as much of it as the vital statistician of Chicago possesses is a question concerning which somewhat wide differences of opinion may exist . Doubtless , statistical imagination accounts for a great deal of " mighty interestin ' readin ' , " but it may perhaps be a trifle misleading to ' the serious-minded student of vital statistics . , The latest discovery of the highly imaginative gentleman referred to is that there has been in Chicago a remarkable decrease in the percentage of deaths from nervous diseases . This decrease he attributes to the fact that the tension of life in that city is relaxing and that the people " are returning to saner and simpler modes of living than obtained in the two strenuous decades following the great fire of 1871 . " In the same connection and possibly for the same reason , he notes that infant mortality from convulsions has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , comparing the decade 1884-93 with that of 1894-1903 , there has , been in Chicago a decrease of 40.2 per cent . in the death rate from all forms of nervous diseases , and of 59.8 per cent . in that from convulsions . To explain this we . should know why life In Chicago is becoming saner , simpler , and less strenuous . So far as the information at command permits us t &; judge , its people are not becoming so . Local politics are kept at or near the boiling point , in season and out of season . Chicago is the storm cente of labor agitation and the baltleground on which are fought out most of the issues of labor union policy . Vice and crime show no tendency to subside , and the casual visitor - finds it difficult to resist the conclusion that Chicago is about de most strenuous city to the square mile of any to be found on this side of the Atlantic . It may be that the people of Chicago , including its infants with a predisposition to convulsions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a - process of differentiation in conformity with their environment which formerly involved a much ' greater mortality than is now of record . This is an interesting hypothesis , and much more reasonable than that the people of that city are returning to saner and simpler modes of living .                     