@@677786

txt The Postal Says New Agreement Does Not Hurt Its Interests MateiallyGould Line May Now Come East. - Peace has been restored between the Gould interests and the Pennsylvania Railroad , between which a great deal of enmity arose several years ago on account of the determination of the Goulds ' to invade the Pennsylvania 's territory at Pittsburg and on the Atlantic seaboard . One of the special points of attack in this Gould-Pennsylvania Railroad fight was the Western Union Telegraph Company , which formerly held contracts for the operation of the telegraph lines over the entire Pennsylvania system . When the fight was at its hottest , three years ago , the Western Union was ousted from the Pennsylvania lines east of Pittsburg and the Postal Telegraph was installed in its place , The Western Union 's contracts on the Pennsylvania lines west of Pittsburg expired on Oct. 1 this year , but by agreement between the Gould interests and the Pennsylvania Railroad : it was announced officially yesterday , these contracts , instead of being abrogated as were the contracts on the lines east of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years and in addition the Pennsylvania turns over to the Western Union several lines previously operated by the Postal Telegraph , including the Grand Rapids &; Indiana and the Columbus &; Sandusky Railways . At the same time all litigation between the Western Union and the Pennsylvania has been ended by stipulation . The announcement of the settlement was later supplemented by a statement from General Manager Nally of the Postal Telegraph Company , In which he stated that the arrangement entered into between the Pennsylvania and the Western Union would not take from the Postal a single station of any consequence . This I is Mr. Nally 's statement : The closing of the contract between the Western Union Telegraph Company and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company does not affect the Postal Telegraph-Cable Company in the least ; it does not take away from the Postal a single office of any consequence , and refers only to the lines west of Pittsburg. which the Western Union has operated all these years . The Postal Telegraph-Cable Company continues to operate all the lines on the Pennsylvania Railroad Company 's system east of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The arrangement with the Western Union is merely a renewal of the contract which had expired or was about to expire , and about which they have been in litigation . The Postal Telegraph-Cable Company is in no wise concerned and in no way affected . It was . rumored yesterday in connection with the peace agreement between the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Western Union , that President McCrea of the Pennsylvania was likely to be elected a Director of the Western Union , but officials of the telegraph company refused to discuss this report in any way . In some quarters the rumor was discredited en the ground that the Pennsylvania 's policy is not to increase the number of the corporations in which it is formally represented . The fight between the Goulds and the Pennsylvania over the former 's efforts to reach the Atlantic seaboard and to gain an entrance for the Gould roads into Pittsburg was marked by protracted litigation as well as by numerous physical efforts on the part of the Pennsylvania to oust the Western Union from the Pennsylvania 's right of way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for a long time there was open warfare between the two Interests . The Goulds lost the telegraph business on the lines east of Pittsburg , but after much struggling they gained a railroad entrance into Pittsburg , which is a muchcoveted traffic centre . Their line to the Atlantic seaboard is not yet completed , but unfavorable money market conditions rather than objections on the part of other railroad interests have been held responsible for the work being delayed . It was-assumed yesterday that this reestablishment of friendly relations between the Western Union and the Pennsylvania indicates that the Pennsylvania and its allied interests will offer no further objection to the completion of the Gould railroad plans , and that these will be carried to completion as soon as money market conditions will permit .                     