@@676313

txt The Union and Regular factions of the Republican Party reached an agreement to-day which resulted in the election of two United States Senator : , by the State Legislature , and for the first time in four years the State of Delaware has secured full representation in the upper house of Congress . The successful candidates art State Senator J. Frank Allee . ( Union Republican , ) elected to the Senatorship which expires in 1907 , and Congressman L. Heisler Ball , ( Regular Repub.:leant ) elected to fill the term expiring in 1905 . The election was undoubtedly due to pressure from Washington brought to bear upon the Regular Republicans in the Legislature who have so long opposed the election of J. Edward Addicks or any of his adherents to the United States Senate . Congressman Dick of Ohio came . to Dover to-day . He established headquarters at the Hotel Richardson , where , prior to the joint session of the Legislature , he received a delegation from each Republican faction . He advised the acceptance by the Regular Republicans of the Union Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union Republican be elected to the long term Senatorship and a Regular Republican for the short term , Addicks himself being eliminated . The election is regarded here as an Addicks victory . Anticipating the likelihood of an agreement between the Republican factions , Democratic State Chairman Saulsbury presented a proposition to the regular Republicans , agreeing to use his influence for the election , with the aid of the Democrats , of two regular Republicans to the United States Senate . This proposition was approved by the Advisory Committee of the Democratic State Committee , but was not ratified by the Democratic legislators in caucus . The Democrats unanimously agreed to vote for one regular Republican , but rejected the plan of electing two . In the meantime the compromise was eftected between the regular Republicans and the Addicks ( Union ) Republicans . The election of the two Senators took place this afterr Jon , and was effected on the thirty-sixth ballot cast for Senators at the present session of the Legislature . When the roll had been called , Representative Holcomb ( Democrat ) moved to adjourn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the decision of the Chair . The Speaker paid no attention to the appeal . Becoming angry , Mr. Holcomb said : " If you are going to crown your work of infamy of years by showing to the world that you are afraid to treat one another fairly we want to put you on record . " The roll was called then , the ballot resulting as follows : Long term  --  Allee , 30 ; Saulsbury , 17 ; J. H. Hughes ; ( Dem .. ) 1 ; Woodburn Martin , ( Dem. , ) 1 ; ) A. E. Sanborn , 1 ; ' E. W. Tunnel ' , ( Dem .. 1 . Short term  --  Ball , 31 ; Kenney . ( Dem. , ) 19 ; B. A. Hazell , ( Dem. , ) 1 ; E. R. Cochran , Jr. , ( Dem. , ) 1 . There was ' much shouting and general rejoicing when the result was announced . Mr. Addicks was the first to congratulate Senator Allee , and he was followed by a long procession of legislators and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand of the successful candidate . In expectation of a settlement of the Senatorial difficulty politicians and prominent men from every section of the State were present at to-day 's sessions of the Legislature and filled the House of Representatives to suffocation . Men were standing upon the window ledges , and so compact was the crowd that many of the spectators stood upon the shoulders of others , supporting themselves against the walls of the assembly room . The appearance of Congressman Dick in the hall was the signal for wild and prolonged applause . During the voting he occupied a seat in the hall . and beside him sat Mr. Addicks . The latter evinced much satisfaction with the result . , " I am very happy . " said Mr. Addicks , subsequently . " It gratifies me to snake one of my best friends , J. Frank Alice , United States Senator . He deserves the place from a party viewpoint and greatly strengthens the Union Republicans and myself in making the fight to carry the State in 1904 for the President . I propose to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my candidacy for the United States Senate . " " I have only to say . " said Senator Alice , " that I sincerely regret that I have to fill the place that belongs to Mr. Addicks . " The two Senators will report at Washington on Wednesday . Dr. Ball 's term as a member of Congress expires on that day . ADDICKS 'S LONG FIGHT . John Edward Addicks began his long struggle for a seat in the Senate in 1SSS , when the term of Eli Saulsbury was about to expire . Although unknown to the politicians of Delaware . he obtained some backing , but when the Republican Legislature met in January . 1589 , the caucus nomination went to Anthony Higgins . In 1892 Mr. Addicks again entered the Senatorial field , but the Democrats carried the State , and George Gray was elected to the Senate . In 1894 , when Mr. Higgins 's term was about to expire . Addicks made his third essay for the Senatorship . Six votes were cast for him . A protracted dead-lock ensued , lasting from Jan. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was formally declared elected by Speaker of the House . but he actually lacked one vote of a majority . Speaker Watson ( Dem. ) of the Senate and Acting Governor of the State , declared the joint convention adjourned sine die without an election  --  a position in which he was sustained by the Senate at Washington . From that time dates the split of the party into the two factions styled Union and Regular Republicans . Each faction put a State ticket in the field in 1S06 , which threw the election to the Democrats and sent Richard R. Kenney to the Senate . Addicks returned to the fight in. 1898. when there was another dead-lock lasting until the adjournment of the Legislature , in March , 1S99 . Then came the great campaign of 1900 , in which two Senators were to be elected ? one for the term which began in 1899 and another for the term beginning in 1901 . Addicks was nominated by his followers for both the long and short terms . On Feb 19 four of the Regulars went over to Addicks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed them . increasing the Addicks vote to twenty-two , but leaving him still five short . The vote for the long term remained unchanged , and the session came to a close March 7 with the two seats still unfilled . Last year the two Republican factions united on a State ticket , which was elected . When the balloting began . on Jan. 20 of this year , Addicks again turned up as a candidate for both terms , receiving twentyone votes for the long term and nineteen for the short term . The lines remained practically anbroken until to-day .                     