@@676612

txt Having received enough favorable replies to insure the concurrent action of European Powers in his endeavor " to localize within as small an area as possible the hostilities in the Far East , and to insure over as much ' of China as possible her neutrality , " Secretary Hay to-night addressed notes to Russia and Japan inviting their co-operation in this endeavor , and announcing that the United States stood stalwartly for this principle . It was known in advance that both the combatant powers desire the localization ; of the war . In the present period of the negotiations I State Department officials find It inexpedient to discuss the various steps which led up to Lhe issuance of the note , but from a diplomat whose Government ( while entirely neutral , is conversant with the progress of events this statement was obtained to-night : " To Secretary Hay undoubtedly belongs the full credit for the initiation of this policy , which is the boldest step yet taken by any country for the preservation of the . integrity of China . The Washington Government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the circular note . " ** called the attention of the United States to the desirability of limiting hostilities to the two combatant powers . Among my confreres the belief is general that Germany acted with the knowledge of Russia , but of this I am not certain . In this connection it should be remembered that both Russia and Japan are most anxious to confine hostilities to themselves , and in this they undoubtedly have the support of my Government and all the powers , " It was impossible for Great Britain to make the suggestion and hope for its serious consideration by Russia . France would have been disposed to regard with suspicion any such proposition coming from Germany , and Japan would have hesitated to acquiesce in a like suggestion emanating from France . The United States was the only power that could take the initiative . . This fact was called to the attention of the Secretary during , a call of the A4King.n Ambassador on Monday morning last , shortly before Baron Sternberg left for New York . " Not only , however , has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he has improved the opportunity to make another step toward preserving China 's integrity . Examination of his note will show no reference whatsoever to the integrity of China , but certainly the neutralization of that country must contribute powerfully to the preservation of China 's integrity and the maintenance of its administrative control . Germany Responded First . " Germany was the first to respond favorably . In the case of France , it was necessary for that Government to assure itself that there was nothing in the suggestion to which Russia mighl take exception . " After addressing Germany , Great Britain , ? and France , Secretary Hay sent the same note to the other powers signatory to the peace protocol of 1900 , including AustriaHungary , Italy , The Netherlands , Belgium , and Spain . On the authority of a high Administration official , it can be stated that this Government has no intention of suggesting anything about Korea . It is recognized that Korea is the natural battle ground , and that it is useless even to discuss the neutralization of that country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asiatic fleet with propriety could go as far north as Shanghai , and orders to that effect have been'sent . From there on the vessels will be sent northward to Che-mul-pho to maintain communication with , the American Legation at Soul . Probably the vessels of the cruiser squadron will take turn about at this duty . Details of the Plan . It is probable that Secretary Hay 's note to Russia and Japan urges them to confine military operations within an area that will he defined , and which will preclude , the belligerents from occupying any portion of Chinese territory south of Manchuria . It is understood to be the primary purpose of such an agreement to prevent any liability of China becoming involved in the contest whether through action of her Government or through unlawful uprising of the people . Whatever the designs of Russia in Manchuria and Japan in Korea , it is believed that neither wants a dismemberment of China , and that both want to prevent a condition of affairs that would make it necessary for foreign powers to send their arrnies into that country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theatre of war , the powers will exert their influence with China to have that country maintain a strict neutrality . The observance of neutrality by China would give neither Russia nor Japan justtion for interfering with the integrity 4or China during or after the war , and it is understood to be a part of the proposition of Secretary Hay that the powers shall - become responsible on the one hand for China 's neutrality , and , on the other , will unite to secure China against any attempt on the part of either Russia or Japan to annex any portion of the Chinese territory . This Would be simply adhering to the agreement of all the powers that participated in the suppression of the Boxer insurrection of a few years ago . At the Capitol , Senators and Representatives generally express approval of the movement of Secretary Hay . Neutrality Proclamation To-day . Formal announcement was made today by Ambassador Cassini on behalf of Russia of the existence of a state of ' war between that country and Japan , and a similar announcement was subsequently made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then sent to the President a draft of this country 's declaration of neutrality for signature , and It will probably be issued to-day . The Chinese Minister also had an au- ' dience to-day with Secretary Hay which continued for an hour . Upon leaving the department Sir Chen-tung expressed satisfaction with the movement of this Government tot limit the scope of the war , and declared that it would be She policy of China to maintain absolute neutrality .                     