@@678463

txt The Vestry of Trinity Church has determined to build a church and parish house , ' costing several hundred thousand dollars . in historic old Trinity Cemetery on Washington . Heights , to take the place of the present Chapel of the Intercession , at Broadway and 158th Street . The Vestry of Trinity has had such a plan under consideration for some months . discussing it quietly , and it would have advanced more rapidly but for the trouble over the policy with regard to St. John 's . It is understood that not only will the present Chapel of the Intercession , which is old , out of repair , and regarded as wholly inadequate for the rapidly growing needs of that section of the city , be torn down as soon as the new church is ready for occupancy , but that the site , embrac1 Ing several city lots on a valuable Broadway corner , will either be put on the market or built up by Trinity Corporation 1 1 with apartment houses and stores . Representatives of Trinity Corporation said yesterday that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructed on lines designed to meet the demands of a section which has grown almost as if by magic since the completion of the Subway . The matter of cost , it was said , I had not been determined . Just Inside the gate of Trinity Cemetery , at Amsterdam Avenue and 154th Street , there is a plot several hundred feet square which has never been laid off in burial lots , but is now used as a lawn . This is practically the only unoccupied space in the cemetery , and lends itself , in the opinion of the Vestry , admirably to the plans under consideration . It is in the very heart of the section which the Chapel of the Intercession is designed to reach . though the outlook on Amsterdam Avenue is not regarded as attractive as that on Broadway , with the river so near by . But the rapid extension of the church work on Washington Heights since it passed under the direction of Trinity two years ago , the greatly increased attendance on the services at the Chapel of the Intercession since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost dilapidated condition of the present chapel-house have convinced . the Vestry that a new building must beerected , It is understood that the feeling has grown strong that it would be bad business policy to use the present site of the Chapel of the Intercession for church purposes when it is so readily adapted ' for commercial uses without any possible loss to the real work of the church through the use of the available and hitherto practically unused vacant plot in the cemetery . Whether the Vestry will build on the Broadway property or Bell it can not be learned , even if It has been determined , but It has been authentically declared that Trinity 's policy hereafter will be to dispose of its landed property as rapidly as good business justifies . In the cemetery are buried members of the Astor , Kemp , Townsend , Hargous , Kent , Parsons , Sayre , Draper , and other prominent families , and here reposes the body of Audubon , the famous naturalist , who gave his name to the park near by , where he lived , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern apartment buildings . TRINITY WINS ST . JOHN 'S SUIT , Justice O'Gorman Dissolves Injunci tion and Chapel Can Now Be Closed . Supreme Court Justice O'Gorman handed down a decision yesterday vacating the temporary injunction obtained by a committee of St. John 's Chapel restraining the rector , Church Wardens , and Vestrymen of Trinity Church from closing the chapel . The court said the plaintiffs had presented no case in which a court I of equity could take cognizance . The decision points out that , the power of the rector and Vestry of Trinity Church to discontinue the present work at St. John 's and to institute the projected rearrangement of its parochial and religious work , in disregard of the wishes of the congregation of St. John 's , is challenged in this action . On this point , Justice O'Gorman says : In every corporation having a Board of Trustees , the corporate powers are vested for all purposes of practical administration in the board , as a governing body . The vestry are the governing board of Trinity Church and necessarily exercise all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and control and are the solernanagars of the corporation in respect of its temporalities . The court then takes up the right of the plaintiffs to vote at the annual Easter vestry of the Trinity Corporation . which is admitted , but he says this right to vote " confers no power upon them to interfere with the vestry , who , in the exercise of their authority , are seeking to apply , under ecclesiastical approval , the corporate property to what they conceive to be the most efficient service in furtherance of its corporate objects . " " The property , " says Justice O'Gorman , " belongs to the Trinity Corporation , and not to the corporators or other members of the congregation . The vestry , through whom the corporation acts , are not exceeding the power which they possess , and the court can not undertake to review the exercise of their discretion or judgment . " Under Canon 15 of the Protestant , Episcopal Church , the rector of the parish subject to the canonical authority of the Bishop , may determine and prescribe what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what manner and by whom they shall be performed . The plaintiffs are required to conform to the canons , usages , and discipline of ' the church of which they are members , and the court will not aid them in their resistance to its constituted authorities . " The judicial power is reluctant to interfere in matters of religious or ecclesiastical arrangement , and will do so only when rights of property or civil rights are involved . No such rights appear to be affected by this controversy . I conclude , therefore , that the plaintiffs have presented no case of which a court of equity will take cognizance , and the application for injunctive relief must be denied . . The temporary ; - " restraining - order-  heretofore granted is vacatifIX                     