@@678124

txt The strange Mystery in the murder of Dr. William H. Wilson neared a solution to-night . Detectives obtained a complete description of the man who sent the bottle of poisoned ale to the physician . They immediately dropped the half dozen conflicting theories upon which they were working and centred all their energies to connect a rich Philadelphia man with the crime . It was also discovered late to-day that Dr. Wilson was not the correct name of the murdered man , but , an alias . His name was Wilhelm Freihoff , and he was in turn a public singer and entertainer , an oyster opener , a chef , a club steward , and a medical Student . He took the name of Wilson when he went upon the stage , and continued to use ft afterward . He was married twice , had four children by his first wife , deserted her , and she died last February . The oldest of these children is now a soldier in the Philippines . The case was somewhat cleared when the police discovered that the physician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ale to the office of the Philadelphia local express company , at 116 North Thirteenth Street . The man who handed the package addressed to Dr. Wilson over the counter to Fred Buckman , an employe , is described by the latter as a well-dressed individual , about , as years old . Description of Suspect . He is described by Buckman as being of medium height , stockily built , and smooth faced . He wore a sack business suit of an expensive material , was of refined appearance , very polite and courteous , and was apparently In prosperous circumstances . He wore a black derby hat . He had Teutonic features . As soon as the police learned that Buckman had received the bottle of poison they instituted a search for the expressman . It was learned that he went to Atlantic City Wednesday to accept a position with the Union Transfer Company . Detectives were hurried to Atlantic City , and from Buckman they obtained the description . The description tallies with that of a prominent man of this city , who was regarded by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motive for causing the physician 's death . He is- experienced in the brewing of ale . He has knowledge that tin crown cap stoppers can be removed from potties and rep , aced without detection . He was In a position to obtain the letterheads of the Peter Schemm Brewing Company upon which was typewritten the bogus letter requesting Dr. Wilson to sample the ale and to recommend it to . his patients if he found It had a good and healthful brew . Further investigation brought to light a motive which would move the suspect to commit the crime . Some years ago , It was established , he brought a niece from Germany and sent her to Dr. Wilson . It is declared that following an operation . Dr. Wilson attempted to extort large sums of moneyfrom the uncle , threatening that unless he was paid well and frequently the uncle would be exposed . Fought Attempted Blackmail . The wealthy man fought this alleged attempted blackmail vigorously . He had a stormy scene with Dr. Wilson , refused to be bled , and left in anger . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's mind began to fall and he became possessed of the Idea that Dr. ' Wilson had inflicted a great Injury upon him . Living only a short distance from the physician 's home , he saw the doctor almost daily . The physician snubbed him . He was not able to forget the grudge he harbored . The police believe that he carefully planned the whole scheme , and sent the decoy letter paving the way for the poisoned ale . To sustain their mound of suspicion against the suspect the police point to these significant facts which connect the millionaire with the murder : He is feebleminded ; he had a motive ; he was able to obtain old letterheads of the Peter Schcmm Brewing Company ; he was familiar with the brewing of ale ; he had experience in the bottling of liquors ; the description furnished by the expressman tallies with his personal appearance . A rubber stamp " S " in German script at the top of the bogus letter sent Dr. Wilson is a clue . The stampmaker who made the " S " stamp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the description furnished by Buckman and with the suspect 's appearance . So positive are the detectives at work upon the mystery that they have virtually fastened the crime upon the right man that they ceased all other lines of investigation to-day , and made the probing of the life of the suspected murderer their one avenue of inquiry . They will confer with the District Attorney to-morrow , and his arrest is possible .                     