@@676758

txt The long-expected report of the Inter-Departmental Commission on Physical Deterioration has appeared , in a Parliamentary blue book of 130 pages . That it has more of interest than of scientific value was to have been expected . The commission contained but one physician , Dr. TATHAM , who is rather a statistician than a practitioner of medicine . For several years the Philistines in and out of Parliament have been whispering or shouting , as best suited their temperaments , that the people of Great Britain are deteriorating . This view was emphasized very strongly by the reports of the army surgeons based upon experience in the Boer war , and upon the high percentage of rejections of applicants at the recruiting stations while that war was in progress . As usual the British public immediately " divided " on the question . The most extreme opinions were expressed for and against the theory of deterioration . As usual in such matters the radicals and cranks believed in it , while the conservatives of all classes and both sexes doubted it . The commission was created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find that it did not exist . Consequently the report is timid and deprecatory in tone . It starts out by saying that it has found no evidence of a general , nor even a widespread , deterioration among the English people , and then proceeds to explain why the English people are deteriorating . However . It disarms criticism by the very sensible suggestion that before any further investigation is undertaken into the reasons for assumed conditions it would be wise to determine if such conditions really exist , by the systematic weighing , measuring , and physical examination of children in all public schools and institutions , and in private schools as far as public opinion will permit . For such deterioration as must be conceded in the case of the " submerged classes " in cities the report places the chief blame on alcohol and tobacco . Next to the urbanization of the people , and intimately connected with it as the outcome of the conditions which it creates , the drink habit accounts for much of the deterioration discovered . It is worse than most other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation to generation , in deterioration of offspring . The suggestions of reform under this head are limited to the recommendation of greater liberality in the circulation of temperance literature and the instruction of children in the schools as to the evils of intemperance . In discussing the subject of tobacco the commission deals only with juvenile smoking . On this subject it says : The evidence submitted on the point represents a practically unanimous opinion that the habit of cigarette smoking among boys is a growing one and that its consequences are extremely deleterious . No actual testimony was forthcoming to prove that early smoking diminishes growth , but Prof. CUNN/NGEIAM mentioned it as one of the causes of physical deterioration , and Dr. ** was of opinion that scarcely 2 per cent . of cases of undergrowth had not been habitual cigarette smokers ; the experience of a schoolmaster at Longton was quoted to show a distinct inferiority of physique In the case of boy smokers as against non-smokers , and Mr. ATKINS adduced evidence from Col. LEETHAM , the late Chief Inspector of Recruiting at Manchester , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Lancashire might be attributed to smokers ' heart . " This is , no doubt , an excessive estimate , but it shows one bad consequence of early smoking , and it is common knowledge that smoking affects the wind and general physical capacity . Next to alcohol and tobacco , the tea- drinking habit is held ' accountable for much of the deterioration of the poor in Great Britain . It is described as having attained the proportions of a vice , " setting up various forms of varicocele and is responsible for several kindred evils . " The data on this subject are interesting . Concerning infant mortality , three facts stand out prominently as the result of the investigation . They are : First , that infantile mortality in this country has not decreased materially during the last twenty-five years , notwithstanding that the general death rate has fallen considerably ; secondly , that the mortality among illegitimate children is enormously greater than among children born In wedlock ; thirdly , that about one-ball of the mortality occurs in the first three months of life . Perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relates to overcrowding in cities . The commission believes that the time has come to deal drastically with this problem . It advocates fixing a limit to permissible crowding and believes that the State should take charge of those incapable of independent existence up to the required standard of decency and salubrity . The report says : In the last resort , this might take the form of labor colonies on the lines of the Salvation Army Colony at Hadleigh , with powers , however , of compulsory detention . The children of persons so treated might be lodged temporarily in public nurseries or boarded out . With a view to the enforcement of parental responsibility , the object would be to make the parent a debtor to society on account of the child , with the liability , in default of his providing the cost of a suitable maintenance , of being placed in a labor establishment under State supervision until the debt is worked off . The report will not be pleasant reading for the British public . While it does not concede the fact of deterioration , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reader will find it impossible to escape the conclusion that it exists to an extent which the practical philanthropist will find it distressing to contemplate .                     