@@676030

txt CITY HISTORY CLUB 'S WALK A Sunday Pilgrimage to Relics on the Upper West Side . The Party Disbanded Under Alexander Hamilton 's Thirteen Trees ? A Young Woman with a White Head Dress Their Bellwether . About thirty members of the City History Club of New York yesterday afternoon took a long walk , mainly over historical ground . In the course of their outing they visited several of the historical landmarks on Morningside Heights and Convent Hill . The gathering broke up among the historical cluster of gum trees , at Convent Avenue and One Hundred and Forty-second Street , which were planted by Alexander Hamilton . A few minutes before they had invaded and viewed with open-eyed curiosity the octagonal dining room in the old Hamilton Grange , which at one time stood among the famous trees , but which since has been moved across the street , where it is being used as a private school . They had also made a visit to the St. Luke 's Protestant Episcopal Church , at One Hundred and Forty-first Street and Convent Avenue . where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken just before his duel with Aaron Burr . The party was conducted by Dr. Frank Bergen Kelley , Superintendent of the History . Club . which , as a matter of fact , is an offshoot of the People 's Institute . The first points visited were Fort Clinton and Block House No. 1 in the upper part of Central Park , which during the war of 1812 were warmly contested by the rival armies . Yesterday little children played there in the sunlight . From Central Park the little party , headed by Dr. Kelley , proceeded to One Hundred and Sixteenth Street and Columbus Avenue , where another contingent of History Club members was in waiting . With little delay the party started west through One Hundred and Sixteenth Street at a fast pace . The old proverb which says that a rolling stone gathers no moss was set at naught , for as the party advanced many of the idlers in the street , attracted by curiosity , followed the hunters for historical landmarks , and by the time they climbed the steps leading to Columbia Heights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the wake of Prof. Kelley . When the summit of the green-clad ridge , crowned by the Columbia University buildings and the partial skeleton of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine , had been gained , Dr. Kelley stopped for a while . When all his followers had gathered about him he made an address . Pointing to the part of the city at his feet , now covered with the homes of . flat dwellers , he explained to his audience that this was the old Harlem Plain , where the English Army had deployed prior to storming the heights . " There to the northeast , " he said , pointing to a green eminence in the distance , " is Mount Morris Park . Once it was known as the Snake Hill , and the historians tell us that ' Harlem was built under its shadow . ' There was located also Muscoota , the Indian village . ? Muscoota ? means ? grassland , ' but it might as well mean ' meT , . quitos . ' " The Columbia University buildings were next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Empire State Society of the Sons of the American Revolution to commemorate events during the wars of the Revolution and 1812 . The tablet in commemoration of the War of the Revolution was erected on Feb. 22 , 1900 , and up to two years ago , Dr. Kelley observed , there could be seen the ruins of an old breastwork erected there by the Americans for the defense of the heights . The other tablet , which had been placed . on one of the university buildings , at trio Hundred and Seventeenth Street and Amsterdam Avenue , is to commemorate the battle of Harlem Heights , Sept. 17 , 177G . Across the avenue there are some vacant ? lots . which have been fenced in and where yesterday a great array of college youths were playing ball . " There , " said Dr. Kelley. pointing to the lot , " was the point where Washington 's army gained the heights just too late to entrap the English forces . Those lots were then buckwheat fields belonging to the Hoagland and Van de Water farms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was only after they had concentrated practically their entire forces on that spot that Washington withdrew his troops . " The party then entered Grant 's Tomb . On the catafalque of the General still lay the wreath deposited there at the request of Emperor W William at the time of Prince Henry 's visit . They also viewed with evident interest the collection of tattered battle flags from the civil war which has been placed there recently and the tree planted beside the mausoleum by Li-Hung-Chang . There was the usual holiday crowd on the Riverside Drive and they all looked wile curiosity at the students of historic landmarks . At times there was real dangerof some being lost or left behind in the crowd , . but a handsome young girl , dressed in a sky blue . velvet dress and a hat with large white- trimmings , saved the situation . She walked in the van , and her white headdress , like the famous white plume on the helmet of Xing Henry of Navarre , was the shining mark which all the others followed . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tomb . which Dr. Renee explained was one of the oldest structures in the city and still partly preserved in its original condition , the party passed across the new viaduct . Here one of the members thought that he discovered ex-Mayor Van Wyck in a passing carriage . The craning of necks which followed seemed to indicate that the History Club was out for recent history as well as ancient . Hamilton Grange , the country seat of Alexander Hamilton , was situated where . the northwest corner of Convent Avehue and One Hundred and Forty-second Street is now . There , on a great vacant spot , where already the builders have made inroads . the History Club visited and counted the thirteen gum trees , now almost witnered. which were planted by the great statesman . The Hamilton homestead up to sixteen years ago stood among the trees . Then . however , it was purchased by the St. Luke 's Protestant Episcopal Church . The parishioners had the house moved across the avenue . and there it stands to-day . At the same time they turned it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now facing the avenue . ' Up to December , 1892 , the historic old house v.-as used by the congregation as a piece of worship . Then their handsome new church had been completed and the Hamilton home was for a while left to the spirits of the past . Not for long , however . Te-day it is known as the Hamiltoia Grange School . a private institution . The old octagonal dining room , with windows on each side . where in the days of Alexander Hamilton was the scene of lavish e : , tertainments and brilliant gatherings , is now used as a kindergarten . Mrs. Morgan , the teacher , had a ? little Party of visitors on the porch of the o 'd house . Nothing daunted , Dr. Kelley ascended the steps . After a few minutes of conversation , he waved to the rest of the party to follow : and the whole History Club marched into the dinin ? T room . Then they descended on the adjoining St. Luke 's Church . Marching through a room where a Bible class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brennaa through a long and narrow and devious passage to the vestry to view an authentic picture of the statesman whose home they had just visited . The engraving dated from Sept. 1 , 1804 . In this vestry the club found an old silk pillow . on the cover of which was a painting of the earliest location of St. Luke 's Church , at the foot of Christopher Street . The picture , which is preserved in a glass case , also showed the old city prison . which was built in 1797 on the site now occupied by a large brewery . - The members of the History Club disbanded under the thirteen trees . Next Sunlay the club Will make a pilgrimage through the northmost part of Manhattan end part of Westchester.                     