@@677173

txt LThose wh9 have been hoping for the worst have often shown impatience that the disturbance caused by the insurance Scandals did not reach their expectations . Indeed , even those who have dreaded the worst have not failed to wonder that the effect was not felt beyond the realms of insurance , in the larger world of high finance . The essential reason is the application of the sound common sense of the American people to the essential facts of the case . Our readers will doubtless admit as regards themselves the application of sober judgment to facts lending themselves to exploitation by sensationalists . Taking the judiciousness of our . constituency for granted , therefore , we take leave to commend to their consideration facts which justify them  --  or anybody else for that matter ? in taking a somewhat calmer view of the troubles now approaching a happy ending than is pleasing to those who have their own reasons for desiring a prolongation of occurrences which satisfy so many grudges . When Mr. PERKINS and Mr. Mc CURDY retired the statements they made , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debit and credit balance , left something to be desired . The statements were doubtless altogether veracious , but they were not verified by independent audit , and the necessity of considering personal acts and motives and the suitable discharge of trust functions prevented others from taking the same satisfaction in those statements that their authors necessarily did . But yesterday we published a statement of one of the defendant companies which meets these objections . The audit was not only Independent . It was duplicate , by firms of position on both sides the ocean , and the question of conduct is entirely aliunde in the balance sheet of a corporation . There is no reason why the balance sheet should not be regarded as a balance sheet pure and simple , without the slightest reservation as to the facts asserted . To us it seems that the case thus presented justifies the calmness shown by American policy holders , as well as by English and French commentators , upon objectionable facts which have been turned to such excellent uses . Going one step further , in such facts as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these and there will be others similar after them ? we ? find an explanation why the Insurance scandal has not disturbed the security markets as might have been expected , and as some who can see through grindstones have discerned when they have re , marked weakness which required some explanation . We remark in the first place that the strength shown has obviated any necessity of liquidation , so that the market has not been weighed down by depressing quantities , of securities . And we remark , secondly , that the confidence of policy holders has been reflected among security holders for precisely similar reasons . Just as many have shouted fraud and theft , so many others have shouted speculation . nut the lambs who bought the stocks sacrificed when such cries were fashionable have kept their eyes upon the bank clearings , the railway earnings , the iron trade , the crop yield , and such other essentials of values as correspond in the security world to the report of the insurance company above discussed . Instead of selling to the " system " and losing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the " system , " and , being now somewhat sophisticated , prefer to buy and sell upon their judgment rather than upon cries of " Wolf ! " Mere good conditions would not ' have produced these excellent results of disquieting conditions , or rather , conditions which would have lent themselves to panic if considered in the suggested spirit .                     