@@781138

txt Port Arthur capitulated at o'clock this afternoon . Gen. Nogi received from Gen. Stoessel at 9 o'clock last night a letter formally offering to surrender . He appointed pincers to meet Russian officers in , conference at noon ; to Clay : - The text of Gen. Nogi 's telegram announcing the capitulation of the Russian forces is as follows : " The plenipotentiaries of both parties concluded their negotiations to-day at 4:30 o'clock . The Russian Commissioners accepted on the whole the conditions stipulated by us and consented to capitulate . The document has been prepared and signatures are now being affixed . Simultaneously with the conclusion of negotiations both armies suspended hostilities . " It is expected that the Japanese Army will enter the City of Port Arthur to-morrow . " An earlier report from Gen. Nogi said : " At 5 in the afternoon Jan. 1 the enemy 's bearer of a flag of truce came into the first line of our position south of Shuishiying and handed a letter to our officers . The same reached me at 9 o'clock at night . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general condition of the whole line of hostile positions held by you I find further resistance at Port Arthur useless , and for the purpose of preventing needless sacrifice of ' lives I propose to hold negotiations with reference to capitulation . Should you consent to the same , you will please appoint Commissioners for discussing the order and conditions regarding capitulation , and also appoint a place for such Commissioners to meet the same appointed by me . " ' I take this opportunity to convey to Your Excellency assure . sees of my respect . STOESSEL . ' " Shortly after dawn to-day I will dispatch our bearer of a flag of truce with the following reply addressed to Stoessel : " ' I have the honor to reply to your proposal to hold negotiations regarding the conditions and order of capitulation . For this purpose I have appointed as Commissioner Major Gen. Ijichi , Chief of Staff of bur army . He will be accompanied by some staff officers and civil officials . They will meet your Commissioners Jan. 2 , noon , at Shuishining . The Commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the capitulation without waiting for ratification and cause the same to take immediate effect . Authorization for such plenary powers shall be signed . by the highest officer of both the negotiating parties , and the same shall be exchanged by the respective Commissioners . " I avail myself of this opportunity to convey to your . Excellency assurances of my respect . " ' NOGI . ' " Marshal Yamagata , Chief of General Staff , under orders from the Emperor , dispatched the following cablegram to Gen. Nogi : " When I respectfully informed his Majesty of Gen. Stoessel 's proposal for capitulation , His Majesty was pleased to ' state that Gen.Stoessel had rendered commendable service toh is country in the midst of difficulties , and it is His Majesty 's wish that military honors be shown to him . " It is believed here that the Port Arthur garrison has received liberal terms . There is a general disposition to be magnanimous in view of the garrison 's marvelous defense . In military circles the opinion is expressed that the discussion between the Commissioners covered only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying their arms , permitting the garrison to return to Russia with or without their officers , and requiring their parole not to take any further part in the war . A dispatch from the Japanese Army before Port Arthur received at noon to . day says : " The enemy 's forces occupying Keek.wan Mountain and ' Q ' Fort , following an explosion at 12:30 this . morning , opened a sudden and fierce rifle fire , which suddenly stopped . " Our scouts were dispatched to the scene , and ' immediately afterward found the enemy evacuating these places . Our forces immediately occupied these two forts , and also the heights known as ' M ' and N ' south of the forts . " This morning almost all the enemy 's ships , large and small , were blown up in the entrance and inside the harbor . Our offensive movements have been suspended pending the negotiations . " Gen. Nogi 's telegram announcing that Gen. Stoessel was prepared to discuss terms of capitulation reached Tokio early this morning , but was not made public until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Signal Hill , following the loss of new Pan-Lung , is regarded here as a clear indication that the Port Arthur garrison had lost its power of serious deleted 3 lines The Russians desperately sought to retake that eminence , and sent infantry and marines against it in a series of counter-attacks , fruitlessly losing thousands of men .                     