@@677284

txt Mrs. Mettle of Okolona , Miss. , who is accused of the murder of her husband , was lynched last night by a mob of her neighbors and hastily burled under loose earth , leaves , and brush in the belief that she was dead . She finally recovered , scratched her way out of her grave , and walked back to town . left his home the night of May 11 to visit a neighbor and never returned home . Subsequently rains washed out his headless body from a shallow grave not far from his home . The next day Mrs. was arrested for the murder . She was released on a nominal bond of WO , the Justices holding that the actual murder was the work of some one else . Incensed at the action of the Justices , a mob took her from her home last night . The members demanded that she reveal the names of her confederates . Failing to obtain this confession , they swung her up . She was let down and again asked for the names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again was strung up . The second time she was suspended for a much longer period . When the woman was lowered the second time she was unconscious . An examination convinced the mob that she was dead . She was then taken to the woods , buried under some brush and leaves , and the mob dispersed . Mrs. finally recovered consciousness , and made her way to town , where she exhibited her bruises and marked neck in substantiation of her story . The woman will be held in jail for her own protection until tried , and those of the mob who were recognized will be prosecuted for assault to commit murder . AN EXPLOSION IN BELLEVUE . Hospital Inmates Alarmed by the Bursting of a Steam Pipe . Soon after 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon a series of smothered reports and then a ripping sound echoed through Bellevue Hospital . The building trembled , and the clerks in the information bureau on the ground floor ran into the yard , thinking the building might fall . There was another loud report and a cloud of steam came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men from the basement below the ground floor ran across the lawn to the boiler house , where they shut off the steam connecting with the heating plant In the hospital building . Dr. Vanderhoff , coming down to the ground floor from the offices one flight up . was struck on the arm and head by a section of steam pipe packing and pieces of plaster from about the broken steampipes . After the , steam had been shut off it was found that the plug at the end of the big ten-inch steam main supply pipe had been blown out . There had been no steam in the hospital for several days , butit . was turned . on again last night . Meanwhile the main pipe had become filled with water and it did not expand uniformly when the steam entered it .                     