@@677420

txt The National congress on uniform laws of marriage and divorce has now undertaken the most difficult part of its task . This is the preparation of a list of causes for divorce which will command the consent of all the States . In this it has proceeded with much circumspection . There are , doubtless , members of the congress , and even of the committee which drew the report , who have made sacrifices of their personal preferences for the sake of conformity and uniformity . Without doubt many of them consider the proposed law lax . There may also 15 , e those in the congrets , * , h0 think it overstrict . That-:is .. - less- likely , seeing that it is lest strict than the statutes of a ' Limit ) e-r of States already are , and that - it ' was not for greater laxity but for greater strictness that the congress was convened . The causes for the annulment of marriage as " void ab initio " are almost exactly those enumerated by Coxx , and recognized by the common law of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the causes for divorce are much more extensive and numerous than those of the common law . But it will be difficult for whoever does not go so far as to take the sacramental view of marriage to deny that all of them are destructive of the purpose of the conjugal relation : Adultery , bigamy , conviction and sentence for crime , followed by a continuous imprisonment for at least two years ; extreme cruelty , such as to endanger life or health ; habitual drunkenness for two years , and willful desertion for the same length of time . Whoever argues against the admission of any one of these causes for the dissolution of marriage rro.u , -i do so on other grounds than the humane and secular consideration of the happiness of the parties or of their children . And , be it noted , it is not necessary for everybody who accepts the report to lay aside his own standards , not even for every State . It is possible for clergymen , for example , to exhort their flocks to abide by stricter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do . Even a State like South Carolina , which allows of no divorce at all , may apparently keep its statute still in force , so long as it gives " full faith and ' credit " to the statutes of other States ' framed in accordance with the re ; . , ort of the committee and its ad ( rition by the congress . It has been said that it is more important for the law to be known than for it to be right . We can substitute " uniform " for known , and say the same thing about the American law of marriage and divorce . And practically uniform the efforts of this admirable congress promise to make that law .                     