@@678572

txt Mrs. ELLA FLAGG YOUNG , the first administratrix of Chicago 's schools , Is planning to do too much . " / am going . to start out in my administration in an endeavor to please every one of the 6,000 teachers , " The Chicago Tribune reports her as saying . She will go about it In this way : In my career as a teacher and Prin- ; principal , I never experienced much difficulty in gaining access to the Superintendent 's office , but I have heard many complaints from teachers that the office was too hedged In and inaccessible . I hope to be able to give every one of our teachers an individual conference , and when they feel that they have grievances I want them to come direct to me , rather than present their grievances through an intermediary . Men , and great men , too , have been quite as enthusiastic as Mrs. YOUNG in their belief that they could get along without intermediaries in attending to a volume of business . M0SEs tried it , for instance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his daughter 's husband upon the way he had led the children of Israel out of Egypt he found him judging all the people " from morning unto evening . " Then JETHRO told him plainly that this thing was not good , that he would wear away , and his people with him , for the work was too heavy . He taught MOSES what every modern head of a great office has to learn , that he should select able men to be rulers of his thousands , of his hundreds , his fifties , and his tens , instructing them to refer every great matter to him and to settle all the petty causes themselves . The chief has enough to do in applying principles , in shaping policies , and in responding to pressing emergencies . The wisdom of a learned man , and particularly the wisdom of a learned woman , cometh by opportunity of leisure : How can he get wisdom that holdeth the plow , and that glorieth in the goad , that driveth oxen , and is occupied in their labors , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make furrows , and is diligent to give the fodder . Mrs. YOUNG 'S task is not to grapple with the details of her administration single handed . She must display ability in picking out trustworthy subordinates to whom she can delegate most matters , or she will fail . Prob- I ably the little difficulty she used to experience in gaining access to the Superintendent 's office was because the matters she discussed on such occasions were worthy of his notice .                     