@@781090

txt The theatrical performance given to-night at Sandringham House was the crowning event of the German Emperor 's visit to England . Workmen had been busy during the past few clays with the work of converting the handsome ball room into a bijou theatre , and special scenery was painted for the occasion . Sir Henry Irving and his company made a record journey from Belfast , Ireland , where they played last night , and to which city they will return to-night for to-morrow 's performance . Arthur Bourchier with his company made a. journey under similar conditions from London . A number of royal carriages were sent to meet the actors at the railway station , where they arrived at 6 o'clock , and drove immediately to Sandringham House . A hurried rehearsal was at once proceeded with , and everything worked so smoothly that the players had time to dine before the opening of the performance . The invited guests began to assemble at 9:30 o'clock in the theatre , " which had accommodation for 250 persons . In addition to the house party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the royal servants were in the audience . Zit 9:50 o'clock the strains of the national anthem , played by the orchestra , announced the coming of the King and Queen , the German Emperor , and the - Prince of Wales , all wearing the insignia of various orders . The party included Princess Victoria , Prince and Princess Charles of . Denmark , the Marquis and Marchioness of Lansdowne , the Marquis and Marchioness of Londonderry , and the Marquis and Marchioness of Ormonde. w . The stage as tastefully decorated with 11 banks of flowers . while above the centre of the proscenium the German Eagle and the ' British royal arms were prettily interwoven in the scheme of decoration , and floral devices representing the British Hon and the German flag flanked either side of the stage . The programme was a white card surmounted by a golden crown . The curtain rose at 10 o'clock on Conan Doyle 's . one-act drama , " A Story of Waterloo , " Sir Henry Irving , Lionel Belmore , Benjamin Webster , and Mabel Hackney sustaining the principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciation of the acting in a very marked manner . At the end of this piece there was an interval of a quarter of an hour , but none of the spectators left the theatre . Arthur Bourchier , assisted by Gerald Biron , H. B. Warner , and Violet Vanbrugh : then presented Leo Trevor 's play , Doctor Johnson , " the audience again applauding heartily . The curtain was twice raised at the conclusion of the performance . King Edward then commanded Sir Henry Irving , Mr. Bourchier , and Mrs. Bourchier ( Miss Violet Vanbrugh ) to take supper with the royal party . Sir Henry Irving had time to change from his theatrical costume into evening dress , s , but the King laughingly insisted that Mr. Bourchier attend the supper still attired in his cos- i tume representing the corpulent Dr. Johnson . The German Emperor had a long conversation with Mr. Bourchier , in the course of which he spoke of his great interest in the theatre and how lie was impressed by its educational ' influence . He referred to Herr von Wiidenbruch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would prove a success in Eng Seen afterward . Mr. Bourchier said it was the most delightful experience he had ever had . " We were all made to feel quite at home , " he said . " The King was kindness itself , and the Emperor deeply impressed me by his knowledge of theatrical affairs . The Queen was charming from first to last and we were splendidly treated . "                     