@@675697

txt The Greater New York Democracy held the first mass meeting and perfected temporary organization in Carnegie Hall last evening . Resolutions were passed , speeches were made , and an address was issued to the voters of New York declaring that the primary object of the organization was the overthrow of Tammany Hall and Richard Croker , who was denounced by nearly every speaker A resolution was adopted pledging the new organization to oppose the candidates of the " so-called Democracy to be named under the auspices of Tammany Hall . " Ex-Justice Joseph F. Daly arraigned Tammany Hail and Mr. Croker . Mr. Croker 's name was hissed , and liberal applause greeted the mention of the names of David B. Hill , Controller Coler , John D. Crimmins , and Perry Belmont . There were , according to the Carnegie Hall officials . between 1.100 and leiter people seated on the main floor . Two hundred men were seated on the stage , 50 women occupied boxes , and the two upper galleries were empty , with the exception of three boys and a big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ex-Surrogate Rastus S. Ransom , and William Hepburn Russell came to the front of the stage to open the meeting there was some applause . Temporary Chairman Russell delivered a speech , in part as follows : " The great City of New York is a Democratic City , but to-day it is not ruled by the Democratic masses who ought to be Its masters . The fountain head of the party organization has become corrupt , and Crokerism ? is to-day our worst municipal evil . ? Crokerism ' is not even home rule . It is merely rule by English cable , while Republicanism stands tor Albany ' paternalism , ' that is well illustrated by the ? little jokers ' in the amended charter of New York as enacted by a Republican Legislature . We must redeem the City of New York from the Croker ' trusts . ' We must make his ' private business " our public business . " We must reorganize the Democratic Party ef New York City so as to make the party and the city truly Democratic . " The Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purposes for which it was organized . It is no longer a Democratic machine under the control of the Democratic Party . It is merely a Croker organ grinder . " The nominees of the organization are not the nominees of the party , but of the ? boss . ' and it is beyond the power of the majority of the party , while the present organization endures unchanged , to resume the party sovereignty of which that majority is now deprived . " Party leadership is no longer a question of brains and executive capacity , but has become one of brute force , bribery , and corruption . " Bribery that consists of ' tribute ' levied , taken and divided . is not the less bribery because it is practically beyond the reach of the criminal law . " The audience became enthusiastic when a delegation from the Fourteenth Assembly District entered the hall with banners flying . Soon afterward came the Buffalo Club of the Thirty-third Assembly District The banners were inscribed with the words , " Independent Democrats . " Ex-Surrogate Ransom . who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke in part as follows : We have met together this evening to consider how to free ourselves and our neighbors from the corruption , fraud , extravagance , and dishonest use of public money which make our city a byword all over the world and of which every honest citizen is ashamed . At this meeting we lo not concern ourselves so much with National or State politics , but we do at this time denounce Tammany Hall for her many mistakes , which have resulted in the loss of National and State campaigns to our party . To-night we appeal to all citizens . regardless of political affiliations . to stand together and deliver this city from an oligarchy which drains its substance to the very verge of bankruptcy for the sole apparent purpose of filling their own pockets by depleting the pockets of the taxpayers . Chairman Ransom then said : " I have a message from a gentleman who is well known in this city and whose great faithfulness and ability in the discharge of his duties are known to all That man is with vs heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refer to Perry Belmont . " LETTER OF MR . CRIMMINS . There was applause at this announcement . A letter from John D. Crimmins was then read , in which he said the new political organization deserved the support of every Democrat in the city . The list of Vice Presidents of the meeting was then read as follows : Charles J. Canda , rhomas . John Smith . Prank T. ( ) Connor , T. J. Corbett . William J. , John Osborn . Limon Fister . John J. Buckley . Charles W. Ferris . Roger A. Pryor. . ; , org.e Frankenreich . George Bischoff . Michael Tobin . Frederick Helbig . Benjamin Kiernan , John J. O'Brien , Joeeph Kelly . Barry Allen . William Dickman , James V. Busch . William Smith , Michael Cahn . Norwood Ferrer , W. H. Ryan , Ernest Kreitzterger , Bryan L. Kennelly , John De Witt Warner , Samuel Brens . Patrick Ryan , N. L. Hass , Edward Miehling , Abraham Sonnerstrom , Matthew McCauley , . George Mann , Leo . Litthauer , Samuel Rinaldo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambrose T. Sheey . : Dr. John Leuchs. .. lohn . : Charles Krikawas , Ex-Justice Daly was then introduced . The applause was hearty and some enthusiastic friend shouted : ? ? Three cheers for Justice Daly . " The applause was renewed . The ex-Justice was frequently interrupted by applause . When he said " Imagine Patrick Henry called down ' because he would not do as the boss ordered ! " there were hisses for Mr. Croker from many parts of the hall . Ex-Justice Daly said in part : " We are confronted by a grave responsibility and by a great opportunity . Our responsibility is that of Democrats who have seen with shame the greatest Democratic city of the Nation dishonored by rapacity and greed masquerading under the name of Democratic organization . " Our opportunity is that which has been waited for ever since our city was given over to the most ignorant and shameless plunder . " There is not a decent Democrat who has not waited for this time to form or to join an organization of Democrats pledged to redeem our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comforts , improve our city , or help our industries , but to fasten upon us more securely the servitude under which we labor by creating an army of mercenaries to overcome us at the polls . " Offices multiplying  --  salaries increasing , all to the same end . Each year sees a heavier burden laid upon us to make us pay for our own dishonor and discomfiture . " It will require a great effort to overcome the horde which has camped upon us , eating our substance and levying tribute upon our industries to feed its luxuries , EX-JUSTICE DALY 'S PLAN . " I am here to say a word as to what . ! . s to be done and how we must set about doing it . " First , we must have a true Democratic organization , for this is a Democratic city . It is not necessary that National politics should have anything to do with a municipal campaign such as we are entering upon . We are goine into this fight shoulder to shouldee with other organizations , just as the armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a foe of civilization and of humanity , but each army n arched under its own flag and under its own officers , and yet they fought for one cemmon purpose . Our flag is Democracy , and we hope to raise that glorious standard in the City of New York so high that it will be hailed by patriots throughout the length arid breadth of the land . We raise the : standard to-night and appeal to all Democrats to jcin us . I appeal to those Democratic fathers who by honest toil have amassed a- modest competence and given their sons an education which has fitted them for the most ambitious public career , but have seen every avenue to advancement closed to them unless they will cringe to an ignorant , illiterate , unscrupulous , and unprincipled master ! And then how many of our most brilliant men . zaemocrats who in-the counsels of the Nation at times of moment might have been heard in the advocacy of true patriotism , have been silenced by the power of a ' boss ' who not permit any but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the State Legislature . " Above all I appeal to those men who have stood by the Democratic organization of New York for the sake of what it once represented , and in the hope that the foul grasp that throttles all that is virtuous and clean in it would yet be relaxed and its farmer greatness be restored : appeal to those men who have shuddered to see it sink lower and lower and touch the depths of infamy beyond their worst apprehensions ; ask them whether they can longer stifle their consciences and become pdssive sharers in guilt and partners in crime . " Passive . do I say ? Is not every vote cast to retain Tammany in power a vote to perpetuate the crime which it encourages ? Does not every poor , lost soul that goes down to perdition in the ' red light ' district and every other district where the town is run ' wide open ' cry out aloud for vengeance on those who by word and deed and money and vote make possible the crime which has destroyed them ? PROTECTED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon their Pillows , after thanking God for the purity of their homes and the innocence of their children , and forget that the political institution they support with their votes is filling the streets with outcasts and the penitentiaries with criminals and paupers ' graves with victims  --  once as pure as the child at its mother 's knee , and now blighted by this reign of ' protected vice . ' ? " Ask any self-respecting citizen of this great city whether he is satisfied with the answer that flows so glibly from the lips of our rulers , that ' New York is no worse than London . ' I do not know , but perhaps you do , why it is that our rulers always hold up the English standard of morality for us to follow . Why are we to try and make our city like an English city ? " Is it not enough that our rulers should retire to the shores of Albion for relaxattoli ' and repose after an arduous electoral campaign , but we at home must be treated to all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brings over these foreign vices and teaches our municipal rulers to establish them here ? " A hundred people in the audience shouted " Croker ! Croker ! " Ex-Judge Daly then continued : " Ts it necessary for the success of Tammany that our decency shall be insulted and our morals corrupted ? Is it necessary for the success of Tammany that the daughters of the poor should be wronged and the homes of the poor dishonored ? Is tie success to be purchased at such a cost . If not , why was it that from the moment Tammany came into power the city was given over to licentiousness of the most open . the most unblushing , the most destructive kind ? Yes . it is necessary that honor and virtue and honesty should be crushed in order to make Tammany successful . " " Are they considered when appointments to its offices are made ? Talk to the ruling powers about a man 's high character and it sounds the death knell of hi.e political hopes . A man of high character wo n't do ? he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no character  --  who exist only by the breath that is blown into their nostrils by the master , who , if his powerful hand be withdrawn . will fall into the obscurity from which he has lifted them  --  these are the men to put in high places at large salaries  --  because they can be trusted to obey orders . " There is no use in trying any reform ' within the party . ' There never yet was a political organization that rerormed itself . It has got to he attacked rrom without . Democrats must save the party by overthrowing the fraud and pretense that now controls it . TO BUILD UP TRUE DEMOCRACY . " And you are here to do just that thing . If I understand this meeting and its object . it is to build up a real Democratic Party in this Democratic city . It is to destroy that combination which calls itself the Democratic Party of this city , and which , in its gross tyranny , violates every Democratic principle every day of its existence . " Not until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other to stand together in this contest to the end will there be any prospect of success . Let the capitalist , the merchant , the clerk , the workman  --  every citizen who has felt the heavy hand of this monstrous oppression ? meet with his fellow-citizen and pledge his money , his voice , and his vote in the good cause , and the fabric of corruption will begin to totter . All that is wanted is courage . Let your motto be union : union with every element that rises up to combat the common enemy . Welcome every organization , unite with every power which has committed itself to the good fight . " From this moment address yourself to every self-respecting , every law-abiding , honest , decent citizen . Do not rest until he is enrolled in the good cause . And , fellow-Democrats , remember that the foe has already betrayed the secret of his apprehensions ; almost ; he last word he uttered before leaving our shores was this : ' They say I 'm buried ; I ca n't be buried unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you met to perfect to-night is to be started . This Democratic citeemust be redeemed by Democratic votes , and there are enough hones and courageous Democrats to dot it . " At the conclusion of ex-Justice Dal ' s speech the resolutions organizing " The Greater New York Democracy were read by ex-Assemblyman Matthew P. Breen . It was decided to appoint a Committee on Organization of ten members in every Assembly district of the Greater New York . An Executive Committee is to be formed to consist of one member from each Assembly district . The permanent Chairman of , the meeting was empowered to appoint an Advisory Committee of seven to consult with the Executive Committee and adopt a plan for permanent organization in every Assembly district . In the address issued there was an arraignment of the municipal administration of Mayor Van Wyck for reckless waste of funds and the increase in the cost of City Covernment of S2S.000.000 in three years It was claimed that in an effort to befog the taxpayers the assessed valuations of real estate have been increased under the present Tammany rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was introduced to speak for the independent Democrats of Brooklyn . Mr. Kempner 's speech was received with cheers and applause . " Go it Kempner , give it to Croker. " his hearers cried . The speech was devoted to a description of Mr. Croker as a leader . and when he told the audience what ex-Senator Hill thought of the lack of ability of Croker as a leader , the crowd cheered repeatedly . The last sentence of the speech was : " Let us hope that ' this meeting sounds the beginning of the end of Crokerism. "                     