@@781426

txt According to the story told by Abraham Friedman and his wife , Rebecca , at their home , 90 Henry Street , yesterday , their twelve-year-old son Joseph has been nearly six months on Randall 's Island for throwing stones . The boy was arrested on March 18 . On that day , as the elder Friedman tells it , Joe was eating dinner when a stone fight started between the boys of Henry Street and the youngsters of Madison Street . Joe ran out of the house , but to what extent he participated in the fight his father does not seem to know . He was informed a few minutes later that his son had been arrested . Friedman inquired at the Madison Street . Station a little later about his boy , and was informed that he would be taken to the Children 's Court on the following day . Friedman went to the Children 's Court the next day and was told that his son had been sent to Randall 's Island because a five-dollar fine had not been paid . The parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stone fight after all , made up their minds to let him serve out his fine , which , they under-1 stood , would he five days at the most . More than five months have passed and the boy is still a prisoner , or was the last time his father visited him several das ago . The elder Friedman said yesterday that ' , every time he had visited Randall 's Island he found his son scrubbing floors or benches . When he asked why his son could not go home he was told that the I boy had some sort of trouble with his eyes . The father said he could not see anything wrong with his son 's eyes . In the absence of Supt. Jenkins , nobody v-ould talk about the case of Joseph Friedman at the Children 's Society last evening . At Randall 's Island it was said that the register there did not show the boy 's ame . At the hospital at Blackwell 's Isl-and. where If the boy is actually ill with some malady of the eyes he might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name wan known there . At the Madison Street Station Joseph ' ! Friedman is registered as having been arrested for disorderly conduct on March IS and fined $5 in the Children 's Court on the following day . CROWD MOBS A STABBER . He Had Cut Two Men on a Car  --  Police Rescue Him . An Italian , who said he was Antonio Brown , 42 years old , an iceman , Of 1,571 First Avenue , stabbed two men on ' a Third Avenue surface car at Fifty-ninth Street late last night , and the reserves of the East Fifty-first Street Station had to ; be called out to disperse the crowd that I was trying to trample Brown to death . John Guetzwiller , his wife , and two deleted 3 paragraphs                     