@@677285

txt The celebration of the Russian May Day to-day was marked by the assassination of two high officials . At the new Admiralty Works in this city , Vice Admiral Kuzmich , Commander of the Port , who was very unpopular with the workmen because of his despotic ways , was stabbed to the heart by a , workman after he had tried to prevent a May Day demonstration . In ' Warsaw , Police Captain Constantinoff was standing in a street this afternoon with two policemen and four soldiers , when a young man threw a bomb into the group . The explosion of the bomb literally tore Capt . Constantinoff to pieces and severely wounded a policeman and six other persons . The assassin tried to escape , and , firing his revolver , wounded a soldier . The other soldiers replied with a volley , killing the assassin and two other persons . The soldiers then , with their bayonets and the butts of their guns , attacked the people who had gathered , wounding eleven persons , making a total of four killed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought since Many Day of last year , when he ordered the soldiers to fire on a procession of Socialists , causing the death of thirty persons . Most of the 2,000 men employed at the Admiralty works here redeemed for duty at 5 o'clock this morning . They wanted to march out in a body there and then to celebrate the day , but finally agreed to work till 2 o'clock in the afternoon . The Admiral , however , made a speech to the men , saying that he could not agree to their leaving work at 2 o'clock , and the matter was left open . At about 9:30 o'clock , according to an officer who was at the gate of the works , the Admiral was emerging from a small shop in the works when a workman who had been concealed around the corner of the building leaped on him from behind and drove a long dagger into his back . The Admiral expired immediately . The assassin fled into a large forge , wherehe was lost among the men employed there . The works were promptly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the murderer was unavailing , his comrades professing ignorance of his identity . The police say it is evident the I murder was planned in advance . The dagger , which was found on the spot , was concealed in a round stick , like a Isviiird cane . Admiral Kuzmich participated in the Russo-Turkish war and in 1902 was ' second flag officer of . the Poit.Arthur'fleet . He returned to St. Petersburg in 1903 and was appointed Commander of the Port . Politically he was a Reactionist . The workmen of St. Petersburg made an I , imposing showing in their celebration of the day . Practically every factory , mill , and shop in the city was idle , over 200,000 men joining in the demonstration . The Chief of Police had posted notices that no manifestations would be permitted , reserves of police armed with rifles were massed in the industrial guar1ters. and detachments of infantry and cavalry , though they were kept cut of I sight , were posted at strategic points . There was a fight in a suburb this afternoon between a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent them from working . Revolvers and knives were drawn and several persons were injured , one of them being dangerously wounded . In the evening a crowd of several hundred workmen gathered in the Nevsky Prospect and tried to organize a demonstration , but after being repeatedly dispersed by the police and charged once by dragoons they gave up the attempt . Reports from the interior show that work generally was suspended in the provincial cities of Russia proper .                     