@@677869

txt Special to The New York Times . NORFOLK , Dec. ** Evans , commanding the great fleet of battleships , torpedo boats , destroyers , and auxiliaries . which have assembled in Hampton Toads preparatory to starting on their ' Voyage to San Francisco , arrived this morning and received a noisy welcome . The big guns thundered a salute as the ranking officer started for his flagship , the battleship Connecticut , which lay out in the stream . Fourteen of the sixteen battleships have arrived . The Minnesota and ICentucky , which will complete the fleet , are expected to pass in the Virginia Capes in  --  the morning . Mrs. Evans accompanied her husband from the . National capital , and will remain at the Hotel Chamberlin until the armada sails , a week from today . The fleet will probably encounter some nasty weather within the next twene ty-four hours , if the predictions of the Weather Bureau do not go astray . Toe night warnings were displayed for a southeast storm , which is coming up the coast , and which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipation OZ the blow , things were made snug aboard the fighters this evening . The vessels are lying aerespectable distance apart , since no chances are to be taken , and collisions at this stage of the game will be avoided as far as possible . The collier Abarenda , headed out to sea this morning loaded to tire water hue with coal . She is said to be bound for Trinidad , there ' to await the sea fighters . The Brutus , another collier , arrived this morning from Baltimore , her hold full or the best fuel . The coal will be distributed among the vessels in the morning . The force at the Navy Yard is working hard to get the remaining ammunition and stores down to the fleet , and all extra vessels are being pressed into service . Of bumboats around the floating fortresses there are aplenty , and the men and women irt them are doing a fine business supplying Jack with articles that he does not get aboard ship . It was announced to-day that there would be two squadrons of eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first division will be headed by the Con ' necticut , the flagship of the Admiral ; the second led by the Minnesota , in charge of Commander Emery ; the third by the i Georgia , in charge of Commander Thomas , and the fourth by the Alabama , whose commanding officer is Sperry . Admiral Evans to-day lost no time in putting the crews to work . He ordered drills to take place each morning at 0:80 o'clock and each evening at 4 o'clock . These include the fire and fog drills as originally planned . The men are also to practice in the small boats should the weather permit . Great crowds viewed the vessels to-day . many people coming hundreds of miles to witness the magnificent spectacle of the navy 's best battleships at anchor . The auxiliary Arethusa has been named as the supply ship for the torpedo boats . She will join the " Mosquito Fleet " at Trinidad . The vessel carries many parts of torpedo boats so that in the event of accident to the little flyers repairs can be made en @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of desertions , shore liberty for the seamen , it is said , will be restricted . Mt .. and Mrs. George F. Adams of the Hotel Chamberlin will give a ball Friday night in honor of Admiral Evans and the officers of the fleet . On the way out of Norfolk on their cruise to the Pacific an opportunity was given to the vessEls of the torpedo boat destroyer flotilla to demonstrate the usefulness or the wireless telephone with which they are equipped . Messages subsequently verified were exchanged for a distance of more than thirteen miles . All of the sixteen battleships about to sail will have wireless telephones . LAST BATTLESHIP SAILS . The Minnesota Off to Join Pacific ) Fleet  --  Navy Yard Deserted . The navy yard looked like a . college time In Christmas week yesterday . There was a deserted appearance everywhere , as contrasted with the lively scenes of the past two months , and everybody in the yard . it seemed , was affected with the general depression . The reason was the departure of the battleship Minnesota , the last of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rendezvous in Hampton Roads . The Minnesota sailed on time to the minute , and as she steamed out of the yard thirteen guns boomed forth the parting salute of the flagship to Rear Admiral Goodrich , the Commandant of the navy yard . As the echo of the last gun died away the receiving ship Hancock began firing a return salute of the same number of guns In honor of Rear lAndamArearl I lantic Fleet , of which division the Minnesota is the flagship .                     