@@677398

txt A dozen years ago the late Justice MAYNARD , having been shoWn to have Shared in the crime of vitiating the result of an election , was overwhelmed by an adverse majority of some 160,000 . Why ? Partly because his crime was directed against the integrity of elections , but chiefly because that crime was regarded by the people of the State as peculiarly shameless and unpardonable in a man who had been intrusted with judicial office . Up to that time Justice MAYNARD had had a fair reputation . He was a man of unusual ability , learned in the law , of good private character , with considerable and creditable experience on the bench and in public life , who had every reason to look forward to the reasonable gratification of honorable ambition . In a moment of weakness he consented to prostitute himself to advance the corrupt designs of unscrupulous managers , foolishly imagining that his party would reward him , forgiving and approving in the partisan the betrayal of the honor of the Judge . He was terribly mistaken . The better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of independent voters , drove him from public life . An issue closely akin to that presented by the nomination OLMAYNARD is forced upon the people , not only of this county , but of the whole State , by the impudent dicker over the judiciary devised by MURPHY and accepted by HEARST . It is the issue of debasement of the courts by corrupt politicians . It is not merely that the candidates selected are , in conspicuous cases , notoriously unfit , though this is the fact as recognized by the great body of respectable lawyers in this county . Nor is It wholly that in this deal the shameless and dangerous influence of the worst elements in Tammany Hall is obvious . It is not even the fact that a bold attempt is made , as in the case of Judge COINING , to drive ability , experience , and high character from the tench . Combined with these damning facts and adding to the odiousness of the transaction is the fact that this outrageous bargain is entered into by the very candidate who professes to stand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State.  --  One of the worst mischiefs of corporations is the use by some of them , under the advice of shrewd lawyers , of the forms of law , of its technicalities , and of its defects , to evade justice and gain their own ends through wrong to others . For this there is , unfortunately , much chance even in the best of courts before the most upright and independent of Judges . The chance is far greater when the Judges are incompetent and incalculably greater when the Judges are indebted to and influenced by corrupt politicians . Yet Mr : HEARST , the professed foe of bad corporations , deliberately , for his own advantage , to the disgust of his honest supporters hitherto , goes into a deal to bring aLout this intolerable degradation of the judiciary . The force of impudent hyrocrisy could no further go . He should encounter a rebuke even more stunning than was administered in the case of MAYNARD .                     