@@781380

txt Capt . E. E. Winslow , United States engineer in charge of the river and harbor improvements at this port , and who is a member of the Army and Navy Board which is to arrange the programme for the manoeuvres to be held in Hampton Roads and Chesapeake Bay from June 31 to the 17th next , inclusive , said to-day that the manoeuvres would be on about the same scale as those held off Portland , and would be mainly to determine how efficient the army and navy is in electric searchlight ' work and position finding . " Range finding is one thing and position finding another , " explained the Captain . " You see , when a man is firing one of the big guns he is down below and the position of an enemy 's ship or land battery must be determined acurately . Another thing is the working of the searchlights which play such an 4mportant part in the operation of the navy . " Yes , old Fort Wool , opposite Fort Monroe , is going to be armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now to state how many guns will be mounted or what their size will be . The old fort , when it was in commission , could mount 200 of the smooth-bore guns . I should say to-day , with modern rifles , about sixteen could be mounted . " In the manoeuvres next Spring about thirty war vessels will participate and all of the coast artillery and many of the troops of the regular army . It will be a test as to whether a hostile fleet could enter the Virginia capes and then do any damage to either Fort Monroe or old . Fort Wool . It may not be generally known , but the great feat of dredging Hampton Roads has about been completed . The work has been going on for eighteen months . When it is completed . Capt . Winslow says , the channel will have a width of 500 feet and there will be a depth of water of thirty feet at low water , which will permit the largest vessels afloat to enter with ease . WHITNEY STUD TO BE SOLD . Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Harry Payne Whitney , for the estate of William C. Whitney , authorized the announcement yesterday at the Sheepshead Bay race track-that for the partition of the estate it had been decided to offer at auction all the thoroughbred stallions and brood mares that the late Mr. Whitney spent half a dozen years collecting for his great breeding establishment , conducted for several years on the leased farm La Belle , near Lexington , Ky . The date fixed for the sale is Oct. 10 at Madison Square Garden , where the FasigTipton Company will conduct the offering . The stallions to be sold number seven and include the sixty-thousand-dollar horse and successful sire Hamburg , the great English horse . Meddler , the forty-thousand-dollar Nasturtium , the two Futurity winners Ballyhoo Bey and Yankee ; Sandringham , own brother to King- Edward 's great English race horses and stallions Persimmon and Florizel , and the fast Blackstock . Eighty mares of the choicest breeding also will be sold at the same time . As administrator of his father 's estate , Mr. Whitney said his only purpose , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fact that the present turf arrangements , under which the Whitney horses in training are raced by H. B. Duryea , lessee of their run ning qualities , is for an indefinite period . Mr. Whitney declined to race in his own name so soon after his father 's death , but it is not likely that he contemplates retiring from the sport , as he but recently secured a lease on the Brookdale Farm . at Redbank , N. J. , from the heirs of Col. W. P. Thompson , and moved practically all the breeding stock to that place from Kentucky , where he declined to renew the leases on the farm used by his father . Aside from the settlement of the estate . it is thought to be Mr. Whitney 's intention to reduce the size of his oreedlng establishment . as , under the lavish expenditures of his father , it had grown to a size much too great for a private breeder .                     