@@676609

txt It will be interesting for those who believe in the teaching of music in the uniVersities to see just what suggestions Prof. MAcDowELt# submitted to the authorities of Columbia University for the improvement of his department of music . He has been Professor- of Music there for eight years , though not a member of the Faculty ; he has been dissatisfied with the results achieved under the prevailing methods ; he has formulated a plan for their improvement , which has been rejected , and Prof. MAcDowm , t , is moved to resign . The incident brings up the question of what the place of music is in a university course . As it is taught in the larger institutions of learning at present it is chiefly devoted to the practical side of music , and to the more practical aide of the theory . The object has been generally avowed to be the training of composers or of music teachers , Under such circumstances it is not surprising that there should be , as Prof. Macdowell found there was , a " paucity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' musician of great learning and accomplishment , and a composer of imaginative power ; but it is not surprising that would-be composers , pianists , and teachers should prefer to get their training for their profession at places where music is more of a specialty than it is at Columbia University . Prof , MAcDowELL , as quoted in our columns yesterday , seems to desire for the department of music a much wider scope , a much more direct influence on the general culture that it is the business of a university to bestow ; and he is right . College graduates , so far as general culture is concerned , are barbarians , he declares ; and he would have music become a part of the general culture that makes men civilized . That is , in truth , how a musical department in a university should be valuable . It should do a service for music similar to that which the literary departments do for literature . It should make knowledge of music a part of an educated gentleman 's equipment ; it should make the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatists and essayists ; it should make their place in history , their influence upon art , the elements of beauty , and the aesthetic significance of their works as important to know as the corresponding things in literature . Why should it not be as much a matter of mortification for a man with a claim to culture to acknowledge ignorance of BEETHOVEN and SCHUMANN and their works , as of SHAKESPEARE and KEATS and theirs ? Prof. seems to hold to such a view of the functions of a university musical department . If the plan he suggested to Columbia University involved its adoption , it is a thousand pitieS It found no favor . It might be revolutionary , but it would probably make for a higher standard of culture , and Prof. MAcDowzw , is not alone in thinking that this is what Columbia needs .                     