@@675555

txt That the mosquito serves as the " intermediate host " for the parasite of yellow fever , and that it is highly probable that the disease Is only propagated through the bite of this insect , is the conclusion reached by a board of medical officers who went to . Cuba in the Summer . of the present year to make a study of the dread disease . The Philadelphia Medical Journal will tomorrow publish a summary of the results of their investigations . The board was composed of Dr. Walter Reed , surgeon , United States Army , and Dr. James Carroll , Dr. A. Agramonte , and Dr. Jesse W. Lazear , all acting assistant surgeons of the United States Army . A tragic feature of the expedition was that Dr. Lazear himself gave up his life before the work was done , having died of yellow jack on the evening of Sept. 25 . Dr. Carroll also contracted the disease , but recovered . When the board reached Cuba an epidemic of yellow fever was prevailing in the town of Quemados , thus furnishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . The cases studied during this epidemic had been diagnosed by a board of physicians , selected largely by reason of their familiarity with yellow fever . This board consisted of Drs . Nicolo Silverio , Manuel Herera , Eduardo Angles , Acting Assistant Surgeon Roger P. Ames , and Dr. Lazear . The board says in the " preliminary note , " as the article in The Philadelphia Medical Journal is termed : " We must call attention to the fact that Dr. Agramonte , whenever he performs an autopsy in this room , the hospital dead room , is always attended by a young soldier of the Hospital Corps , United States Army , who is detailed for that purpose , and whose duty it is to assisand afterward to tend to the cleaning dlIthe autopsy table . This soldier , a non-immune American , was present when Dr. Carroll was there , and remained afterward to attend to his duties . He has not contracted yellow fever by his duties in this room from day to day . " Our own experience would seem to accord with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handling of portions of organs of yellow fever- cases removed to the laboratory is unattended with danger . Certainly the three , non-immune members of this board , up to ' the . time of ' these ' xnos -- quito inoculations had ; during the past three months , come in close contact with the dead bodies and organs of yellow fever cases , freely handling and examining these organs , including the small intestines , even kept at thermostat temperature for twentyfour hours , without contracting the disease . " " Dr. Carroll was bitten at 2 P. M. Aug. 27 , 1900 , by Culex fasciatus . This particular mosquito had bitten a severe case of yellow fever on the second day of the disease twelve days before ; a mild case of yellow fever on the first day of the attack , six days preceding ; a severe case of yellow fever on the second day of the attack four days before , and a mild case of yellow fever on the second day of the attack two days before inoculation . " Dr. Carroll remained well until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lassitude , and developed a very severe case of yellow fever . An American , twenty-four years old , resident in Cuba , was bitten on the forenoon of Aug. 31 by the same mosquito that had bitten ' Dr. Carroll four days before . He also contracted a very severe case of the fever . The story of Da Lazear 's illness and death is told in the following language : " Dr. Lozear was bitten on Aug. 16 , 1900 , ' by a mosquito , ( Culex fasciatus , ) which ten days previously had been contaminated by biting a very mild case of yellow fever , ( fifth day . ) No appreciable disturbance of health followed this inoculation . " On Sept. 13 , 1000 , ( forenoon , ) Dr. Lazear , while On a visit to Las Animas Hospital , and while collecting blood from yellow fever patients for study , was bitten by a Culex mosquito ( variety undeter ? mined . ) As Dr. Lazear had been previously bitten by a contaminated insect without after=effects , he deliberately allowed this particular mosquito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to remain until it had satisfied its hunger . " On the evening of Sept. 18 , five days after the bite , Dr. Lazear complained of feeling ' out of sorts , ' and had a chill at 8 P. M. " On Sept. 19 , 12 o'clock noon , his temperature was 102.4 degrees , pulse 112 ; his eyes were injected and his face suffused ; at 3 P. M. temperature was 103.4 degrees , pulse 104 ; 6 P. M. , temperature 103.8 degrees and pulse 100 . Jaundice history third day . The subsequent history of this case was one of progressive and fatal yellow fever , the death of our much-lamented colleague having occurred on the evening of Sept. 25 , 1900 . " As Dr. Lazear was bitten by a mosquito while present in the wards of a yellow fever hospital , one must , at least , admit the possibility of this insect 's contamination by a previous bite of a yellow fever Patient . This case of-accidental infection therefore can not fail to be of interest . " This is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For ourselves , we have been profoundly impressed with the mode of infection and with the results that followed the bite of the mosquito in these three cases . Our results would appear to throw new light on Carter 's ( Dr. Henry R. Carter 's ) observations in Mississippi , as to the period required between the Introduction of the first ( infecting ) case and the occurrence of secondary cases of yellow fever . " Since we here , for the first time , record a case in which a typical attack of yellow fever has followed the bite of an infected mosquito . within the usual period of incubation of the , disease , in which other sources of infection can be excluded , we feel confident that the publication of these observations must excite renewed interest in the mosquito theory of the propagation of yellow fever , as first proposed by Finlay.                     