@@781383

txt President Roosevelt to-morrow will receive at Sagamore Hill Baron Komura , who will be accompanied by Minister Takahira , the other plenipotentiary of Japan in the peace negotiations . They will take luncheon with the President and Mre . Roosevelt , and will return to New York on an early evening train . Minister Takahim came from New York on the 22:20 train to-day and made a flying visit to Sagamore Hill . For an hour he remained in conference with President Roosevelt . Two hours after his arrival at Oyster Bay he was again on his way back to New York . Following the visit of the Japanese Minister , at which the meeting between the President and Baron Komura was arranged , it was learned on good authority that to-morrow 's visit , far from being a mere social courtesy , will be most important in its bearing on the negotiations for peace . There is good ground for the belief that Baron Kornura has been intrusted by his Government with the mission of fully acquainting President Roosevelt . prior to the beginning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese Government is willing to end the war , but also with an outline of the programme Japan proposes to carry out in the Far East after peace has been concluded . It is learned that Baron Rosen is expected at Sagamore Hill before many days . It is also reported that the representative of a third foreign Government is coming to see the President , and that his visit will have a bearing on the peace negotiations . Who this diplomat is could not be learned here to-night . Preparations for the formal reception of the peace envoys by President Roosevelt are in progress . The date for the reception has not as yet been determined upon , nor will it be fixed , it is believed , until after the arrival in this country of M. Witte . An important change in the arrangements for the reception was announced here to-day . President Roosevelt , instead of receiving the envoys at Sagamore Hill , as at first intended . will meet them on board the naval yacht Mayflower , where M. Witte and Baron Komura , with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The - " Miiiiflower , which is one of the Most luxuriously fitted vessels in the United States Navy , will furnish a suitable setting for the historic ceremony . The President will meet the envoys , who will come to Oyster Bay on two cruisers , on the quarterdeck of the Mayflower . The formal introduction of the pence envoys will take place in the cabin of Commander Cameron MacRae Winslow . and will be followed by a luncheon , after which the envoys - will go direct to Portsmouth on board the Mayflower and the dispatch boat Dolphin . The vessels will be escorted by the two cruisers on which the envoys will be taken to Oyster Bay . But for the fact that he submitted himself to a horde of photographers and posed until both he and the kodak men were tired , Baron Komura spent a quiet day at the Waldorf-Astoria yesterday . After an early breakfast in his apartments he slipped away from his suite and took a stroll on Fifth Avenue . Baron Komura does not talk for publication even of his impressions of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese peace envoys , said the Baron was much impressed by what he had seen of the city 's devele opment . Minister Takahira took an early train for Oyster Bay to convey to President Roosevelt the official information that the Japanese envoys had arrived . Shortly before 4 o'clock he returned to the Waldorf , and later it was stated that Baron Komura , Minister Takahira , and a number of the members of the suite would go , , to Oyster Bay to-day and pay their re-spects to Mr. Roosevelt . They will return in the afternoon , and the entire party will be guests to-night at a dinner at the Metropolitan Club , at which Baron Kaneko will be the host . The reception at the Nippon Club has been arranged for tomorrow night . The Rev. E. Warren Clark , whose schemes for raising a fund for Japanese-orphans have lately been the subject of newspaper comment , yesterday sent a copy of his book , " Katz-Awa , the Jap-anese Bismarck , " to Mr. Sato this he inscribed with the wishes of the author , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Academy of Music which was to be held yesterday . On the back of this was written : " Postpored until September . " Mr. Sato said he would pay no attention to the commu-nIcation . He added that last December Clark asked him for an autograph Of the Emperor and that he refused to give It to him , fearing that It might be used as an indorsement of the benefit scheme . Mr. Sato is a quiet little man , who talks , as often as is necessary and never often ? er . Twice a day he meets the newspaper men , shakes each of them by the hand . leads them to seats in his apartments , and then , seating himself , waits until they have exhausted themselves with questions . There is about one reply to every dozen questions , but Mr. Sato 's exceptional politeness makes him popular . in spite of his non-communicativeness . He has a deep Oriental smile for most questions . Yesterday he was asked about the peculiar make-up of the two suites . It appears that the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while in the Russian party Were are four financiers . When asked about Mr. Shto at first gave only one Of his deleted 11 lines over to Japan the Russian ships which have been interned ? " " There has been some talk of that in the press . That is all I know-of it . The Japanese press has been as busy formulating proposals as have you gentlemen , " It was gathered that only Baron Komura knows just what the Mikado 's demands are , and the Baron guards the secret well . He has definitely announced that he will give no interviews prior to the peace conference . Mr. Sato believed it would be perhaps a week after M. Witte arrived here before the conference would begin ' its work at Portsmouth . M. Witte will first visit President Roosevelt alone , and thereafter the envoys of the two powers and their suites will repair to Oyster Bay , where they will be introduced by the President . In the course of the day Baron Komura received many letters and telegrams from persons in New York and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Harvard He also received a number of cablegrams from Tokio . Among his callers yesterday were John Foord of the Asiatic Society . Robert Irving , an ex-Consul in Japan , and Dr. J. Takamine , President of the Nippon Club . A report that Crown Prince Yoshlhito of Japan died last May and that the news of his demise had been withheld for State reasons reached Baron Komura last night and the Baron sent the following note to The Associated Press : The report has absolutely no foundation . I wish you would be good enough to deny it on the strength of my authority .                     