@@678421

txt On the eve of the fight over the organization of the House . which will start when the Sixtyfirst Congress meets at noon to-morrow . both the Cannon men and the insurgents assert that their strength is , undiminished . But this claim is qualified in the Speaker 's following by what is practically an admission that Mr. Dalzell 's motion of the previous question on the adoption of the rules will be defeated . That will . put the initiative in the hands of the opposition , and it is the hope of I the organization that differences will arise that will make concerted action on I the part of the anti-Cannon men impossible . This admission slipped out from a man close to the Speaker to-day , and was merely intended to give point to his statement that insurgents and Democrats could never work together , and that the Democrats are traditionally prone to dissensions among themselves . As a matter of fact , it means that certain members of the Speaker 's camp have despaired of winning over the insurgents or enough of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the chaos likely to ensue once the motion for the adoption of the rules has been rejected . In the turmoil of that crisis they feel that the organization . simply because it is an organization , is sure to triumph . In the end it comes down to the fact that both sides are looking with uncertainty and expectancy to the Democrats . Members of the minority are steadily drifting into Washington , and while Champ Clark , the minority leader , has assured the insurgents that he can deliver as many Democratic votes on the rules proposition as there are Democrats in town , the question is whether or not enough Democrats will come to make their " solid vote " effective . Cannon 's Hope in Democrats . Every effort has been made to keep Democrats away  --  efforts for which the Speaker gets all the credit . The general opinion is now that the Georgia delegation , - Whose caucus yesterday caused both Democrats and ' insurgents so much alarm , will abide by the action of the Democratic caucus to-morrow morning , but in the requests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will certainly be refused by the Democrats and rejected utterly by the insurgents , the hand of the Speaker is seen . The resolutions the Georgians adopted yesterday asking the Democrats to force the insurgents to vote against the Speaker and to vote with the Democrats for free amendment to the Tariff bill are so irrelevant that the general opinion is that they were adopted simply to cause dissension They were shown to-day to a leading insurgent , and he looked at them Quizzically for a while . " What do you think of them ? " was asked . " WhY , " he said with a little laugh , " ' Uncle Joe ' drew them up . " That is also the opinion of certain Southern Democrats , though in the Speaker 's room it was sweepingly denied that he had had anything to do with it . It is pointed out , however , that Mr. Livingston , in whose office the Georgians had their meeting , is the ranking Democrat of the Appropriations Committee , and accordingly has nothing to gain by any change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five insurgents who attended the caucus last night four are still emphatically claimed by the insurgents . The men themselves have told the insurgent leaders that their presence at the vote on the rules was the result of sharp practice and that they do not intend to be bound . Pearre of Maryland is the other insurgent , and it was said to-day that he had not really been included in the insurgent estimates . The four are Steenerson , Haugen , Good , and Pickett , and they had expected to announce that as the rules are not a party question in the strict sense of the phrase , they would not be bound on that point . Mizell , however , put his resolutiin continuing the rules very suddenly , and Chairman Currier put the question to the caucus without delay . One of the Iowans was on his feet , but in the hubbub that arose he was not recognized and the resolution was agreed to . Technically the men were caught , but if they insist that they were caught unawares and will not be bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them aside from the various disciplinary methods the Speaker from time to time devises for the discomfiture of those who have crossed him . Of these men Haugen was with the insurgent Steering Committee much of to-day , and he gave assurances of the loyalty of the other three . Meanwhile every sort of rumor IS in the air . One is to the effect that instead of defeating or trying to defeat the motion of the previous Question an arrangement will be reached on the floor for a division of time . and that this time will allow : debate with some ultimate arrangement looking to the adoption of the rules for the present session with a committee appointed by the Speaker to report at the next session as to amendments . But that would mean simply that the insurgents were surrendering , and they are as far From that to-day as ever , even if a compromise could be reached in open debate on the floor . In the Speaker 's room it was said that Mr. Dalzell 's resolution and order of the previous question would be unchanged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not seem to be expected . ? ' o proposition , they say , has come from the insurgents , and the organization , they reiterate , will make none . Some Talk of Naming Roosevelt . While there is no hope of defeating the . pealeer for re-election a few of the exSmmely radical element of the insurgents have been thinking over expedients that might result that way . Most noteworthy of these was a plan to nominate Theodore Roosevelt in opposition to Cannon , hoping in that way to stampede the House . In great secrecy that plan has peen discussed for several days , but to . night there seems to be practically no nhance of any one having the courage to tarry it out . It AS said that while under the ConstituMilli the House is not limited to its membership in choosing a Speaker , the nomination of the ex , President would be too obviously a play to the gallery . Also they do . not love Reosevelt enough . Champ Clark Is emphatic in saying that his followers will use their last strength in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina will be absent , both pf them being ill , but such others as are ailing , said the minority leader , will be brought into the House on stretchers . Representative Goldfogle of New York is one of those men . Speaker Cannon spent to-day perfecting the organization of the House so that in case of victory things need not be delayed . His labors , however , were Interrupted by frequent conferences , ex-Representative Watson , his campaign manager , being constantly in and out . Tariff Bill Will be Delayed . There is a growing uncertainty as to when the Tariff bill will be introduced . That It will not come out of the committee until the organization of the House Is complete is generally admitted , but to-day it is also said that after . the new committee has been organized an extra day may be allowed so that the new members of the committee may have an opportunity to familiarize themselves with the measure ' which It will be their duty in part to defend . It is conceded on all sides that the or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , take up the whole of the first day . On the second the President 's message will be read , and It is thought that not before Wednesday or Thursday will the bill come out . Insurgents Encouraged .. Late to-night the insurgents and Democrate are jubilant over their increasing strength . The Insurgents say that tonight two Republicans whom they had never thought of as insurgents walked Into their camp and declared themselves for a revision of the rules . Champ Clark at the same time Is reported to have said that if things hung fire for another week he would himself be elected Speaker . A blow at the harmony of the anti-Cannonites is struck In a statement issued by Mr. Fitzgerald of Brooklyn . The Democrats have - been watching Mr. Fitzgerald for some time , fearing he would absent himself from Washington at the time of the vote . In his statement Mr. Fitzgerald declares that he knows nothing except what he has seen in the papers of the plans of the minority and insurgents combined , and that to the one proposition set forth  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He says in part : " I do not know what the dissatisfied Republicans demand as the price of Democratic support . The agreement , , if any , which has been made , is known to me only so far as the press may have outlined It accurately . The most recent remedy suggested , and indeed , the only concrete suggestion made , is the election of a committee of fifteen , which shall select the members of the various committees of the House . I am unalterably opposed to this plan . ' The most efficient organization of both parties can be had by placing the responsibility upon some one person selected by the respective parties . The minority should be permitted to organize itself by its spokesman or leader , assigning minority members to the committee places where they can render the best service to the country and to the party . The majority should be organized In the same manner . ? " If the men selected to do this Important work be incompetent , it is easy to replace them with competent men . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to fix responsibility for improper results , and all sorts of combinations would result , to the detriment of the public . " Mr. Fitzgerald already has good corn . mittee assignments , and would gain nothIng by a change .                     