@@677305

txt The language of Judge LACOMBE 'S decision is so clear and its meaning so plain that there is no room for any excusable misunderstanding of what has been done , or of what is yet to be done , in the gas case . The Federal Court has not intervened to set aside a statute of New York , nullifying an act of its Legislature and snubbing the elected representatives of a sovereign people . Nothing of the kind . The order of the court which this decision continues simply restrains , pending the determination of the constitutionality of the act , the enforcement of the penalties it imposes . This restraint runs against the executive and prosecuting officers of the city and State . It does not affect the gas consumer , who is not a narty to the suit , and has not been served with process . Judge LACOMBE expressly states that the consumer of the Consolidated Company 's gas is left entirely free to make a tender of 80 cents per thousand feet , and to decline to pay $1 . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should succeed in having the act declared unconstitutional it would have a right of action to recover the unpaid difference between the eighty-cent and the dollar rate . The court expresses no opinion whether the eighty-cent rate Is just or whether it is confiscatory . But it is unable to discOver that the Legislature had before it information sufficient to warrant the belief that an eighty-cent rate was fair . The company is entitled to have the fairness or unfairness of the rate determined by a judicial inquiry after a hearing in which testimony will be taken . Under our system of Government , says Judge LACOMBE , questions of this nature have " always been left to the decision of the court " The court finds , . further , that the Legislature practically closed all the ordinary avenues by which the company might approach the courts for demanding an adjudication of its rights . The only course open to it was a , suit to have the act . declared unconstitutional because confiscatory . The short way to reach a finding upon that point is precisely the way taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prejudice we should suppose that Judge LACOMBE 'S remarks upon the obvious unfairness of striking from ; the list of the company 's property franchises which the State nevertheless taxes on a valuation a many millions would seem.reasonable . State Commission seemed to rest its refusal to include the franchise ' valuation as a part of the : company 's property , upon the contention that franchises were many years ago granted for nothing . Granted for nothing they were , undoubtedly . But they were lawfully granted , they were in the company 's possession by due process of law . They have a value . They are property . Were they now to be annulled by the simple expedient of writing a gas corn ' mission report , the company would very properly complain that it was deprived of its property without due proaess of law . ' If the Legislature ha 's erred and has vitiated the act by unconstitutional provisions , the Supreme Court will detect its errors .. The Constitution of the United States is a higher and more authoritative expression of the will of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature . Public service corporations are to be controlled and regulated  --  the people will insist upon that . But if the country is not to see property rights brought into a ' condition of anarchic confusion under which no man would know the value of his estate , or whether he really had an estate , the people must see to it that their legislators pay a decent respect to the Constitution of the United States as it has been for more than a century interpreted by the courts . The action brought in Judge LACOMBE 'S court will ' determine whether in the eighty-cent gas bill the New York Legislature respected or disregarded the Federal Constitution .                     