@@676120

txt A number a - misleading stories about the coast defenses of the United States have obtained publication since preparation for the war game began . From some of these stories the inference readily could be drawn that through inefficiency of the officers of the army charged with supervision of the coast r defenses lamentable conditions prevailed all along the coast . It would appear from these stories that there had been great neglect of guns and-other apparatus that constitute the . mechanical schemes of defense at important points on the New York and New England coast . It would appear also that the several commands located at these points were not giving proper accounts of themselves . Speaking in a general way , the burden of all these stories is in the nature of criticism of the army for not being thoroughly prepared to contend with the navy in the coming manoeuvres . It is felt at the War Department that this sort of criticism is undeserved and that those who carefully look into the matter are apt to find that the conditions at the several coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neither Gen. Randolph . who is at the ? head of the Artillery Corus , nor any of his subordinates undertakes to say that the coast defenses have been brought up to such a state of efficiency that they could be relied upon to resist the attacks of foreign fleets . What is claimed is that the . coast Artillery force has been drilled conscientiously and that it is approaching efficiency as rapidly as should be expected . It is a green force to a great extent . A very large percentage of almost every commana is made up of soldiers who enlisted within a year . A good many of the officers , too , are men fresh from civil life , who before they entered the army knew practically nothing about the work that falls to artillery officers . Army officers are quite as critical as needs be when it comes to judging operations- in liny branch of the service . They admit freely that the Coast Artillery has a lot of work ahead of it before it shall attain to the highest efficien6y , but at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be expected to . They predict that in the aprpoaching " war game , " in spite of all that has been written about the Coast Artillery in the way of detraction , it will give a good account of itself . Practice with the guns seems to be what is needed in the Coast Artillery more than anything else . Army officers hope that one result of the " game " between the army and navy will be a more liberal allowance by Congress for gun practice in the coast defense stations . Practice in firing , it is said , will make both men and guns more efficient . Ten shots per calibre are all that are allowed an artillery company in the course of an eniire year . No argument is necessary to convince a person who has seen one of the new forts along the coast that such an allowance of firings is altogether adequate if it is desirable that the men be familiarized in time of peace with the weapons they will be expected to handle effectively in time of war . The fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carriages surprises nobody who is familiar with the history of these carriages . An artillery Colonel who has given a g reat deal of attention to the disappearing gun carriage said that it was an unreliable thing that was likely to fail at any critical moment . " Nobody can foretell when it will balk , " said the Colonel . " I do n't mind so much its being ' complicated , for intelligent men can master the complications . What I object to is its liability to fail to act when it is being handled with absolute exactness . It is an unreliable machine , and I think it will have to go . It might be well to use the thing enough to demonstrate what it is good for . If it is only- fit for the junk heap , the sooner this is demonstrated the better . If use will demonstrate that the carriage is all right when certain modifications overcome its disposition to balk , the sooner this is brought about the better . It does not seem to me it would be good policy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to break down any moment . " The intimation that one purpose of the " war game " is to show to Congress that it ought to be more liberal in its appropriations for the coast defenses is not sustained by any known facts . The purpose of the manoeuvres is to teach war tactics . More liberal appropriations may be one of the outce'ues.                     