@@676857

txt Lake Bluff , thirty-one miles north of Chicago and six miles north of Port Sheridan , will have the new naval training station . The board reported unanimously In favor of this location . The president has approved the report , and work will be pushed at the earliest possible moment . This action is final , and there is no appeal to congress , which intentionally left the location to bo decided upon by the president upon the rennrt of the sneeial hoard . This ' decision not only settles the vexed question which has disturbed congress and the navy department for two or three years but it means a great deal for the territory around about Chicago . The navy department long ago discovered that-the supply of actual Salt water sailors was entirely insufficient to man the great ships of the new navy . Other Training Inadequate . Besides that , the modern warship is a floating machine shop , and many of the men who are trained to sea in coasting schooners or in fishing fleets off the Grand Banks are singularly inefficient when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern man of warsman . To meet this new difficulty , which has been common with every nation attempting to maintain a large navy , the only alternative was to enlist landsmen . The anomaly , therefore , is presented nowadays of great navies manned almost exclusively by sailors who knew nothing of ships before their enlistment . This was , in reality , ' no more strange than the system adopted for securing officers for the navy . Officers of Highest Type . An immense majority of boys who enter the naval academy it Annapolis have no nearer acquaintance with the sea than can be obtained by any reader of Marryat or W. Clark Russell . Yet the American naval officer of today is admittedly the highest type of his profession , uniting practical seamanship , accurate gunnery , and a real knowledge of the mechanism of his ship to a degree which has not been reached by the officers of any other marine service . It has proved entirely satisfactory , therefore , to recruit the navy from landsmen . Excellent sailors are made out of young men from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Central West . After a little while , however , the supply diminished , and at the same time the demand largely increased . Recruiting officers pushed their work farther and farther into the interior . The farther they went the better they did , and several years ago It became a recognized fact that the best material for enlisted men of the United States navy seemed to be obtainable from the group of States of the central west , north of the Ohio , west of the Alleghenies , and east of the Missouri . Since before the Spanish war the recruiting officers of the navy have established a temporary station In all the larger cities of the central west and have depended upon that section for a considerable percentage of the annual enlistments , the usual average being about 70 per cent of the total for the whole country . Why Recruits Were Disappointed . flaying tonna It necessary to aeperta upon landsmen to make up the enlisted force of the navy , still another curiosity was developed in enlistment . At first new recruits were taken immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an entirely new life , were expected to learn most unfamiliar duties . and the result was that a new man invariably went to sea bitterly disgusted with the conditions surrounding him . Homesickness and seasickness played a great Part in fomenting this dissatisfaction , so that desertions were only too frequent and re-enlistments were few . It was soon found , therefore , that a recruit could best be prepared fOr his new duties ashore , or at least on the coast line , where he could learn his new duties gradually and become amphibious , so to speak , before making a final plunge into the blue way of the water . More Enlistments Noted . " al . us an , a. training stauon wasestablIshed at Coaster 's Harbor Island , just outside of Newport , R. I. , and this was so successful another one was provided for In San Francisco bay . These two establishments have resulted In a general lessening in per . tentage of desertions and a marked increase in enlistments . No time is lost , either , by this apprenticeship at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal to learn in the rigging loft , in the care of their own quarters , 1n the general mechanism of the ship , and in many other details , instruction in which can much better be imparted in large classes-in naval training stations than in the cramped quarters of the best training ships . Need for New Station . UM percentage of recruits from the central west rose to such an extraordinary figure it soon became apparent that It would be necessary to establish a naval training station semen-here on the coast line of the treat lakes . As part of the preliminary investigation made by the board authorized by congress , it was suggested that in the states of Ohio , Illinois , Indiana , Kentucky . liissourh Michigan , Iowa , Wisconsin , and Minnesota . there was a total population of 25,222,667 , or about one-third of all the people in the United States . The census figures show that in these states there was an average population of fifty-two per square mile , which is twice the average for the whole United States . These tine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one-third of the Population of the country , already furnish much more than half the personnel of the enlisted men of the navy . The center of POPulatton in this section was fixed by the census officials at a point about sixty nffies South and a little west of Chicago . In determining the location of the station In the first instance it was decidid that the most important factor of all ? to the center of population . A special commission of the navy headed by Rear Admiral Taylor reported a year ago in favor of Lake Bluff . The members found that the location there was most desirable as regards its physical characteristics and also as regards facilities by which the largest population . could he reached . Muskegon has better harbor facilities and the price or land was cheaper there , but the health conditions at Lake Bluff , coupled with the fact that it was within easy access from . two such large centers of population as Chicago and Milwaukee . were factors taken into consideration a year ago in fixing upon Lake Bluff . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lake training station should be located beyond all question in the southern half of Lake Michigan . The fact that it would be free from attack In case of war between this country and Canada was quite sufficient in the eyes of militiamen to determine that Lake Michigan , the only one of the great fresh water seas which was wholly within the United States , would furnish the best location , while comparative freedom from ice of the lower end of the lake narrowed the selection down to that lneall iv . First Decision Confirmed . w nen the naval board a year ago announced the location of the station at Lake Bluff there was a howl from some members of congress . The senators from Wisconsin , Michigan , Indiana , Ohio . Pennsylva'hin , and New York made a combination to beat the Lake Bluff location , and they were successful In preventing any decisive action by congress in spite of the fact that Pennsylvania and New York are both seaboard states with salt water communications and with practically no Interest whatever in the country which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise was effected , however , providing for the creation of an entirely new board whose decision when approved by the president would be final . That board now has made its report confirming the action of a nonpartisan naval commission headed by so distinguished an officer as Rear Admiral Taylor . The purely political opposition of outside senators now will be at an end and congress will take the necessary steps at once to begin work on the site of 172 acres at Lake Bluff . which has been donated to the United States government by public spirited citizens of Chicago and vicinity . There is an appropriation of $250,000 already available . Character of Training . Men 18 years old and over are enlisted for the navy , passing a physical examination , They are trained on different receiving ships , but go through a preliminary course in the big navy yards . Training stations are now developed are for the preliminary Instruction of minors between the age of 15 and 17 who are enii.ted as apprentices and who are required to serve In the navy until 21 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and are given their rations , first class clothes , a decent home , and the best medical care . Apprentices at the station are first placed in a newcomers ' squad for two or three weeks , when they join a regular battalion . becoming members of the third class , They stay at the station about six months or so . and then go to a training ship for a short cruise , finally reaching the grade of a first class apprentice on a ship actually in commission , with pay of $21 a month , In addition to rations , lodging , clothing , and medical attendance . Before reaching his majority it Is possible for an apprentice to become n third class petty officer in the seaman branch , with pay of $30 a month , which Is a pretty good outlook for an industrious young man . Room for 3,000 Nen . When the new buildings at Lake Bluff are completed there will be from 1,000 to 3,000 apprentices under training there during the busiest months of the summer season . A. small harbor for boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bluffs , anti this will be protected by a breakwater carried out into pretty deep water . A small cruising training ship will be assigned to the station , which In the open season will carry a complement of boys from the station . but its regular harbor probably will be at Waukegan , which is only a few miles from Lake Bluff . Navy officers expect an immense increase in the quality and quantity of enlistments as a result of the establishment of the lake training station , end in addition to this they believe it also will stimulate interest In the naval reserves of all nearby states .                     