@@676654

txt We refuse absolutely to give credence to the statement that the platform adopted by the Republican Convention held in Carnegie Hall on Tuesday was submitted to President ROOSEVELT and had received his approval . THEODORE ROOSEVELT iS a man of truth and honor . He would not set the seal of his approval upon a political declaration that contained in its very beginning a flagrant. falsehood . The Republican platform says in its second paragraph : " After four years of Democratic rule , during which the National finances were mismanaged , a deficit created , the industries of the country paralyzed , labor neglected , wages reduced , and the agricultural interests ignored , " and so on . The infamously false assertion that a deficit was created by the second Cleveland Administration has been many times exposed , but it continues to be shamelessly repeated by the Republicans for partisan effect . The truth as to the National finances during the period referred to is this : On the first day of March , 1889 , three days before President CLEVELAND 'S first term ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Treasury , exclusive of the one hundred millions gold reserve ; were thus reported : On the 1st of March , 1893 , three days before President HARRISON went ' out of office and Mr. CLEVw AND became President , the available funds in the Treasury , exclusive of the one hundred millions gold reserve , were as follows : Agency account $38,365,832 Net balance in the Treasury 24,084,742 Total $62,450.575 The net result of Treasury operations during the Harrison Administration was to reduce the available funds in the Treasury from $230,000,000 to $62,000 , Q00 . The Treasury was turned over to a Democratic Administration with a deficit already impending and not to be , averted save by changes in the laws . The depletion of th' gold reserve during Mr. CLEvELAND 's Administration , which made it necessary to sell bonds to procure gold for the Treasury , was the direct consequence of Republican legislation . The " endless chain " of greenbacks which made it possible to draw gold from the Treasury as fast as it could be put in was a Republican legacy created directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury . The loss of business confidence and the panic conditions which produced the financial and inaustrial disasters beginning in 1893 were the fruit of the Republican silver legislation of the year 1890 , repealed in 1893 through the influence of the Democratic Administration . These facts are perfectly well known to the persons who write Republican platforms . They sin willfully against light and knowledge by the conscious utterance of falsehood . We are very sure that Mr. ROOSEVELT never sanctioned these untruths . He would not wish to make so miserable a beginning of his campaign .                     