@@676891

txt Emperor Nicholas 's long-expected reform ukase was issued to-night , The document deals , under eight heads , with practically all the subjects brought to the Emperor 's attention by the memorial of the Congress of Zemstvos Presidents held here last month , and , while not specifically pledging the Government to carry out the various rei forms in their entirety , as demanded by the memorial , promises that each shall be referred to the Council of Ministers , with orders to report promptly on the fullest measures of relief which can be accorded on the various subjects . One question not touched by the ukase is that of the Constitutional Assembly , Neither is the Jewish religion specifical mentioned , though freedom for all creeds er sects , whether Christian or otherwise , is among the subjects which will be dealt with . The various subjects will be referred to committees for early report . The Imperial decree , which is entitled " A Scheme for the Improvement of the Administration of the State , " is addressed to the Senate , and is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our crowned predecessor , and thinking unceasingly of the welfare of the realm intrusted to us by God , we regard It as our duty and the Government 's duty , in conjunction with undeviating maintenance of the immutability of the fundamental laws of the Empire , to have untiring care for the country 's needs , distinguishing between all that is really in the interests of the Russian people from tendencies not seldom mistaken and influenced by transitory circumstances . " When the need of this or that change is proved ripe , then we consider it necessary to meet it , even though the transformation to which this leads involves the introduction of essential innovations in legislation . We do not doubt that the realization of such an undertaking will meet with the sympathy of the well-disposed section of our subjects , who see the true prosperity of the fatherland in the support of civil tranquillity and the uninterrupted satisfaction of the daily needs of the people . The Peasantry His First Care . " Placing in the forefront of our care thought for the best ordering of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peasant population , we may remark that this matter is already under examination . " Simultaneously with a detailed Investigation of the initial proposals of the Ministry of the Interior , which are being carried out locally , conferences are now being held by Commissioners specially selected from among the most experienced of the highest administrative officials regarding the most important questions of peasant life , assisted in their investigation of the general needs of the agricultural industry by the knowledge and experience of local committees . " We command these to labor to bring the laws regarding peasants into unity with the general imperial legislation , thereby facilitating the task of attaining permanent security of this estate , which , by decree of the Czar Liberator is recognized as consist .. Mg of free citizens possessing full rights . " Surveying the wide domain of the people 's uttermost needs , we regard as urgent In the interest of the legal strengthening of civic and public life : " First  --  The adoption of effective measures for safeguarding the law in its full force as the most important pillar of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its inviolable fulfillment for all alike shall be regarded as the first duty by all the authorities and in all places subject tO us. that its non-fulfillment shall Inevitably bring with it legal responsibility for every arbitrary act , and that persons who have suffered wrong by such acts shall.be enabled to secure legal redress . " Second  --  That as wide scope as possible should be given to local and municipal institutions in the administration of various matters affecting local welfare , and that they should have coaferred upon them the necessary independikpat , within legal limitations , and that repiesentatives of all sections of the population interested In local matters should be called upon , under equable condlions , to take part In these Institutions , with a view to the compietest satisfaction possible of their needs . Besides the Governments and zemstvos district institutions hitherto existing there should also be established in close connection with them public institutions for the admfillstration of local affairs in localities of smaller extent . " Third  --  That in order to secure equality of persons of all classes before the law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of judicial procedure throughout the empire , and to assure independence of the courts . " Fourth  --  That for the further development of the measures introduced by us for the protect ' in of workmen in factories , workshops , and commercial establishments , attention is to be given to the question of the introduction of State insurance for workmen . " Revision of Exceptional Laws . " Fifth  --  That there should be a revision of the exceptional laws decreed at the time of an unparalleled outbreak of criminal activity on the part of enemies of public order , and the application of which was attended with a grave extension of the discretionary power of the administrative authorities : and that at the same time steps should be taken for circumscribing their application within the narrowest possible limits , and for assuring that limitation of the rights of private persons involved in that application shall only be permitted in cases where the actual safety of the State is threatened " Sixth  --  That in confirmation of my Undeviating heart 's desire as expressed in the imperial manifesto of March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws of the empire of tolerance in mattes of faith , the laws dealing with the right of oc ? ? rReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . munities and persons belonging to heterodox and non-Christian confessions should be submitted to revision ; and that independently of this , measures should be taken for the removal of all limitations on the exercise of the religions not directly mentioned in the law . " Seventh  --  That there should be such revision of existing ordinances limiting the rights of foreigners and measures in certain territories of the empire that in future there shall remain only such of them as are required by the present interests of the empire and the manifest needs of the Russian people . Eighth  --  That all unnecessary restrictions should be removed from the existing press laws and that printed speech should be placed within clearly defined legal limits : that to the native press , in accordance with the progress of education and importance mportance thereby accruing to it , should be left the possibility of worthily fulfilling its high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable strivings for Russia 's advantage . Acting upon the above principles , with a view to a series of great internal changes impending In the early future . part whereof , in accordance with instructions previously given by us , are already untier preliminary examination , we deem it well . in view of the diversity and importance of these changes , to fix an order of business for consideration of means and the posslailiti of their early and complete realization . The closest co-operation is incumbent nn ire va riou , se , , Ion , of the administration throughout the whole series of our State institutions . With reference to all the above-mentioned subjects the Council of Ministers has to examine the best way of giving effect to our views and to submit to us at the earliest possible date its decisions as to the further shape of the above-mentioned measures in their prescribed order . The committee has also to report to us as to the subsequent progress of the elaboration of the matters mentioned . NICHOLAS . " Agitation Must Stop . As a forerunner to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government early this morning : " In the Autumn of this year there was a meeting in St. Petersburg of several zemstvos of the various Governments . who expressed a series of desires concerning what were , in their opinion . indispensable reforms in the interior government of the empire . These desires were made the subjects of action by members of various other assemblies . which met for the purpose , and also , notwithstanding the provisions of law , were considered at the deliberations of certain town councils and zemstvos . " Thus by the action of people who endeavored to introduce discord into public and state life . excitement arose in the minds of certain sections of society , chiefly among impressionable youths . In certain towns of the empire there occurred a series of noisy meetings which demanded the presentation to the Government of certain demands which were inadmissible in the face of the sacred foundations of the laws of the empire and the indestructible elements which form the Government . " These sections of the public made street demonstrations in bands and openly resisted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of government , which have fallen adversely upon the bulk of the Russian people . v. ho are loyal to the everlasting foundations of the existing Government . gave to the excitement above referred to an undeserved importance of a general tendency . Th Russian people involved in this movement . forgetful of the grievous year which has fallen to the lot of Russia , blinded by chimerical hopes of profits which they might expect from a radical change in the ancient foundations of the Russian state and life , and not knowing what they were doing . acted to the advantage not of their country hut of its enemies . " Now the duty of the Government is to preserve order in the state and protect the public confidence from all change in the true course of internal life . Therefore , any destruction of order and peace and all meetings of an anti-Government character must and will be stopped by all legal means at the disposition of the authorities , end those concerned in those disorders , especially persons employed in the Government service , will be held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of institution and company must not go beyond the limits provided for them and must not concern themselves m questions in the consideration of which they have no legal authority . Presidents of public meetings who allow consideration to take place of matters not in their province on questions of general government are liable under the existing laws ; and organs of the press , with the knowledge of the responsibilitY which rests upon them , must for their part introduce the necessary calming effect on public life , which has deviated in recent times from its proper course . "                     