@@678224

txt Publication and use by the Republican managers as a campaign document of the letter attributed to the late Grover Cleveland , which contained a strong Indorsement of the Republican candidate for President , , was the subject of a speech by John W. Kern , Democratic candidate for Vice President , before a large audience in the Jefferson Theatre here to-day . He declared such use of the document to be an infamous attempt to place a stigma upon the name of a great departed statesman , and likened it to the use made in the Garfield campaign of the famous Morey letter forgery . When Mr. Kern arrived from Cincinnati be was met at the station by Lieu-tenant Governor Henry B. Gray , President of the Bryan-Kern Club , and a score of representative Democrats from various parts of the State . Prior to his speech this afternoon be had met members of the Alabama Business Men 's Club , which Was formed here to-day . Mr. Kern said : " Some time ago one of the great Republican journals of New York gave to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great Democrat , exPresident Grover Cleveland , which letter contained a strong indorsement of the Republican candidate for President , with alleged reasons why the party which had three times nominated and twice elected Mr. Cleveland President should be defeated . " This letter , although denounced at once as a forgery , was printed as a campaign document by the Republican campaign organization and given the widest publicity throughout the country . Secretary Straus of the President 's Cabinet in a speech referred to it as authentic , and that speech found its way to all parts , of the country . Proofs that this alleged letter of Mr. Cleveland was a base and criminal fabrication are so overwhelming that it is conceded on all hands that the distinguished ex-President wrote no such letter , and District Attorney Jerome of New York has already taken steps to determine the guilty author and to bring him to justice . " And yet the Republican campaign document carrying this fabrication still circulates . Secretary Straus bas not yet recalled his indorsement as to its authenticity . Republican newspapers which originally printed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exposure of the crime or have so placed such exposure In their journals as to attract no attention . " The publication and circulation of this fabricated letter is more infamous in all respects than the publication and circular tion of the celebrated Morey letter forgery in the Garfield campaign . It is more Infamous , because in that instance Gen. Garfield was living and gave prompt and effective denial . In this case the alleged author is dead and unable to repudiate and deny it . It is all the more infamous because it followed so closely that tender and splendid tribute to his memory unanimously adopted at the recent National Convention of his party and Is an attempted stigma upon his name as a Democrat and an American . It remains to be seen whether the leaders of the Republican Party  --  those in charge of its campaign  --  will be manly enough to right this great wrong which has been done to the memory of Grover Cleveland by the circulation of this vile fabrication . " Col. J. Hamilton Lewis of Chicago joined Mr. Kern at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern States . TIMES ASKS PROOF OF KERN . Calls His Attention to Mr. Hastings 's Refusal to Produce " Evidence . " ; Upon the receipt of the report of Mr. Kern 's speech at Birmingham . Ala. , attacking the genuineness of the Cleveland article , THE TIMES sent the following telegram to him : New York . Oct. 2 , 1008 . Hon. John W. Kern , Birmingham , Ala. : Yon are reported by The Associated Press as saying in a speech at Birmingham , Ala. , to-day : Proofs that this alleged letter of Mr. Clevland was base and criminal fabrication are so overwhelming that it is conceded on all hands that the distinguished , ex-President wrote no such letter , and District Attorney Jerome of New York has already taken steps to determine the guilty author and to bring him to Justice . If you have in your possession such proofs as you mention , will you oblige Tag NEw YORE TIMES by placing them in its hands , so that they may be immediately and conspicuously published in its columns ; or , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can be found , will you kindly put this newspaper in the way of obtaining them ? If you . have taken pains to inform yourself on the subject you should be aware that the only " evidence " against the genuineness of the Cleveland article is the statement of F. S. - Hastings. the executor of the Cleveland estate , that he has such " evidence , " a statement made after his repeated certification to the genuineness of the article and his sale of it to the agent who in turn sold it to THE NEW YOHIC TritEs . Toll should also be aware that Mr. Hastings has persistently refused our demands for the production of this evidence , and that , because of this rela:mai , it was TH.P . NEw Tong TIMES itself which . laid the matter before the District Attorney .  - -  You are Quoted further as saying in your speech that the newspapers which originally printed the fabrication ender great headlines have eitherrefosed to print the exposure of the crime- - or have so placed such exposure in their=-journals as to attract no attention . Tim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article.  - -  Also : . " printed : conspleupusiy , In- the first two columns of its first page , Mr. Hastings 's denial of its authenticity , together with his previous certifications of its genuineness , and is now printing daily a large number of quotations from other newspapers calling for the production of Mr. Hastings 's evidence . This evidence , or any other , Tao TIMES has been , and is , eager to print with equal conspicuousness . To the end that all doubt in the matter may be cleared up , It invites your co-operation or that of any other Person who may possess evidence bearing on the subject                     