@@678382

txt Speaking before the men of the Third Presbyterian church yesterday afternoon . William Jennings Bryan , declared that a large and well trained corps of native missionaries , brought from " the land of the heathen , " educated here according to Christian doctrines and inoculated wibh the love for Christian living , and sent back to their homes to preach by word and example the enlightenment of Christianity , would be a tar more potent preventive of " dangers from without " than the whole United States navy , and could be clone at one-tenth the cost . The meeting was held under the auspices of the foreign missions committee of the Presbyteriari brotherhood of Chicago and the object was to interest the men of the church in foreign missionary work . Former Judge Charles G. Neely presided . Praise for Missionaries . After praising the work of the foreign missionaries , many of whose stations he visited during his journey around the world , and declaring that he thought the work at foreign missions was just as important as the work the churches do at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is responsible more than any other thing for this nation 's position In the world . its progress and the greatness of its future . They say our missionaries abroad make mistakes which get us into trouble with other nations , and when some unfortunate mistake is made we hear learned discussions about the dangers of sending out missionaries . " It Is not surprising that missionaries do make occasional mistakes . We have no class of men in this tountry specially educated In diplomacy whom we can send abroad as missionaries . Is there any class of men who do not make mistakes ? Is It to be wondered at , therefore , that missionaries surrounded by heathens do sometimes err ? Rebukes Men of Chicago . Mr. Bryan took occasion to rebuke the men of Chicago for their failure to support the work of reformerk The church was packed to the doors with men , and after looking over the audience he said : " I have been wondering how it is possible that there can be so much in this city that needs correction when I see so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such bad weather to show their interest in the heathen of foreign lands . I can not help reflecting on the vast amount of work rk that is yet to be done at home . But the work we do abroad only strengthens us here , and the evidence We collect through our foreign missionaries serves to make our faith in our country stronger and increases our activities . Credit Given Christianity . " There is more altruism in the world today than ever before and Christianity is the cause . Go to the lands where Buddhism , Mohammedanism , or Confucianism reigns supreme and you will find that except for the few things they have borrowed from the Christians they have stood still for 2,00U years or more . Christianity has lifted up nations in Europe that ten centuries ago were sunk in the mire of obloquy . History shows it Is Christianity that has helped to make the greatest nations . "                     