@@676123

txt EDUCATION IN THE SOUTH . The slight tendenyy to criticism ? it could not be called opposition  --  manifested in the South toward the work of the Southern Education Board appears pretty much to have disappeared . What there was of it was due , we think , mainly to misunderstanding , or failure to understand , the purpose are ' rnethcls of the board . Thi . Pas been dispelled , as the work has proceeded and the organization has begun to show direct activity . Probably the most effective influence in this direction was provided at ! II ? great Summer School o : the South , held in Knoxville , Tenn . Some 1,700 teachers and school officers , from every State in the South , were a:I:enabled there , and the plans of the Southern Education Board were fully explained and acutely discussed by Southern men . The result was that a " declaration of principles " was unanimously adopted , in perfect harmony with the principles of the board and including the following statement : We express our hearty appreciation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which by their earnest sympathy and generous means have made possible this great Summer school of the South and in numerous other ways are strengthening the patriotic efforts of the Southern - people to improve their educational conditions . The essential feature of the'policy contained in this declaration is thus expressed : We must recognize conditions and frankly face them . We therefore declare ourselves in favor of a public school system , State supported and State directed , in which every child may have the open door of opportunity . What Iittle indication of disapproval there was in the South rose from the interpretation of this clause . The reasoning that was used seems to have been something like this : " The open door of opportunity " is to be " for every child . " That means black and white alike , and the next step will be to mixed schools , and so to social equality . Of course , the interpretation is strained . It is the opinion of these Southern teachers that all children should have the opportunity for schooling , but not necessarily for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same classes . The schooling in any case is to be " State supported and State directed , " and it is not to be supposed that the State Governments will fall to respect the sentiment of the people in a matter of this sort . The view of the teachers is that all that is dangerous the colored race is made more dangerous by ignorance , incapacity for work , idleness , superstition , and want of self-respect . This danger may be reduced by schooling which includes training in work and tends to the building up of character . However , if the people of ' any district do not feel with the teachers , there is no intention and there could be no power to compel them to act against their own sentiment . An interesting point in the tjon of the Southern teachers following , which might with advantage be studied in many a Northern community : Teaching should be a profession , and not a stepping-stone to something else . We therefore stand for the highest training of teachers and urge the sdhool authorities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educating of children a life profession . We call upon the people to banish forever politics and nepotism from the public schools , and to establish a system in . which , from the humblest teacher to the office of State Superintendent , merit shall be the touchstone.                     