@@678313

txt The seizure of the - little Venezuelan - coast guard ship Alexis by the Dutch cruiser Gelderland was an act of war . . The Governor of Curagao , however , de . clares that " the capture by our warships of coast guards and war vessels is not to be construed an unfriendly act against the Venezuelans . It is merely a reprisal against CASTRO 'S Govern-meat , which refuses to give satisfaction for his unfriendly acts toward Holland . " The Hague Government , moreover , has issued an official statement setting forth that the action it has taken is directed against the personal rule of President CASTRO , " in order to guarantee itself against the renewal of . former molestations of Dutch vessels . " Probably no other war was ever begun In just this way . Nations that are not parties to the controversy are left in a somewhat puzzled condition of mind . They naturally can not accord belligerent rights to Holland and Venezuela , which , though actually at war , call it something else ? at least , Holland calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denied herself the privilege of establishing a blockade , and she can not presume tovisit and search merchant vessels approaching the Venezuelan coast . The right of search , as Justice STORY observed , " is allowed by the general consent of na1 ions in time of war , and limited to those occasions . " This is not one of " those occasions . " What in other circumstances would be called the neutral ' nations have , therefore , little need to trouble themselves about the proceedings of the Dutch . Just how much t rouble the Dutch cruisers can give the Venezuelans is a matter of doubt . It is true that they may seize other coast guard vessels . They might , also , bombard La Guayra and Puerto Cabello . But that would cause very great less to English , German , French , and American merchants in those ports . We presume Holland will be disinclined to take that step . It is the . practice when trouble arises between Northern nations and South American republics to seize the Custom Houses . If Holland would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sum and take a Custom House or-two with a view to collecting it . But in that case she would have what might be called a junior security , since she could seize her share only alter the regular paymentth had been made under The Hague award to Germany , Italy , and England . Indeed , the Dutch are now face to face with all the familiar difficulties and perplexities that arise whenever any nation , however powerful , attempts to make war on Venezuela . The coast alone is exposed . To carry the war into the interior is a much more troublesome thing . The old saying holds true , that it is like the attempt of a shark in the waters of the sea to make war upon a wildcat in the top of an oak upon the mountains . The Dutch complain of the manner in which their Minister , M. DE REDS , was ordered out of the country , and they complain of CASTRO 'S edict fiestroyikg the trade of Willemstad by compelling vessels to go to Perto Cabello for trans-shipment . The latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Dutch Minister made him unacceptable to CASTRO , the propel way would have been to ask for a recall instead of proceeding by expulsion . Holland can hardly secure a redress of these grievances by seizing coast guard vessels or by other demonstrations di . rected merely against CASTRO . What other and more effective measures she has it in mind to take have not yet been disclosed . It is unlikely that her proceedings in that quarter will give us any cause of concern . The Monroe Doctrine is in no wise involved . Neither is the Drago Doctrine , for the wrongs of Which Holland complains did not grow one of violation of contracts or the non-payment of debts due . So long as she keeps the matter in her own hands we shall not be uneasy as to her intentions . The joint action of Eng-. land , Germany , and Italy was a- very ' different matter . That we did not officially protest against , but all the same the demonstration was disliked here . CASTRO is at present , and for some years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About the only good thing said about that gentleman is that he is ; possibly , the only Venezuelan living who can keep the VeneAelans ? in order . His way with rebels has been effective . A weaker President would be all the time beset by revolu , , ? tionary attempts . The Venezuelans ought to see , hoviever , that they are their own worst enemies . Their Castros and , their revolutions are a bar to the commercial progress of their country . and they prevent its taking a respectable place in the family of nations . The greatest blessing that could happen to them woUld be the coming into power of a Venezuelan Diaz , strong enough to maintain civil order and wise enough to give the Venezuelans a Government they would earnestly desire to perpetuate ?                     