@@676263

txt It is noteworthy that when Police Commissioner GREENE was asked as to his policy on the liquor question he responded with a blunt refusal to discuss the matter . There was no reference to it in any direct form in his brief instructions to the Inspectors on Thursday . Whatever the police officers of any grade are doing in regard to the enforcement of the liquor tax law , usually known as the Raines law , they are doing under their interpretation of their general duties , to which they have reason to expect that the Commissioner will hold them strictly . This is undoubtedly the wisest course that the new Commissioner could take . There is no need and there is no excuse for a special policy as to the treatment of this class of offenses against the law , and certainly there is no occasion for the discussion of such a policy  --  something that has already considerably been overdone under Mayor Low 's administration . Least of all is there occasion for a declaration that any law on the statute books can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his work , the Commissioner is entitled to deal with them as they occur , and there is every reason to infer that he will deal with them intelligently , firmly , and loyally . Meanwhile the spirit and the letter of his instructions to the . Inspectors must be held to require them to suppress the liquor-selling places which are notoriously connected with various vile and vicious practices . Saloons or hotels that are the resorts of gamblers ; thieves , and prostitutes , and in . or through which these carry on their nefarioui occupations , must obviously be closed or cleaned up . There is no difficulty in that , and it is not probable after what has happened at the outset of Gen. GREENE 'S administration any will be made . The real trouble with the police handling of the excise matter comes from two sources . One is the corruption to which liquor selling has given rise and the other is the sentiment against the entire suppression of the sale of liquor on Sundays , which sentiment makes the question one of party politics . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tackle , and he has gone into it in a businesslike way . The suspension of officers under charges and the return to the ranks of the wardmen and plainclothes men , the class among whom are the men that have collected the money and generally " run " corrupt business , has plainly confused and frightened those in the force who have profited most by this business and has given the Commissioner time to reorganize his subordinates with a view to better work in the future . It will.not be an easy task , but with steadiness , energy , courage , and decision much can be done . The other difficulty is not so readily met . The liquor law is narrow . It was not , perhaps , in the minds of its authors intended to be enforced with absolute strictness in the cities any more than it is in the country , where its authors reside and where it is most laxly administered . It was passed at a time when the Police Board was bi-partisan and when the money from the saloons did not go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it must be remembered that the law does permit the sale of liquor under certain conditions on Sunday . It has been found that a hotel license for liquor selling alone does not pay except in connection with a saloon , and the saloons , to make their places pay , have in great numbers resorted to vicious uses for the rooms they are compelled to provide . These at any rate the police can suppress , and it is most likely that they will do so . If in doing so they offend the sentiment we have referred to a new question will arise , for then the political pressure will be brought to bear , and to this the Mayor has not in the past shown himself indifferent . But that is not a matter for the Commissioner . He will have to do his duty firmly and with proper discretion , and in that he will deserve the support of all right-minded citizens . We have no doubt that- he will get it . After the partnership between the police and the vicious saloons has measurably been broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saloons with hotel licenses can be run cleanly and profitably and to the satisfaction of rational public sentiment . This at least is a solution toward which the minds of our German fellow-citizens especially might be turned with advantage . They want beer on Sunday and they do not Want corruption and vice , and it may be impossible for them to aid in getting the former without the latter .                     