@@676564

txt The Moscow correspondent of The Times says the existence of a well-organized Armenian revolutionary plot in the Caucasus has been officially recognized by the Minister of the Interior , M. de Plehve . There is reason to believe that the ' Armenian Revolutionary Party is about to turn from propaganda to armed opposition to the Russian administration . The correspondent , says M. de Plehve 's confiscation of the Armenian Church property will possibly prove not the least Unfortunate of his repressive measures . Reports from Baku , say The Times 's Russian correspondents , are to the effect that the Armenians and Jews are in mourning and refuse to visit the theatres or other places of amusement . This form of demonstration is made as a protest against the high-handed methods of the Government . The announcement that an imperial decree had been issued confiscating the entire property of the ancient Armenian Church in Russia fell like a bombshell , and conservative correspondents of European papers have declared that by this act the Russian Government has converted the whole native Armenian population into rebels and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged with the duty of executing the imperial decree are meeting with most determined opposition . The peasants are offering armed ' resistance , and in several cases have been successful in preventing the Commissioners from carrying out their orders . The Armenian Catholicos is holding firmly to his position as defender of the rights of the people , and refuses to sign any authorization of the transfer . Popular demonstrations are held under the pretext of celebrating mass for the repose of the souls of the Armenians who were killed by the Cossacks at Elizabetpol . This was done in the first instance at Tiflis , and the example was promptly followed in other towns and many villages . Enormous crowds assemble in the churches and violent speeches are made , followed by the singing of revolutionary hymns . The police as Yet have been passive witnesses of this ebullition of popular feeling . At Djalalogly the police did try to arrest a young speaker , but the people sprang to his rescue with such promptitude that the police had to let him go . At Achalkalsky , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came from so many different villages that they constituted a formidable crowd . They were the bearers of petitions from the inhabitants of their respective villages , and it is stated that there were in all about 10,000 signatures to these protests against the confiscation Of the church property . A midnight mass was celebrated . Thousands of Armenians crowded the church and the surrounding space . A young woman delivered a fiery harangue . The Armenian people , she urged , should die rather than allow their rights to be trampled under foot . Mass was then celebrated by the priest , and the ceremony ended with the solemn utterance of maledictions against the Russian Government .                     