@@677560

txt Chicago 's Postmaster , Frederick A. Buse , the Republican candidate , was elected Mayor of this city to-day , having a plurality of 13,121 votes over Mayor Edward F. Dunne . The total number of votes cast for Mr. Busse was 164,839 and for Mr. Dunne 151,718 . The Prohibition candidate polled 5,875 votes I and the Socialist 13,459 . ? The new Mayor will have the City Council with him . The makeup of this i body shows thirty-fve Republicans , thirtyfour Democrats , and one independent Democrat . The ordinances settling the street car question weer caroled by a good majority . The vote on this question was 165,846 for , and . ? 12,720 against . According to the latest returns at midnight the only Democrat outside of Aldermen elected was John E. Traeger , who was the Democratic candidate for City Trasurer . The indications are that he will be elected by at least 8,000 plurality . The issues of the campaign have been largely based upon the improvement of the local traction systems Both parties agreed that present conditions are intolerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . The Democratic Party , headed by Mayor Dunne , stood for immediate municipal ownership through condemnation of the street car property if the result could not be obtained In any other way . The Republican Party favored ordinances which were recently passed by a Democratic City Council over the veto of Mayor Dunne . These ordinances provided for twenty-year franchises for the street car companies , the city retaining the right to purchase the systems for $50 , - 000,000 plus the amount to be spent for immediate rehabilitation of the lines , six months ' notice being necessary of the city 's intention to acquire the property . The ordinances also provide for universal transfers throughout the city , a five-cent fare , and 55 per cent . of the net profits of the companies to be paid to the city , The vote generally showed a decided reversal of public opinion on municipal ownership , compared with the Mayoralty campaign two years ago . At that time Duane received 163,189-votes , against 139 , - 671 for John M. Harlan , the Republican leader . The Prohibitionist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Socialist vote fell this year off heavily . , The campaign has been one of the most bitter the city has ever known . Charges and countercharges have been hurled . the personal lives of the candidates have been discussed , and speakers on both sides have Indulged in tirades filled with Invectives and abuse . William R. Hearst came personally from New York to take part in the campaign , and brought with him cartoonists and editorial writers . His papers were the only publications in the city supporting Mayor Dunne , all other newspapers being for Busse and the ordinances . The papers favoring Busse made much of the cry that Chicago was able to manage Its own interests without receiving instructions ft om New York . The Hearst papers asserted that Mayor Dunne was acting for the , best interests of Chicago . and that It Was , therefore , their duty to support him . Mayor Dunne appeared greatly affected by the result and said : ' It looks as though the money power has overwhelmed us , but our cause is not lost . Municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This election has merely acted as a check . It will retard us for a while , but the movement will go on and will in the end be successful .. ' Corporation Counsel James Hamilton Lewis , who has been a stanch supporter of Mayor Dunne , said at 6 o'clock : ' ' The result came ' because a combined Republican Party was led by able Captains against what developed to be a distracted and divided Democracy . " Mr. Busse , who is Postmaster of the city , was confined to his home during the campaign because of injuries received In a recent wreck on the Pennsylvania Railroad . When the result was beyond doubt he said : " I am , of course , greatly delighted at the success of the Republican ticket . It shows that the people of this city favor immediate improvement in our street car service , and that they indorse the ordinances passed by the City Council over tho veto of Mayor Dunne . " Mr. Busse continued : " More than anything else , the vote in Chicago to-day means that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second largest city in the United States is opposed to William R. Hearst and all the ' isms ' that he has sought to thrust upon the community . It is a clean-cut victory for sane , safe , and conservative institutions . "                     