@@676972

txt Sir Chentung Liang-Cheng , the Chinese Minister , has issued a confidential circular or proclamation to all Chinese in the United States , requesting reports of all cases of applicants to whom admission to this country has been denied and of all deportations on the ground of non-registration since the expiration of the Exclusion treaty of 1894 . The circular asks for estimates of the amount of damage sustained by Chinese owing to such action on the part of the United States . The circular was issued through the Chinese Consul General at San Francisco . Its object , . it is understood , is to facilitate the collection of evidence on which to base a suit against the United ' states to test the validity of the existing Chinese exclusion laws , In what way the attack upon is to be made is not known to ernment officials . They hold right of Congress to enact laws to exclude from this country Chinese or anybody else can not be assailed successfully . It is held by some lawyers of repute , however , that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a test in the courts . The new State House for Minnesota at St. Paul will soon become a place of pilgrimage for those who enjoy the art of the mural painter , so many are the pictures in place or going forward to enrich its walls or taking form under the painter 's brush . The latest is Henry Oliver Walker 's large lunette , which was shown yesterday in the Vanderbilt Gallery at the Fine Arts Building . Mr. Walker calls his picture " The Sacred Flame . " It has the great merit of simplicity in composition , consisting of three symbolical figures of Yesterday . To-day , and To-morrow in a simply managed setting of cloud , ocean , cliff , and rocky strand . The lunette is twenty-five feet above the floor of the gallery by which it is approached , so that the size of the figures and their distribution over centre and ends will add greatly to the impression they make from a distance . They explain themselves afar off as symbolical figures ; the colors of their draperies  --  blue to the left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  are unrelieved by other colors , and tell as three distinct riasses in the composition . Owing to an irresistible association of symbolical ladies of this kind with the classics , the painter has inscribed his figures with 1 .. Vn names  --  Her ! for yesterday , Hodie for to-day , and Cras for to-morrow ; these words being , as it were , carved in the rocks near the several nymphs . As he is their maker , it is not for us to quarrel with their baptismal names , which will cause the Minnesota Assemblymen and Senators to brush up the remains of their school-day memories . Heri is an aged lady , with a very lithe and effective form , as one discerns it through the somewhat solid green drapery . She bends in exact profile over a small fire of faggots , the smoke from which rises at first straight and then in a curl like a pale gray interrogation mark against the dark gray of the cliff . Heil is busy separating a burning brand from the fire in order to hand it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sits facing the spectator in the Centre of the lunette . Hodie extends her left hand to the fire ready to seize the brand as soon as it is plucked from the burning  --  a graceful gesture , by the way , o.1 the part of a graceful To-day , while with her right arm at full length she presents a flaming torch to the third nymph , the buoyant Cras . Hodie 's pretty head , bound in red gauze , is outlined against a solid mass of white cloud above the ocean . Her chiton , of an ivory white , is trussed up below her breast , and the red drapery that covers her from waist to feet sways up and forms a background for her torso and outstretched arms . Cras is a tricksy nymph whose feet are not on solid ground -- for who is sure of his or her to-morrow ?  - -  but float free of rocks and water as she swims with bending figure in the air , her torso and legs gleaming in graceful curves through the dull-blue transparent drapery . The round of the lunette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left hand holds a classic lamp , which she is lighting from the torch of Hodie . Thus the chain of " The Sacred Flame " is complete , from the fires ? of outworn Yesterday to the lamp of wraithlike and unborn To-morrow . The idea is a simple and large one , uncomplicated and direot , and the story is told with equal directness ? a very rare thing , by the way , in the annals of mural work . Taking the segment of a circle formed by the arch of the ceiling and the lintel of the passageway . the surface of the lunette is agreeably divided by the trio of figures in different poses  --  the floating To-morrow with head turned back , the full-front seated To-day with extended arms , and the profile Yesterday bending over her fire . The outline of the cliff to the right and the edges of the rocks to the left near the feet of To-morrow are calculated so as to , harmonize with the smooth curves of the figures , not repeating them , but also not breaking with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the surface of the lunette as the designer of a medal distributes masses and curves ; and also that in enlarging his original sketch he has avoided the danger of losing his big main lines by afterthoughts In the way of accessories . This work shows a very notable advance on such large compositions as the picture in the Appellate Court on Madison Square . It will rank high amen- the murals in Cass Gilbert 's great building at St. Paul .                     