@@676730

txt Although in the official statement issued by Col. James M. Guffey concerning the conference of prominent Democrats held last night at the Hoffman House , it was distinctly set forth that the National Chairmanship was not discussed , it can be stated on the very best of authority that the sentiment of those who attended the conference was decidedly in favor of Senator Arthur Pue Gorman of Maryland taking the place . Moreover , it can be declared with equal certainty that , notwithstanding Senator Gorman 's emphatic assertion of his indisposition to assume the office , every effort will be made by the friends of Judge Parker to have him consent to his election at the meeting of the committee which will be called at 12 o'clock noon July 26 in this city . Senator Gorman is the choice of both Judge Parker and ex-Senator Davis for the place , and the belief of the leading men who attended last night 's conference is that he will not be able to withstand the pressure which will be brought to bear upon him to direct the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was set aside for ex-Senator Henry Gassaway Davis of West Virginia , the Democratic candidate for Vice President , Among the others ? present were Senator Gorman , Col. James M. Guffey and State Chairman Hall of Pennsylvania , David B. Hill , Cord Meyer , Chairman of the Democratic State Committee of New York ; National Committeeman Mack of New York , National Committeeman Head of Tennessee , John W Kern of Indiana , Senator Victor J. Dowling , as the representative of Charles F. Murphy of Tammany Hall ; Thomas F. Ryan , August Belmont , Perry Belmont , ex-Senator Smith of New Jersey , John R. of Ohio , Senator Bailey of Texas , and Senator Patrick H. 11/2Carren . The conference was called to order about 8:30 and was in session until 10:30 o'clock . Col. James M. Guffey of Pennsylvania was elected Chairman , and this authorized statement was given out by him : " The gentlemen met principally for the purpose of meeting Senator Davis of West Virginia , the Democratic candidate for Vice President . An exchange of views followed , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together for Organization was discussed , and it was agreed to recommend that the committee be called to meet ; in New York City at the Hoffman House at 12 o'clock noon , July 26 . " The question of fixing a date for the notification of the candidates was talked over , and it wasfinally referred to the candidates to fix the date and place of notification . " There was also a general discussion as to the favorable prospect of the party in the coming campaign . There was no discussion whatever concerning a selection of a Chairman for the National Committee . " At the close of the conference Mr. Sheehan , ? Judge Parker 's personal representative , who had just returned from a visit to Esopus and was in a position to give the conference Judge Parker 's . views upon various important matters concerning the campaign , said that he was very much gratified by the spirit of harmony which prevailed and the disposition shown to sink all personal Considerations for the good of the party . The presence of Senator Dowling as the personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clemens , Mich. , was taken as a guarantee that Tammany does not intend to sulk in the campaign . Other Tammanyites manifested their interest in the conference by visiting the Hoffman House to greet the National leaders . Among them were Corporation Counsel John J. Delany , Dr. William J. O'Sullivan , and Senator James J. Frawley . Senator ' Dowling came down from the Conference arm ' in arm with ex-Senator Davis and Senator Gorman . He said that : Tammany 's disposition toward the ticket was that of loyal entimsiasm . Senator McCarten , Executive Chairman of the Democratic State Committee , who has been charged with the intention of conducting the State campaign in a manner which would prove a humiliation to Mr. Murphy , gave emphatic denial to such reports , Ex-Senator Hill , - when asked at the end of the conference when the Democratic campaign would be actively begun , remarked with a sly wink ; " We must wait until We are sure that President Roosevelt will accept the Republican nomination . " Mr. Hill said that he expected to visit Esopus , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the Senator himself was not willing to enter into any discussion or the action of the St. Lon 's Convention with regard to the gold plank or the criticism which has been heaped upon him : or his alleged surrender to the Bryan element , his friends defended him vigorously . They called attention to the fact that Senator Tillman , Senator Bailey , National Committeeman Shively of Indiana , and other supporters of Judge Parker had combatted him with all their strength in the sessions of , the Committee on Resolutions , and declared that the alternative which Hill had to face was the compromise which finally was agreed upon , or the very probable defeat of the nomination of Judge Parker .                     