@@676565

txt The great in. terest felt in the outcome of the Northern Securities merger case , in which the Northern Pacific and Great Northern Railroad Companies , J. Pierpont Morgan , James J : Hill , Daniel S. Lamont , and others are on one side , and the United States on the other , was exhibited to-day by the unusually large attendance in the Supreme Court , this being the day fixed for argument . The case came to the Supreme Court on appeal from the decision of the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota , which was to the effect that the purchase and holding of the greater share of the capital stock of the two great transcontinental roads named constituted a merger in violation of the Sherman act . when the case was called every seat in the historic courtroom was occupied , and a large number of interested spectators filled the space in rear of the seats set apart for members of the bar . The arguments began at 12:30 . Few questions were asked the attorneys by the court during the progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest indication of the leaning of the Justices who propounded them . The only question that excited special interest was propounded by Justice Brewer , when Mr. Johnson ' was contending that the merger : was effectual in promoting rather than retarding commerce in the United States by uniting against the competition of the Canadian Pacific Railroad , a foreign corporation , and the merger not being in restraint of commerce , could not be illegal . Justice Brewer asked : " Would it not follow that the acquisition of all the transcontinental railways to compete with the Canadian Pacific would be legal ? " To this Mr. Johnson replied that it would be legal if such combination were necessary to create a larger commerce . MR . JOHNSON 'S ARGUMENT . John a Johnson , representing the Northern Securities Company , made the first argument . He announced that the three railroads and the Securities Company-would ' desire to be heard by their counsel , while it was stated in. behalf of the Government that only the Attorney General would speak . ? Ir . Johnson , after stating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company In acquiring the stock of the railroad companies had been not to prevent competition , but to prevent the injury of its own property . Early in the argument Justice Peckham asked whether the Securities Company held the major portion of the stock of the two companiees , and Mr. Johnson admitted that the company held nearly all the stock . He contended that , holding the stock , it had the authority to control it . He took sharp exception to the decision of the Circuit Court that the possession of the power which the Securities Company had was a violation of the law , and contended that such holding was not in accordance with decisions of the Supreme Court , which were uniformly to the effect that it is the use of power and not the possession of it that constitutes the offense . Mr. Johnson said that what he had to say would be stated in six propositions , which he outlined briefly as follows : 1 . That there was no agreement , contract , combination , or conspiracy to restrain competition between these two railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contrary , whatever contract or understanding there was in the case , as established by uncontradicted testimony , was to enlarge , to create , and in every way possible to improve trade and commerce . A 2 . That if two railway companies , somewhat in competition with themselves , in order to sustain their competition against a third company . which otherwise could destroy them or greatly interfere with their usefulness to the public , find it necessary to combine in any way for the purpose of protecting themselves against destruction , and in order , by means of that protection , to make a greater competition with a greater rival on a greater scale for the greater advantage of the public , that the court must look to the matter as one of fact , to determine whether the real purpose was to destroy or lead to the destruction of the smaller competition , in order to promote trade by the establishment of the greater competition . 3 . That if the holding by the Northern Securities Company of the majority of the shares of the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course an agreement among any number of persons would be a violation of that act . 4 . That the first section , of the Sherman act does not in any way condemn as illegal the acquisition or ownership of the shares of the two competing companies . 5 . That the second section of the Sherman act does not in any way condemn the acquisition and holding of such ownership of shares . C. That if the Sherman act does condemn as illegal the ownership of a controlling interest in the shares of the competing railway companies , that it is unconstitutional . Taking up these propositions , Mr. Johnson repeated that the purpose of the merger had been to enlarge and promote trade . He then outlined at some length the organization of the two railroad companies , and said that after they had been in existence for some years it was found difficult to get sufficiently low rates on west-bound freight . There was a demand in the East for the lumber of the Northwest , but the problem was to get return freights to avoid paying practically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set out to solve this problem and began work to cultivate an Oriental demand for the coal and steel of the East and , the Middle West . and the cotton of the South , reeling that if this demand could be sufficiently stimulated the return freight problem would be solved . Neither fhe Northern Pacific nor the Great Northern reached the centres of these interests , but the Burlington Road did . and it was believed that If they could get control of that line they 3ould make such low rates on the Burlington and on their own lines " as would insure the permanency of the trade which might be developed in the Orient . This plan was into execution , the price paid being  |p230,000,000  . This transaction Mr : Johnson characterized as " one of those bold enterprises by which at the beginning of the present century and the close of the last Americans tarried American trade to the furthest corners of the world . " The Burlington was not a parallel . nor a competing line . but - supppplier , and certainly it could taot be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then reviewed the raid of th , e Union . ' Pacific on the Northern Pacific stock- The :  - -  - UnionPacific had , - he said , Prellosaa that it should be allowed to have-an intar'st in the- Purchase . This Could not be allcKVed. lie said , and it was naturally declined cause it would destroy the purpose which the Burlington had been secured . When the Union Pacific got control of the InaloritY of the Northern Pacific stock , it was , he said , a staggering blow . because-aft carried with it the ownership of a bait fra tercet  - -  - in-  the Burlington . - Mr. Johnson continued : " What was to be done ? Remain quiet and- allow ' these people who were waiting like- the under - the tree for something . to ezirdp. and let them have ale prize , or to protect that alliance ? They determined to form a corporation to which they could turn . over the Northern Pacific shares . This corporation was formed by thena with no concert with the 1,800 or 2.000 other shareholders .. They sold their-shares outright to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? now you see attii. now : You do n't see ' the ownership . " The results . Mr. Johnson declared , were most beneficent As one of these results he said that there had been a vast increase in the tonnage of the two roads . He also said that under the combination it had been rendered possible to carry flour from the Mississippi Valley to China . 2,000 ' miles by rail and 5,700 miles by water , at - the rate of SO cents per barrel , while , going . the other way . a distance of 1.350 miles . the - freight charge was 55 cents tter. barrel . Regarding the question whether or Trot the merger violated the Sherman act . ; Oa admitted that the decisions of the Supreme Court are . to the effect that the Shermait t law has reference to the restraint of trade ? by conspiracy along all lines , but he contended that in the present case there had been no such combination . This contention he based on the fact that in this case there had . been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You therefore are confronted not with a proposition where persons conducting trade agree with one another for restraint of trade , - but by a ease where persons sell their property to another . And where has that ever been decided in a Federal court ? Where is there a case in which it was ever held that bona fide acquisition of ownership of a property is a contract . combination , or conspiracy in restraint of trade ? " He argued that the owners of shares of stock have the property right to transfer their shares , and it would be an absurdity to speak of such a transfer between individuals as a crime . He contended that corporations should have the same rights as individuals . To contend otherwise , he declared , would lead to untold mischief . Justice White interrupted Mr. Johnson to observe : " In which case you leave the poWer - to compete only in the hand of a very wealthy individual . Is not the answer a- Ibis that the facility with which corporations can be formed renders much more feasible the existence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich man could exercise that power : " Mr. Johnson admitted in reply that that was a common sense view . NORTHERN PACIFIC 'S CASE . Mr. Johnson was followed by Mr. C. W. Bunn , who spoke especially for the Northern Pacific . He confined his discussion largely to the decision of the Circuit Court in the case . Like Mr. Johnson , he conceded that the Sherman act covers all combination in restraint of trade . He contended , however , that some latitude must be allowed in defining what is a restraint of trade . and he said it was rather startling to apply the law to , and make criminal . the consolidation of two lines of railrotad like the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific , as was done in their purchase by the Securities Company . He contended that Congress had no control of the transfer of stock . In this connection he laid down the general proposition that the acquisition of the stock of two railroad companies or of one company was not an act in restraint of commerce . Mr. Bunn declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and continued : " The parallel telegraph lines of the country stand on the same footing as parallel railway lines , as it is common knowledge that nearly all the telegraph lines of the country have gradually come into the control of two companies . " Mr. Bunn was followed by Attorney General Knox of the United States . In beginning , Mr. Knox outlined the attitude of the Government toward the case , saying that it was " one of grave concern , based upon its conviction that a mischievous evasion of the law has been attempted . as well as upon its especial interest in and relations to one of thEeproparties affected . " In order that the court npght understated tile - reasons for , this concern he rel. - le- et- eat the principal facts connected with the organization and subsequent history of the Northern Pacific Company , its relations to the Great Northern . Railroad . and other facts out of which the questions in this case arise , but without extended comment . His statement of facts in this connection was as follows : 1 . That the Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , and in the main with capital furnished by the United States , and that the United States intended and attached the condition to its contribution that the railroad should be a great independent National highway , and specified that the object of its construction was to " promote the public interests . " 2 . That by different devices employed during the past ten years the defendants , or some of them . have endeavored to de the independence of the Northern Pacific Company and to bring it under the domination of the Great Northern Comp2.ray. 3 . That the Northern Securities Company is an instrumentality devised by defendants to acquire , hold , and exercise control over these two parallel and competing lines of railroads ; to destroy competition between them , to create a monopoly of transportation in the section served by them , and to defeat the condition attached by the - United States to the franchise and land grants of the Northern Pacific Company . Upon this statement the Attorney Gen-eral based the following propositions : 1 . That the arrangement effected by the defendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is illegal under the first section of the act of July 2 , 1800 , ( the Sherman anti-trust act. ) 2 . That it constitutes a monopoly under the second section of that act . 3 . That the court has the power to prevent . restrain . or otherwise prohibit it . Further reviewing the history of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company , he said it was chartered under the provisions of an act of Congress approved July 2 , 18E4 . The corporation was authorized to construct a railroad which by the eleventh section of the act " shall be a post route and military road . subject to the use of the United States for postal , military , naval , and all other Government service . " AT-TACK ON THE MERGER . The Attorney General then gave a detaile. ' account of the attempt to secure control of the Northern Pacific Road . as shown in the case of Pearsall vs . Great Northern Road . Mr. Morgan . he said , knew of this attempt , sympathized with it , and assured Mr. Hill if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Continuing , Mr. Knox said : " Let us next see what steps were taken to get the Northern Pacific property in Such situation as would enable Mr. Morgan to-make good his assurance to Mr. Hill that if he failed to acquire the Northern Pacific stock in the manner pust described , they could work in harmony . A reorganization or the road was effected , and a new company organized under the laws of Wisconsin , with power to do so , took over the property and franchises of the Northern Pacific Company . " By the reorganization agreement J. P. Morgan Co. were made managers ' of the reorganization . What is known ae ? harmony ' now prevailed between the two roads and continued as such until 1901. when the two roads made a joint purchase Of the Chicago , Burlington and Quincy Railroad . This partnership in the ownership of the Burlington was almost immediately followed by the merger of which the Government complains . " The Attorney General - then detailed the facts connected With the Burlington purchase and the organization of the securities company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ securities company , said : " These facts clearly establish that it I ' an instrumentality created to control the Northern Pacific and Great Northern Rail . icantiS , , and through their ownership of the Burlington to control that road likewise . " At this point Mr. Justice White reminded Mr. Knox that he had made reference it the beginning of his argument to the act en Congress organizing the Northern Pacific and asked him if his case rested upon that act . Mr. Knox replied that it did not , ane added that he had merely referred to that legislation in reply to the reflections that the Government had undertaken to interfere in a case in which it had no interest . The Attorney General had time before adjournment to announce only one propo , sitien - by way of argument , Which was at follows : This merger of interests was a comb ' ? nation in restraint of commerce among the S4ttes. and was intended so to be , and wit or without a. proved intention it is illegal as . by teirtue of the combination , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to prevent  --  namely , it bring% transportation and- trade throughout a vast section-of country lin , der the controlling in ? fluence of a single body and destroys an3 possible advantages the public might have through ' any competition between the two lines ; The court adjourned until to-morrow , when =r . Enos wilt continue .                     