@@677117

txt The fight between , the .. rIval lawyers for the possession of the Von Hoffman apartment house , 29 West Twenty-sixth Street , owned by the late Mrs. Margaret Todd , the eccentric old woman found dead on the Reading Railroad a week ago , came to a climax yesterday . The house is now under the charge of Gordon Hastings ? of 170 Broadway , acting as attorney for Mrs. Frank Tousey , the onlyldaughter of Mrs. Todd , who is the beneficiary named in Mrs. Todd 's will , dated Jan. 23 , 1902 , and filed in the Surrogates ' office last Tuesday . Ingersoll Lockwood , former attorney for Mrs. Todd , who asserted that he had a lease of the Von Hoffman dating from April 14 , 1902 , began the legal battle at the early hour of 7 yesterday morning when the tenants were asleep . Backed by four detectives , armed with " billies , " Lockwood entered the house and forcibly took possession . He asked Amory , the deaf manager , to sign a paper which would bind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Told Him to Sign a Lease . " Sign that paper or quit - the house , " said Lockwood . Amory replied : " You ca n't discharge me . You did not engage me . " This angered Lockwood and he said : " You are discharged anyhow , and if you do not leave the house I will have you put out . " Sinclair Tousey , brother-in-law of Mrs. Frank Tousey , then arrived on the scene and advised Amory to remain , but Amory said he was tired of trouble and needed a rest . He left and Lockwood took charge . His first act was to shut the front door and put two detectives on guard to challenge all callers . Lockwood then went on a tour through the house , discharging all the employes as he encountered them . Mr. Tousey ed close upon his heels and told them not to notice what Lockwood said . Mrs. Howe , a stepdaughter of Mrs. Todd ; who has occupied Mrs. Todd 's apartments since Saturday , remained intrenched in the rooms on the second floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After taking charge of the premises and posting his guards , Mr. Lockwood engaged a room at 40 West Twenty-sixth Street , nearly opposite the Von Hoffman , so that he could see who eeplled-arals-butry o7er if necessary . " ' " there was a lull in the proceedingii while Mr. Hastings and Mr. Tousey decided upon their course of action . Rumor That Fight Was Coming . Toward afternoon a report spread in the vicinity of the Von Hoffman that there was going to be a fight , and it might be expected to happen any moment . From 2 o'clock people collected in small groups and stared at the house curiously . At 4 o'clock Mr. Hastings and Mr. Tousey marched up , accompanied by six stalwart detectives . By this time reporters and photographers had arrived . Mr. Hastings ordered his forces to stand back and then knocked at the door . Lockwood 's guards opened it and were about to admit him , when they caught a glimpse of the detectives outside and slammed the door . Then Mr. Hastings ordered his men to force the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a will . The lock was soon forced , and the door flew open . When Hastings entered the house Lockwood 's detectives made a stand , and it looked for a moment as if there would be a battle of clubs in the hallway of the apartment house . Mr. Hastings told them that they were trespassers and would I have to go out . If force was needed he would use ? it . He suggested that theyshow resistence legally and leave littler compulsibn , which would acquit them of any responsibility . The four detectives oked at their resolute opponents , who , With the lawyer and Mr. Tousey , made eight , and then left quietly . The question on every one 's lips when the attack was made upon the door was : " Where is Lockwood ? " Found His Rival in Bed . After searching through the Vbn Hoffman Mr. Hastings came to Room 12 , on the top floor . The door was locked . A maid opened it , and Mr. Hastings entered the room and found his rival in bed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance was heightened by a blue spread which was tucked under Lock , wood 's chin . Mr. Hastings said : " I have examined the will you filed , and it is no good , as you have admitted the existence of a later will , and you must leave the house . " . Lockwood raised his head from the folds lof the blue spread and replied : " I stay on my lease . " ! " Your lease is no good , " said his opponent . " Then I take possession as trustee under the trust deed . " " You have not shown us your deed , ' and you must quit . " Mr. Lockwood got out of bed and ' walked out of the house with Mr. Hastings . Mr. Hastings said last night : " For a man who had absolutely no legal right there , Lockwood put up a daring bluff . We did not take legal action because we came to the conclusion that he was simply a trespasser on the premises at 29 West Twenty-sixth Street , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be In Paris to-day at the Elysee Palace Hotel , and that she will be in New York within three weeks . " Late in the evening Mr. Lockwood went around to the Tenderloin Station and asked the officer in charge to send.some detect tives with him to assist him in regaining possession of 29 West Twenty-sixth Street , from which he salt he had been illegally evicted . His request was refused , and lie left the station saying that he would engage a posse . of men and recapture the house . Coroner Scholer said yesterday that the autopsy on the body of Mrs. Todd . would be held at H o'clock this morning at Merritt 's undertaking establishment at Nineteenth Street and Eighth Avenue , instead of to-morrow , as previously arranged . The change was made to accommodate Coroner Dugan of Philadelphia , 1who wished to be present with his phyeician.                     