@@677414

txt The fault seems to be not with the servants , but with the organization of home life . This , after an excellent staff discussion , appearing in The Journal of Political Economy , as to the progressively increasing desertions from domestic service , is the conclusion of Mr. I. M. RuarNow- of the Department of Agriculture at Washington . The growth In number of servants for thirty years has been 49 per cent. , but of hotel waiters 356.7 per cent  --  a fair measure of the development of hotel , restaurant . and boarding house life , patently caused by the dislike of domestic servants for their occupation . The number of servants has increased since 1870 by only half the rate of increase in population , and hardly more than a third of the in , crease of the number gainfully employed . The decrease in supply is parallel , too , with the rising demand for servants among wealthy families . Numbering in all 7,580,1101i in 1870 , the sum of families in this country had increased in 1900 to 113.240,000 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The increase in the total number of women employed during the same thirty-year period has been 1S9.7 per cent. , but the increase in number of women servants only 49.9 per cent . The foreign-born white " girls , - who are supposed to require less consideration than American-born help , show not only a l perceptible proportionate but an absolute decline of 42,000 in the decade preceding 1900 . Yet the full wages of the average city domestic servant , including room and board , are higher than the ' average school teacher 's salary . The cause of the discrepancy is the social stigma , the indefinite hours , and other restrictions of domestic labor , which have been removed from every other modern condition of service . Factories , which afford alternative occupations , buy a definite amount of service within stated hours and at a specified full money wage , leaving the operative free to room and board Herself according to her taste without the necessity of " eating in the kitchen , " and without the usual distinctions due to continual prAimity to persons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demarid in this field of labor will be established according to certain tendencies already becoming noticeable . Mistresses may disapprove , but they are inevitable . Wages have risen . The stoppage of work after the evening dishwashing is now more or less the rule , and this will develop to full liberty of action and motion during evening hours . Servant girls are beginning to room in their own homes . Mr. Runnvow predicts the abolishment of all payment " in kind , " not excluding payment in meals .. Tobacco factory harids no longer get their cigars and tobacco free , and partial payment in shoes for a shoe factory operative is no more customary . These changes from the humiliating mediaeval " chattel " service , while not attractive or at all comfortable to employers , must be stomached , for they but meet conditions in competing fields of modern industry . The alternative is the heavier shifting of the burden of domestic slavery upon the shoulders of overworked housewives , or boarding house existence . But the changes will themselves necessitate a serious modification of home life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decades , are a miserable recourse , and the expensive apartment hotel Is impossible to many . Technical knowledge and invention , already finding application in improved gas ranges , steam heat , hot-water supply , and more or less satisfactory prepared foods , must be relied upon to reconcile the economy of the home to limited hours of domestic service , paid for exclusively in cash .                     