@@675433

txt In answer to an invitation sent out to Gold Democrats of the city and State about 200 assembled to-night and talked over what was best for the party to do in the coming campaign . In explaining the purpose of the meeting James L. Keach , as Chairman , Said it was the object to find out from the leading members of the party whether or not they would support Mr. Bryan , as had been reported . The following resolutions were adopted ; " We Democrats of Indiana , who in 1896 opposed the Chicago platform , hereby re-. solve : 1 . We affirm our continued belief in the principles of the platform adopted in 1890 by the National Democratic Party and assert our sincere loyalty to the same . " 2 . All that has been done and that is now being done by those who supported Bryan in 1890 points to the re-adoption of the Chicago platform and the renomination of Mr. Bryan . Being deeply impressed with the gravity of the situation we conceive it to be our solemn duty to oppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform of 1896 on individual freedom , the right of private contract , the independence and integrity of the Federal judiciary , the authority of the President to enforce the laws and to denounce its advocacy of the radically wrong and fundamentally dangerous demand for the free , unlimited , and independent coinage of silver and gold by the United States at the ratio of 10 to 1 , and its repudiation , at the instigation of Republican and Populist allies , of the Democratic doctrine of tariff for revenue only . " There can be no compromise with those Who propose to support Mr. Bryan or any other candidate on the Chicago ? platform . " O. Recent events lead us to ' fear that the continuance in power for another four Years of the Republican Party , under its present masters , with its centralizing Policies , protective tariff legislation , and capitalistic tendencies , would be disgraceful and calamitous , and , above all , the people of the United ' States can not safely tolerate even a suggestion that the inhabitants of any of our territory are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the beneficent protection of the writ of habeas corpus , to the freedom of religion , to the personal liberty granted by the constitutional prohibitions against slavery , or to any one of those sacred rights of persons and property which are guaranteed to all , not only by the express words of the Constitution . but by those fundamental principles of liberty on which our whole system of Government rests . " 4 . We therefore earnestly call on the leaders of Party the the National Democratic Part who led the light in 1896 for good government and National honor to give immediate and serious consideration to the present ominous condition of affairs , and request them to take such action , by organization or otherwise , as may in their wisdom seem necessary and most appropriate to meet the emergencies now confronting all who love their country , and who desire that this Government shall be a government of the People , by the people , and for the people , and as such shall not perish from the , earth . " On motion Mr , Keech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take immediate steps toward the organization of the National Democratic forces . Evans Woollen , State Secretary in 181 ) 6 of the Gold Democrats , said : " Those who stood together in 1896 on the platform of the National Democratic : Party will cont'rue to stand together in this campaign . We admit we are in a peculiar situation at present . While we can not stand Bryanism and what it stands for , we are more than grateful that we do not belong to the party of William . " John G. Williams , general attorney of the Vandalia Railroad : " I have always been opposed to the Chicago platform and Bryanism of 1896 , and am in the same condition now " S. 0 . Pickens , State Gold Democratic Chairman , said : " The situation before us at the present time is more serious than the situation which confronted us in 1890 . The principles represented by President in the passage of the Puerto Rican tariff are far more dangerous to this country in my opinion than the doctrine of 10 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commit ourselves until the platforms of the two parties are formed . " Other addresses were made by John R .. Wilson , Judge Robinson of Spencer , who urged them to go back into the Democratic Party ; John P. Frenzol and Sterling Holt .                     