@@677036

txt The bodies of the three persons lost when the yacht Normandie was run down by the tramp steamer Volund on Tuesday night were recovered to-day . All last night the wreckers , under the direction of Coroner Russell , worked trying to raise the yacht . About 4 o'clock this morning two rope hawsers were passed under the boat and the winches were started . Both ropes snapped , and the work was abandoned for the time . At noon work was t again started , and this time steel hawsers were used . The diver made several descents , and finally both hawsers were in place . Then . an Albany . steamer passed . on its way to New York , and It was necessary to lower the ropes to save the strain on the boat caused by the swells . Again the diver went down to see if the ropes were still properly placed , and this time he made another examination of the cabin at the suggestion of Coroner Russell . In fifteen minutes he reappeared bearing the body of Miss Gladys Dodge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Jewelry , which is not as valuable as first reports said , was still Intact . The diver made , another descent to took for the engineer 's body . Meantime a boat arrived from shore with the news of the finding of the engineer 's body at Yonkers . The wreck was then raised and beached . The body of Miss Dodge was sent to Dorsey 's Morgue at Tarrytown , and a telegram was sent to her mother at 223 West End Avenue , New York . The diver said the body was firmly wedged in one end of the cabin , where she had evidently been blown when the boiler exploded . Coroner Russell refused to comment on the fact that this would seem to indicate that Miss Dodge was in the cabin instead of on the afterdeck , as J. A. Rudd . who chartered the yacht , and John E. Greene , who was with her , have all along maintained . Joseph Flanigan , a deckhand on the boat , said today that the girl was in the cabin . The yacht was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The left side was cut In half , while most of the cabin and upper works were blown to shreds . The body of Capt . William Storms , whn commanded the yacht . was found afloat in the channel off Irvington at 8 o'clock this morning by the second officer of the steam yacht Virginia . About the time the diver was bringing the body of Miss Dodge to the surface , Alderman A. C. Bechet and George Offer man found the body of a man in the river opposite Lamertine Avenue . It is believed to be that of Engineer Grady , but no one has Identified it . At noon to-day Coroner Russell sent a Deputy Sheriff to Newburg with a warrant for the arrest of Capt . Larsen of the Volund . The inquest will be held Monday at the Town Hail in Dobbs Ferry .                     