@@675679

txt The stockholders ' annual meeting of the Maurice Grau Opera Competition was held-yesterday afternoon in the offices of the Company at the Metropolitan Opera House . Maurice Grau presided , and he informed the stockholders that owing to the extremely busy time he had been having for the past fortnight in connection with the affairs of the opera company and the Bernhardt-Coquelin engagement , he was prevented from preparing a resume of the season . He informed them that , as the company 's fiscal year terminated on May 31 , and the operatic season continued for three weeks longer outside of this city , he would be enabled to give them by the end of May a more comprehensive report of the season 's finances and the work accomplished . Mr. Grau referred briefly to the outlined plans for next season by informing the stockholders that there would be a ten weeks ' engagement in this city , beginning about Christmas . Considerable importance was attached to the fact that a longer period would be devoted to the large cities of the country than has ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be heard in some cities for periods of one , two . or three weeks , while in other places where the company has never been heard before several performances will be given . The tour will extend again as far West as the Pacific Coast . No negotiations have been made as yet regarding the renewals of contracts With artists for next season , said Mr. Grau , but he felt confident that the company for next year would be up to its former standard . The Directors elected for the ensuing year are Maurice Grau , Henry - Dazian , Frank N. Dodd , Charles Frazier , Roland F. Knoedler , Edward Lauterbach , and Frank W. Sanger , the only change being the election of Mr. Knoedler , who succeeds Robert Dunlap , deceased . - THE KNEISEL QUARTET . The last of the Kneisel Quartet 's series of five evening concerts took place at Mendelssohn Hall last night . The programme was composed of Beethoven 's quartet in E flat , Opus 127 ; Arthur Whiting 's quintet for piano and strings , Opus 12 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' cello . Mr. Whiting played the piano part in his own quintet and Carl Barth the second ' cello in the Schubert work . The novelty of the evening was the piano quintet. which had its first hearing here . Mr. Whiting is a well-known resident composer , and though he is a devotee of Brahms , the has a pleasing individuality of fancy and a serious dignity of purpose , which make all his works worth hearing . The new quintet is in structure experimental . The treatment of form in the work was doubtless suggested by the innovations of Schumann and Liszt . Me Whiting has endeavored to gain still further condensation and a closer organism than they did . He has preserved , as they did , the fundamental principles of the sonata form . proposition , discussion , and conclusion  --  the presentment and development in an orderly and logical manner of musical ideas  --  but he has tried to bring the recognized moods of the traditional movements into closer relation by weaving their ideas together in one whole . The composer has briefly described his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which reappears twice during the piece , is followed by a principal theme , ( allegro moderato. ) with a short development in the tonic . key , A melon 4 modulation presents the second subject in the key of the mediant , also with amplification . " The andantino . ( B minor , ) in place of the " working-out period " of the sonata form , has as its climax a view of the first ( principal ) theme . A scherzo ( presto , El minor ) employes the second subject as trio . and the finale of the work is a summing up of material of the first movement , slow movement , and introduction . " The work was heard with interest by last night 's audience . and it will probably be played again . when there will be further opportunity to study the artistic results of Mr. Whiting 's interesting experiment . The other compositions on the programme were played in the usual finished style of the Kneisel performers . The season thus brought to an end has been one of beautiful content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chaste form of musical entertainment . The firm establishment of the Kneisel Quartet in the favor of the New York public is one of the most substantial evidences that all labor for the broadening and deepening of musical culture in this comnrunity in the last ten years has not been in vain .                     