@@676488

txt Vice Chancellor Emery to-day handed down a decision in the suit brought by De Witt Clinton Blair , the wealthy New York banker . for a construction of the will of his father . John L. Blair . who died in Blairstown . N. J. , on Dec. 2 , 1890. leaving an estate the value Of which is estimated at more than 830.000.000 . By the construction of Vice Chancellor Emery , a couple of Million may be added to the already ample fortune of De Witt Clinton Blair , who was the only surviving child of the late multi-millionaire , and was named residuary legatee and sole executor and trustee under the will . Mr. Blair is senior member of the big Wall Street banking house of Blair &; Co. , whose offices adjoin those of J. Pierpont Morgan . In the will , which was executed in 1878. twenty-one years before his death . Mr. Blair , among other bequests , left stocks and bonds to the value of $500,000 to each of his many grandchildren , with the pipvision that during their life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that upon their death the principal should be given to their children . In each case the securities had been plainly designated in the will . They consisted chiefly of the stocks and bonds of railroads in the Middle West , in which the late John L. Blair had heavy interests . Upon his death it was found that many of these securities had been disposed of , or that the properties they represented had been merged into other roads . There were no ' codicils to the will to meet this emer- ' gency . In the suit just decided the claim set up on behalf of De Witt Clinton Blair , the executor , is that the grandchildren are entitled to receive only such of the designated securities as remained at the death of his fa ther . In his decision Vice Chancellor Emery upholds this contention and negatives the plea set up on behalf of certain of the grandchildren who figure as defendants . that the deficiency should be made up out i of other stocks and bonds left by the testutor . In a memorandum handed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principal question presented and argued , I conclude that the direction of the court should be that the Trustee , for the purposes of the several trusts included in the ? items ' of the will , called the ? grandchildren 's trusts , ' is to take only such of the bonds and stocks specified in the several trusts as were left by the testator , and is not to supply bonds or stocks specified in the trust and not left by the testator from other bonds or stocks left by him . Nor is he to pay in money , from the estate , the amount of the legacies in lands which were not left in the estate . " Besides the son , De Witt Clinton Blair , the late millionaire had two daughters , both of whom died before their father .. One daughter married Charles Scribner , the publisher . At the : . - time of her death she left five children . The youngest daughter married Clarence G. Mitchel : . She left one son , Clarence B. Mitchell . Charles , Arthur , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendants to the suit : The Vice Chancellor has been asked to construe certain other items of the will which seemed obscure to the executor , and announced that he would hear argument on these at some later date . POLICEMAN ASSAULTED AND LEFT UNCONSCIOUS . Eight Men Beat Him and Took Away His Pistol and Club  --  Three Women Tried to Rescue Him . Eight men , several of whom were recognized . set upon Policeman Peter Fagan of the Charles Street Station early this morning , and after taking his revolver and billy away from him , kicked and beat him almost into insensibility . The policeman fought desperately , but he stood little chance , and after rendering him unconscious , they each gave him a parting kick and escaped . Three women , janitresses of flats in the neighborhood of the scene of the assault , seeing the policeman fighting against overwhelm- ' ing odds , went to his assistance , one using a gas lighter on his assailants . All three were drugged away by several of the gang . who threatened to give them the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not desist . It  - -  vas shortly after midnight when Policeman Fagan was standing at the corner of Houston and Bedford Streets waiting for his relief . A man who said he was Edward Collins , a Westerner of 381 ) Washington Street , w'ho has been in this city two weeks , accosted Fagan and told him that fie had been held up by a gang of men in front of : 13 Carmine Street . Fagan asked Collins to accompany him back there , and the two set out together to the place where the Westerner said he had been held up and assaulted . When he and the policeman reached the spot there was a gang of eight or ten rough-looking men , who eyed the stranger suspiciously . " That 's the man who assaulted me , " Collins said , pointing to one of the men . ? v ell , I did wallop you , and I 'll wallop you again , ? the man said , at the same time stepping forward and striking Collins a stunning blow in the face , knocking him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Policeman Fagan grabbed him and placed him under arrest . That was the signal for the out break . Do n't let that guy take Jack in. boys , " several of them said , the gang at the same time crowding around Fagan . The policeman saw that he would probably get a rough deal , and he reached to get his billy . As he did so one of the gang struck Jilin on . the head with a stick , the rest of the gang punching him with their fists . Then there ensued a desperate fight . The Westerner was quickly knocked unconscious , and he lay on the street , the gang scrambling over his body . POLICEMAN BADLY HURT . Edward Rohrs Found Unconscious in Lenox Avenue with Fractured Skull . Policeman Edward Rohrs , thirty-eight years old , who lives at 284 Willis Avenue , the Bronx , was found unconscious yesterday morning at One Hundred and Twentythird Street and Lenox Avenue , which is quite a distance from his beat , which is from One Hundred and Thirty-second Street to the Harlem River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Harlem Hospital , where the doctors said that his skull was fractured . There was absolutely no evidence that the officer had been drinking , and the doctors felt certain that he had been struck down with some blunt instrument . The policeman gained consciousness for a little while , and said that he did not know how he had been hurt . He remembered that he had seen Sergeant Wolfe of the West One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street Station , to which he is attached , about 1 o'clock , and Roundsman an hour later . After that he could remember nothing . Assaults and holdups have not been uncommon on the more lonely streets of the Bronx . and the police are of the opinion that their comrade , who had always been a zealous officer , had without doubt been waylaid and sandbagged to get him out of the way .                     