@@677243

txt The Guggenheim copper interests , which during three generations in the industry have grown to be among the largest in the country , contemplate the development of the Alaskan mineral fields on a scale larger than anything that has been undertaken in the States . Tan Times printed yesterday morning a dispatch from Tacoma , Washington , , which told of purchases by Guggenheim companies in the Klondike district . The properties acquired , according to the Tacoma dispatch , covered practically all of the alluvial gold deposits in the famous Bonanza Creek district , where the first rich strikes of the early gold rush were made . Daniel Guggenheim was asked by a Times reporter yesterday.to tell something of his plans for this , the first entrance of Guggenheim capital into gold mining . Alaska , Mr. Guggenheim said , would be- i come , he thought , the greatest mineral producing part of United States territory.i The reports of competent engineers show immense copper districts , and iron and coal are also plentiful . The country 's geographical situation , however , makes it very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very heavy expenditures of capital for their develop , ment . For this reason , Mr. Guggenheim said , Alaska is a rich man 's camp . Even in the gold fields the days are past when a miner with his pick and washing pan could pick up a small fortune . " After the forty-niners left the goldbearing streams of California seemingly worked out , " said Mr. Guggenheim , " modern apparatus was employed in the same territory and tool many times more gold out of the country than that which made the millionaires of the early days . " The newest dredging and hydraulic apparatus makes it possible to work at a profit gravels which yield no more than 6 Cents to the cubic yard . The known fields of Alaska are in very much the same condition In which the forty-niners left California . The day has now come for the steam dredge and hydraulic operations requiring the investment of millions of capital in building reservoirs , canals , and slulceways , Alaska has yielded more than /100,000,000 in gold under almost primitive methods . With scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " - . The Guggenheim-.interests hale several large dredges in course of construction for use cm tim Alaakan waterways . The higher-lying gold fields will be worked by hydraulic monitor operations , and plans are under way to develop the necessary water power , which the Guggenheims already control on Bonanza Creek . The copper-mining operations contemplated by the Guggenheim interests have not been formulated as yet with sufficient definiteness to admit of discussion in detail . Alaska is a new country , " said Mr. Guggenheim . " I should like to be one of those to bring it to its destined place in American affairs . It is not altogether a matter of money ; there is some sentiment in an enormous undertaking of this sort , Railroads , Smelters , Towns . " We want to go into the territory and build railroads and smelters and mining towns and bring men there and populate the country where it is habitable , and do for it what the earlier figures in American railroad building did for sections of the great West . " Some of the copper districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Copper River , for instance , have seen some development . But the mines in that country can not be worked until railroads have put them within reach of the seacoast and until smelters and concentrating plants are in the field to turn the ore into metal for its economical transporation to the consumer . " If the plans we have made tentatively for the building of a road into the Copper River district go through the American Smelting and Refining Company will build works at some point on the coast , probably Valdez . " There are valuable coal deposits in Alaska , the engineers say , which may be depended upon to furnish cheap fuel . These mines have not been developed , however , and if they should fall short of expectations California fuel oil will be used in the reducing works . " What Alaska most needs now is a St : ble government . The development is bound to come . The United States could not help the West more than by doing all that is possible to hasten the building up of Alaska @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the States for practically all the necessaries of life , and the faster it grows the faster the commerce of the Pacific ports will increase . ' Plans Are Immediate . That the Guggenheim plans are Immediate is borne out by the fact that Daniel Guggenheim 's eldest son , M. Robert Guggenheim , who has just returned from a honeymoon abroad , will start within thirty days for San Francisco , where he will take up the work of expediting the Alaskan project , and at the same time supervise the building of a large smelting works at St. Bruno Point , outside of San Francisco . Young Mr. Guggenheim is a graduate of the Columbia School of Mines , and has had practical training for two years in the American Smelting and Refining Company 's plant at Perth Amboy . In his excursion through the Far West Mr. Guggenheim had many opportunities of sounding the extent of the country 's prosperity . He said that he found.the Western cities doing more business than they have ever known and making bigger profits . But in the silver States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its attitude ' in the matter of silver coinage . " The silver men think that the Treasury Department is not giving them a square deal , " he said . ' It refuses to buy silver bullion for subsidiary coinage , and Secretary Shaw , they say , is advocating the proposed law permitting the recolning of worn-down silver dollars instead ' of supplying the constant demand for new small coins by purchases of bullion in the open market . The Westerners attribute to our Government 's policy in this matter the recent decision of the German Treasury to convert its silver thalers into small coin , substituting paper in their circulation for the heavy silver . " He thought that there was some justice in the contentions of the silver men that the Government 's , action in refusing to buy silver for coinage purposes was a bad example to Europe and Mexico . He predicted that if the Treasury Department of this country and of Germany bought their silver for subsidiary coinage in the open market the price of the metal would advance perhaps 10 per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miner , Mr. Guggenheim found only one flaw In the situation in the West , and that was the scarcity of labor . " If Horace Greeley 's advice to the young man to go West were ever sound , " Mr. Guggenheim said , " it is sound now . The opportunities for labor of all classes in the West to-day are unexampled . All industry in the West is handicapped for . want of workmen . " In fact , it would seem that . Chinese labor le conilng , to.be.a.xecessity at least in the lower grades of employment in the West .                     