@@677314

txt ST . PETERSBURG , June ** Lower House of Parliament was swayed this afternoon by successive waves of passion evoked by a series of Government communications , including Military Procurator Pavlof f 's rejection of the appeal of the House for a cessation of the executions in the Baltic Provinces and the cool request of the Procurator of the District Court that the House expel M. Ulianoff , editor of a Socialist paper , who has been indicted , although a member of Parliament , in order that he may be arrested pending his trial for press offenses . So fierce was the storm that President Mouromtseff announced that he would be compelled to adjourn the session if the demonstration continued . The District Procurator 's letter informed the House that the trial of M. Ulianoff was set for June 27 , but that he was Protected from arrest by the constitutional privilege of the House , and that his ' expulsion was asked for . A resolution " that the House sees no reason to utilize the right of expulsion " was adopted . M. Pavloff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He declared tnat until the military laws were changed the courts-martial had no option but to impose death sentences for such offenses as those committed at Riga and Sevastopol . M. Payloff , after reading his communication in a hurried , agitated voice , immediately left the hail , but not too soon to escape the cries of " Murderer ! " " Assassin ! " and " Dog ! " from the Radicals . Father Akhanatieff of Ufa brought the House to its feet with a reference to the Holy Synod 's prohibition of prayers for the repose of the soul of Lieut . Schmidt . He said the Ministry was marked with the brand of Cain and was ripe for Divine vengeance . The House adjourned after adopting a resolution expressing profound discontent with the answer of the Ministry on the subject of the death sentences . The Agrarian movement is extending in all directions , and it is increasingly manifest that the troops who come from the villages are siding with the peasants . Even the Cossacks are beginning to rebel against the odious work of holding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Lower House , says he has received a. thousand letters from Cossack soldiers saying they are tired of playing the role of oppressors of the people and that they desire to right the wrongs they have been compelled to inflict on the nation . On account of the disaffection of several regiments of the garrison at Moscow because they were served with spoiled rations , according to the authorities , the Surgeons and commanders have been ordered to make daily personal examination of the soldiers ' food . SAUSAGE FACTORIES CLOSED . Two Alleged to be Unsanitary  --  Others May Be Shut Up . On the complaint of the Department of Health , two sausage factories were closed yesterday . It was alleged that they were unsanitary . Commissioner Darlington said that the inspection would be continued , and that all unsanitary places would be Immediately closed . The places closed were the factories of Bernstein &; Greenberg of 49 Willett Street , and Harry Brenner of 75 Goerck Street . HAS TOO MANY WIVES . Charles Jerusalinski , a Dwarf , is Convicted of Bigamy . Charles Jerusalinski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stature ( 3 feet 11 inches ) as he is long on wives , was convicted of bigamy before Judge O'Sullivan of General Sessions yesterday . Only three of his living wives were in court , but there are others . They started a celebration in the corridor of the Criminal Courts Building when they heard of their husband 's conviction . A son who appeared as a witness against Jerusallnski joined in . The tailor will be sentenced to-day . NEW METALS STAMP ACT . Maiden Lane Rejoices Over a Law to Punish Fraudulent Marking . The Maiden Lane district learned yesterday that President Roosevelt had signed the gold and silver stamping bill adopted by Congress . and there was rejoicing among the jewelers , some ' of whom have been agitating for such a law for ten years . It makes false stamping of jewelry a misdemeanor , and is expected to put an end to the false marking of articles made of precious metals .                     