@@678429

txt In an interview to-day E. H. Harriman outlined his policy of railroad work . Incidentally he repeated his denial of the report that he intended ' to retire from active work because of ill-health . " There is absolutely no foundation for any assertion that I intend to retire from active business , " he said . Mr. lIarrIman 's secretary , Mr. Thomas Price , after the statement of Mr. Harriman was obtained , said to the reporter : " It is only an attempt of the New York bears to have some fun over night . " Dr. Dixon , who has been with Mr. Harriman , also gave out a statement , which reads : " I have been with Mr. Harriman through the entire trip , and I can pronounce any assertion about his intended retirement or any necessity of retirement utterly absurd . Mr. Harriman is in better condition physically and in every way than he has been for several years , His trip throughout has been beneficial and restful . I can state positively that he is not preparing for retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaking of railroad matters , and particularly referring to his new Mexican lines , Mr. Harriman said : " Our new lines extend from Nogales south along the west coast to about twenty miles south of Mazatlan . We have about 350 miles to construct , and that will give us a connection with the Mexican Central into the City of Mexico . Beyond that we have never thought of going . " I would like to have it understood that I am not at all opposed to Government regulation . I have always been in favor of it , and that is a matter of record . It Is hard to get the railroads to agree with each other in this country , and the railroads have not been entirely without fault . I have always fought for co-operation , and when I could not get it in any other way I have used retaliation , but never to destroy  --  only to develop . I have never torn down . I have built up . " The blame for the present deplorable condition of the laws and their attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws than with the railways As the law is construed to-day it would be considered a conspiracy if the managers of competitive lines should sit together in a room and talk over what they may or may not wish to do in the operation of their lines . So far as I know , they might be tried and convicted , fined , or imprisoned for doing just such a sensible thing as that . You see just how helpless we are . " The administration of the law has gone too far . There ought to be cooperation between the Government and the railways , but the law , as I understand it , prevents that . " " Have you any reason to think that Mr. Taft will continue the same conditions as those brought about during the Administration of Mr. Roosevelt ? " Mr. Harriman was asked . " The Inter-State Commerce act was passed in 1887 , " he replied . " There were regulations long before Mr. Roosevelt was talked of . The Sherman act was passed about the same time , I think . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It had become acute when Mr. Roosevelt came into the political field , and he was quick-minded enough to see it and possibly , carried it too far . I think the results have been rather disastrous . I think I said to Mr. Roosevelt in 1005 that he ought not to have the Hepburn amendment passed without having an amendment that would give the railroads protection as well as regulation . " " That was the time to have done it . We could have stopped all this recent trouble if that had been done then . The fact was , the Inter-State Commerce Commission was just as much at fault as the rebate payers and the rebate takers . They failed to enforce the original act . To that extent they were at fault . Their agitation for increased power has nor . been , as they claim , through a desire to enforce that act , as all the action which has been taken since the Elkins act and the Hepburn act went no further than the authority given in the original . " They were not satisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of subsequent trouble could have been avoided had they been so . This should be considered in a settlement of any kind , viz. , that the commission is at fault as well as the railroads . Certain of the lines did not want to pay rebates , and yet they have to bear their share of the blame . I do not think St is fair . I am not defending any particular corporation or any particular person , but this agitation , I am positive . caused the culmination of the panic of 1907 . " A condition had been created where the bankers felt that depositors were going to draw out their money , and they began hauling in from the money centres . There was no necessity for such a condition as existed in October of 1991 .. There was just as much money then as now . We would have had a healthy demand for money and good business had the agitation in question not taken place . It seemed that every individual was trying to get something of the railroads , try . Ing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been at Pasadena for the last week , left to-night for San Diego . From there he will go to New Orleans , where he will board his yacht for a cruise which probably will take him to Panama . MEXICAN LINES IMPORTANT . Said Harriman May Intend to Devote Himself to Financing System . E. H. Harriman 's denial of reports that he contemplated retiring at this time from active participation in the management of the railroads with which his name is closely identified , and his statement that he could not retire even if he would , because he still has much left to do , including the completion of the lines which he is building in Mexico . emphasized in Wall Street 's opinion the impovtance of the railroads which the Southern Pacific is building in Mexico . It has teen believed that eventually these lines will be extended to a point still further south , reaching possibly the Isthmus or Panama , and that they are destined to be part of the through line which some day is expected to connect North and South America . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Harriman interests total about 1,500 miles , of which about 900 miles are completed , and work on the remainder of which is being actively prosecuted . Upon the completion of the line which the Southern Pacific has projected into Mexico that system will extend as far south as Guadalajara . For most of the distance the line runs close to the western coast of Mexico . It has been reported from time to time that a mortgage of possibly as much as $100.000 , - 000 may eventually be placed upon these Mexican lines of the Southern Pacific , but so far the financing of this construction has been carried on by the Southern Pacific and Union Pacific systems in the shape of advances to the Mexican lints.                     