@@781259

txt Without specifically mentioning the party organization . the New York Bar Association last night adopted resolutions strongly condemning the failure of the Republican State Convention to name Judge John Clinton Gray as a candidate for re-election to the Court of Appeals . The association also declared its opinion to be that all of the candidates nominated for election to the Supreme Court of this judicial district are fit . " It had been expected that there might be some dissension to such a proceeding in view of the allegations that certain of the Tammany nominations had been " bought . " No opposition developed , however , and the following report of the Committee on Judicial Nominations was unanimously adopted as the sense of the association : " The candidates of the Republican and Democratic Parties for the office of Judge of the Court of Appeals are of the highest rank in respect of character , ability , and experience ; your committee regrets , however , that both political parties have not seen fit , by renominating Judge Gray , to act upon the principle which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has long and ably discharged the duties of his office should be renominated . The result of such action would have been ior a time at least to continue on the bench to that court two such eminent Judges as Judge Gray and Judge Verner . " With reference to the nominations for Justices of the Supreme Court in this judicial district , your committee has followed the practice of lormer years in conferring through sub-committees and individual members with representatives of the political organizations . In the opinion of your committee . the haracter , experience . and standing at the liar of the nominees of the principal political parties , Alfred Steckler , Ernest Hall , William A. Keener , Edward E. McCall , Edward B. Amend , Vernon M. Davis , and John De Witt Warner , make them fit candidates fur Justices of the Supreme Court . Justices Steckler . Hall , and Keener , recently appointed by the Governor of the : date te to fill vacancies , have performed their duties to the satisfaction of the public and the bar . " Your committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these candidates and reports no rt solutions . JAMES BYRNE . WILLIAM E. CURTIS , THOMAS THACHER , FREDERICK B. JENNINGS . THOMAS M RHINELANDER , ROBERT W. DE FOREST , PAUL D. CR.AVATH , R. G. MONROE . " On the other resolution there was not such unanimity . Some of the members insisted that the association 's position had been made plain in the foregoing recominendation . But Theron G. Strong demanded that the association declare itself more i.ocificplly and introduced this resolution : Whereas , This association believes it to be for the nubbc interest that Judges who have discharged the duties of ? their office in such a manner as to command public confidenee , and ' whose terms are about to expire , should , if eligible , be renominated and re-elected ; And whereas , This principle has been in many instances adopted by both political parties with t ? spect to renomination and re-election of Judges of the Court of Appeals : . And . whereas , John Clinton Gray has for the past fifteen years discharged the duties of Judge of the Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public confidence : and a failure to re-elect Judge Gray would deprive the court of experienced and able Judge ? and the City of hater New York of one of its two representatives in that court : Resolved , That this association disapproves of the discrimination against Judge Gray in the failure to unanimously renominate him for reelection , and in view of the possible deprivation of the Court of Appeals of Judge Gray 's services a- a member of that court , and of the City of Greater New York of one of its two ' representatives in1that court , this association recommends and urges the voters of this Sta , . and particularly of the city of Greater New York , to Lnite by their support and - votes. in the re-election , . f Judge Gray to the position , which for the past five years he has so worthily filled . Mr. Strong 's resolution was adopted , despite many votes in the negative . The Executive Commitete reported the purchase for the association of the property at 41 West Forty-third Street for 575,00 ( 1 , This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the east . The immediate object of the purchase is the protection of light and air of the present house , and possibly in the future the erection of an addition . KEENER TO REPLACE AMEND . Greater New York Democracy to Make This Change , Because of the Tammany Nominee 's Request . The n ime of Edward B. Amend , one of the Tammany candidates for Supreme t ' ourt Justice , will be taken off the Greater New York Democracy ballot at his own request , and that of Justice William A. Keener , one of the Republican nominees , substituted . The Advisory Committee of the Greater New York Democracy , at a recent meeting nominated by petition John De Witt Warner for the Supreme Court , and indorsed the nominations of Justice Alfred Steckler , who is on the Republican ticket , and Mr. Amend , who is on the Tammany ticket . On Monday afternoon , Mr. Amend , accompanied by his brother-in-law , Herman kidder , and Vernon M. Davis . and Edward E. McCall , the other Tammany judicial Candidates . called at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee , and told Mr. Russell that he could not accept the indorsement of the Greater New York Democracy unless his two associates on the ticket were similarly favored . Mr. Sheehan was called into the consultation . and Mr. Amend restated his position . The Greater New York Democrecy leaders were indignant yesterday over a protest , made to the Secretary of State in Albany , against the filing of the certificate of Mr. Warner 's nomination by their organization . The protest was made by Jay W. Forest . who claimed to represent the Liberal Democratic Party , and alleged in his protest that the petition for Mr. Warner is imperfect in that it does not comply with the provision of the law which requires signers of petitions to affix to their signatures their legal place of residence . it was charged by the Greater New York Democracy leaders that the protest made by Mr. Forest had been inspired at Republican State headquarters in the Fifth Avenue Hotel . and that it was a scheme to prevent the Greater New York Democracy from having representation on the ballot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic State ticket . chairman Dunn said last night : " I knew nothing about the protest lodged by Mr. Forest with the Secretary of State until noon to-day . I do not know Mr. Forest . and the statement that he is acting under any understanding which he has had with the Republican State Committee is false . " Justice Steckler , his brother Charles Jusflee Hall . and Justice Mayer were about Republican State Headquarters last night and had long conferences with Gov . Odell.                     