@@677607

txt A. message from the German Emperor to the Germans in America was delivered by Lieut . Gen. von Loewenfeld at a dinner given by the United German Societies of New York on Monday night . Gen. von Loewenfeld , in his address at the dinner , said that Emperor William , soon before the General 's departure for this country , asked him to tell the Germans in America that the Emperor sincerely rejoices at the progress made by the German element in America and that he was mindful of the importance of German-Americans in furthering the good relations between Germany and America . The General concluded his address by proposing the health of President Roosevelt . The dinner was given in honor of Gen. von Loewenfeld and Lieut . Col. Dickhuth , two of the representatives of the German Emperor to the recent Carnegie Institute cerebration at Pittsburg . STOP CAR CROWDING , Says Magistrate Breen  --  It 's Drawing Pickpockets to Town . Magistrate Breen , in referring to the number of ? pickpockets arraigned before him day after day , said at the Tombs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jury of this county , stimulated by the charge of Justice Greenbaum. threatened to indict the Board of Estimate for non-performance of its public duty in relation to the proposed new Court House . This is a matter affecting only a comparatively small part of the community . " But what can be said of the train of evils flowing from the overcrowding of our public cars , which immediately affects hundreds of thousands of our citizens Who , regardless of age or sex , or ailment or condition , are packed together in close , and frequently offensive , contact ? " These conditions account for the influx of pickpockets from all parts of the country , attracted hither by opportunities thus afforded . If the amount of property , in money and jewelry lost in these Icrushes every day were made known it would startle the public . Only a few of the cases are ever brought to light . " Is it not within the province of the Grand Jury to investigate this transparent fraud and bring to task those who are officially responsible ? " BLACK HAND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Was Pursued and Murdered . News was received in Newark yesterday of the death of Vincenzo Buffardo , a former resident of that city , who was killed In his native horde in Italy several days ago . Buffardo , it is believed , was killed by the Black Hand . The society had threatened his life while in this country , and was primarily responsible for his return to his native land , where he hoped to enjoy-tin : - comfortable fortune he accumulated in the bakery business in Brooklyn and Newark . When Buffardo received repeated threatIening letters from the Black Hand de , mending $2,000 he left his bush:less in Brooklyn and removed to Newark . That was two years ago . He thought himself perfectly safe , but be received another message telling him that he must pay over the $2,000 or he would be shot and have his throat cut . Buffardo turned the letter over to the Newark pollee . He was I in constant fear of his life , and after being held up on the street twice and having four men call at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and went home to Italy to escape his persecutors . The Black Hand inert followed him evidently , for he had hardly been home a week when he was shot In the back by some unknown person who out his throat just as the letter he received in Newark said . According to the advices received yesterday , Buffardo 's wife found his body in the yard of his home .                     