@@676145

txt District Attorney Jerome announced yesterday afternoon that he was about to take up his crusade against poolrooms and gamblers in vigorous fashion , adding : " Something will drop before the end of this week . " Just as soon as he could get a forca together after this promise he went up town and raided the new clubhouse of the William E. Reilly Association , at 314 East Eighty-first Street , between First and Sec and Avenues , in sensational fashion , and then immediately after caused the arrest of Detective John H. Downes , wardman for Capt . Timothy J. Creeden , whose station house is in East Eighty-eighth Street . He had the policeman locked up in the Elizabeth Street Police Station . the charge being aiding and abetting in the maintenance of a poolroom . Mr. Jerome said that his men had obtained al the evidence he thought necessary to convict Downes as being connected with the Management of the-club and to bring home to Capt . Creeden evidence of a guilty knowledge of the place sufficiently . strong to warrant formal charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is pointed out , will have little sympathy from his brother officials in the Police Department . Under the manipulation of the present Recorder , John W. Goff , as counsel to the Lexow Committee , Capt . Creeden made ' a full confession of the corrupt methods of the Police Department , at the end of which the spectators crowded forward to shake his hand . He has since , however , been looked upon as a social outeast ? y many ntembers of the force , and his name is seldom mentioned unless coupled with the term " squealer . " No prisoners were taken in the raid , as Mr. Jerome had only a warrant for the man for whom the said club is named , and who was absent making a book at the Sheepshead Bay race track . The raid resulted in the capture of about 3,000 poker chips , many packs of cards , slips such as are used in the poolrooms for registering bets , and a telephone , which last , it was said , was seized at the point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the street with It under his arm . JEROME HEADS RAIDING PARTY . Besides Mr. Jerome , the . raiding party comprised County . Detectives Quarles , Hammond , and Maher , ' and Policeman Welch , who is attached to the District Attorney 's office . They reached the home of the Will ' lam E. Reilly Association at 4:20 o'clock . It is a three-story brownstone building in the heart of a densely populated district . The officers of the association are " Jack " Schultz , President ; Jacob Strauss , Vice President ; William Hahn , Secretary , and William Ennis , . Sergeant at Arms . About thirty men were in the clubhouse when the door was beaten in with a crash . Mr. Jerome says that he and his men were refused admission , but President Schultz , who seemed highly indignant , said that this was not so , and we club was always open to the inspection of the police and other authorities . The door was only latched. he says , and Mr. Jerome could have walked in with perfect ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knob . Mr. Jerome declares that the parlor was used as a poolroom and that bets were being made there . It took quite a prolonged search to find the gambling paraphernalia that was seized . A long green baize table on the second floor had evidently been used for some game of cards . Everything about the building was bright and new and the odor of fresh woods . paint , and varnish was in every room . Upon the parlor wall hung the certificate of the organization 's incorporation , and this was one of the newest things of all ? f or it had only been issued by the Secretary of State on Aug. 10 , or but a little more than a fortnight ago . After the raiders had withdrawn with their booty the members denounced them in unmeasured terms . Mr. Jerome said last evening , however , that he had been After this particular clubhouse for one month . The raid , he said , was not important , except that it marks the beginning of a new campaign and a new policy in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when he returned from ' his Colorado trip , about a month ago , representatives of the Citizens ' Union asked him to accept their aid in his battle with gamesters . " I told them , " said Mr. Jerome , " that I had given up the idea of trying to police the city ; that I intended hereafter to compel the police to do their duty , and that I would raid no place unless the raid would be of value in giving evidence that the police were not doing their duty . " It was just about this time . he said , when he was informed that Reilly . intended to open a poolroom at the scene of yesterday'sraid . He employed one of the Citizens ' Union men on this case . As soon as it was opened , he said , an anonymous letter informing against it as a poolroom was forwarded to Police Headquarters . The letter Mr. Jerome traced along its routine course until it came into Capt . Creedon 's hands . CAPT . CREEDEN 'S REPORT . Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stated that he had made a personal examination of the premises , and that the place was not a poolroom . Upon this , the Citizens ' Union men interviewed Capt . Creeden about the club , and were by him referred to Downes , who obtained for them blank applications for membership , and in due time they joined the organization . Since then , Mr. Jerome says , they have repeatedly played the races in the place . Mr. Jerome declined to say bow many men had been getting evidence in the club , but he said he would prefer charges against Creeden and Downes at once , and that the case against the wardman will probably result in his dismisat from the police force . Downes was arrested at the station house shortly before 6 o'clock on a warrant issued a few hours before by Justice Holbrook of the Court of Special Sessions . He was taken to the court at once , but the Justice had left for the day , and the prisoner was locked up in the nearest station house . At 5:45 o'clock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Creeden left the station house and had not returned at midnight . Sergt. Casey. at the desk , disclaimed all knowledge of the raid . Downes was arrested by Policeman Welch and County Detective Maher . The warrant for his arrest was issued on a complaint made by Joseph Jacob of 308 East Eighty-first Street . Downes is forty years old and worked at his trade as an engineer prior to his ap pointment on the force , Nov. 17 , 1888 . ' He has been attached to the East Eighty .. eighth Street Station since June 16 of this year . Downes lives in Bailey Avenue , deleted 2 lines                     