@@677208

txt There was a rear-end collision on the Williamsburg Bridge just before noon yesterday , between two trolley cars , one containing sixty passengers and the other ten . A car of the Reid Avenue line , in charge of Motorman Clarence Kander , preceded a Broadway car in charge of William Ottle . The Broadway car was crowded . Both were crossing to the Manhattan terminal . According to the police , the brake of the Broadway car refused to work when the motorman tried to check the car 's speed at the Brooklyn tower . Passengers , however , said that the motorman of the Reid Avenue car , on reaching the Brooklyn tower , suddenly decreased the speed , and the Broadway car , which was about 100 feet behind and going at a fast ' clip , crashed with great force into the rear platform of the Reid Avenue car , crushing the platform . The conductor was inside the car , and he and the passengers were knocked against each other . Wild scrambles to get out of the car followed . Policeman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aid of the passengers and helped them out of the wrecked car . Both cars were firmly locked together by the collision . David Murray of 1,916 Atlantic Avenue , Brooklyn ; A. Prinsky of 141 Clinton Street , Manhattan , and Daniel Murray of 15 Auburn Place ; passengers of the Reid Avenue car , suffered from shock and contusions . The wreck caused a blockade that involved twelve lines of cars , and extended for nearly a mile . MARCH WARNS MR . ROOSEVELT Says the Deposing of Odell Would Cause an Insurrection . Trouble already is stirring In the Republican ranks over the reported intention of President Roosevelt to fovea the reorganization of the party ir . , nis State and to make William Barnes , Jr. , of Albany State Committee Chairman in place of Chairman Odell . Tames E. March , ex-Port Warden and Republican leader of the Sixth District , issued a statement last night in which he said : " I am a friend and admirer of the President 's , but I can not follow him in his interference in our State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualified for the position of Chairman , but he devotes his entire time and service to the party . You always know where to find him . I believe it to be to the best interest of the Republican Party that Odell should remain at the helm . Any interference with him would be disastrous . " The President had better consider well of ' ore he takes a step which would bring about an insurrection . I really can not believe that so able a- man as " Mr. Roosevelt contemplates taking any such action . " MULE STAMPEDES BROADWAY . Kicks a Car , Routs a Policeman , but Is Subdued by Strategy . Skipper James Olsen of the canalboat Mary Ellen , lying at the foot of West Fifty-seventh Street , took three mules out on the pier late last night to exercise them . For two weeks they had done no work . One of the three pretended to . be frightened at the rumbling of a New York Central freight train in Twelfth Avenue , and ran as far as Broadway , putting to flight every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a car and tried to kick in the sides . The motorman turned on the power and bumped him out of the way . The jolt sent the mule down Broadway on the sidewalk , causing men and women to run into doorways and up side streets . At Forty-seventh Street the mule became tired and lay down on the car tracks ; and refused to budge . Policeman Charles Flood was called to remove him , but when Flood approached the mule a ' Pair of hoofs shot out , and Flood beat a retreat . Beating a tattoo with a nightstick on the beast 's cranium did no good . Finally Flood went to a stable in Fortysixth Street , and bought a peck of oats . He let the mule have a smell , and then started away . The animal was on his feet in a few seconds and followed quietly to the station , where Capt . Olsen was discovered asking Sergt. Brady to send out a general alarm for the truant . CUT TO PIECES IN THE SUBWAY Rush of the Curious to the Scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 150th Street , a laborer employed in the Subway to keep the tracks clear of rubbish , was killed by a train yesterday at his work between the Fourteenth Street and Astor Place stations . No one saw the accident , and the motorman of the train which struck the workman evidently knew nothing of it , for no report was made of it . Daniel Donovan . foreman of the " trash gang , " as the rubbish scavengers are called , missed Rossi when his time was up , and , fearing that an accident had befallen him , sent a gang of men on a search of his beat . Fragments of the body were found strewn between the two stations . The sight of Donovan depositing parts of the body on the platform of the Fourteenth Street Station caused several women to faint , and a rumor spread that there had beep a collision in the Subway with many victims . Those on the platform rushed out horrified , and as they told the story outside the curious rushed down . So great did the crush of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people being pushed on to the tracks . ' rise police reserves from the Fifth Street Station were called to clear the station . They had to poke the crowd with their clubs to drive it away . The Coroner will make an investigation into the death . Mrs. Mizner Said to Have Left New York . At the Yerkes house in Fifth Avenue yesterday no confirmation could be obtained of the Chicago report that Wilson . Mizner and his bride , formerly Mrs. Yerkes , had permanently separated , he going to the West and she remaining in New York . On Saturday a servant said that Mrs. Mizner was at home . Yesterday afternoon the butler said that Mrs. Mistier had left the city .                     