@@676046

txt The Democratic Club was crowded last evening . There were more district leaders gathered in the red room and in the other parts of the building than have congregated since the retirement of Richard Croker from the leadership . John F. Carroll was the centre of attention among the leaders . Mr. Carroll has made ft a custom to have " nothing to say " about political matters . Last evening he broke his usual custom , and gave out an interview about the resignation of Lewis Nixon and the future of . Tammany Hall . Mr. Carroll said : " For my part I believe Mr. Croker 's withdrawal , followed by Mr. Nixon 's resignation from Tammany Hall , affords that organization an opportunity once more to equip itself , as it has always been equipped when it won its greatest victories . Tammany has never been beaten except when she was led by an individual . She has always been invincible when her nominations were made and her campaigns managed by the district leaders themselves . This is an excellent opportunity for the district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to victory , and I certainly do not aspire to leadership , except that of my own district . I will oppose any other leadership than that of the district leaders . " The history of Tammany Hall under individual leaders , however worthy or pure they may have been individually , was the quick sacrificamf all the advantages gained by her under the management and control of her district leaders . Even under the . leadership of so good , pure , and upright a - man as the late John Kelly , the organization steadily declined in power in the city , and , consequently , throughout the c untry . " After his retirement , through illness , in 1885 , Tammany won her first decisive victory in many years single-handed against all comers . This was followed by unbroken successes through 1886 , 1887 , 18883 , 188D , 1890 , and 1891 . During all that period the district leaders were the real and only authority in control . The course of the organization was always decided by them after the fullest discussion . " Mr. Croker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer who carried out its views , not the boss who controlled them . After the election of 1891 , during the years 1892 and 1893 , and until the Spring of 1894 , when he retired , Mr. Croker was absolute leader , and we all remember that in 1893 the reaction began which culminated in the disastrous defeat of 1894 . During the succeeding three years the organization was again run by its members , and in 1897 the city was carried triumphantly . For the next four years there was personal leadership , and the favorable prospect of 1898 in the State was lost . It is unnecessary to recall the defeat of last year . " In all this I do not mean to criticise anybody . If an angel were to become individual leader or boss of Tammany Hail it would be a misfortune for the organization . Much more would it be an evil to repeat the experiment of electing a mortal to such a responsible position . I hope the organization will never again be in the position where the extravagance of speech or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the whole party . The only way to secure ourselves against this danger is to refrain from surrendering to any individual more authority than is exercised by every district leader . " ' With this reform accomplished , there would be no excuse for opposition to Tammany Hall within the Democratic Party . The Greater New York Democracy is organized against bossism or individual leadership . The abolition of bosses in Tammany Hall would leave the opposition without any reason for existence , unless its leaders themselves wanted to become bosses . " Andrew Freedman , referring to the statement made by Mr. Mixon. in which he mentioned Mr. Freedman as leading a " kitchen cabinet " against him , at the Democratic Club last night characterized the statement of Mr. Nixon as absolutely without foundation . Mr. Freedman said : " Mr. Croker never gave this man an order since he left this country and relinquished the leadership . Mr. Nixon 's own statement in which he said that he had never received orders from Mr. Croker or any other man proves this to be true , and 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same statement many times . Personally . the only time I have seen Mr. Nixon was a short time ago , when I went to him and told him that under no circumstances would I be a candidate for the Sachem Board I did that because I did not wish to embarrass Mr. Nixon , as I was afraid the impression might get out that Mr. ICroker had been instrumental in forcing my candidacy " I have never cabled nor written Mr. Croker a single word about ' any act of Mr. I Nixon 's . That talk of his was simply a ! popular play , and the reasons he gave I were not the real ones that caused his resignation . " I Asked what those reasons were , Mr. Freedman replied that they probably had something to do with the fact that the committee did not agree with Mr. Nixon on all subjects , as for instance the Sachem i elections and the Belmont nomination for C Wlgeessin. man must have lost his head . " I continued Mr. Freedman , " and I will say . that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says . If Mr. Nixon can prove that I ever wrote or cabled Mr. Croker about one act of his let him come forward and prove it . Once more I say that what he says is absolutely without foundation . " When asked if he had any idea as to who ! the new leader would be . Mr. Freedman I smiled and said that he had not .                     