@@676723

txt The durable nature of diamonds and other precious genie makes it certain that many of them have ' long histories since they were dug out of the mine and swam like stars into the glittering system of the world 's , costliest ornaments . In general their records can not be traced far ; not.one known can be followed back to CLEoPATRA 's tiara or the breastplate of any in the line of Jerusalem 's high priests . It would be hard enough to pick out one authentically set in the cimeier of MOHAMMED or the crown of CHARLEMAGNE , ensigns of the pride and power of but yesterday ; set qukbs. ' in the foreground of deeper historic perspectives through which conjecture may trace their flitting but never extinguished fire , a modern jeweler 's shop might contain trophies out of the treasuries of Babylon and Ecbatana , for all that we know , the light in them undimmed that flickered on the girdle and tiara of Queen and courtesan through all the intervening procession of centuries . This is but a handbreadth in their full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conjecture nor imagination need strive to intrude . Man and all his works and ways and days and memories is the spawn of upstart yesterdays beside the newest of them . For those having a term of history connected with his own it is mostly faded out and forgotten . The biggest of them throw their searchlights backward for a certain distance , showing on what idol 's brows they once burned , the god and his rites and worshipping tribes outlasted ; what Pontifical and kingly tiaras they adorned , and in what secret reliquaries they lay for seasons entombed . But in general the tales of them are without cemetery luminosity . There is no individuality In their histories more than in those of drops of dew . But it is certain that they must have histories , and if these in their own light could be pictorially tractd , it would be a marvelous enhancement ' Wf their interest and value. , But glimpses of what they have gone through can sometimes be obtained , and these go to show that they are not without occasional errancies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always circle in lit galaxies , but take plunges into abysses of old night , their rays for the time*b ; ing extinguished , like the firefly 's torch which its shadowing wing intermittently shuts over . Thus the other day s. fisherman in the Lower Bay hauled in a sizable weakfish Which on dissection was found to contain a diamond ring with initials and a sentimental inscription . It was the old story of Polycrates over again , with an amatory implication which that ancient tale did not present . In another case a Jersey City provision dealer found the same kind of stone , naked of any jeweler 's addition , in the white of an egg which he had just squared himself to consume . He did not faint away nor rush . to investigate the remaining contents of his egg basket . Instead , he frankly composed himself as in the presence of a miracle  --  a supernatural interposition obviously intended to reward bourgeois merit . " He put the stone in his podket with no dread that coming there irregularly there might be sorcery in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adorned the interior of his , domestic hen , he determined that in its unclouded radiance it should henceforward decorate the exterior of his domestic companion , the wife of his bosom , who boiled its matrix and thus had . a certain share in Its discovery . It is , plain that precious stones are apt to have wanderings outside of the zodiac of decoration In which they commonly move , and as they last a long time , practically forever so far as the chronological measurements of mankind are concerned , they must in the course of ages pile up a tremendous background of adventure ' which would be of the greatest interest if it could be recovered and recorded . Man , itsAvearer , has a duration comparable with that of the aft'ernoon midge , dancing an hour in the sun 's beam , and a hundred or a thousand of his generations may go by while the gem holds up its undimmed lamp over them as if instead of an ornament of their pride it was a light ' of theft . sacrifice . Many considerations about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its radiant arbitat round , of interest enough to be set down and pondered . Their magical and unfading fires light up all crypts and labyrinths into which they may stray , and it is possible that they possess a language , if we could interpret it , to hold up exuitingly the , principle of abiding ' and permanence in the midst of a universe in flux and flow of change , with the worm of decay at the root of pretty nearly everything else , while over it that slow , destructive reptile has no power . The fact may not be wholly up to the pretension , but if kept out of the fire and not smashed into powder by the geologist 's , hammer , It goes about as far toward carrying out the idea of sempiternity as anything we can lay hands on for the purpose of the illustration .                     