@@781420

txt The House to-night passed the Cuban Reciprocity bill by a vote of 247 to 52 , after adding to it an amendment cutting off the differential Gin refined sugar . After all their brilliant work the House leaders , Henderson , Dalzell , Payne , and Grosvenor , have been defeated and overthrown at the last moment by a sudden revival of courage on the part of the beet sugar men , and by a sturdy and united fight on , the part of the Democrats . The blow to the prestige of Speaker Henderson and his lieutenants is regarded as tremendous , and the Republican malcontente who have been muttering under the Speaker 's iron rule are jubilant to-night , and are predicting trouble for him on other matters . This sudden reversal of the situation has come about in forty-eight hours . The beetsugar men who have been forced into sup-. port of the Administration have been grow= ing restive under the taunts about their lack of courage , and particularly under the open and unconcealed triumph of tho House leaders . The first symptom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Cushman yesterday , in which he practically defied the Speaker . Meanwhile Tawney of Minnesota , the beet sugar - leader , had been laboring with the beet-sugar men who had been won over by the House leaders . His work was quiet but effective . When he S en t to bed last night he had won over the entire California and Michigan delegations , and knew that victory was secure , while the House leaders were in happy ignorance of the change in the situation . Meanwhile the Democrats had , for the first time in years , gotten together . The House leaders had been secretly at work trying to get Democratic votes by a bargain , by which the Crumpacker resolution was to be quietly smothered in exchange for Democratic aid . This leaked out through a speech made yesterday by Mr. Pierce of Tennessee , and within fifteen minutes the call went out for the Democratic caucus of last night , An attempt to carry out the old policy which has ruled the House Democrats so long  --  that of bargaining with the House Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element in the party which is bent on making the tariff the issue next Fall won , headed by Mr. Swanson of Virginia . The Democrats pledged themselves . to reject the Republican bargain , and to vote as one man in favor of the amendment by which the Sugar Trust 's privileges are to be cut off . Thus the vote of to-day was a Democratic victory , the first recorded in Congress in years . Supported by thirty-one beet-sugar Republicans , the Democrats defeated the House leaders and dealt a blow at the tariff which they are to-night predicting is only the beginning of an avalanche of blows . HOUSE LEADERS DESPERATE . When the House met to-day the desperas tion of the leaders was apparent . In addition to their other troubles , the Crumpackerites were wild with rage over the disclosure of the secret-attempts to sell out their dearest project . They gave the beet-sugar men their moral support , and Mr. Crum-. packer himself voted for the amendment . The leaders tried their best to win back the bolters , but were at the disadvantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rep. , Minn. , ) and his lieutenant , Mr. Morris of the same State , knew to a man , but they were not letting out the information . The battle began when , at the close of the debate . Mr. Morris offeredthe differential amendment and Mr. Payne ( Rep. , N. Y. , ) made the expected point of order against it . His speech showed the way things were going . His old assured manner was gone , and he pleaded and begged for support . Although nominally he was addressing the Chair on his point of order . ho actually delivered his speech to the beet sugar Republicans and exhorted them to stand by him . He turned his back on the Chair and talked to them . His temper got the better of him , and he savagely attacked Mr. Cushman as a mart who had special in-terests in his own district , which he could not ' get ' recognized and who had therefore attacked the House leaders . The leading speech in opposition was by Mr. Littlefield of Maine , who began by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' which the . House leaders had sought to make with the Democrats over the Crumpacker resolution . It was an alliance , he said . " to sacrifice human rights to preserve the prestige of the leaders of the House . " Then followed a number of speeches which were notable for the vehemence and bitterness of their delivery . Mr. Lacey of Iowa read the resolution adopted last night by the Democratic caucus and said it was the only argument he had ever heard for the ' passage of the amendment . Mr , De Armond ( Dem. , Mo. , ) mercilessly ridiculed the way in which Mr. Payne pleaded for votes instead of addressing the Chair on the parliamentary point . Speeches , constantly increasing in bitterness of tone , were made until Mr. Morris ended the debate in a crescendo of violence , and then Chairman Sherman ruled that the Morris amendment was not germane . The , appeal from the Chair 's decision was instantly made by Mr. Tawney , and Mr. Payne and Mr. Tawney were appointed tellers . Those who voted to sustain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a despairing voice , announced " One hundred and thirty votes . " Then the Chairman called upon the opposition to rise and pass between the tellers , and the next moment a spectacle was witnessed which indicated that the end had come and the Henderson coterie of House leaders had met their Waterloo . MICHIGAN DELEGATION 'S ACTION . As the call rang out from the Speaker 's desk the entire Michigan delegation arose and walked slowly down the aisle , followed by California , Minnesota , and detachments from other States . As the significant procession , headed by Samuel W. Smith of Michigan . began its march the entire Democratic side burst into a frenzied roar of applause . Again and again , as such prominent men as Littlefield of Maine and Hepburn of Iowa fell into- line behind the Michigan men and Joined the march . the Democrats renewed the applause . As they passed down the aisle after having been counted the Democrats rushed from their seats , stopped them . shook hands with them , and congratulated them . As the beet sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House , : fejt into line and marched past the tellers , greeted in turn by applause from the beet sugar men . Every Democrat voted in accordance with the caucus resolution , and Mr. Payne announced that 171 votes had been cast against the Chair 's ruling . There was more applause at this . The Democrats seemed beside themselves with delight at their first great victory im Congress . Mr. Swanson and others who had contributed to the caucus action were the centres of little knots of handshakers , and several Demo  - -  cratic Senators . such ae Clay of Georgia arid Teller . of Colorado . walked down the aisles and congratulated the leading Jaen among the victors . Before the amendment was put to vote , Mr. Payne attempted to make a speech . The extent to which the prestige of the leaders had been injured was shown by the L fact that the once Chairman of the Ways and ; - Means Committee . was . greeted . with , hoots and jeers , and - at ' the- end of each sentence- , had to wait for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his attempted speech . punctuated by the steady banging of Chairman Sherm  --  n'sgavel . At last Mr. Sherman was able to . get . enough quiet to let Mr. Payne say a few Sentences , and he utilized the- opportunity to make what cannotbe described other-Wise than as a humble prayer- to the beet Sugar men . Turning his back on the Chair and standing in the midst of the- triumphant Michigan delegation , which a day or two ago he was ruling with an iron hand , Mr. Payne declared that he Was a friend of the beet sugar industry He said that beet sugar manufacturers were opposed to the Morris amendment , and it would injure the Oxnard industry , and he implored the California and Michigan men , turning to each alternately , to stand by him . p ' But as he was taking his seat a trium-hant voice from the Michigan delegation called out : " Does n't that appeal come too late in this hour of defeat ? ' The Democrats , the beet sugar men , and the Crumpacker men burst into howls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a vote of 164 to 111 , at Republicans voting for it . - 3 number of amendments were offered , mostly by Democrats , designed to an amendment reducing the Cuban tariff 40 per cent . and striking out the time limit , and called attention to the fact that Gen. Wood and Secretary Root had recommended it . . - Mr . De Armond offered an amendment by Which , the bill would go into effect at once . and Mr. Richardson offered the Babcock bill affecting the iron and steel schedules . Some of . the propositions came - from Republicans . Mr. Corliss ( Rep. , Mich. , ) offered an amendment providing for reciprocity with Canada . In most cases the Democrats voted for the amendments with almost entire unanimity . This was all done n Committee of the Whole . When the : cOmmittee had risen a yea and nay vote ryas taken on the Morris amendment . By this time the beet sugar men who had been browbeaten or coaxed into supporting the House leaders were ready to join the Tawney band wagon , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being taken , Mr. Littlefield and Mr. Swanson met in the aisle and shook hands and congratulated each other on their mutual success . The bill in its amended- form was then passed . There was a curious incident during the offering of amendments . Mr. Newlands ( Dem .. Nev .. ) insisted on making a speech on the annexation of Cuba . The disorder was tremendous , and he could hardly make himself heard . Some of the members reverted to the schoolboy practice of throwing paper bails at each other , and Mr. Sherman thumped with his gavel and declared that if the occurrence was repeated he would name the offender . This threat , so common in the House of Commons . is such a rarity in the House of Representatives that it made a sensation .                     