@@675713

txt A QUERY FROM LONDON , The London Statipt  --  a financial journal whose writers temper the aridity of ordinary economic discussion by the play of extraordinary fancy  --  pictures a combination by which the same group of American financiers shall control the great industrial corporations of this country , the transcontinental railways . the Atlantic and Pacific carrying trade , and the lines to both coasts of South America . And it predicts that " if thase vast plans for controlling the production of the United  --  States and the means of transport to the markets of the world can be consummated and effectively carried out , the United States will become the most powerful and the most wealthy country in the world . " But it asks : " Are these plans too vast to be carried out by any group of individuals , however eminent and able ? " It is not very safe at this stage of the world 's progress to undertake to answer " yes " or " no " to such a question . A few years since many things that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would have been pronounced impossible . But it is safe to say that the " vast " schemes attributed by The ' Statist to the group of American financiers probably interest the writers of that journal more keenly than they interest the gentlemen referred to . Control of the " production of the United States " is hardly within the scope of even the fertile and daring imagination of Mr. AteRGAN and his associates . Even the control of the larger industrial corporations would not " bulk " very large in comparison with the entire production of the country . The control of transportation is not so inconceivable , but it would present problems quite differently formidable from those so far encountered . Two facts are worth considering in connection with the glowing picture drawn by The Statist . One is that no such remarkable combination is needed to make the United States within a cal-culable time " the most powerful and wealthiest country in the world . " The United States is probably that now . The comparison is too extended and complex to be made with definite accuracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the conclusion exists . In the extent and character of the population , in the extent and variety of its territory , in the range of its natural resources , in its geographic situation and its relation to the lines of trade between the other parts of the globe , ha the Organization of its productive forces and in their proved capacity for growth , and in the nature of the political institutions that have been developed through trials as searching as any nation has ever undergone  --  in these elements of actual and possible power and wealth , it is not easy to name any rival for the United States among the nations of the earth . And these elements may without too much risk be regarded as conclusive . The other fact worthy of consideration in connection with the statements of The Statist is that the recent developments of American enterprise and expansion , which arouse the astonishment of the world , are developments under the prevalence of the regime of freedom . They are the fruit of the natural qualities of the American character and mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . They are , in other words , the fruit of an unforced growth , and take their forces direct from the native soil . It is true that there are gentlemen in public life who imagine that they are the fruit of the protective tariff , but those actively engaged are under no such delusion . On the contrary , the chief favorable condition of development has undoubtedly been the absolute freedom of trade that has prevailed-over our vast and constantly extending area of active industry . At home , within our own wide borders , we have attained and trained that strength which now enables us to reach out to the markets of the world . No other people has had such a field for activity and growth as that in which the American Nation has " mewed its mighty youth . " A logical consequence of these facts may be held to be that if American enterprise wins the triumphs which our English friends regard with such wonder , and not without apprehension , it will not be ill for the rest of the world . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conferring a partial monopoly with reference to foreign competition , has drawn its real strength from sturdy home rivalry . It has been taught in a stern school that the secret of expansion in trade is the creation of a wide demand through the reduction of cost to the consumer . That principle works with surer effect the wider the range of the markets sought . It can not and will not be ignored as American enterprise passes American frontiers , no matter how far it Ina &; reach .                     