@@676705

txt While the steamboat Chester W. Chapin , bound from this city to New London with 200 passengers , was trying to avoid collision With other marine craft off the lower end of Ward 's Island early last evening , she bumped across the sharp rocks of Nigger Point , tearing a great hole in her bow , through which so much water passed that her forward compartment was filled . The steamboat was compelled to return to her New York pier , where those passengers who wished to leave her were allowed to continue the trip by rail . A superficial investigation showed that the vessel was in no danger of sinking . Shortly before midnight she once more started for New London . The Chapin is a steel vessel of 2 , S68 tons , and was built in 7i ? ? 99 . She is a sister ship to the Richard Peck , and is owned by the New Haven Steamship Company . She has twin screws and is 312 feet long . Recently she has been running as an extra boat to New London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the North River , at 5:30 o'clock , and after rounding the Battery , started on a run up the East River to the Sound . The tide was running up , and as the Chapin neared Hell Gate Capt . George E. Rolland had his hands full keeping clear of the rocks andsthe other craft passing through . The vessel was at a point just south of Ward 's Island when directly ahead of her appeared Float No. 34 of the New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroad , loaded with freight cars and in tow of Transfer Tug No. 9 . In the strong tide the tug was having a hard time keeping the float in the channel . When the Chapin was not more than two lengths behind the tow the ferryboat Hackensack of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad , coming down the river , tried to cross the bows of the tug . A collision resulted , in which the ferryboat stove in three planks of the float and started her to leaking so badly that she had to be beached . Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collision , which stopped the float directly In his path . The rocks were to the right , and behind him , a little to the left , the steamboat Plymouth was approaching at full speed . To have tried to get around the tow and avoid the rocks would have thrown the Chapin directly in the path of the other steamboat , with no chance of clearing her . The only thing left for Capt . Rolland to do was to turn toward the rocks , which were submerged , and take a chance of clearing them . He followed that course , and a moment later his vessel was bumping over Nigger Point , where she finally came to a full stop , hanging by her bow on the rocks . Signals of distress were at once sounded , and Transfer Tugs 10 and 15 , which were a F riort distance behind , went at once to the Chapin 's assistance . They passed lines to her and tried to pull her off , which , witlthe aid of the rising tide , they were able to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towed to the sand bar off Riker 's Island , where she was grounded for fear that she was so badly damaged she would sink . There an investigation showed a hole of considerable size in her bottom well forward , while her compartment was already filled . The steamboat has five of these compartments , and when Capt . Rolland saw that only one of them was filled he determined to return to New York for orders . Accompanied by one of tie tugs , the Chapin started back down the river , arriving at her pier about 10 o clock . Capt . Nicholson , the Superintendent of the line , was at the pier when she arrived . and hr at once notified the passengers aboard that all echo wished to continue the trip by rail could have their tickets exchanged . He told all that there was no danger of the vessel sinking and that she would at once start again for New London . Most of the passengers remained aboard , but about twenty-five decided that they had had enough sailing for one night and took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passengers were full of praise for the action Capt . Rolland had taken . They said that had he turned the other way , his vessel 's broadside would have been struck by the Plymouth . One passenger said that there was some excitement for a moment while the vessel was hanging over the rocks , and that he had counted fifteen separate shocks , each one of which , be declared , sounded like the crack of doom . " Of course , " he continued . " nobody tried to climb the masts , but there was considerable uneasiness aboard for a time . Most of us were well forward , and took in the whole proceeding . We could n't see any rocks , but when she hit we knew at once what was under us . The discipline of the deckhands and officers was excellent , and to that was due the fact that there was no panic " Another passenger , one of those who left the vessel for the train , was accompanied by his wife and several children . He would tot give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had not yet recovered from the shock . A reporter asked him If there was much excitement aboard when the Chapin struck . In a voice filled with emotion he stammered : " Wa-was there any excitement when Roosevelt was elected ? " ? He could not say any more . As soon as the steamboat discharges her passengers and freight she will be taken off of her run and sent to the dry dock for repairs . Her place will be taken by the Rhode Island . Nigger Point , on which the Chapin struck , is one of the two very dangerous reefs still remaining in Hell Gate . At low water the rocks are awash , and at high tide they are so submerged that their presence can not be detected . The tide in passing up sets in toward them , and every year many vessels come to grief there .                     