@@677049

txt Perhaps hot winds may even yet scorch the corn crop . Perhaps early frosts may reduce the cotton crop . Perhaps the flooding commercial current may turn to ebb i'n unforeseen and unforeseeable ways . Nevertheless to-day we are sure of , and it is certain , that few Julys have presented so fair a front as that whose statistical portrait is now current in day to day publications . The bank clearings in ninety-four cities were 6 per cent . over the largest heretofore recorded , in 1902 . Yet , notwithstanding the volume ef business , the number of mercantile failures was surprisingly small , being smaller than in any July for twelve years . and smaller than in any month since August , 1903 . The liabilities make a lees favorable comparison owing to an unusual number of banking failures , but they were not attributable to general causes . The imports at this port are no less than 510,012,130 over July last year , the increase being largely contributed by such items as gems and automobiles , which are not bought freely when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banknote circulation passed a half billion for the first time at the end of July , when it stood at $503,000,000 , having practically doubled since the close of the Spanish war . For July the local Post Office receipts were 91/2 per cent above last year . The abnormally large Treasury deficit may seem ineligible to admission to this resume , but it results from no defiCiency in income . The Treasury receipts are the index to commercial conditions more truly than the deficiency which marks merely the relation of income to outgo , and the Treasury income is altogether satisfactory . Iron production is again at its full record volume , after some slight wavering of no intrinsic importance . There are always some who would like to see crop conditions better , but at least with all drawbacks they are better than any one expected a couple of months ago , and it may be doubted that the farmers ever received more money than they will receive from this year 's aggregate . There is no nov1 eity about the fact that railway earn ; ings break records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even ? if sometimes they reduce their net by preparations for even greater traffic . Yet withal there is no sign of a boom . Indeed there is so little enthu slasm that there is a decided difference of opinion whether or not there is warrant for a range of stock market prices at the maximum of 1902 . The suggestion is offered that though prices are the same the properties are different . Hundreds of millions have been spent in development of them , and the community itself  --  upon which the worth of railways depends  --  has expanded . and domestic expansion has never yet gone backward in this country .                     