@@677371

txt I believe American labor should be protected against Chinese labor and against the entering wedge of Oriental conditions . If American men were able to fight in the tropics they are able to work in the trop-lies it properlypaid and properly cared for . This paragraph , from the speech of Mr. HEARST at Syracuse , is entirely gratuitous and entirely episodical . ' The entering wedge of Oriental conditions " means , of course , the admission of Chinese to the Philippines . That is not and can notpossiblY become an Issue in the electoral contest this , year in the State of New York . Mr. HEARST , then , has not yet learned that lesson inculcated by the late MARTIN VAN EUREN , " It is my experience that whatever is superfluous in polities ought to be avoided . " This is an entire superfluity . Moreover , it is what the Scriptures call a " superfluity- of naughtiness . " For the gratuitous deolaration of the candidate is a declaration of mere silliness . Ev , erybody , we think , without exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration of the Philippines , agrees that one of- the chief . wants of the islands is such a. supply of labor as the Chinese can alone supply . There are other capacities than manual tabor in which the Chinese can be useful , and almost or quite indispensable . They are the domestic servants of the white man in the Far East . They are the traders of all that region in which the Philippine Islands lie . North , South , and West , the experience of the native States and European colonies alike is-that the Chinaman is indispensable . The talk of an " entering wedge " is sheer nonsense , or sheer demagoguery . We treat the Philippines in a dozen ways differently from our own continental soil . To let a hundred thousand Chinamen into the Philippines would not necessarily let a single Chinaman into the United States . Silliest and most supererogatory of all is the speaker 's suggestion that " if American men were able to fight in the tropics they are able to work in the tropics , if properly treated and properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means that a soldier who has made a campaign in the Philippines can settle down there and do manual labor , as he might do it in New-Hampshire , for the rest of his life . This assumption is flatly contradicted by all the experience of all mankind , an experience of which everybody but Mr. Hmeetsx has heard . That experience is that no man brought up in the temperate zone can do manual labor for a long time in the tropics . Even if he could , does Mr. HEARST imagine that the American white man who leaves the Philippines at the earliest possible moment is a drug on the labor market at home ? DoeS he think the United States an overpopu-. lated country which needs an outlet for its surplus population ?                     