@@675531

txt The War Department to-day made public some more captured Filipino correspondence . The - letters are important , for they are the first that show the Filipinos to be holding out solely in the hope of Bryan 's election . The other Filipino papers showed that the insurgents hoped for Bryan 's victory , but did not state that they would yield in case of his defeat . In this correspondence Sandico , the Filipino statesman , declares in favor of surrendering in the event of Mr. 's election . The correspondence in full is as follows : " Santo Domingo , 23d July , 1900. 0 ' Lieut . Col. Casimirio Tinio . " My Distinguished Friend : The present campaign and some other circumstances have created in America a political situation that may perhaps produce the downfall of , which will signify the . triumph of our ideals . For the same reason the dice strous war in the Transvaal , and more especially the fierce revolution in China , have created a political atmosphere sufficiently critical to cause the birth of a disturbance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result favorably to our aspirations , because America May prefer to sacrifice some of her plans With respect to the Philippine Islands , accepting our independence under her protectorate rather than sustain two wars and run the risk of losing the whole archipelago . " I believe , then , that under the conditions so favorably colored by the present Circumstances , it is necessary that we continue the struggle , and only accept peace On the base of independence , although under an American protectorate . In planning this line of conduct , it is not . my desire to inaugurate a campaign against the noble and patriotic propositions of Senores Faterno , Buencamino , and Velardo , nor do I wish to signify by that that our leading men who are working patriotically for peace are proceeding on a basis of individual considerations , and are so simple in political matters that they do not recognize the present favorable circumstances , tior is it to be supposed for a moment that they are acting in bad faith , for I have always had the highest respect and elevated Conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this : That their lofty work , however patriotic and humanitarian , is something inopportune , since if Wee wait but a few months more we may Wee conclude a peace more advantageous without sacrifice of our nationality , and then ' aclmowlegge American - sovereignty . If the re-election of Mr. be l . ccomplished and the revolution in China - be wiped out , and the war in the Transvaal take no new complications , then will I be the first to accept the peace that I believe to . be necessary , though it be at the cost of acknowledging the sovereignty of the United States , since I consider that our forces are now impotent to defend our sacred and legitimate rights . WO REJECT ALL PEACE PROPOSALS . " I should properly tell you that all these Conclusions are but my political judgment as to the results of 's re-election . Nevertheless , if his re-election occurs , God imows what will become of our individual liberties . " If you agree with me in my way of thinking , which is that of our honorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we should reject every proposal for peace unless it be based upon Independence , and we should continue our brilliant campaign . In the Camarines , Cagayan , Samar , Iloilo , and San Miguel de Mayumo , our guerrillas have borne themselves valiantly , causing the enemy to ' withdraw from those localities with many losses among officers and men , according to the American - newspapers . I believe , moreover , it very necessary and urgent that we send a patriotic call to all the local Presidents in this zone that they lay down their offices as Presidents in the briefest possible time ; failing to do this they must be considered as suspects and as Supporters of the American cause . In conclusion I send a copy of a , letter directed to me from the Central Committee at Hongkong-. signed by Gen. Riego De Dios , and from which we may deduce that our cause prospers in America . Hoping that you may agree with me in Tay manner of thinking in all the above , as should be the duty of all Filipinos who love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my leave . as your affectionate Servant , whose hand I kiss . " T. SANDICO . " The superior Chief Republican Guard . " Translation by E. V. Smith , Captain , Fourth Infantry . . REGIO 'S EARLIER LETTER . " Central Filipino Committee , " Hongkong , May 16 , 1900 . " Senor Teodoro Sandico : " My Dear Friend and Distinguished Compatriot : I have received your reply to my letter of March 2 last . With this I communicate to you as most important the state of American polities with reference to our country . Above all , it is positively assured that the struggle between the imperialists and the anti-imperialists continues with implacable fierceness , the former feeling greatly encouraged by the triumph they expect to obtain for the upholders of the capitalists in the coming elections , and the latter , firm at their posts of honorable aspirations and not dismayed one moment , trusting that the light of justice will fall upon American ears and soon penetrate their hearts , carrying good fo. - all . " In Congress the imperialists have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America . but the property of the United States : that expansion is inherent to the genius of America and gives certainty of riches for the future ; that in 's hands should be placed all power to direct the future of the islands ; that no resolution of Congress is necessary therefor ; that the archipelago should be held to civilize it and redeem it from Tagalo savages . The anti-imperialists on their part have defended us . Whether protesting energetically against the extravagant applause of the imperialists for the ideas of expansion , whether opposing the policy of the Administration with regard to the ! slands , whether making inspired speeches 1 that show the retention of the islands will surely bring international complications and constitute an economical error for the United States , or inaugurating the many demonstrations of sympathy , they show that the spirit of upright men is not lacking in the halls of Congress . THE STRUGGLE OF THE PARTIES . " From , this it follows that the , struggles between the parties rage around each time they grow more ardent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February a conversation occurred between and the editor of a prominent newspaper . said that he considered the Filipinos as in the same uncultivated state as the population of Hawaii , for - which it was necessary that a benevolent rule of education be first inaugurated among them before they could receive their own Government . A counselor of the Department of Insular Affairs gives an opinion that the Filipinos may neither be considered as American citizens , nor may their products be considered as National products . The imperialists announce now the termination of the campaign in these islands , confirming it by the statements of Gen. - Wheeler and Bishop Potter , and the War Department announces in this connection that there is neces - ary in our country nothing more than a strong police force , following a proclamation of amnesty and a declaration of intention to treat - as bandits all revolutionists who do not seek- for pardon . You know the . organization of this police force ? it is a kind of a civil guard , under the orders of the commission sent to these islands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arrogating to itself the exclusive powers of Congress , will promise heaven and earth and will propose among other things an armistice that will serve largely to convince the American people that the Filipino has laid down his arms , submitting ' himself unconditionally to imperialistic rule , and by this means it will be able to show that the Filipino has recognized as his redeemer . This obtained , the number of votes that now holds by purchase and through partisanship will undoubtedly be greatly increased . This is only a political play , since it will appear by an important newspaper that it is an act of the belligerents and consequently represents our army . This commission , I repeat , is absolutely lacking in power to concede anything that as President of the United States may not concede , or has conceded . " Notwithstanding this , if the armistice offers to bring about a condition of independence , real and effective , then we shall say that submit offers for an understanding . Every offer except on this indispensable base must be energetically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have on more than one occasion offered life for liberty . WORK OF THE ANTI-IMPERIALISTS . " Our sympathizers continue imperatively in their campaign of redemption . The antiimperialist convention of the East met on the 22d of February in Philadelphia . Great enthusiasm reigned at the meeting . Eloquent speeches were delivered in favor of our cause by many eminent orators , and not a few men of politics ranged themselves on the side of the orators , and various resolutions were passed . Among these was a very strong one of protest against classifying as bandits those who honorably struggled for their independence . On the 23d an influential politician in Boston delivered a speech in a great meetclassifying imperialism as a new form f piracy . The announced possibility that would send a message to Congress asking for more troops , the impres- ? sion produced by the arrival of the sick and demented ? soldiers from the field : American losses deduced from official reports ; losses calculated mathematically as a regiment . month , as published by an important ewspaper.Amblisheda in New York ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Porto Rico that has started a great agit  --  liern-against - qzmcq#Kinley in the States of Indiana and Minnesota , which will draw many supporters ; the antiimperialist atmosphere taken altogether , spreads and defends itself against the imperial influence , and as an eloquent symptom of this , he called attention to the recent occurrence in New York , wherein the Methodist Bishop , seeing in his church , delivered a feeling sermon and said that it ' was impossible to deny rights to men of other races because we are the sons of the same great Father and worthy of love and fraternal affection . " They say that heard the sermon with a confused , hypocritical look that characterizes him . THE FILIPINO VIEW . " From all this we may deduce : " 1 . That we must not consider the armistice except upon condition of an immediate independence . " 2 . That now in America proper the supporters of our cause are being increased in number . " 3 . That the victories obtained by our seasoned army in this unequal struggle exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 4 . This impression is and will be one of the determining causes of our triumph , which triumph will come soon if we resist a little more , now that little is lacking to change the announced elections ? as with - the downfall of comes the ascendance of the starred banner over our soil . ' - E. REGIO . A copy . T. SANDICO . " Translated by R. V. Smith , Captain Fourth United States Infantry . Gen. in transmitting these papers says : " Possibly Sandico is as close to Aguinaldo as any of the leaders who continue in open hostility . "                     