@@676990

txt Tunnel Under East River Is Provided For , and Existing Trolley Routes Will Have Rivals . Without a dissenting vote the Rapid Transit Commission yesterday finally re jected the proposition to construct a moving platform crosstown subway in Thirty-fourth Street and then adopted elaborate plans proposed by Metropolitan interests to enable them to invade the Boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn by a tunnel under the East River from Manhattan to Long Island City . This crosstown subway and tunnel , as approved by the commission , will extend from Eleventh Avenue in Manhattan to Jackson Avenue and Fifth Street in Long Island City , a point beside Newtown Creek , which divides Long Island City from Williamsburg . The road will have four tracks across Manhattan and two tracks under the river and in Queens . The construction of such a subway and tunnel , if the contract is awarded to the Metropolitan interests , will bring the Metropolitan into direct competition with the Belmont trolley lines in Queens and also will give the Pennsylvania-New Haven-Metropolitan combination just such a tunnel under the East River as August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Steinway tunnel franchise , which failed of revival in the last Legislature . President Orr said to the members of the Rapid Transit Commission at the meeting that the proposed extension of the Thirty-fourth Street crosstown line under the East River was laid out at the urgent suggestion of one of the prospective bidders for the next subway work , but he declined to say which interest desired it , although admitting that it would parallel the route of the proposed Steinway tunnel . John B. , who was present at the meeting in the interest of the Metropolitain contingent , smiled when asked if the Metropolitain people had asked to have the route laid out . " Just say that the Rapid Transit Commission thought this a good plan , " said Mr. . " The route , however , interests our people very much , and we shall give it careful consideration . We certainly shall bid for its construction . " As laic down formally by the commission , the crosstown subway with its Queens connection will be offered to bidders in three sections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue , the second from Ninth Avenue east to East River . and the third section will be the tunnel under the river . It is proposed to have the East River tunnel section descend from the grade of- the crosstown section at a point between Second and Third Avenue . The river section will run under private property to the East River at Thirty-fifth Street , and in the Borough of Queens will run under Borden Avenue to the yards of the Long Island Railroad , two blocks oway from the passenger station . The tracks will be hrotght to the surface beside Newtown Creek at Jackson Avenue end Fifth Street , and may be extended at any time throughout Queens Borough . By taking the tracks across Newtown Creek an entrance would be effected to Williamsburg and Brooklyn Borough . It also is suggested that Long Island Railroad electric trains may be used through the tunnel for local traffic to be transferred to various Metropolitan longitudinal lines , as only through trains to the Pennsylvania station can be brought into New York fn the Pennsylvania tunnel . The entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel , presented the resolutions formally declaring the routes to be passed on . Mr. Rives also reported on the legal question which had arisen as to the power of the board to lay out alternative routes for Thirty-fourth Street , one to be for a subway for trains and the other for the moving platform . Mr. Rives said the board could leave the matter undecided until bids were called for , but that further delay might cause serious obstacles in the courts , Mr. Wickersham , counsel for the Interborough , took a different view , and did n- , t think that any trouble would arise . Edward M. Shepard , in a letter , advised the board to decide in advance on a general mode of operation for the Subway , and not to leave the matter open . Mr. Shepard also appeared in person and said that serious delays might be caused by property owners if the course he outlined were not followed . President Orr held that the board might as well settle at once whether or not it wanted a moving platform subway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving platform should be eliminated from further discussion . The general crosstown route , with the East River tunnel section then was adopted , Mr. Rives explaining that the East River tunnel section had been included in the resolutions in the instructions of President Orr . A letter was read from August Belmont , who wanted the board to hear him in executive session on a new proposition to increase the facilities of the east side elevated lines . Mr. Belmont , whose plan to four-track the Second Avenue line was rejected a few weeks ago by the board , is understood now to want to place a third track only in Second Avenue , and a third track in Third Avenue . It was decided to have a meeting of the Committee of the Whole in a week or ten days , and then to hear Mr. Belmont . President Orr announced that the Committee on Plans and Contracts had held a meeting earlier in the day and recommended the appointment of George S. Rice as chief engineer of the board at . S15,000 salary , which was paid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since Mr. Parsons 's resignation Mr , Rice has been acting chief engineer at $10,000 . The resolution making him full-fledged was unanimously adopted . Mr. Rives said that the printed formal resolutions for the Brooklyn and Bronx subway routes would be ready for formal action of the board ? at next week 's meeting .                     