@@676707

txt In a recent issue The Toronto Globe Says ; The leaven is working not only in federal but in provincial and municipal affairs . Public ownership is gaining ground all along the line . ? ? * Where are the exceptions ? To what steam railway , or electric railway , or gas , or electric lighting service will these words not apply ? Where is the public service for which the people do not in the end pay nine-tenths of the cost , and whic'h they ought not to own and control ? The Dominion Parliament is not dealing to-day with an exceptional question ; it is dealing with a question that may arise in every province and every municipality of Canada . The people should own and control all steam railways , all electric railways , all telegraphs and telephones , all lighting systems . All this can not be done at once , but hardly a day passes without the opportunity of striking a blow for the cause . Those who have watched the growth of the idea of municipal ownership and operation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that country . Sir WILFRID LAURIER made no mistake from the political point of view when , a year ago , he brought forward his plan for a transcontinental railroad . Ile expos'ed himself to attack on all sides had there been any one to attack him , but the only opposition developed seems to be that which comes from the unconditional advocates of full Government ownership and control , who object to permitting the Grand Trunk to have any share , in the enterprise . Sir " WILFRID seems to have displayed great shrewdness in making a Ministerial issue of a measure which both parties found it necessary to support . As The Toronto Globe points out , the logic of the situation will in time necessitate the nationalization of the Grand Trunk , the Canadian Pacific , and all the other roads now owned and operated by private corporations . This does not offer the Tories much of an issue , since it merely goes a step further than the Liberals deem prudent and in the same direction . It might be supposed that experience with the Inter-colonial Railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxpayers , since it has been burdensomely unprofitable from the outset . But it does not appear to have done so . It is argued that the building of the Intereolonial was determined by considerations other than those of commercial necessity , and that it can not be expected to be profitable in the sense of earning dividends . It was laid out as political and military considerations dictated , and that it failed to tap profitable sources of traffic is not surprising . The desire for the public ownership of all public utilities is perhaps the natural result of the Dominion policy In the matter of interprovincial railroads . It requires no great encouragement to popularize the idea of municipal trading wherever corporations have waxed strong and aggressive , and especially where they have made an effort to intrench themselves behind barriers of cunningly devised legislation designed for the up-building of sempiternal monopolies . Perhaps this is as true south of the St. Lawrence as north of it .                     