@@675911

txt The bill to provide revenue temporarily for the Philippine Islands passed the House to-day by a vote of 163 to 128 . Five Republicans  --  Messrs . McCall of Massachusetts . Littlefield of Maine , and Heatwole , Eddy , and Stevens of Minnesota  --  voted with the Democrats against the bill , and three Democrats Messrs . Robertson , Davey , and Broussard of Louisiana  --  voted with the Republicans for it . Mr. Meyer , a Democrat of Louisiana , was paired in favor of the bill with Mr. Foster , an Illinois Democrat . Mr. Warner , ( Rep. , Ill. , ) who voted against the Porto Rican bill last Congress , voted for the Philippine measure to-day . Mr. Crumpacker , ( Rep. , Ind. , ) who also voted against the Porto Rican bill , was absent . Just before the vote was taken on the passage of the bill the attitude of the minority was defined in a motion to recommit , offered by Mr. Richardson , the minority leader . Mr. Henry ( Dem. , Texas. ) was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outrageous . Months instead of two days , he said , would not be too long for the discussion of a measure of vital interest to 10,000,000 people . He dwelt upon the injustice of the double export and import tax on rice , sugar , and tobacco , and charged that this double taxation was in the interest of the sugar and tobacco trusts . Mr. Henry took issue with the Louisiana members as to the effect of free trade with the Philippines upon the sugar industry of Louisiana . He pointed out that Porto Rico last year produced more sugar for export than the Philippines and denied that free sugar from the islands would threaten the Louisiana industry with annihilation . The benefits from the sale of cotton and rice , he argued , would more than compensate for any injury to the sugar industry . Mr. Williams ( Dem. , Miss. , ) followed Mr. Henry . He said that as long as the Philippine archipelago was a part of the United States and within its domain it should be treated as part of the union with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But to avoid the embarrassments , hardships , and difficulties of the situation he believed we should get rid of the islands as soon as we could do so with honor to ourselves and benefit to the Filipinos . In conclusion , Mr. Williams expressed his concurrence in the suggestion made by Mr. De Armond yesterday that the Philippines be exchanged for islands in the West Indies , or other territory , 01 se to our borders . Mr. Hepburn ( Rep : , ** . ) charged that the reason the opposite:in gave unanimous consent for a vote on the ? bill without opportunity to offer amendment was because they did not wish to present their propositions in concrete form and were " content to talk and afraid to act . " Mr. Hepburn said he did not believe the Filipinos were capable of self-government . " Do you not believe they are as capable of self-government as the Cubans ? ' inquired Mr. Shafroth , ( Dem. , Col. ) " I do , " was the reply . " Then , do you not believe in the independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration , into a position where it was compelled against its will to declare for the independence of Cuba , " replied Mr. Hepburn amid Democratic applause . " Oh , you may applaud , " he continued , " but I predict that before many years you will yourselves see the unwisdorn of giving the Cubans independence . " Republican applause . ? I do not believe you could find a prominent Filipino on the islands , " interjected Mr. Mercer , ( Neb. , ) who has returned recently from the islands , " who desires independence . They desire only a protector-ate " I care not what the Filipinos want , " declared Mr. Shafroth . " I am only concerned with what the American people want . " MR . McCALL 'S SPEECH . Mr. McCall , ( Rep. , Massa ) a member of the Ways and Means Committee , who opposed the Porto Rican Tariff bill in the last Congress , opposed the pending measIure in a vigorous speech . Referring to the Porto Rico decisions by the Supreme Court , Mr. McCall said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were of the opinion that the fifth Justice in deciding with them assumed a position inconsistent with that taken by the same Justice in another decision promulgated by him on the same day . One Justice said that the two positions were irreconcilable . If his positions were irreconcilable , who shall say which one was right and which was wrong ? It may therefore fairly- be said that upon these questions which involve our power to make the people of the Philippine Islands mere chattels without a country  --  to confer upon them a bastard , common-law citizenship and cynically to force upon them a cruel commercial isolation , the court stands with four and a half Justices ranged upon one side 1 and four and a. half upon the other . " So far as the pending bill was concerned Mr. McCall said that he disbelieved so profoundly in the Administration 's Philippine policy that he could not support it . What have we seen in the last three years ? " he asked " We have witnessed the solemn farce of four or five very estimable American gentlemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whose language , customs , conditions , and existence they were probably ignorant four years , ago . " We have witnessed the spectacle of an . American army numbering over 70,000 risen engaged in conquering- a people struggling for independence . We have seen our highest court apparently forgetful that this Nation was established as a protest against the power of one people to tax permanently another people , declaring Congress exempt from the Constitutional limitation upon the great central power of taxation , and thus opening the way for autocratic government and for the exploitation of subject peoples . We have seen our permanent standing army multiplied more than threefold , and the expenses of our military establishments I approach that of the most army-ridden nations of Europe . We have seen ourselves take a position highly inconsistent in point of justice with the Monroe doctrine , when , demanding that the Governments of the Eastern Continent shall keep their hands off of this hemisphere . we ourselves , with hundreds of millions of untitled acres and vast untouched forests . seize at one stroke a thousand islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer of burlesque opera had put these things in a play he would have stood apart and alone in his profession as the consummate creator of impossible situations . 1 PHILIPPINE POLICY DENOUNCED . " I believe now as I have always believed , that when our Commissioners set their 1 hand to the treaty annexing the Philippines 1 they inaugurated as infatuated a policy as any upon ' which a great nation ever embarked . It was a policy . which has been followed by the destruction by us of tens of thousands of innocent brown men who had never done us any harm , and who were lured by our- own glorious history to fight , for their freedom and their homes . It was a policy . bee . as a result of which thousands upon thausands of the sons of American mothers will sleep their last , sleep upon the banks of the Rio Grande and the Pasig . I know it is said that ... it - will give us commerce .. Our trade with-those.islands .. appears to-day to have reached the magnif- : icent proportions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should promise to bring to this ' ceuntry all the wealth of the Indies I believe that our National honor , the preservation in their integrity of republican institutions , our future peace and safety . every dictate of interest and justice demand that we shall now so shape our steps that we may return again to the God of our fathers . " After a few remarks by Mr. Green ( Dem. , Penn. , ) in opposition to the bill . Mr. McClellan ( Dem. , N. Y. , ) closed the debate for his : ride . The acquisition of the Philippine Islands , he said , was the most costly plunge ever made by a reckless gambler at the Monte Carlo of international politics . " Your justification for embarking this country upon a policy of colonialism , " said he , " was that it would open new markets for American products . And now , despite your solercu promise , you propose by this bill to close the markets of the Philippines to the people of the United States . As long as you keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade with us , just . so : ong will they remain our enemies . If they can not sell to us they will not buy from us , and if they can not trade with us their sympathies will follow their interests . If you tear down the barbarous restrictions of a protective tariff between different parts of our territory , you will not only open new markets for American products , but by permitting the Filipinos to prosper you will have begun the work of pacification and cf fitting them for self-government . " The debate was closed by Mr. Dalzell ( Rep .. Penn. , ) in a speech of an hour . He drew a parallel between the Government of the Louisiana Territory immediately after its acquisition and the government of the Philippines to show that the latter was much less arbitrary and despotic than the former . He commended to those on the other side who were so zealous of the rights of the " little brown men " in the Philippines the protection of the rights of the black men in the South . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interrupted Mr. , ( N. J. ) " Can he cite any act which imposed a duty upon goods from one Territory or State to another ? " " Certainly , " replied Mr. Dalzell . " If the gentleman will examine history he will find that duties were levied for a long time on goods from the Territory of Louisiana and also of Florida . " Mr. Richardson , the minority leader , Moved to recommit the bill with the following instructions : " To report a bill reducing the tariff laws and internal revenue laws now in force in other portions of the United States to a revenue basis , and to apply the same to all portions of the United States , including the Philippine Islands , to be on effect until order has been restored there . and the Filipinos permitted , with the aid of the United States , to establish a stable and independent Government " The . motion to recommit was lost by a vote of 12.2 to 172 It was a strict party vote as far as the Republicans were concerned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic side , cast by Messrs . Broussard , Davey. and Robertson , all of Louisiana . Mr. Mayer ( La. ) was paired against the motion with Mr. Foster ( Dem. , Ill . ) The bill was then passed-163 to 128 . The bill imposes the Dingley rates upon goods entering the Philippines from the ' United States . It also provides for the collection of tonnage taxes on vessels plying between the United States and the Philippines . and that foreign vessels may ply between these ports until Jan. 1 , 1905 . The duties and taxes collected under the provisions of the bill shall go into the Philippine treasury . to be expended for the use and benefit of the islands .                     