@@677252

txt The news of the Governor 's action in signing the Prentice bill , which abolishes a large number of Raines law hotels , was received last night by the representatives of the brewers and saloon keepers who had assembled in the Metropolitan Life Insurance Building for the purpose of learning just what the surety companies intended to do , the surety companies having made it known earlier in the day that they did not intend to take the saloon risks this year that they took last year . It was the general opinion that the new law would wipe out at least a thousand places in Manhattan where liquor was sold , and that if the bonding companies stuck to the blacklist between 500 and 600 places in addition would certainly have to go . The representatives of the surety companies met in the offices of the American Surety Company 's excise branch in the Metropolitan Building at 8 o'clock , and the session which followed lasted until long after midnight . Among the companies represented were the American Surety Company , the United States Guarantee Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company , the United States Surety Company , the Fidelity and Casualty Company , and the National Surety Company . When the meeting was called to order reports were read showing that the surety companies had lost last year on excise business $270.000 , the State Excise Department recovering that amount in suits brought against the bonds furnished for hotel keepers who were convicted of violating the provisions of the liquor tax law . The majority of the surety companies reported that they had lost more money than they had collected on premiums and that they did not feel like taking the same risks tails year . Further than this it was shown that many of the places guaranteed had proved to be dives , although this fact was not discovered until after the bonds had been furnished . After much discussion as to what hotel keepers should be bonded in the future it was agreed that the surety companies form a permanent organization for the handling of excise business . The plan adopted was to open central headquarters in the Metropolitan Life Building near the offices of the Deputy Commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this office . An agreement was entered into by which each of the surety companies will receive an equal share of the excise bonding , while all will stand a share of any losses that may result from the furnishing of bonds for liquor tax certificates . It was further agreed that each company send in a list of hotel owners who were known to be regular violators of the law , and none of these will be bonded . In addition to this it was agreed at the meeting that none but first-class hotels be bonded unless a brewer or hotel keeper furnished an indemnity bond to insure the surety companies against losses . When the meeting adjourned Mr. Schwannecke told a Trams reporter that in the future the surety companies would take none but gilt-edge excise risks . " We will not furnish bonds for any place that has a shady reputation or for any man who has been known as a divekeeper . The saloon man or hotel keeper who applies to us for a bond , will have to show a clean record . All of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn in a list to the central office , and the men named on the list will be barred . " In addition to regulating the excise bond business in this way we also decided to increase the premium rate for bonds from $20 to $40 . But with our refusal to bond the divekeeper of New York several hundred of these places will be driven out of business , for they will be unable to obtain real estate security . " The fact that no applications for licenses have yet been filed means that some may not get their licenses this year . Under the law they must file their applications by April 15 . Then they file their bonds with their applications for liquor tax certificates , and after paying the license fee the Excise Commission will issue receipts for the money , which receipts will permit the hotel man to do business until the Building Department gets a chance to inspect the premises and reports back to the Excise Commissioner . " But any hotel man who fails to put in before April 15 his application for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance of getting his certificate in time to continue in business after May 1 . Applications that are not filed before April 15 will have to wait , and as the Building Department has thirty days in which to inspect the premises for which the certificate is asked the Building Department may delay matters so that on May 1 the tardy hotel keeper will find himself in the position of a man whose license has expired , yet who can not get a new one until the Excise Commissioner hears from the Building Department . " Usually by the end of the first week in April 4,000 of the 7,500 saloon men in Manhattan have their applications filed with the Excise Department , but inasmuch as the application must be accompanied by the bond . the hotel men were not able to file their applications Until now , as they could not induce the surety companies to take any action while the matter of creating a new excise law was pending . Such liquor dealers as had heard of the enactment of the new excise law last night declared that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opportunity to reply to charges and be heard In case an attempt was made to revoke his liquor tax certificate . While under the old law a liquor dealer 's license was taken away without a hearing under the provisions of the Prentice law , the liquor dealer now has a chance to defend himself against charges . However , the Building Superintendent will have to employ a large force of Inspectors and clerks to get around to all of the hotel inspections and make the reports which the new law requires .                     