@@781043

txt The second official trial race of the Columbia and the Constitution to-day had practically no result . The yachts , for lack of wind , were unable to finish within the time-limit of five and one-half hours . At 6:30 o'clock this evening the contest came to an inglorious conclusion , two miles to the eastward of Brenton 's Reef Lightship . At that time the Columbia led by a good quarter of a mile . The course was triangular , ten nautical miles to a leg , ' - the first being a beat to windward , east by south ; the second a reach , with the wind about abeam , and the third a run before the wind , which hauled to make it another stretch , with the wind abeam , until the race was declared off . After crossing the line at exactly the same moment , six seconds after gun fire , with the Constitution in the windward berth , the Columbia worked out , and , getting her wind free , forged ahead . The Constitution tacked off shore and shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing her . From then on to the windward mark it was nothing but a steady gain for the old boat , and when both had rounded it was found that the Columbia had gained four minutes and fifty-five seconds , the worst beating the Constitution had as Yet received . On the second leg the wind fell very light , and the Constitution , bringing it up with her , gained slightly . After rounding the second mark , four minutes and thirty seconds behind , and starting for home , the Constitution carried up about all the wind there was and passed her rival . Then the breeze came up again , and the Columbia once more shot ahead . Shortly after this the race was called off , with the Columbia well in the lead . It will be resailed tomorrow afternoon , the start being at 2 o'clock . Off Brenton 's Reef the wind was light at U:30 o'clock , when a postponement of the start was signaled from F. W. Vanderbilt 's steam yacht Conqueror , which carried the Regatta Committee . There was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sky was cloudy , and the air humid . The Regatta Committee hoped for a stiff southwester , of which there were many signs that did not come true , the wind hovering between east-northeast and eastsoutheast until 12:35 , when the flags were sent up denoting that a triangular course had been decided on . A few minutes later the flags giving the ? courses were hoisted . They were east by south ten miles  --  a beat to windward , southwest-half-west , ten miles , a stretch with the wind on the port beam , and north by west-half-west , ten miles , a run before the wind . deleted 1 line Unique carried club members and guests . Sir Thomas Lipton , with George L. Watson , the designer of the Shamrock II. , William Jameson , the famous yachting amateur ; Ratsey , the sailmaker. and Capt . Sycamore , the skipper of the Shamrock II. , watched the race with eager interest from the bridge of the steam yacht Erin . Commodore Lewis Cass Ledyard was on the steam yacht Colonia , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. F. Robinson , J. Malcolm Forbes , and Secretary J. V. S. Oddie , members of the Challenge Committee . The preparatory signal was fired at 12:50 , the lightship forming the weather end of the line and the Conqueror the lee extremity . The warning gun at 12:55 found both boats jogging close down outside the line , with the Columbia in the lead . Barr , finding that he was ahead of gunfire , worked back and forth killing time . Meanwhile , the Constitution was coming down on him in fine style , and when a minute and a half before the starting gun , both boats headed for the line , Capt . Rhodes had the Constitution in the weather berth . The Columbia , however , had a good yard more , and worked out to get her wind clear . At 1 o'clock came the starting gun , and Six seconds later ; the two racers crossed the line precisely at the same moment on the starboard tack , and with the Constitution not more than fifty feet on the weather of the Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her worth . She jumped ahead . and was soon backwinding the Constitution . Tv , , o minutes after crossing , the Constitution put about on the port tack . The Columbia followed , and Barr , with characteristic smartness , gave his boat a fisherman 's luff and planted her on the weather of the Constitution . It . was the old story  --  the weather berth and its almost inevitable consequences . On this port tack the yachts stood for perhaps three miles , the Columbia gaining steadily and the Constitution gliding to leeward . At 1:23 the yachts went on the starboard tack , there being one-eighth of a mile between them . The wind now came in variable and fluky , and the yachts indulged in frequent tacks . At 2:04 the Columbia crossed the bows of the Constitution a good quarter of a mile to windward and gaining all the time . The wind freshened at ' this stage , and the weather mark ' came into view , four miles east-southwest of Seaconnet River . In the short tacks it was noticed that Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this work was rather a laggard . At 3:11:08 the Columbia rounded the mark , setting a righting jibtopsail of symmetrical shape and rare tugging capacity , and steered for the second mark with the wind abeam . The Constitution rounded at 3:16:03 , having been beaten 4 minutes and 55 seconds on the first leg . CONSTITUTION FORGES AHEAD . The Erin was also close by at the turn , and many glasses were leveled on the two vessels . The jibtopsail of the Constitution was the same she carried on Saturday , and was of poor cut and ability when compared with that of the Columbia . The wind fell light , and the Constitution picked up a little at various times during the reach . Balloon foresails were set , and the Constitution luffed out to the eastward in an unsuccessful wind-hunt . At 3:47:00 the Columbia set a balloon jibtopsail , the Constitution following her example almost immediately . Nothing noteworthy occurred until the second mark was rounded by the Columbia at 4:50:40 and by the Constitution at 4:55:10. the difference between the two being four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution of fifteen seconds . After rounding almost a flat calm prevailed for nearly twenty minutes ; the Constitution here showed marvelous ability as a drifter . The Columbia set her spinnaker , but , the wind hauling , took it ? in again after a few minutes . The Constitution lowered her spinnaker pole , but did not set the sail . Under her balloon jibtopsail she crawled up very slowly , and at 5:3S she passed Columbia and was the leading boat . The wind came a little fresher and the Constitution increased her lead . It freshened still more . when Columbia lulled out and passed the Constitution at 6:17 with singular rapidity , and was a quarter of a mile in the lead when the time limit was up . The official table follows : First Second Name . Start mark .. Mark . Constitution 1.00:06 3:16:03 4:55:10 Columbia 100:06 3:11:05 4:50:40 Neither yacht finished . Immediately after the race was declared off the Erin steamed back to the harbor . and Sir Thomas Lipton came ashore and was driven to the residence of Commodore Lewis Cass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Besides Sir Thomas and his party from the Erin , there were present the Challenge Committee of the New York Yacht Club . the Regatta Committee , and the owners of ' the Columbia and Constitutio* . The affair was entirely informal and there was no speechmaking . The first formal welcome to Sir Thomas by the New York Yacht Club will be given at the new clubhouse in New York at some later date . Immediately after the dinner to-night the Erin , with Sir Thomas and his party on board , started for Sandy Hook . The present series of races will end Wednesday . Whether or not there will be other races after that the Regatta Committee is not yet able to announce . It is said that another new suit of sails has been made for the Constitution at the Herreshoff works at Bristol . They are nearly finished and some of them may be tried to-morrow .                     