@@677052

txt Naturally the fact that the total of immigration for the fiscal year passed the million mark has excited attention and stimulated discussion as to the character of this large addition to our population . Commissioner General SARGENT , in the tables just published , : ompares the immigration of this year with that of the past two years , not only as to the totals , but as to the number excluded and as to the number of Russians admitted , the . current flowing hither from their unfortunate land being considerably stronger than in the past for obvious reasons . The total immigration is 1,027,421 for the fiscal year closing June 30 , it is 25 per cent more than last year , and 20 per cent more than in 1903 . The ratio of exclusion has somewhat advanced , 11.563 being debarred last year as against 8,709 in 1903 . The influx from Russia tends steadily to advance . It was 184,397 last year , as against 130,093 in 1903 . There is no classification that indicates whether the character of the Russian immigration is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of undesirable immigrants are enforced with a good deal of vigor , not to say rigor , is shown in the incidents reported yesterday In The World . One is that of as insane Russian woman who was saved from deportation to Russia , ' where she has no friends or relatives . at the last moment , by a writ of habeas corpus issued to her husband , who is able and anxious to care for her . It is not by any means certain that she can be restored to him , however , as she was at the time her deportation was undertaken an inmate of a public asylum , but It is to be hoped that some means will be found to mitigate the severity of the law , which clearly was intended only to prevent immigrants j becoming a permanent public charge . There were six instances of Immigrants ordered back on account of physical disability and age , four of whom were able to secure from friends and relatives the necessary bond , and their cases will be reviewed . There was still another instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and had sent for her , but she was debarred because of a disease of the eyes , said to be slight . Our laws are intended to exclude the diseased , the insane , the criminal , and those likely to become a public charge . Clearly they are enforced with sufficient earnestness . If we are getting an undesirable class of immigrants , It must j be because these objections to their ad , mission are not adequate . In other words , if we are to change the character of the immigration , we must change ' the laws . The question is in what direction and to what extent .                     