@@781048

txt The text of the new agreement between Great . Britain and Japan , which was signed on Aug. 12 , was issued by the Foreign Office late last evening . The momentous document le a brief one , comprising leas than 800 words , including eight articles and a preamble . Accompanying the agreement is a letter from Lord Lansdowne to the British Am- ' bassadors at St. Petersburg and Paris , for transmission to the Russian and French Governments respectively , in which the Foreign Secretary courteously reviews the agreement and carefully points out that this defensive alliance is not intended as a menace but rather as a guarantee of peace and prosperity in the ' Far East in which all countries may participate . The main features of the new agreement had previously been forecast In press dispatches from London and Paris .. The pithy articles of the text , however , bring out forcefully the tremendous int- , portance to both countries of this allie I ance , which practically makes Great Britain Japan and Japan Great Britain I for the purposes of defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This inclusion of India specifically as a point at which any aggression by a foreign power will call for the assistance of Japan finds much favor with the press of London , the morning papers , in long laudatory articles welcoming the new ant , mere extensive alliance of the insular kingdoms of the West and East as giving immediate relief from the dangerous , thundercloud which for so many years has hung over the Indian frontier . The preamble of the treaty reads : " The Governments of Great Britain and Japan , being desirous of replacing the agreement concluded between them on Jan . SO , 1902 , by fresh stipulations , which agreed upon the following articles , WhiCh have for their object : . " A  --  The consolidation and maintenanee of general peace in the regions of East ern Asia and India . " B  --  The preservation of the common interests of all the powers in China by in-curing the independeace and integrity cl the Chinese Empire and the principle of equal opportunities for the commerce and Industry of all nations In China . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high contracting parties in the regions of Eastern Asia and of India and the defense of their special interests in the said regions . " The text of the treaty is as follows : " ARTICLE I. ? It is agreed that whenever in the opinion of either Great Britain . oe Japan any of the rights and interests referred to in the preamble to this agree-merit are in jeopaity , the two Governments will communicate with one another fully and frankly , and will consider in common the measures which should be taken to safeguard those menaced righte or interests . " ARTICLE II. ? Should either of the high contracting parties be involved in war in defense of its territorial rights or special interests , the other party will at once come to the assistance of its ally . and both parties will conduct a war in common and make peace in mutual agree . ment with any power or powers involved : in such war . deleted 10 paragraphs It recognizes in the clearest terms the paramount position which Japan at this moment occupies , and must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the measures which she may find necessary for the protection of her political , military , and economic interests in that Country . It is , however , expressly provided that such measures must not be contrary to the principle of equal opportunities for the commerce and industry of other nations . The treaty at this point differs conspicuously from that of 1902 . " It has , however , become evident that Korea , owing to its close proximity to the Japanese Empire and to its inability to stand alone , must fall under the control and tutelage of Japan . His Majesty 's Government observes with satisfaction that this point has been readily conceded by Russia in the treaty of peace , and there is every reason to believe that similar views are held by the oilier powers with regard to the relations which should subsist between Japan and Korea " His Majesty 's Government ventures to anticipate that the alliance thus concluded , designed as it is for objects that are purely peaceful and for the protection of rights and interests the validity of which can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government to which you are accredited . " The British Government Is justified in believing that the conclusion of this alliance may not have been without effect In facilitating the settlement by which the war was so happily brought to an end . and its members earnestly trust that the alliance may for years to come be instrumental in securing the peace of the world in those reg'ons which come within its scope . " A similar dispatch was addressed to Sir Francis Bertie , the British Ambassador at Paris . Baron Hayashi , the Japanese Minister , who was interviewed last night after the publication of the Anglo-Japanese agreement , said : " The new treaty forms an effective safeguard against the renewal of disturbances in the Far East . That is its object . We can not say that a permanent peace has been secured  --  that is too much to be sure of  --  but we can aver that tranquillity has been assured for a long period . This applies not only to Great Britain and Japan , but also to all powers having po-litical or commercial interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all who have been interested in maintaining the status quo . " I repeat that the treaty is a sure guarantee of peace , for that is its aim and object . It should be clearly recognized by all that it is not meant as a. menace to any one . It has no aggressive intent , its only object being to secure the peace of the world , so far as the Far East is concerned . " The treaty is so clearly worded that I , no further comment is needed , and I am convinced that it will form , as it is intended to do , the most powerful factor for peace . I hope that the people of both countries will realize this and will keep to the spirit of the treaty for a very long time to come . " Sir Charles Dilke , in speaking to The Associated Press , took the position that the new treaty made no change in the status quo. but said it was an inevitable consequence of the new conditions in the Far East , and that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the m - vious alliance . Sir Charles argued that Russia was never really a menace to the Indian frontier , but merely played on the susceptibilities of Great Britain . With regard to Persia he did not believe that Russia would ever risk a quarrel . " In reality , " said he , " the countries most affected are France and Germany , because to both the new treaty secures possessions which they might have found it impossible to defend To France the arrangement is entirely satisfactory . " With Germany the case may be different , because the treaty deals a blow ' at the aspirations which Germany is sup.posed to entertain with regard to the Province of Shan-Tung , and because Germany 's present privileged position in ShanTung may become non-existent by reason of the treaty . Germany , therefore , may have some slight feeling of irritation because of the limitation thus imposed . ' It is only in this respect that the treaty is likely to give rise to any permanent unpleasantness . In all other respects it makes for peace . " While there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is only half-hearted , and , as a whole , London , which has been anxiously awaiting the breaking of the , official silence regarding the document , heaves a sigh of relief and greets with great satisfaction the positive assurance of the future assistance of a powerful Oriental ally in all matters pertaining to Far Eastern policies .                     