@@677465

txt It is plain that the Terrorists of Russia are masters of their art . Add this grim mastery to their absolute fearlessness and recklessness of consequences and the effect of their campaign can hardly be exaggerated . Only last week the assassin of Gen. VON DER LAUNITZ , Prefect of St. Petersburg , secured access to his victim by means of a card of invitation to a Court function which could have been obtained only through some responsible official of the Court . Yesterday Gen. PAVLoFF , Advocate General of the Army , was killed with the utmost deliberation and coolness by a man dressed in the uniform of a military clerk attached to his court while the General was walking in the garden adjacent to his office at an unusual time , so that his whereabouts must have been disclosed by some one attached to his department . On the day previous another intending assassin was killed in the Grand Hotel , where in first-class apartments he appears to have gone crazy , thoUgh he retained enough nerve to hold off the police for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by these daring eXPloits is the fact that the police have announced that they seized p'apers revealing the list of victims condemned by the organization , on which were found the names of those who have already been executed . The feelings of the remaining ones , and of those exposed by their part In re . cent repression to a like sentiment of murderous resentment and a like judgment , can well be imagined . There evidently is a clear intention to rick off one by one the most active and conspicuous of the reactionary clique , behind whom , as the final object of the Terrorists ' policy of revenge and prevention , stands the " tittle Father " of all the Russias , the Czar . It is not true that the logical warning of these events falls wholly on deaf ears . On the contrary , the Premier , with a considerable party of the former ruling class in Russia , and with the co-operation of many of the leaders of the land ? owners who will take part in the next Duma , is using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy of the Czar toward liberal measUres . But meanwhilb  --  and for this the Czar is necessarily entirely responsible  --  the police and . the military are left in the control of the Court party , and are constantly perpetrating precisely the sort of blunders and excesses that provoke the Terrorists . They paralyze to a great extent the good influence of ' the efforts of the Premier . On the face  --  of - the situation the pol , icy of extreme repression can have lit , tle effect on the minds , of men like the assassins of LAUNITZ and I'Avt.orr . You can not frighten a man who is ready and glad to surrender his life . He anticipates your worst punishment . The sentence of death with which you threaten him he has already passed upon himself , hilt for the penalty you tell him he will have to pay he exacts his own cotnnensation in advance , and to him the cotripensation is ample . He lliVeS to the-law not the slightest hold on his imagination , not the faintest control over his implacable will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which he reveres as complete- ly ' its he , : disdains that of the despot-5 ism he undertakes to destroy , he Is no longer subject ' to terror ; hale the cause of it . The only possible practical way of dealing with this class is to remove the motive for their violence : Very probably that would fail ' of immediate ' effect , for there : existS some thing-like ? a - ina.nia , - of violence and assassination which possesses the Court party as well as the Terrorists . But ultima.tely " the policy would work , and it ' is the only one that can be expected to work at all . The first step toward applying it is to give tO the national Parliament freedom of discussion , that facts may be known , and a progressive control over Government action that the people may learn by practice the responsibility that goes with real power . , -                     