@@678145

txt If Tee is elected president there will be another new face in the White house besides his own . The big men of the country and politicians generally will have to get a more intimate acquaintance with the probable successor of William Loeb Jr . as secretary to the president . R is much too early to make any predictions about the cabinet officers in the event Of republican success , but it does not require any experienced prophet to assume that the man who will stand between President Taft and the merciless horde of office seekers and statesmen will be Fred W. Carpenter , who was private secretary while Mr. Taft was secretary of war and who resigned his position in the government aervIce to follow the fortunes of his chief during the campaign which is to be inaugurated by the speech of acceptance in Cincinnati next meeeinv . Secretaries Born , Not Made . Conildential secretaries nowadays are born and not made . The work is coming to be a profession for which a man must have special aptitude in additiOn to his training . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have Carpenter , each one of them with proved loyalty to his superior and with extraordinary capacity for sifting out the important from the indifferent , good men from bad ones , and serious things from trivial incidents . in almost every case these jewels of private secretaries are happened upop , by accident . The fact that they remain In the service of busy mon who demand constant attenlien and who leave a great deal to their trusted subordinates , is sufficient indication that these accidental secretaries have " made good . " Grover Cleveland during his first admen'steation discovered a gold mine when he found Dan Lamont , who had been a reporter on an Albany paper . " Dan , " as he was called by almost every one , not only had extraordinary executive capacity , but bad genius for practical politics . Kept Friends for Cleveland. : Lamont was Immensely popular with the newspaper correspondents , and se long ms he remained at the White house President Cleveland was on good terms with the politicians In his own party . Later on Lamont became secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had his hand on the throttle and the result was that during Cleveland 's second administration the president and leaders in congress began to drift apart . The astute and masterful Lamont was a cabinet officer , and Mr. Thurber , who was an excellent man in his way , but lacked both tact and force of character , did- nothing to bridge the rapidly widening chasm . The result was that Grover Cleveland , really a great man , went out of office with the actual erne'y of a great majority of the leading Men of his own party . Porter 's First Aid . When became president he made John Addison Porter , a. classmate of Mr. Taft 's , his private secretary . Porter was really too good for the place In one way . He attended to the social ditties of the adminfiltration admirably , but he lacked that particular capacity which seems to grow up with a man who has been a stenographer In an office before he becomes secretary to a great man . Porter died in office as a result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to cope with the vast amount of work which was entailed by the change of administration . Cortelyou at that time was still a , clerk in the executive offices . He had been a successful stenographer under Postmaster General Bissell and was transferred to the White house without the slightest bit of political pull being exerted In his behalf , but simply and solely because of his proved capacity for actual work . He soon began to assume entire charge of the miscellaneous correspondence , Ind after being promoted to the post of assistant secretary succeeded Porter upon the latter 's untimely death . Cortelyou Takes the Office . Thereupon Cortelyou made himself indispensable to . He said little but always talked to the point . He could be depended upon to keep his mouth absolutely Shut and yet when Instructed he could give out information In such a quiet way as to command belief in its reliability . He never seemed to forget a face , was familiar with the minutest details of the executive busitetra , and his training in subordinate positions made him courteous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promoted to a cabinet position . and the country lost one of the best of its confidential clerks . Then came William Loeb Jr . He was a stenographer at the capitol In Albany when Theodore Roosevelt was chosen ' governor . The new governor arrived at the capitol one day , I think before he was inaugurated , and suddenly demanded the services of a stenographer , Loeb Made good Quickly . Loeb was in the vicinity and was sent in to " take " the governor 's dictation . The next day Mr. Roosevelt again felt Inclined to talk and write letters , and sent out for " the same man I had yesterday . " Ho hardly knew Loeb 's name . That accident of being on the ground at the time and of being an expert stenographer made Loeb ultimately secretary to the president of the ' United States , an office which has risen In dignity of late years to a remarkable degree . Mr. Loeb came on to Washington as assistant secretary and was promoted when Cortelyou was sent into the cabinet . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cortelyou , early training , courteous deference , and mastery of detail have all been combined to produce an ideal confidential representative of the president . Co.rnenteed Training the Same . Now there cornea along Carpenter . It is a striking fact that he has had practically the same sort of experience and became the Confidential man of the secretary of war absolutely without any political pull , following his chief In his upward career because of his demonstrated ability . No one has authority to say that Carpenter will be the succeseor of Loeb in case of tepublican success next November , but the chances are that Taft will follow the example of and Roosevelt and put a thoroughly experienced man fn the outer room at the executive office . Fred Warner Carpenter  --  and I never have seen the name Fred spelled out into Frederick with its owner 's consent  --  thought he was cut out for the law . He left his father 's ranch in California and after a hard course of study was admitted to the bar in Minneapolis . He had learned shorthand and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world . To keep things moving he became a stenographer in a law office as a preliminary to actual practice when clients came . Just at this time Taft was in the Philippines as the first civil governor of the islands . Joined Chief in Philippines . Expert American labor was In demand there at that time . There were plenty of rustlers and discharged soldiers and other people hanging around the governor general 's palace , but a high grade American stenographer was not to be had . In his extremity , Gov . Taft cabled to Sam Francisco and the young man thought the offer good enough to make the trip out to the Philippines . Since that time " Carp " has been around the world , hither and yon , with his distinguished chief . When- Taft resigned as secretary of war Carpenter also left the government service and joined his forcee with the republican candidate for the pros ! . dency . Mr. Carpenter is about as much of a physical contrast to his chief as one well could imagine . He is slender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ softness and gentleness about his actions which disarm every one , but he has learned the trick which Cortelyou and Loeb learned , of acting as a sieve through which only the important things and persons really worth while succeed in reaching the big man for whom he labors so persistently and so successfully . Hard Work His Drawback . It there is any one thing which will stand in the way of Carpenter 's going into the White house as confidential man of the next president it will be his desire to work morning . noon an night without taking any rest . For all his suavity , his gentleness and his boyish figure Mr. Taft 's secretary is chain lightning In his manner of work . In his office at the war department he had a way of dictating a letter , slipping in to see the secretary , receiving a caller , and turning down a dozen applicants for an interview without ruffling the feelings of anybody . At Hot Springs , where he was buried to the guards under political correspondence , Carpenter would wait until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rush for the swimming tank . He would plunge into the water and be out again and at work while other men were rubbing themselves down with a hard towel . This constant devotlen to labor , lasting from early morning until late in the night , which was begun in the Philippines . continued In the war department , and now is intensified in the control of a great political campaign , has left some traces behind . The boyish face looks tired now and then and the slender figure would be better for some of the flesh which his chief would be clad to lose . Carpenter Never Will Offend . Assuming that Fred Carpenter goes to the White house as secretary to President Taft he will be a pronounced success , if he does not work himself to death . He is not as good a news man as Loeb , and yet not as secretive as Cortelyou . Mr. Carpenter is wholly and completely devoted to his chief , whom he respects and adores . He never will offend anybody , because he is gentleness itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ born of his experience , which enables him to determine for himself the particular line of action to be adopted under certain . circumstances and there are few men . so big in politics or public life that they are not willing to accept the gentle dictum of this , the latest prince of secretaries .                     