@@678692

txt The " programme " given out at Washington on the return of President TAFT is on that might make Thomas JEFFERSON , or even'ALEXANDER . ETA.MILTas , turn in the grave . The conception of the duties and functions of the Executive implied therein is wholly alien from any that was entertained at the time of the foundation of the Government , or for at least three generations afterward . Nor is it essentially an American conception . It is rasher one that suggests a British origin , as if Mr. Tarr were Prime Minister , the head of a Government charged with legislation quite as much as with administration , a Government originating in the popular branch of the National Legislature , and dependent for its tenure on the command of a majority in that body . ? it may be argued that the British system is better than ours , but it must be admitted that at least it is not ours , that it is surrounded by limitations and safeguards which are lacking in ours , and that it is always risky to try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different purpose . For example  --  and the point is one of great importance ? in the British system the relations between the Executive , the Ministry , and the Legislature are clearly defined , perfectly well understood , and rest on a long line of precedents commanding general respect . The relations between the President and Congress are of a wholly different order . There is no need for a British - Prime Minister to bargain with the House of Commons . He is its rec. ognized leader . His intercourse with it is intimate and continuous . He possesses practically the right of exclusive initiative in all important public business . It is not only his right but his duty in connection with his colleagues in the Ministry to frame programmes and to carry them out . He sits in Parliament . He not merely shares in but directs discussion and procedure . He is armed at every point for the discharge of his functions as the legislative leader , and he stands or falls by his success , not in administration but in legislation . Now , when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or programme , he has no such advantages and he is subject to no such:responsibilities . He has no seat in Congress . He has no vote there and no voice save from the outside . He neither is the leader of the National Legislature nor is he accountable in the remotest degree to that Legislature . He has quite other duties to perform , and with reference to legislation he is in a peculiar and not a strong position . Undoubtedly he has , or may have , influence , but It is necessarily indirect and it may be underhanded . He has offices to dispense : he has a weighty voice in the counsels- of his party ; he may have the ear of the people in Congressional districts ; he may help or hinder the ambitions of Congressmen . And he has the right of veto as to everything that Congressmen wish . But this veto and his right of recommendation constitute all the acknowledged resources he possesses to tnfluence the action of Congress . Obviously his means of carrying out a legislative programme are neither ample @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefit of the Nation at large . These means , such as they are , are unaccompanied by direct and sufficient responsibility . It is a serious defect . It is likely to prove a fatal one . One fact in the situation created when a President assinnes the execution of a legislative programme which it is impossible to ignore and which is pregnant with the most disagreeable significance is the possibility of intrigue . This is inherent in the conditions . Since there is no open way in which the Executive can carry out such programme , it is impracticable to exclude the suspicion of methods that are not . open . In the case of President TAFT his reputation is his defense agaihst the suspicion , but it is not desiratile that he should , or that any President should be exposed to it . Even in his case there remains an Implication of an unpleasant sort . It is the inevitable relation between a Congress having the decision of matters and a President zealously urging his own Policies . That is practically a relation of some dependence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . To put the concrete case ' bluntly , COngressmen are notoriously office seekers ; the President is the chief dispenser of offices ; if each can grant or withhold what the other wishes , their relation becomes almost unavoidably one of ? well , of negotiation at least . It mall be negotiation in which each pursues his notion of the public good and that alone , but it is a kind of activity that the Constitution never intended should be carried on . It is seriously to be doubted whether the/complete accomplishment of Mr. TAFT 'S programme would not be dearly purchased by the employment of such means to accomplish it .                     