@@678661

txt Matrimonial mishaps and how to avoid them was the text of an address delivered before the Kilo association . 0 Monroe street , by the Rev. D. D. Vaughan , pastor of the South Halsted Street Institutional church , last night . About 200 young women listened to the discourse and went to their homes with some of the following epigrams ringing In their ears : If I were a girl I would shun a man who had sown his wild oats as I would poison . Marriage is the normal state , but it is no longer a necessary state . The only basis on which marriage should be contracted Is on the basis of love , Women often marry for a home , for money , or because they wish to she* some other woman that they can marry that particular man . Learn to understand your husbands  --  men are transparent . Pretty women are not in demand ; neat girls are . To hold the love of your husbands keep fooling them . Make them believe you are the angel they supposed you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than their children or parents : otherwise they will not be ideally happy . Costs Married Man More to Live . The minister 's subject was " 2latriniony , " which he said he had been studying far over a year and upon which he felt competent to talk , inasmuch as he had circulated questions bearing on that subject to his congregation and had received over 200 answers . " The idea that a man can live cheaper after helms married than he did before Is fallacious and misleading , " said Mr. Vaughan . " That is possible only when the candidate for matrimonial honors has spent hiS income in riotous living . The single man who has been thrifty will dad that when he gets married he will be called upon to spend three times as much for living expenses as he did before . " Men do n't marry because they are afraid to marry , because they ca n't afford to marry , and because they are too timid to marry . " All men hold up their hands in horror when the subject of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " After . " Mcn do not object to a woman being a clubwoman and Interested in politics . They do object to college educations for their Ives , because men do not marry to he Juan acted . A man is nevor good for much the year before he Is married . " Before marriage his worship of the girl is so intense that it makes him a fool . After marriage it takes another year for his adjustment to the new order of things . " Mr. Vaughan said that he had received more than 700 letters from all parts of the United States and Canada from men who wanted him ' to find wives for them and from women Nho were In search of husbands . He , said that he had paid no attention to these letter                     