@@781353

txt George W. Howard , who in September last married a daughter of Henry Hawkes , a rich Democratic politician of Brooklyn , was locked up in the Adams Street Police Station last night accused of bigamy . He was arrested at 0 o'clock last evening in his apartments in the New Amsterdam Hotel , Manhattan , at the instance of his brother-in-law , Henry Hawkes , Jr. , on a warrant issued by Magistrate Brenner . Howard gives his occupation as civil en1 gineer . He is employed in the power house of the Metropolitan Traction Company , on Twenty-fifth Street . He came to this city from Boston more than a year ago and made many acquaintances in Brooklyn . He attended the monthly dances at the Assembly Rooms , in Pierrepont Street , and there met Miss Helen Hawkes , daughter of Henry Hawkes , Deputy Commissioner of Highways . who lives at 201 Prospect Street . It was a ease of love at first sight . Helen was seventeen years old . The wedding was celebrated in the Hawkes 's home on Sept. 17 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the home of the bride 's parents , which was attested by all the diuminent society people of Brooklyn . The bride received from hue parents a handsome residence in St. John 's Pince completely fur-nished , Fur a time the couple lived in Brooklyn , but Howard later took his bride to Manhattan and went to live at the New Amsterdam Hotel , pleading it was nearer to his office . Henry Hawkes , Jr. , says that since his marriage his brother-in-law has made many visits to Boston and these visits . aroused his suspicions . He engaged a private detective to follow his brotner-in-law and on the report to him of this detective Hawkes made the charge of bigamy . He says he learned that Howard Was married ten years ago to the daughter of an Episcopal clergyman at Cambridge , Mass ? who , with a nine-year-old boy , is living in East Cambridge . The warrant was pieced in the hands of Court Officer Maloney and the private detective . Howard had telephoned to his father-inlaw , Mr. Hawkes , that he would take dinner with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing of the action taken by his son in court . Howard went to his hotel at 2 o'clock and learned that his brother-in-law had been there looking for him . lie went to his room and told the clerk , it is said , to inform any one who might call that he was not in . When the detectives with the warrant reached the hotel they were told that Howard was not in , and they waited around for him until ( 1 o'clock , when they went to his room and forced it open , as Howard had locked himself in . He was arrested and went to Brooklyn without resistance He was asked why he did n't open the door when the detectives first rapped , and replied : I was thinking who I could get for a bondsman . " Mrs. Howard , it appears , had no suspicion of her husband 's alleged visits to Boston , and her brother seems to have proceeded in the matter on his own responsibility and without the knowledge of his sister or the other members of the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , informed hisfather of his - Suspicions regarding his brother-in-law , but the elder Mr. Hawkes would not believe that Howard was guilty of anything wrong . The detective who followed Howard to Boston saw him leave his baggage at the Hotel Touraine. in that city , and go to 03 Dana Street , East Cambridge . He found a woman there known as Mrs. George W. Howard , the wife of Howard . The detective says he told the woman that Howard had a wife in Brooklyn . but she would not believe him . She was a Miss Anna Kay , the daughter of an Episcopal clergyman , and was married to Howard on Aug. 11 ) , 1890 . Who is this woman in Boston who says she is your wife ? " Howard was asked last I do not know of any woman except one with whom I used to live . " he replied finally . " There never was any marriage , and I never committed bigamy . " A brother of Howard , who came to this city from Boston yesterday , called at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ release of Howard on bail . He called Mr. Hawkes tip on the telephone and requested him to furnish a bond , but Mr. Hawkes did not put in an appearance at the station house . The elder Mr. Hawkes said : " I can hardly believe that this man Is guilty . He was plausible and seemed to be the kindest o. husbands . My son has been attending to this matter . Ile is out now . He is furious about this affair , and he says that he will see that Howard is punished . My daughter knows nothing of the matter . She is visiting friends in Albany She went there with her sister before Christ-mas , and Howard was to go after her this week . I have telegraphed to her to conic home . "                     