@@678613

txt While it is not yet possible for the Hudson-Fulton Commission to announce the programme for the aviation flights , which will take place on at least two days of the celebration , because much depends on the wishes of the aviators themselves and the condition of the weather , progress is being made every day in completing the general arrangements . Major Gen. Lecinard S. Wood , U. S. A. , commanding the Department of the East , was elected a member of the Aeronautic Committee at a meeting of the commission yesterday . Other members of this committee , which has in charge all the aviation features of the celebration , are James M. Beck , Chairman ; William Berri , Theodore P. Gilman , and Peter Cooper Hewitt . Gen. Wood has taken much interest In aviation matters , and with the co-operation of the National Government he has placed at the disposal of the commission the newly filled-in portion of Governors Island , about 96 acres now , as a home for the aeroplanes during the celebration . Two sheds will be erected immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There they will house their machines and make their trial flights . These trial flights may be witnessed by multitudes of people from tho piers of Manhattan and Brooklyn , from the Jersey shores , and from the ferryboats and vessels in the bay and river . Curtiss Home on Sept. 21 . Members of the commission take little stock in the reports that Curtiss will not be here , and therefore will not participate in the exhibition flights . ' Though he has received many overtures to remain in Europe , continuing his flights there , a representative of the commission said yesterday that he was steadfastly refusing all such invitations , and is actively making preparations to return here to keep his Hudson-Fulton engagement . He is due to land Sept. 21 , four days before the celebration begins . Reports from the commission regarding the number of flags already sold or ordered ' now make it certain that from hundreds of thousands of flagstaffs the colors of the commission and the flag of Holland at the time of Hudson 's discovery of his river will divide honors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500,000 flags of various kinds and ranging in size from the twelve-inch square to a six-foot hoist have been sold . The flag of the commission consists of three longitudinal stripes . The upper one is orange red , the centre white , and the lower blue . On the white stripe in red are the initials H. F. of the commission , inclosed as in parentheses , by sprigs of green leaves . The problem of meeting the demand for the official medals of the celebration has been equally difficult with that of supplying the flags . Already , according to yesterday 's announcement , 85,000 such medals had been struck off to date for the use of guests , for trophies and souvenirs . The official medal is intended to commemorate both of the events of the celebration . The painter-sculptor , Emil Fuchs , has done some of his best work in the design , regarded as fully up to the standard shown in his " Queen Victoria , " " King Edward VII. , " Queen Alexandra , " " Prince and Princess of Wales . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " " Science . Art , and Music , " and " South African War " medals , as well as some of the . leading medals for the Hispanic and American Nu , mismatic Societies , How the Medals Look . The obverse of the medal is devoted to Henry Hudson 's discovery of the river bearing his name . The central figure represents Hudson and a group of six sailors on the dock of the Half Moon ! watching the heaving of the lead . In the background is a suggestion of Hudson River scenery . In the margin are the legends " Discovery of the Hudson River by Henry Hudson , A. D. MDCIX , " " . The . American Numismatic Society , " and " Hudson-Fulton Celebration Commission , " divided by small representations of the Half Moon . the seal of the commission , and pertinent designs . On either side of the Half Moon are the old Dutch words for the little ship , " Halve Maene . " On the reverse there is a classical design of three draped female figures carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her lap a model of the Clermont , represents the genius of Steam Navigation . The figure at her right , resting one hand on an anchor , represents Commerce . At the left is a figure holding a pen and scroll , - symbolical of History . On a tablet in the background , in the centre between two columns , is a portrait of Fulton from Benjamin West 's painting . On it is the legend , " Robert Fulton , 1765-1815 . " At the right in the background is a view of New York from the Hudson in 1807 ; at the left the same view in recent years . At the bottom of the design are the words , " First use of steam in navi- gation on the Hudson River , 1807 , ' , The cruiser Utrecht of the Royal Dutch Navy arrived yesterday from Curacao , West Indies , as one of the boats to represent Holland at the celebration . The Utrecht is in command of Capt . von Hecking Colenbrander . Lieut . Lam of the Utrecht will impersonate Henry Hudson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Midshipman de Meester of the same boat will impersonate Hudson 's mate . The crew of the Half Moon will be picked from the crew of the Utrecht . The Armory Burgesses Corps of Albany is coming down for the celebration . From Thursday , Sept. 30 , until Saturday , Oct. 2 , the corps will be the guests of H. H. Topakyou , the Persian Consul General , at his country home at Morrie Plains , N. J. The corps will go to Morris Plains by special train , and will return to the city in time to witness the htstorical parade on Saturday , Oct. 2.                     