@@781352

txt " A serious engagement has occurred between the international column and the Mohammedan troops of ' Gen. Tung Fuh Siang near Peking . " Byron Brennan , British Consul at Shanghai , who is ' now in London , says that these Mohammedan troops are armed with machine guns and repeating rifles . Observers at Shanghai and Tien-Tsin believe there is a great deal more trouble ahead for the concert of powers than merely reaching Peking with 2,500 men . Serious disturbances are taking place at Yun-nanFu and Meng-Tze , as well as at other points at a considerable distance from the capital . The whole Chinese Empire seems to be In a ferment . A Shanghai dispatch dated yesterday says : " A Chinese steamer , laden with arms and ammunition , cleared from Shanghai to-day bound for Tien-Tsin . " The intentions of the Empress Dowager are still equivocal , with a balance of testimony on the side of a determination to expel the appropriators of a part of her country or to lose her throne in the attempt . It is related of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Japanese Legation , she was roused to a sense of danger and went personally to the Yung-Ting gate of Peking , where she advised the rioters to disperse . But she took no steps to apply force , and the appearance of things is more threatening than before . While Admiral Seymour , with the international relief column , is forcing his way to Peking , , several of the powers are arranging largely tiireinforce their details at Tien-Tsin . Germany purposes sending 1,200 . Great Britain sent 600 from Hongkong yesterday , and - 100 will go Sunday . Italy has ordered 1,000 to hold themselves in readiness . Russia , according to a St. Petersburg dispatch of Wednesday , has decided to bring her force at Tien-Tien up to 6,00U . Thus the combined forces at Tien-Tsin will probably soon be about 10,000 men . An incident has already occurred involving the British and French at Tien-Esin , which nearly ended in violence . A dispatch from Tien-Tsin , dated yesterday , says : " For some days the French and Russian authorities here have been jealous because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British employes of the China railways . Yesterday ( Wednesday ) some French marines attempted to take charge of an engine required at the front . " Locomotive Inspector Weir refused to give up the engine , and a Frenchman attempted to bayonet him . Weir caught the muzzle of the rifle , and the bayonet passed over his shoulder . For a moment serious trouble between the British and French was imminent , but the prompt action of the British Consular and naval officers , backed by the American Consul and the railway officials , prevented a collision . Conciliatory expressions were exchanged . The French Consul withdrew his opposition , and the British remained In charge of the engine as before . " A dispatch from Shangai. dated yesterday , says : A report has reached here that the British , American , and Japanese Ministers in Peking favor the restoration of Emperor Kwang . Su , but that the French and Russian Ministers insist upon the powers taking charge of China . It is further reported that the respective divisions of the country have already been assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships from the Yang-tse-Kiang is an indication of Great Britain 's disclaimer of the ' sphere theory . ' " Later reports from Tien-Tsin confirm the news of the burning of the Japanese Legation ; but the rumor that a Minister has been murdered is not confirmed . Fifteen hundred Russians . with four guns . have arrived outside of Peking . This makes 4,000 Russians who have landed . It is regarded as certain that the Japanese Government will take active steps concerning the murder of the Chancellor of the Japanese Legation . In consequence of disturbances at CheFoo the German flagship and H. M. S. Phoenix have returned there . Chinese desperadoes at Quin-San , forty miles from Shanghai , have seized three Isteam launches and maltreated the passengers .                     