@@676325

txt Lying about a third of a league off Quarantine yesterday was the Anchor Line steamship Kara mania , from Mediterranean ports . The yellow flag of quarantine was flying from her fore topmast , and craft of all kinds gave her a wide berth . During the voyage six out of eight hundred persons on board had died under strange circumstances , and after displaying symptoms which Health Officer Doty fears were those of Asiatic cholera . Whether the disease has infected any more of those exposed to it will not be known for several days . When the health officers boarded the Karamania on her arrival yesterday morning . the ship 's surgeon and a surgeon assigned to the vessel by the Italian Government reported the six deaths and described the symptoms that had preceded demise , but refrained from expressing any opinions as to what the disease might be . The Karamania touched at Marseilles , Palermo , and Naples . Two days out from the first port , where a fair proportion of the original 738 steerage passengers were - taken on , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nausea . Then another sailor was stricken . This was on - Feb. 8 , while the steamship was bound for Palermo . Two more sailors soon showed like symptoms , and ; - the four were ordered to the ship 's sick bay . Spasms followed the Phase of nausea , and two of the patients lapsed into a state of coma and died . The third fought off the stupor and recovered , and although the fourth man became weaker and weaker he was still alive when Palermo was reached , and was sent to a hospital there . DIAGNOSED AS POISON CASE . Whether he died or not is not known . The head physician of this institution declared the patient had been poisoned , and when told that three others had been similarly stricken , two of whom had died , he gave it as his opinion that all four had been poisoned . The nature of the poison ' wag not , however , stated , and the crew and the small army of steerage passengers concluded that the sufferers had been the victims of noxious gases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days out from Naples , Feb. 21 , a sailor was found in a stupor . It was remarked that he occupied a berth in the compartment where his four shipmates had been stricken . He was rushed to the deck , and in a short time regained consciousness . Asked leowThe came- into the condition in - which he was found , he said he went into the compartment and was almost immediately seized with an attack of nausea . He attempted to cry out , but a heavy stupor overcome him , and he knew nothing more until his eyes opened upon the waters of the Mediterranean . During the next five days , according to the report of the ship 's doctors . all the sailors who ventured into this compartment were immediately seized with nausea and abdominal pains and rushed out in panic , but recovered in the open air on deck . After that nobody dared enter the place . Orders were given that the section be stripped . This was done , after which it was disinfected and closed . On Feb. 27 a passenger complained of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship 's hospital forthwith . Two days later , or March 1 , two more passengers became ill . These two passed rapidly through the various phases of the disease , and died within a few hours , On the following day the first passenger stricken also expired . The alarm of all on board reached the panic stage when the same day another passenger was found dead in his bunk . The four passengers had occupied adjoining berths in No. 1 steerage . There was no discussion as to what should be done with the bodies . They were dumped overboard as soon as they had been weighted and prepared for their sea . burial . This action is deplored by the local health authorities , as they are thus far without Subjects for investigation , but they are practically satisfied from the description of the symptoms furnished by the surgeons on the ship that the disease which brought death to six of those on board was Asiatic cholera . If the Karamania spoke any ships on her voyage , it would seem that she made no report of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quarantine under the shelter of semi-darkness , there was not the slightest suspicion on the part of the Inspectors that anything was wrong when they boarded her . The " noxious gases " proposition was put forward the minute the Quarantine Inspectors learned of what had occurred , but they , with their chief , Dr. Doty , dismissed it when the symptoms were minutely described by the two surgeons , Dr. Giovanni Note and the Italian Government 's Medical Commissioner , Dr. Salvatore Ballaglio . ALL ON BOARD QUARAN'TINED . Arrangements were at once made for the transfer to Hoffman Island of the 781 passengers and the 73 officers and sailors . There they will have to remain for a week at least . They will be divided into groups . pending developments . Probably S5 per cent . of the passengers , all of whom are steerage , are Italians . The crew being obliged to go to the island with the passengers , a new complement of men will be put on the ship after it has been disinfected , and proceed with it to its dock for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of macaroni . oils , and marbles . Dr. Doty said that the hatches had been left battened down . " We shall . " said he . " keep the crew and passengers on Hoffman Island for about seven days , at the end of which time , if conditions are normal , they probably will be released . Should the disease develop there is no telling when they will be permitted to leave the island . For the purposes of observation they will be divided into small groups . ' " In what condition have your officials found the boat : merely unsanitary , or worse ? " was asked / " The ship was in a very fair condition ? oh , yes , fairly good shape . " was the reply . " How long will it be before the Karamania is allowed to proceed ? " " Well , that will depend  --  about twentyfour or thirty-six hours . Everything seemed to " he all right when the ship left Marseilles . There is no report of anything unusual about the ship there , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigrants start out from Marseilles . they coming from all parts , and , of course , it is not difficult to figure that the germs , if any existed , and there is good reason to think they did . and that they were Asiatic cholera germs , could have been brought on board from there , but of course we do n't actually know that . There is no attempt on the part of those on the ship to account for the outbreak . It is a mystery to them . " Is any one ill now ? " " No. there has not been any illness noted in a week . " Dr. Herman M. Biggs said last evening that from the description of the symptoms furnished he was inclined to agree with Dr. Doty that those who died on the vessel were the victims of Asiatic cholera ; but he could not understand the story that sailors who were seized with illness on entering the compartment where their shipmates were fatally stricken . recovered almost as suddenly on being taken into the open air . This could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cases of those who succumbed to it . The supposed abdominal pains and nausea might have been the effect of imagination quickened by fear . Other medical men consulted expressed similar views . The agents of the Anchor Line , at the offices at 19 Broadway , declared they had no suspicion that all was not as it should be with the ship , until they so learned through newspaper sources . Lepon the receipt of this information they immediately communicated with the health authorities at Quarantine . Manager Riley of the Author Line said : " If the Karamania has been unfortunate enough to have-cholera on board , I may say it is no worse than is likely to occur to any ship coming from Mediterranean ports . " The Anchor Line people have no expectation of seeing any of the officers until the embargo upon the entire party is lifted . SOAIE CHOLERA VISITATIONS . Epidemic Caused a Panic in the City in ** Cases on Board the Karamania . So stringent are the precautions taken by the health authorities of the port , and so complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here on board ship , that little apprehension is felt in the city when cases are reported . The last time a big cholera scare occurred was ie the late Summer of 1892. when cholera was raging violently in Europe . Dr. W. T. Jenkins , then Health Officer of the Port , had made elaborate preparations to isolate any cases of cholera that might arrive on steamships from Hamburg , the centre of the plague . Finally , after a long period , during which every incoming vessel was rigidly inspected , the Hamburg-American liner Moravia arrived at Quarantine on Sept. 1 flying the yellow flag . Health authorities and citizens alike were thrown into consternation when the , Moravia reported that on her voyage oyer twenty-two of her 2S0 passengers booked had died of cholera . The Moravia was the first to arrive of the plague-bearing fleet from Hamburg , and during the month which followed before the disease was under control ninety-six passengers died either at sea or in quarantine . Five deaths occurred in the city , but so strict were the precautions taken that there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first diagnosed as Asiatic cholera turned out to beevariations of Summer complaint . The real cases of cholera , moreover , could not be traced back to any of the passengers . arriving on the infected liners . After the Moravia 's arrival fear and anxiety were in .. ense . On Sept. 4 the Normannia and Rugia , both of tee HamburgAmerican Line , and hailing from plaguestricken Hamburg . arrived with the yellow flag aloft , the Normannia reporting seven deaths during the voyage and the Rugit five . They brought also eight others suffering from the disease . New deaths occurred among the sick , and on Sept. 9 , on which day the Wyoming of the Guion Line arrived , reporting two deaths , the total was forty-eight . The city was startled early on the morning of Sept. 10 , *when the Hamburg-American steamship Scandia arrived with the news that 32 of her 1,0S0 passengers had died from cholera on the voyage across . Seven more who - were ill were removed to Swinburne Island , and the vessel anchored with the other ships . The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 , when the steamboat Cepheus attempted to land the Normannia 's passengers on Fire Island . a section of which had been claimed by the State for quarantine purposes . When the boat was about to make a landing the crowd of 200 or 300 residents of the island made a demonstration and would allow no one to disembark . Two or three attempts to land proved futile , and Senator made an impassioned appeal to the mob . but the crowd were still defiantly brandishing their sticks when he fell back exhausted . Two lawyers who represented Islip had obtained an injunction preventing the landing and were backed up by the mob . A committee wrote out by torchlight an appeal to Gov . Flower . The Governor vacated the injunction , and on the next day the landing was made with music and cheers . The same Karamania which arrived yesterday was responsible for a renewal of the cholera scare in 1S93 . She Arrived on Aug. -1 and reported three deaths on the ' voya. -e . From the symptoms it was decided that the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately isolated on Hoffman Island . The greatest precautions were observed . and no cases appeared in the city . but when the Karamania. ' s passengers were finally released . on Aug. 24 , there remained only 430 of the original passenger list of 471 . In October of the same year the Hamburg-American Line steamship Russia arrived with cholera . Five of her passengers had succumbed during the voyage . The others were transferred to Hoffman Island , but were released after the regular period of detention . The Russia was thoroughly fumigated and allowed to proceed to her pier three days after arrival . In the sixty years previous to 1892 there were five epidemics of cholera in this city . resulting altogether in 15,000 deaths . The first outbreak occurred in the Summer of 1532 . It had been epidemic in Europe the previous year and reached this country by a ship which entered the St. Lawrence River . The height of the epidemic in this city was reached on July 10. when 210 deaths were recorded . Thousands left the city . business was at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disease . The second epidemic came in 1834. but there were only 941 deaths before its advance was checked . In 1848. however , appeared the most disastrous cholera scourge the city has known . The first case was reported on May 11 and the disease reached its height on July 21. when 714 deaths occurred . The total number of deaths was 5.071 . The fourth epidemic , in 1834. caused 2. e00 deaths before it had run its course . and the fifth , in 1806. carried off 1.195 persons . The disease was brought here in 1805 by the ship Atalanta . There were 15 cases on board . and it has always been supposed that the germs then imported were responsible for the epidemic of the following year . There were a few cases of cholera in this city in 1SS7 , but the disease was promptly checked .                     