@@781415

txt Despite all assertions and reports to the contrary . there no longer remains any doubt that nine out of ten of the collieries in the whole anthracite district from Shamokin all the way up to Pittstovin will be closed tight Monday . When the miners received their pay this afternoon it was announced that only those who had not cleaned up their galleries and removed their tools would again enter the shafts until the operators had agreed to the demand made at the first Hazleton convention . As the hour for the strike to begin officially draws near the confidence of the union men grows , while some of the operators are beginning to doubt their assertion that only 20 per cent . of the men would quit . THE Saw YORK TIMES correspondent visited the principal owners within twenty miles of Hazleton to-day and to-night , and all admitted that their hopes of keeping the collieries open were not as bright as heretofore . And while for the first time the operators make this admission , the Lehigh Railroad officials began to make concessions to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being tied up by the Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen . It is said that a strike of the trainmen was to-day nearly declared for 6 o'clock to-night . The final local convention of the mineworkers prior to the strike was held in Hazleton to-day . President Duffy received reports from minor officials and committees showing that the prospective strikers are far better organized than even the leaders have announced . In McAdoo not a mineworker remains who is not a member of the union . In Coleraine , Spring Mountain , Meadow Brook . and in fact everywhere in the southern district , where some of the greatest trust mines are situated . reports were submitted by Local President Sheehan showing that 70 per cent. , or 10 per cent . more than is necessary to close the mines , have joined the union . In the Coxe and Markle mines , where sentimental conditions were thought to be strong enough to hold most of- these men at their work ; the leaders created surprise by announcing that the mines at Harley . Highlands , Drif ton . and the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their men quitting that they ' would not continue operations . Telegrams received at National headquarters from Scranton , Wilkesbarre , Shamokin. and other central points throughout the region from district leaders assert that the same conditions exist at those places . The work of perfecting organizations at meetings goes on all day and night- A meeting was held at dawn this morning at Lattimer , at which it was agreed that the Union should be recognized . Meetings were also held at jeddo , Greenhill , Janesville. and Coster . With the exception of the Jeddo meeting all were in secret . For several days the pay of train men - on the Lehigh Valley system has been overdue . This morning a notice was posted that the men would not get their money until Tuesday next . The men announced that unless the money was forthcoming by 6 o'clock they would strike . The report reached headquarters quickly and . despite the notice. - the pay car was rushed over the division and the men were all paid before 2 o'clock . This incident illustrates forcibly just how strong the strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is likely to occur next week is considered not improbable . ' Superintendent Keith said that all of the men on the local division have a touch of the strike fever . If the men should decline to haul non-union coal after Monday a clash will be inevitable . as the officials declare they will accept all the coal offered . Thirteen hundred men will be directly affected , and about , double that number indirectly .                     