@@677343

txt For the last forty-eight hours the central commit-. tees of the Social Democrats , Social Revolutionists , Peasant League , Railroad Men 's Vnion , and Telegraphers ' Union , and the 11111tary Committee have been ounferring , both separately and jointly , with the Parliamentary groups , not only on the question of calling a general strike , but actually on the question of attempting a counter coup d'etat by setting up a Pro-. visional Government . The decision on the question of a general strike is , It is believed , still hanging fire . In addition to other reasons , the conditions in the famine districts are advanced . as a new argument against a strike , as the peasantry would resent the tying up of the railroads , upon which they are , dopendent for grain to keep them from starvation . Practically all the proletariat organizations , including that of the railroad men , . but not including the telegraphers , have already pronounced in favor of setting up a Provisional Government . The members of the Group of Toil and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is open , and are irrevocably committed on the surface , with the Constitutional Democrats , to discountenancing any active revolutionary step , but secretly they have agreed to atxpport or . join in it if it can be successfully inauguw rated . Over a hundred of the Deputies met ; last night in Pinland , under the ' Pres ! , es ! - Roar , or WIANghColg ' ere held by representatives of other croups this afternoon and to-night . The determining factor In the decision may be the report of the Military Committee , for after past experiences the conspirators wealise that if the troops do not come over at the summons for an uprising the only result would be to lead the people to slaughter . The extent of the support ' which a revolutionary movement will receive from the army is therefore vital . At Efelsingfors on Tuesday night 1,500 Soldiers and sailors of the garrison took an oath to fight on the side of the people . It is quite apparent to disinterested observers that the Government in entering on its present policy made a perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the outlawed Parliament , which left them personally free to conduct a conspiracy against the Government When the plot is complete and the signal has gone forth arrests will be useless . The Government is using every means at its disposal to create the impression , both at home and abroad , that the crisis has been successfully passed . Much stress is laid on the importance of the capture of a number of revolutionary ringleaders at Moscow . The Government 's sudden access of optimism is in reality traceable to the consternation over the disastrous fall in Russian securities at home and abroad . The one thing which the Government can not do without Is money , and the whole future depends on its ability to continue its foreign loan operations . The second Installment of the big loan negotiated prior to the assembling of Parliament is due on Aug. 1 , and the outlook in Russia has frightened the holders into refusing to pay in any further cash . Financiers Frightened . The situation has evidently caused quite as much alarm among the financiers who underwrote the loan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Xokovsoff has been bombarded by telegrams from French . English , and German bankers , urging on him the necessity of supporting the market This accounts for the activity of the Government bankers in bidding up prices on the Bourse here and at Moscow . The efforts of the Government bankers succeeded In keeping prices moving up on the Bourse again to-day . Government issues at one time were 2 points higher . In spite of the active bidding of the bankers , however , a flood of offerings caused prices to relapse. and at the close imperial fours were quoted at 70 , h and fives at Sni . Industrial shares were nervous , fluctuating widely , owing to the fear of a general strike . There are indications that the Government . following the complete surrender to the demands of Finland , will seek to propitiate Poland and the Baltic Provinces by concessions for the purpose of divorcing them from the revolutionary movement in Russia proper . The Ministry of Railroads received word to-day of several attempts to destroy railroad bridges . The police are becoming more active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invaded a conference of St. Petersburg Aldermen in a private house , and placed all of those in attendance under arrest for five hours while the house was searched and the papers in It were examined .                     