@@781092

txt Attorney , E. G. Ferguson of this city , and lawyers representing Miss Laura Biggar , the actress , have reached an agreement by which Peter J. McNulty and R. M. Gulick , proprietors of the Bijou Theatre in this city , will pay Miss Biggar for the interest she has under the will of Henry M. Bennett in the property at Penn Avenue and Sixth Street . occupied by the Bijou Theatre and office building . Under the terms of the agreement Miss Biggar will receive in cash from the sale of the property $450,000 , an apartment house in New York valued at $40,000 , and personal property estimated to be worth $100,000 , making a total of S020,000 , besides an annual allowance for life of $1,500 . The settlement closes one of the most sensational estate fights in this country for years . Laura Biggar 's fight for the Bennett estate , which - has ended in securing for her Vi20.000 out of her original claim of about 41.500,900 , has for more than two years been sensational in the extreme . Starting life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's management . Miss Biggar married an actor named Richardson , and after divorcing him was married to James Willis McConnell . Later she became the wife of Burt Haverly . While she was playing the Widow in " A Trip to Chinatown " she met Henry M. Bennett . the Pittsburg millionaire , who was the owner of a theatre in Pittsburg . Bennett even then was so old as to be decrepit . His attentions to Miss Biggar resulted in trouble with her husband . As a result Haverly secured a divorce . Miss Biggar then left the stage , where she had made her most decided hit as Iza in " The Clemenceau Case , " and became the nurse and companion of Bennett . Late in 1001 Mr. Bennett died , and Miss Biggar was left GO per cent . of his estate of S1,500,000 under his will . Not content with this settlement Miss Biggar , who then called herself Mrs. Bennett , put in a claim for the entire estate on the ground that she was Bennett 's widow . Following this claim charges of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Hendricks and Samuel Stanton , formerly Justice of the Peace in . Freehold , N. J. , where Miss Biggar was living at the time . Stanton was brought into the case because he claimed to have married Bennett and Miss Biggar , and a marriage certificate signed by him played an , important part of the affair . Mr. Hendricks was Miss Biggar 's physician , and the proprietor of the sanitarium in which , it was said , was born the child-which Miss Biggar claimed be . the posthumous child of Berinett. and which played an important part in the litigations The conspiracy charge against the three resulted last December in the jury at Freehold finding Hendricks and Stanton guilty arid aEquitting Miss Biggar . Both Hendricks and Stanton were sentenced to two and a half years ' imprisonment , while Miss Biggar resumed her work on the stage . appearing at vaudeville houses . Her first appearance was within a week after her acquittal in New Jersey . At the trial evidence was given that Miss Biggar and Hendricks went to Stanton and had him write a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was said that Stanton filed this certificate with the health authorities on Sept. 20 , 1001 . The fact that the marriage certificate was printed with the date " 19  --  " was one of the points brought out . Miss Biggar also teas charged with attempting to prove the birth and death of a bogus child . Negotiations recently were opened to settle the fight over the estate , with the result announced in the foregoing dispatch . At the time of the trial of - Miss Biggar her second husband , McConnell , who ts the father of her son , now about ten years of age , visited her , and the two again became very friendly . It was reported that the reconciliation was complete and that they would be remarried .                     