@@676126

txt NO LONGER AN ISSUE . " The Philippine question , " says President SCHURMAN , " has passed into a new stage , although the public seem unaware of it and the newspapers have not noticed it . " This is a curious misapprehension . It is not the Philippine question , but the anti-imperialists ' view of the Philippine question that " has passed into a new stage . " The Administration , the men responsible for the government of the Philippines , stand where they did . They have changed neither their policy nor their views . They had a duty to perform which they have performed and are performing with firmness , ability , and conscience . Under their direction Philippine affairs advance to " a new stage " from month to month , and almost from day to day . Progress is but a succession of new stages . Progress has been their aim and their achievement in the Philippines . Fully occupied with the affairs of to-day , they have not indulged in foolish predictions of things that may or may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astonishing number of positions have been abandoned by the anti-imperialists . President SCHURMAN gives a catalogue of them : Let the dead past bury its dead . The Philippine problem is no longer a question of the conduct of the army , or of a few men in the army : it is no longer a question of the character of A GUINT AIM it is no longer a question of the jurisdiction of the Philippine Republic of 1S99 : it is no longer a question of the validity of American sovereignty over the archipelago or of the wisdom of the policy of assuming it . Having the candor to admit all this , President SCITURMAN exhibits unexpected weakness in asserting that the engrafting of the principle of the consent of the governed upon the Philippine Government act was a victory for the anti-imperialists . The statement Is destitute of supporting evidence . Months ago , when the energies of this Government were devoted to the task of establishing peace and order in the Philippines , the anti-imperialists began to clamor vociferously for the consent of the governed . The discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not consent to cease shooting and slashing our soldiers it was useless to talk about the consent of the governed . When peace had been restored , the enactment of laws for their government with their own participation and consent was the next logical step in the policy of the United States . It would inevitably have been taken had anti-imperialism never raised its voice . President SCHURMAN says : " I return to my point that practically all fundamental questions ( apart from the supreme question of independence or Statehood ) have now been settled . " Yes , one after another they have been settled by the Administration , in the Administration 's time and in the Administration 's way , to the satisfaction of the American people . The question of independence or Statehood will very likely be determined in the same way and with equal wisdom when the time comes to settle it . That time is still a long way off . The anti-imperialists wanted to settle it two or three years ago . The march of events has compelled them to abandon that position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the future , says President SCHURMAN , not for the present . " Meanwhile , and till after the inauguration of that Filipino Assembly in 1904 , the Philippines will disappear as an issue from American politics . " That is a very sensible observation . It comes from the best-informed and the most rational of all the anti-imperialists.                     