@@780990

txt The so-called . Bea Trust case was disposed of by Judge Gross ? cup in the United States Circuit Court today , the demurrer of the packers being overruled and a temporary injunction granted . The attorneys for the packers made no announcement of their intentiOns . They have until . March 4 to discuss - the matter with their principals . If they deny the facts on which Judge Grosscup based his decision , the matter will go before : a Master in Chancery , who will hear the evidence , and the case will be argued again before Judge Grosscup . An appeal ' May be taken in order to hasten the ' final adjudication of the case . It is believed thatthe packers will not let the matter go by default . " Commerce , " said Judge Grosscup , in his decision , " is the sale or exchange Of commodities , but that which the law looks upon as the body of commerce is not restricted to specific acts of sale or exchange . It includes the intercourse ; all the initiatory and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about the sale or exchange . Thus , though the sale or exchange is a commercial act , so also is the solicitation of the drumer , whose occupation it is to bring about the sale or exchange . The whole transaction , from initiation to culminadbn , is commerce . " When commerce , thus broadly defined , is between parties dealing from different States , to be effected so far as the immediate act of exchange goes by transportation from State to State , it is commerce between the States , within the meaning of the Constitution and the statute known as the Sherman act . But it is not the transportation that makes the transaction interState commerce . That is an adjunct only , essential to commerce , but not the test , The underlying test is that the transaction , as an entirety , including each part calculated to bring about the result , reaches into two or more States , and that the parties dealing with reference thereto deal from different States . An inter-State commerC13.1 transaction is , " in this sense , , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of exchange , mar essential part of the affair being as much commerce as is the centre . With this definition in mind , lot ' us see what the transaction made out in the petition is . " For the purpose of clear exposition ; the facts - set forth in the petition should : be separated into two groups : Those that are intended to bring the transaction within the body of inter-State commerce , and those that are intended to fix upon ' Such transaction the character of unlawful corn binatictn and conspiracy . The first group may be stated as follows : The defendants . controlling 60 per cent of the trade and commerce in fresh meats in the UnitedStates , buy , in the course of their business , live stock , shipped from points throughout the United States , which , hay-. ing been converted into fresh meats , issold again by them at the places where prepared to dealers and consumers in oth- ; - er States , or is sold through their agents , . located in other States , to dealers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The shipments in the first class or sales arts made directly , from the places where the meat is prepared to the dealers and consumers in other States , and ' in the latter class to the agents in the other States , who , upon sale , deliver directly to the dealer and consumer . EXTENT OF TRANSACTIONS . " What may be called the body of these transactions is twofold . It reaches back- ' ward to the purchase of cattle that come to defendants from States other than those in which defendants manufactuAt and it reaches forward to the sale of the meats ; after conversion , to parties dealing with re- : spect thereto from other States , followed by shipments into other States . Each of these transactions constitutes , in my jndg-. ment , inter-State commerce. ? " Coming to the other branch of the transaction , the sales by defendants , a like result follows . Unquestionably it . is interState commerce when purchasers frontother States buy directly from the defendants , and have the meats shipped to them by the vendors . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercourse and as to transportation in furtherance of the exchange , includes a State other than the one from which the defend= ants deal . " I think the same is true of meat sent ' . to agents and sold from their stores . The transaction is such cases , in reality , is between the purchaser and the agents ' prin - principal . The agents represent the principal at the place where the exchange takes place , but the transaction , as a commercial entity , includes the principal , and includes him as dealing from his place of business . Indeed , such privity exists between the principal and the transaction that he could , at the instant , as a citizen of another State sue upon the transaction in the Federal courts : nor have I any question that , if the conditions of this case were reversed , so that the defendants were invoking- the shelter , instead of seeking to escape the obligations , of the commerce clause . Federal law would be found equal to the protection asked . Because a thing can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it lies outside the body of inter-State commerce , for commerce . inter-State as well as domestic , Is subject to the . police and ' taxing power of the State , so long as the exercise of such power does not interfere with the National Government 's exclusive right of regulation . ? " Do the facts set forth in the second grouping fix upon the transactions ; even though the transactions be within the body of inter-State commerce , the ' character of unlawful combination ? The averments are as follows : That the defendants are engaged in an unlawful combination and conspiracy under the . Sherman act ( a ) in directing and requiring their purchasing agents at the markets where the live stock was customarily purchased to refrain from bidding against : each other when making such purchases ; deleted 2 paragraphs Thus defined , there can to no doubt that the agreement of the defendants to refrain from bidding against , each Other in the purchase Of cattle , is - combination in restraint of trade ; so also their agreement to bid up prices to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipments have arrived . The same result follows when we turn to the combination of defendants to fix prices upon and restrict the quantities of meat shipped to their agents or their customers Such agreements can be nothing less than restrictions upon competition , and , therefare , combination in restraint of trade ; and thus viewed , the petition as an entirety makes out a case under the Sherman act . " It may be true that the way of enforcing any decree under this petition is beset with difficulties , and that a literal enforcement may result in vexatious interference with defendants ' affairs . But , in the inquiry before me . I am not st liberty to stop before such considerations . The Sherman act . as interpreted by the Supreme Court . is the law of the land , and to the law as it stands both court and people must yield obedience . deleted paragraph BOGUS CHECK PLOT CASE . Miss Anderson Tells of Her Flight from the City With Dr. Sutorius and William A. Grebe . Dr. Francis Alexis Sutorius and William A. Grebe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned in a plot to defraud the Trust Company of the Republic by means of checks drawn against fictitious accounts with the aid and connivance of employes of the company , were brought up before Justice Mayer of the Court of Special Sessions yesterday . Besides the men arraigned there were three other persons implicated in the alleged frauds . One of them was Gertrude Anderson , a young woman stenographer , who , when the prisoners were first arraigned on Feb. 9 , after having been brought to this city from Richmond , Va. , where they fled , threw herself on the mercy of the court and made a full confession . The other two are employes of the trust company , one of whom made a confession to the official by whom the plot was exposed . The other is Frederick Schwartzje , a clerk , who is a fugitive from this city . Grebe was also in the employ of the company . When proceedings began yesterday ex-Assistant District Attorney Daniel O'Reilly , , representing Grebe , waived examination on behalf of his client . Abraham Levy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination , and Miss Anderson was then called to the stand by Assistant District Attorney Kresel . She testified that she had known Sutorius since Christmas morning , when she met him at a drug store in the Bronx and was introduced to him . She said she had Snot seen him from that time until the first Monday in February . Miss Anderson was induced to enter the conspiracy by Schwartzje , and did not then know that Sutorius was in it . " Mr. Grebe was with Sutorius when I met him on Feb. 2 , " she testified . " He said he was in the same trouble as I was at the bank . I was rather surprised . He then said the Bronx was getting too hot for us , and that we had better leave the city . Grebe said he thought I would be safer here where my mother was and where I had a good nome . Dr. Sutorius called Mr. Grebe a coward for wanting to leave me in the lurch . " The young woman then told of a meeting between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the flight of the trio to Philadelphia the same night . " When you got to Philadelphia , did n't you discuss the bank matter there ? " asked Mr. Kresel . " Dear , no ! I felt absolutely lost when I got there . We had something to ear . Then we went to a hotel . - The next day ' the boys ' went out to get tickets for Richmond . When we got there we were arrested . " " And you did not discuss your troubles with Dr. Sutorius after your arrest ? " " No ; then I could think of nothing but my mother . " Miss Anderson mopped her eyes gently with her handkerchief , but the very next moment resumed the trend of her testimony with the greatest composure . Edward Cook , a young mechanic , of 153 West Fifty-second Street . testified that he also had gotten money from the bank by methods similar to those employed by the three accused . He said Dr. Sutorius had met him early in February and told him that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restitution were made . He *anted Cook to try to get the money from his father . Witness said he failed in the efforts he made to that end .. After William Grebe had taken the stand and testified regarding work in the bank , Where he said he had been employed for the purpose of " finding a discrepancy " in the books . Mr. Kresel began to - ask him questions regarding his knowledge of the alleged fraud . It was found that no information could be obtained from him , and Mr. Kresel asked for an adjournment until this afternoon . Justice Mayer granted this , but said that unless additional evidence was adduced by the prosecution he would dismiss the case .                     