@@678111

txt An unusual scene was witnessed by a large crowd awaiting trains shortly after 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon in the Ninety-sixth Street and Broadway Subway station , when a party of four or five women got down on their knees and prayed over the prostrate form of Mrs. S. C. Cooper , a slight woman of about OP years , living at the Lucetine apartment house , 35 West Ninety-sixth Street , who had just had a miraculous escape from death . The women , as well as the victim of the unfortunate occurrence , are Christian Scientists , believed to be members of the First Church of Christ Scientist , at Ninety-sixth Street and Central Park West . According to eye-witnesses , Mrs. Cooper had been standing on the southbound express platform in conversation with several other women , when , just before the arrival of a southbound express train , she walked away from them toward the edge of the platform , and when next seen was on the tracks . The incoming train , which was in charge of Motorman C. S. Hathaway , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first car and part of the second car had passed the point at which Mrs. Cooper lay on the tracks . Onlookers cried out in horror , and no one expected to see the woman brought out alive . Those who : kw her disappear over the edge a the platform differ in their statements ' as to what happened . E. H. Brodks of 547 East 129th Street , who has charge of the switching tower on the south-bound platform , declared positively that Mrs. Cooper jumped , while ' S. J , Franz of 49 West 114th Street , who was waiting on the platform for a train , said he thought she had been seized with a fainting spell and had fallen . The police of the West 100th Street Station declare that it was an accident . After the train had been brought to a standstill , Mrs. Cooper was found lying between the side of the platform and the first rail . She was quickly extricated . Her head was badly cut and she was burned about the body and suffering severely from shock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around her body and going down on their knees to pray . The scene was witnessed by a crowd who stood as It spellbound . Employes of the company looked on helplessly . Then arrived a southbound local train , and from one of the cars emerged a woman dressed as a nurse . Seeing the crowd , she elbowed her way through , , and , reaching the side of Mrs. Cooper . glanced at her and said : " This woman is dying . Get a doctor and an ambulance quickly . " This aroused some employe or onlooker to activity and Policeman Harry Emde was notified and sent in a. call to the J. Hood Wright Hospital . While waiting for the ambulance to arrive the nurse quieted the praying women , and did what she could to relieve the pain Mrs. Cooper was suffering . Dr. Schofield arrived from the hospital at 4:40 o'clock . He saw that Mrs. Cooper was badly hurt , and ordered her taken to the hospital . She refused to go , asking that she be taken to the apartments of Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was obdurate , Dr. Schofield got her into the ambulance , and , in company with the nurse , went to the Lucetine and attended the pttient . While this was being done the inmates of the apartment , all women , again prayed over Mrs. Cooper . According to tenants and employes of the apartment house , the nurse was ordered away from the house , and was taken downstairs by an elevator boy . She left the house without giving her name . At the Lucetine last night all information was refused , the elevator boy saying his instructions were that no one was to be allowed near the apartment , which is on the second floor . It was learned , however , that a large number of Christian Scientists live in the house , which is quite close to the Christian Scientist Church . Dr. Schofield of the J. Hood Wright Hospital , who attended Mrs. Cooper at the Subway station and later accompanied her tp the Lucetine , said over the telephone last night that when he arrived at the station he found Mrs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the head , including a wound four inches long , and contusions of the body . He said she refused to go to the hospital , but cliclInot refuse medical treatment . When he got her to the house he made a more careful examination of her Injuries , and dressed them . " There was no attempt to prevent my treatment of Mrs. Cooper from the two other women In the apartment , " said Dr. Schofield . " Then another doctor was called in , but whether or not he was a Christian Scientist practitioner I do not know . He acquiesced in my treatment of the case , however . " Dr. Schofield also explained that the nurse was sent away because there 7s already one in the apartment .                     