@@781445

txt The poor old navy hospital ship Relief gives promise  --  at last of row over the intrinsically insignifie " cant matter of who shall be appointed to command her shows every sign , now of developing into Congressional action that will bring about the reorganization of the entire Navy Department and the abolie tion of the bureau system , which has pro . vided the justification for most of the recent criticisms of the navy . The dispute between Admiral Brownsori and Surgeon Gen , Rixey is muck more than a recrudescence of the old line , and staff controversy . It goes clear to the heart of the main difficulty , and exposes to the full view of every one who cares to look the very thing which is at the bottom of such criticisms as that of Mr. Reuterdahl , It shows two of the seven bureaus ell= gaged in a bitter struggle for more power , each forgetting the zeal interests of the service in striving to expand its own " at the very time that it alleges the real interests of the service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the White House , however , the Admiral got huffy over a. very small matter . The huff , though , comes just at the time when it is likely to be the immediate cause of much more than a small matter . It has served to call pub-lic attention to a condition in the navy which was bound to receive serious con-sideration from Congress this Winter . The Sub-Committee of the House COM . mittee on Naval Affairs , which was ape pointed two years ago , has reached the definite conclusion that something is radically wrong with the naval organization ; and will make a determined effort at this session to provide the remedy . This sub-committee was appointed orig . Melly to go to Annapolis ' and investigate the hazing performances , which had ass sumed a character of regularity , there Eventually it was continued and I bus-nesee he came a general investiga all the navy yards , their organization and equipment , and the organization of the department itself . Representative Foss of Illinois , Chire man of the House Committee , was Chair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanied by four other members . One of these was always Representative Dawson of Iowa , who since his election td the House has been especially active in naval affairs . The sub-committee has visited all the navy yards Within reach of Washington , and has made extensive investigation of the conditions developed . I The result is more than to justify what I has been said en these dispatches recently concerning the unbusineSslike organization of the Navy Department under the present bureau system . Everywhere they went the Congressmen found work tied up by conflicting orders from different bureaus . Everywhere there was a mass of such evidence of the struggle between the bureaus to get more power , each for itself . On all sides the utter lack of business methods was disclosed At each yard the Congressmen found the bureau system in full operation . Each bureau had its own men on the ground to see that the strategy of their chiefs in - Washington was fully carried out . The wrangling in the yards was a counterpart of what the Congressmen had seen going on In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they did not care what the Congressmen thought , and over and again the subcommittee met with rebuffs in their efforts to find out the exact conditions at the yards . The net result was to convince the CongressMen that some reorganization is Nee solutely essential if efficiency is to be preserved . The whole controversy will be thrashed out on its merits in Congress . Naval Estimates May lie Cot . This is likely to prove prejudicial to the navy 's interest as a whole . For it is felt that in order to secure from Congress the four battleships , the cruisers , scouts , and submarines , which form a part of the year 's naval estimates , in addition to legislation for bettering the lot of naval of-ficers personally , the navy must present a united front . This can not be done if line and staff are to engage in a fierce strife . The staff officers ' side of the controversy has been set forth fully by Surgeon General Rixey . The line officers find themselves precluded from explain-Mg their attitude by the refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter of resignation . It is clearly Impossible for him to make public a copy without incurring the risk of a court- , martial on charges of disrespect toward his superior officer , the President of the United States . It is known , however , that it did not take the Admiral long to write what he had to say , The sole point of difference between him and the President was the determination of Mr. Roosevelt to appoint Dr. Charles F. Stokes to command the Relief , despite the Admiral 's protest that such an appointment would be illegal . The Admiral 's letter was respectful and dignified , and there is no roundation for the reports of an angry discussion be . tween him and the President . He simply cited to the President the last " - provided " ; of Section 7 of the Navy Personnel act of March , . 1899 , which says : And provided further , that all sections of the Revised Statutes which , in defining the rank of officers or positions in the navy , contain . the words " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read " the rank of , " but offle cers whose rank is so defined shall not be en= titled , in virtue of their rank , to command lithe line or in other staff corps. deleted paragraph Dr. Rizey 's Law Criticised . On the other hand , Dr. Rixey 's statement of last night was the subject of much comment to-day , as well as of no little examination . ' The international lawyers began to look up his authority for the statement that " it has always been considered a doubtful question if . the Geneva and Hague agreements could guarantee the neutrality of these ships , if combatant officers and crew were aboard . " The answer of the international law experts was practically unanimous that Dr. Rixey was in error . Gen. George B. Davis , Judge Advocate General of the Army , who is a high authority on the deleted 12 lines Hague Convention slightly ' modified this provision . The following new article Was adopted : New Article S  --  The protection due hospital ships and the infirmaries of vessels ceases if they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that the personnel of these hospital ships and infirmaries is armed for the purpose maintaining order and for the defense of the wounded or sick Is not considered as being of Stich a nature as to justify the withdrawal of the protection , neither is the fact of the pres-ence cl a wireless telegraph apparatus on board . The ironenittee adopted this article and reported it to the conference . Prof. Renaud , a French delegate , explained the article in his report as follows : " The second paragraph is inspired by Article 4 of the Convention of 18i16 , all the provisions of which it has not been considered necessary to reproduce . The ? personnel of hospital ships and of the infirmaries or warships may be armed either for the n aintenance of order on board or ' for the protection of the wounded and sick . This is not a fact the nature of which would be a motive for the withdrawal of the protection , as long as the arms are not used except for the purposes indicated . The German delegation had foreseen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of light artillery , in View of the dangers of navigation , and in particular to enable it to defend itself against any act of piracy . A discussion arose In the Editcrial Committee about the subject of artillery . with which the hospital ship might be provided , and finally the opinion prevailed that it was in no wise necessary for the ship to be armed . The ships of commerce are not armed and do not run any greater danger . It goes without saying that there could be a signal gun on hoard . Winiklow Takes Brownion 's Place . There were no developments to-day in the controversy , as the President was absent from Washington . Admiral Brownson relinquished his position as Chief of the Bureau of Navigation yesterday , and the duties of that office were to-day discharged by Commander Cameron McRae Winslow , the Assistant " Chief . He was not appointed chief . but signed his mail as " Actine , " Chief . Secretary Metcalf again to-day declined to discuss the matter . He declared he . knew nothing about the statement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Medicine and Surgery had ben interfered with by the Bureau of Navigation . It developed to-day that a year ago when the Relief was put into commis-sion the decision was reached to assign a naval surgeon to command the vessel , if It were manned by a merchant crew and master . But if the ship were manned by a naval crew . a naval officer of the line would be assigned to the command . A naval surgeon in command would have absolute charge . just as a physician would Pxe rcise supervision of a hospital on land , without , however , interfering - with the work of navigating the vessel . Surgeon Stokes will be assigned to the command of the Relief , if the crow and master aretehosen from the merchant marine , whi h. while not finally decided , probably-be the case .                     