@@678061

txt Institution is something* so difficult to , condone that regrets be mingled with congratulations to the embarrassed companies . Their affairs are mentioned here for considerations apart from their individual cases . The repeated resumptions attest cumulatively that conditions were never so bad as they were thought . When conditions are really unsound the culmination of a crisis leads to a lengthening string of suspensions , whereas we now have a mere remnant unable to make good under the most trying conditions imaginable . With such proof of essential solidity the blame for failures must be extended beyond the respective administrations . In a sense the depositors wrecked their own institutions . If they had not made their runs , if they had been willing to withdraw their resources completely , indeed , but in a more orderly manner , the panic might have been lessenr , if not averted . And it is a measurable reproach , even if excusable , that the situation was not saved by the solvents banks , who had not the excuse for fright which the less informed and unseasoned depositors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation should be redeemed by inherent strength , rather than by coherence and discipline , in meeting shocks to confidence , but it Is necessary to record that the institutions which are resuming are rather working out their own salvations than struggling under indebtedness to the savior of their lives . We suffered more than we needed to suffer , and our banks are proving ' the injustice of the criticism lavished upon them so freely and with so little consideration amid their troubles . RE.577-351,117.DIGWe have been accustomed lately to hear of banks resuming one by one , but not to have several such announce- 1 merits made together . This week there is a batch of such announcements . Probably there is no banking institution in town which is not good for its obligations on demand , but it is neces-1 dory to go to the suspended institutional for anticipation of obligations . The depositors of the Knickerbocker , for example , are now told that their installments of June 26 and Sept. 26 will be paid on June I. The plan which has proved so successful in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the depositors of the Mechanics and Traci , ' ers ' Bank , and its opening within a month is hoped for . The . prospects for the reopening of the Brooklyn Bank are even better . Nor are the trust companies behind in this race of recuperation . Statement was made in court/ that the obstruction of the ' Attorney General is the only obstacle to the resumption of the Williamsburg Trust Company , by the assistance of. - the Metropolitan Trust Company of Manhattan . Suspension of payments by a financial                     