@@677110

txt Several Republican leaders have opened negotiations with the Hearst forces for the indorsement of the Republican candidates for Assemblymen and Aldermen . The effect of such indorsements can not but be prejudicial to the Republican Mayoralty candidate , William M. Ivins . The Republican district loaders who are seeking Indorsements from the Hearst people admit that fact , but plead as an excuse that the Republican city campaign has been already so seriously hurt by the delay In securing a Mayoralty candidate that they feel that desperate action on their part is necessary to give them a chance against Tammany Hall in their district fights . Although Mr. Ivins bowed to the superior wisdom of the district leaders in the decision to turn down Jerome , it was said yesterday that some lively comments would probably be forthcoming from him if the Republican-Hearst district deals went through . Of course , the Hearst people are not indorsing Republican candidates for the Assembly and Aldermen without some assurances that the Hearst city ticket will be helped in return . It is a. fact that some of the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn of affairs in their organization . - They feel that proper consideratiL was not shown to them by the heads of the organization . The Hearst people are disposed to take advantage of this feeling of resentment . Already agreements have been made in two districts between the Hearst managers and the Republican leaders , by which the Hearst League will indorse the ' Republican candidates for Assembly and Alderman in those districts . Among the Republicans yesterday a report was circulated that the Citizens ' Union would indorse the candidacy e ? William M. loins for Mayor . An authoritative denial was issued last evening by officials of the union . It was said that the Citizens ' Union will not indorse either Mr. Ivins or any other Mayoralty candidate . When the Union withdrew from Fusion it was formally announced that ' all of its energies in the campaign would be ( mooted to the re-election of Mr. Jerome . I At that time it was regarded as not Improbable that Mr. Jerome would have the indorsements of all organizations . That he would be rejected - by the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the leaders to his candidacy . Now-that Mr. Jerome is left mahout ally indorsement except that of the Citizens ' Union , the officers of that organization feel that it is more than ever incumbent upon them to give all their attention to Mr. Jerome 's canvass . Thera was a good deal of discussion yesterday about the lengths to which the Republican Convention went in repudiating Mr. Jerome . Charles A. Flammer , the candidate named against him , is a resident of Abraham Gruber 's district , and presided over the Assembly convention held in that district last Monday . Col. Gruber was the friend of Armitage Mathews , Secretary of the Republican County Committee , who committed suicide on the morning on which he was to have i been brought to trial by Mr. Jerome on a charge of conspiracy to loot the Weisel estate . It was Gruber who was one of the most bitter , opponents of Jerome 's indorsement I by ' the Republicans . His victory was complete . He had Jerome turned down , and his own candidate nominated for District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the conference of Republican leaders at the Fifth Avenue Hotel last Friday , at which the rejection of Jerome for District Attorney was decided upon , it was learned yesterday that the principal speech against Jerome was made by Edward Lauterbach . It was said that Mr. Lauterbach gave the conference the full story of his afforts to bring Judge Gaynor and Mr. Jerome together for the purpose of making a fight against Tammany . Mr. Lauterbach said that Mr. I Jerome rejected all overtures made to him . Mr. Jerome was quoted as having said : " Why should I tie myself up to any single organization ? My baggage will be decorated with the labels of all of them before I set sail in this campaign . " Mr. Ivins decided yesterday to open personal campaign headquarters in the Hotel Breslin , at Twenty-ninth Street and Broadway , next Monday , He expects to enter upon his campaign at once . He said yesterday that he felt confident of his election . Asked if he had any special reason for his confidence , he said : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chairman of the Republican County Committee , on whom has fallen the chief share of the labor of making up the ticket , went out of town yesterday to rest over Sunday . Republican Club to Hear lying . William M. lying , Republican candidate for Mayor , will speak at the monthly meeting of the Republican Club , 56 West Fortieth Street , to-morrow evening . RUNAWAY IN PROSPECT PARK . It Follows a Collision Between Buggies  --  Two Hurt . James of 1,012 Pacific Street and William O'Rourke of 612 Classon Avenue , Brooklyn , were driving a buggy along Prospect Park 's East Drive yesterday afternoon , when they were run into by a man who was driving a big black horse attached to a heavy buggy . Their vehicle was overturned by the force of the collision , and both men were thrown heavily to the roadway . Their horse ran away and caused a scattering of carriages on the drive . The runaway was naught by a mounted policeman , after a short chase . received a fracture of the wrist , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body . The maw- who ran into them , when he saw that he had , upset their buggy , whipped up his horse and drove off at a furious pace .                     