@@781257

txt The first official statement of any kind made for a month in relation to the Nicaragua Canal Confirms the report that Lord Pauncefote. the British Ambassador to the United States , when he lands in New York to-day , will have with him the draft of a new treaty , abrogating the Clayton-Bulwer treaty . This treaty is in every way satisfactory to Lord Salisbury 's Cabinet Since Lord Pauncefote was interviewed in London not an official statement has been made with reference to the canal . This is explained . by the announcement that the negotiations up to the present have been unofficial , from a strict diplomatic point of view , and that on pourparlers depend the hones for a successful bridging over of the diplomatic difficulty . These pourparlers , however , have been particularly searching . It is not necessary for the State Department to see the document carried by Lord Pauncefote to know its terms , though officially negotiations will begin only when the , Ambassador reaches Washington . Until that time , however , the exact conditions of the new convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed to abrogate the ClaYton-Bulwer treaty ' and to acquiesce in the construction of the canal by and under the control of the United States . This concession from Lord Lansdowne 's original contention . - however , ham not been granted without some real or fancied advantage to Great Britain . It can not be said with certainty that a quid pro quo constituted the main feature of the protracted pourparlers , but that it shall result is firmly established in the minds of the members of the Cabinet . ' One of the most responsible officials connected with these and the earlier negotiations said : " We never objected really to the construction of the canal , but we did and do object to a cavalier abrogation of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty . It was in that spirit that Lord Lansdowne couched his reply to the Senate 's rejection of the last Hay-Pauncefote treaty . It was not what - on wanted to do , but the nasty way you said it that was the chief reason for our Opposition . Since then we have been approached in a rational , polite manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clayton-Bulever treaty with a treaty that will enable America to carry out a design which , in a broad sense , will doubtless benefit the whole world . " The mollification of the Foreign Office has doubtless done more than anything else to secure the assent of the British Government to a new treaty . But almost in the same breath must be mentioned the State Department 's willingness to agree to reciprocal arrangements regarding the British West Indies and other British pos-sessions . This , while in line with the views lately attributed in special cable dispatches to President McKinley and President Roosevelt , was so at variance with the British Government 's experience of the American attitude that they now regard it in the light of a quid pro quo for what they believe to be a concession in the Nicaraguan pmposal . The allegation contained in some of the British papers that Lord Lansdowne tamely has given up inherent rights without any return is denied strenuously on the foregoing grounds . What perhaps is even more interesting than the reasons prompting Great Britain to send over Lord Pauncefote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles of the Cabinet are not nearly so sure of the acceptance of the convention as are Some of the leading papers on both sides of the water . When the full terms are announced , it is feared that some members of the Senate may still find objections and that the " concessions " on the part of Great Britain may have had effect . For instance , the deduction that the proposed treaty in any way reaffirms or extends the scope of the Monroe doctrine meets with a direct denial by the Foreign Office . For these and other reasons Lord Pauncefote is not likely to affix his signature to the document until a majority of the Senate shall have had full opportunity for studying Great Britain 's proposal . In the meanwhile there exists here a stoical and rather amused feeling that the new treaty may be pigeon-holed on account of sqrne unexpected Senatorial objection , though this development would create the keenest disappointment . From a diplomatic source there has emanated lately a rumor that the Suez Canal Company is using financial and other influences to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has been further reported that this poWerful corporation has joined hands with several leading American interests allege. ) tet be opposed to the construction of this latter waterway . Investigations here and elsewhere reveal no evidence of such a conspiracy . though the head of one of the British State Departments admitted that the Nicaraguan Canal probably would rob the . Suez Canal of all its Far Eastern trade . The British Government is the largest stockholder in the Suez Canal , but it does not appear that this financial interest ever entered into the discussion of the Nicaraguan . Canal . the considerations indeleted 2 lines dends from the Suez Canal ComPany as to be unworthy of being coupled with the subject . The actual business of the Suez Canal Company is all transacted in Paris , deleted 6 lines reo . We can look forward to the eventual opening of either canal with perfect equanimity . as we do not expect any appreciable loss of income from their competition . We may even benefit by the general development of the traffic that the opening al a canal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canal Company is also ignorant of Nasty action having been taken by the Suez Canal Company against the proweed Nicaraguan Canal . It is. interesting to note that several English authorities who were interviewed all declared that English trade with the Far East must take the isthmian route , not only to expedite cargoes . but to avoid the palpable danger of the Suez route , which now compels them to skirt the shores of three nations  --  France . Spain , and Italy ? who. " by the fall of the handkerchief , itlight become hostile . " These .. authorities all assumed that war between Great Britain-and the United States is an impossible .                     