@@677259

txt At midnight the fire still roars . Fleeing inhabitants can see from miles around the pillars of fire towering skyward . The crash of falling ruins and the muffled reports of the exploding dynamite reach the ear at regular intervals . A disaster that staggers comprehension arid in point of terror and damage is unprecedented on the coast has not yet reached its culmination . The Merchants ' Exchange Building , one of the handsomest and most substantial edifices in the city , is in flames , as is also the Crocker-Woolwarth Building . The former building is a fourteenstory structure , seven floors of which are occupied by the Southern Pacific Railway Company as offices , The Crocker-Woolworth Building is a twelve-story terra cotta and granite structure and stood directly opposite the Palace Hotel . The immense D. 0 . Mills Building is surrounded fire and probably will burn . The Lick House , the Occidental Hotel , and the Russ House in this immediate vicinity are in immediate danger . The exact loss of life never will be known . Hundreds have been incinerated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glare of the fire throwing shadows across the worn and panic-stricken faces of the homeless . At the morgue in the Hall of Justice fifty bodies lie . Before the eyes of an Associated Press reporter three thieves were shot dead . The Japanese quarter has been burned and the people fled in terror , packing Ion their backs what household effects they could tie together . At 9 o'clock to-night an Associated Press man who went to a high hill overlooking the city noted that the sky on the east and south sides was illuminated for a distance of four or five miles . The Illumination on the southern side was in a duller glow , showing that the flames were not consuming property of such great proportions as was the lease on the east side . In the business district toward the water front the flames were either checked or blocked at about Washington Street , and at the corner of Kearny Street the Hall of Justice could be noted standing , but It was impossible to determine what damage had been done to the interior . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way through some of the choicest buildings in the city , the Pacific Mutual and the Italian-American Bank Building being re ' duced to ashes . Down Kearny Street on both sides at 11 10 o'clock the conflagration was still raging with fury , but the direction of the wind prevented its advance up the hills to the west toward the residence quarter . To the west of Kearny , up to Dupont , most of the buildings were burned as far south as California Street . All around - the new fourteenstory Merchants ' Exchange Building the fire burned fiercely , licking the Sides of the steel giant , but it resisted the influence of the heat . Then came the destruction of the Western Union Building , at the corner of Pick and Montgomery Streets . In this building were the offices of the Associated Press . Earlier in the day the occupants had been ordered out by the authorities on account of danger , and The Associated Press established a temporary station in The Bulletin editorial ** Then the . latter place was closed , and this disc patch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the burning buildings furnishing light for the writer . It appeared that the great Mills Building would block some of the southward sweep of the blaze , as It had already checked an advance northward earlier in the night . If this proves true the limits of the fire will be determined , but predictions on this Oita are as unreliable as the strong wind , which every five minutes is changing from one direction to another . The city to-night in face of its appaling disaster , is fairly quiet and orderly . ligeor can not be hal anywhere and the formidable presence of Federal truces , militia and naval reserves has had its effect on the element that might be disposed to be disorderly , The Mayor 's proclamation authorizing ' he shooting of looters on eight has been scattered broadcast in circulars and few reports of thieving are reeelVed . It is impossible to give anyttieng an accurate statement concerning the killed . Unquestionably many people were either killed outright , imprisoned renderel unconscious in collapsed bulldIngs which were afterward burned . At 10 o'clock the Occidental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crocker-Woolworth National Bank was ablaze . On Geary Street the Albert Pike Memorial Temple of the California bodies of the Scottish Rites Masons , containing scenery that cost $20,000 and costumes valued at $15,000 , collapsed . The ' lew Jewish synagogue adjoining was cracked to its foundations . While five dying men were taken from a collapsed building at Second and Jessie Streets Fathers Hogan , Rogers , and Huber of St. Patrick 's Church granted them the last rites of the Catholic Church . This ceremony was performed while a mass of coping overhead threatened to crush the priests to death . Three of the men died . A shoemaker , Joseph Lindsay , was four hours in a demolished building and when dug out it was found that he had not been hurt . The entire Larkin Street frontage of the City Hall for a distance of several hundred feet was thrown out into the street , and that thoroughfare for two blocks is piled high with boulders of mortared brick and twfstail iron . Latest reports from Leland Stanford University at Palo Alto indicate that the magnificent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of the buildings were ruined by cracks that split them froth cornice to foundation . The University of California at Berkeley , across the bay , escaped serious injury . The buildings are intact . Only a few structures collapsed in Berkeley , the shock being slight there . Artillerymen from the Presidio with their supply wagons and the army commissary wagons are aiding in getting the fleeing inhabitants and their baggage out of the threatened quarters . 270 Dead in an Asylum . The insane asylum at Agnews is a total wreck , 270 of the inmates being killed . It is reported that the attaches of the institution who were about at the time of the earthquake were saved . The ruins took fire shortly after the collapse . One hundred and twenty bodies have been removed . There were about 700 persons in the , building . Hundreds of the inmates who escaped death are roaming about the country in a state of panic .                     