@@676962

txt Secret Service agents to-day found secreted six trunks full of the ? records ' and accounts of the Etna Trading Company , search for which has continued fdr .. several days . This company , gethichls really the Clearing House for the . packers in the matter of disposing of their . " casings " or intestines of slaughtered animals , and which is in itself a trust , had its offices in the Fisher Building , across the street from where the Beef Trust investigation is going on . The offices were vacated and the company disappeared a week ago , and the Secret Service . Officers had been searching ever since to find what was left of it . They were told that the records were burned in the furnace , but this proved to be untrue , and they were finally located . The books will be used to prove the prosecution 's case . It is said that the casings from two million hogs and two million sheep slaughtered yearly in and around New York alone are all destroyed in order to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , France , Germany , and China . ' Similar destruction of casings , it is affirmed , is also going on in Kansas City , St. Louis , Philadelphia , Baltimore , and Other places . District Attorney.C . Morrlion filed in the United . States , Circuit Court to-day a mandate of the : Supreme Court of the United StateS which. , on four particular peint . modifies the injunction of . Peter S. Grosecup In ' Cotineetion with the ' Bbet1 Trust . The entiri3 injunction ) with . Slight modifications , has , noW beenconfirmed : - by ? the highest tribunal in ' the ' country , and es a result the Government authorities have two channels through which to attack the position of the packers . It is said that District Attorney Morrison has orders in this regard from Attorney General Moody , and contempt proceedings under the injunction may yet de resorted to by the Government . EXPLOSION UNDER HOTEL Slight Trouble in Astor House Store Draws a Crowd . Charles Vogt , an employe itv D , A. Doyle 's trunk store under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basement at 5:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon to move some trunks and take down their numbers . ' Vogt was on a pile and was unable to see a number . He lighted . a match , and in doing so lost his balance . A trunk fell over upon  --  the gas meter . It disconnected the pipe , and the match ignited the gas , which flowed . There was a small explosion . The flames struck Vogt in the face , and he fell to the floor . Retaining his presence of mind , however , he ran behind the pile of trunks and shut off the supply of gas . The flames had been seen , and some one cried " Fire ! " Policeman Herzog sent in an alarm and in a. few minutes the engines , tenders , and a water tower were racing up . Guests in the hotel , hearing the clanging of the bells and the whistling of the engines , flocked to the windows . The hall boys and other employes ran about the house informing the guests that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gas was flowing . Thousands of homegoers ran up and hampered the firemen . The Broadway cars were blocked for about five minuSas . Vogt 's eyelashes were burned , and his left eye was reddened . NEW PRESIDENT IN CHARGE . Peters Spends His First Day at Long Island Railroad Offices . Succeeding to a place twice made vacant by death within a year , Ralph Peters , the newly elected President of the Long Island Railroad , paid his first visit to the offices of the road at Long Island City yesterday . He spent most of the day with Superintendent Addison and the train dispatchers . He deelined afterward to say what changes , if any , he would make , in the staff . Mr. Peters took dinner at the Long Island Branch of the Railroad Y. M. C. A. The ferryboats of the company and the station buildings still display half-masted flags and other signs of mourning for President W. F. Potter . HALTS F. C. HAVEMEYER . Policeman Charges That His Car Broke Speed Ordinance . Bicycle Policeman Rensselaer held up Frederick C. Havemeyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said they broke the speed-limit ordinance between Thirty-fourth and Thirty-eighth Streets , and took them to the Tenderloin station . The chauffeur 's name la.Maurie Moynahan of 101 West Forty-third Street . After he had given his " pedigree " to the Sergeant , Mr. Havemeyer asked what the bail would be , The Sergeant told him $100 . Mr. Havemeyer produced a large roll of bills and gave security . Then the two got in the big automobile again and d nl disappeared . Mr. HaverAyer gave his address as 244 Madison Avenue . In the directory that is given as the home of Mr. and Mrs. Henry 0 . Fla.vetneyor , Jr .                     