@@675482

txt Two bits of information unusually interesting reached Tammany Hall men yesterday . The first was that Richard Croker would not leave England for this city for at , least two weeks , instead of to-morrow as he had planned . The second was that John F. Carroll had been virtually deposed as Mr. Croker 's deputy and that Lawrence Delmour , for many years the leader of the Thirtieth Assembly District , had been chosen as his successor . The first report was contradicted in the afternoon by Nathan Straus , who exhibited on the Speedway a cablegram from Mr. Croker , dated June 14 , in which the Tammany leader said that he would sail tomorrow on the Lucania . The report of the deposition of Mr. Carroll was somewhat lacking in confirmation , owing to the reluctance of both Mr. Carroll and Mr. Delmour to talk , but those who are on the inside agree that there is evidence that - Mr . Croker deems the time ripe for a change in the deputy leadership . Early yesterday morning a telegram , dated N , Vantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on two Wall Street " slips , " announcing that Mr. Croker 's return had been idefinitely postponed : Almost simultaneously Mr. Delmour received a cablegram , which Mr. Croker had sent to a friend , conveying similar information . According to this dispatch , Mr. Croker 's physicians had ordered him to remain in England for at least a fortnight longer , in order that his injured leg , which had not healed as rapidly as was desired , might have an additional rest . Mr. Delmour at once sent a cable message to the absent chieftain inquiring if this were so , ' and if he would be back in time to attend the National Convention . No answer was received to this last message up to 4 o'clock , when Mr. Delmour went to his ' home on City Island . MR . CROKER STILL USES A CANE . Confirmation was given to the report that Mr. Croker was not as well as had been supposed by George W. Lederer of the Casino , who returned from Europe Yesterday . Mr. Lederer said that Mr. Croker 's leg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used a cane . " Mr. Croker and Maurice Untermyer . were my guests at the Shaftesbury Theatre recently , " Mr. Lederer said . " When I told him that I intended returning to America soon , Mr. Croker asked if I would be home at election time . I replied that I thought I would . That 's right , ' said Mr. Croker . ' There 'll be a hot time in town at election time . Speaking of the Ice Trust , Mr. Croker said , ' I 'll tell you , Lederer , that I do n't know any more about the . Ice Trust than you do , ' ' DELMOUR IN CARROLL 'S PLACE . The report that Mr. Carroll had been displaced was based on the fact that Mr. Carroll , although he was in the city all day , was at no time in Tammany Hall , where he usually remains between 11 A. M. and 1 P. M. , while Mr. Delmour sat at the desk and was in full charge until his departure for home , and , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same place to-day and to-morrow . When asked point blank if he had been delegated to succeed Mr. Carroll , Mr. Delmour evasively said that he had nothing to say . Mr. Carroll was at the Democratic Club last night , and from all outward appearances was greatly worried . When asked if it were true that he had been deposed he ep rlied : " I ca n't talk about that . " " Has any message been received from , Mr. Croker to-day ? ' Mr. Carroll was asked . " In respect to what ? " Mr. Carroll inquired . As to his return , or anything else . " " You know I ca n't talk for publication on that subject , " was the answer . " Then there 's nothing doing ? " the reporter suggested . " Nothing doing , " Mr. Carroll echoed . FACTIONS IN DEMOCRATIC CLUB . That trouble has been brewing in the Tammany organization , and that Mr. Carroll has been marked for sacrifice have long been apparent to those who are on the inside in Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' two factions have eisted in the Democratic Club , and relatxions between them finally became so strained that the heads of one coterie practically abandoned the clubhouse and took up headquarters at Delmonico 's . In the one faction were John P. Carroll , Mayor Van Wyck , and John B. Sexton , and the distinctively political friends of Mr. Croker . In the other were Corporation Counsel Whalen , Fire Commissioner Scannell , and Andrew Freedman , probably Mr. Croker 's most intimate personal friends and business associates , and their friends . It was the latter that went to Delmonico 's . The feeling between the two cliques was at all times thinly disguised , and on several occasions members of one coterie referred slightingly to those of the other . When Mr. Croker left the city , friends of Mr. ' Whalen permitted it to become known that Mr. Carroll was not to be in full charge of the party 's affairs , and that Mr. Whalen had become a sharer in the responsibility . This was published in the newspapers at the time and from that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  more by actions than by words . It is a fact that for several months neither Mr. Whalen nor Mr. Freedman has frequented the clubhouse , though all the time Mr. Freedman has had apartments there . CARROLL AND THE ICE SCANDAL . The revelations in connection with the gambling scandal some months ago and the present trouble over the Ice Trust only served to increase the weight of woe on Mr. Carroll 's shoulders , while they gave the members of the rival clique gratification that was to say the least illy concealed . Outside of the club , but inside of the organization , there was more trouble . District leaders who labor hard for the party saw the effect on their constituents of the revelations made in the Ice Trust investigation , and more than one of them has openly denounced Mr. Carroll , not for owning Ice Trust stock , but for being " caught with the goods . " It is probable that some of these dissatisfied and disgusted leaders have complained to Mr. Croker and demanded Mr. Carroll 's retirement . If they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it is the general belief that Mr. Carroll will be forced to give up his place , at least temporarily . In connection with the report that Mr. Carroll has been disciplined and that Mr. Croker will not come home on the date he had set , it was noted yesterday that W. H. Gelshenen , President of the Garfield National Bank , had sailed for Europe on the Oceanic on Wednesday . According to a rumor that received considerable circulation , Mr. Gelshenen will tell Mr. Croker Mr. Carrol 's side of the Ice Trust scandal , in the hope of mitigating any punishment which Mr. Croker may have in store for Mr. Carroll .                     