@@677598

txt As a result of the conferences which . occurred here today between the president and Secretary Taft on the one hand , and Gov . Deneen on the other , the way has been paved for an understanding at the proper time which will insure the support of the Deneen following for Taft at the republican national convention . It also may have some effect upon the personal fortunes of the governor through a return of support on the part of the administration . Gov . Deneen held a private conference with Secretary Taft this morning after the latter had agreed to comply with the request of President R. R. McCormick of the sanitary district to tile a bill of injunction in the Circuit court at Chicago against the Calumet feature of the drainage canal . During the afternoon the governor lunched with the president and Mrs. Roosevelt , the other guests being Secretary Garfield , who knows the Ohio situation thoroughly ; Wayne Jr . of New York , a son of the former attorney general , and Lewis M. Id-dings , consul general at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Attorney E. C. Lindley , the governor went to Baltimore and inspected the model penitentiary at that point , leaving during the evening for Chicago . Presidency Is Discussed . It may be said authoritatively that the presidential situation wao canvassed both at the war department and at the White house . Gov . Deneen was not , however , asked in so many words to support the candidacy of Secretary Taft , though it was made clear to him that his help would be greatly appreciated . The conferences were more for the purpose of improving the acquaintanceship between the governor and the president and the secretary of war . The first interview , held some weeks ago , was introductory , and in accordance with the plan to bring Secretary Taft in touch with influential politicians throughout the country . It occurred upon . the initiative of the president . Gov.Deneen was responsible for those which took place today , and this fact lent some color to the report that he had come to Washington to seek the support of the administration in his fight for reform legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , there is absolutely no foundation for this report . " The fight at Springfield , " he said , " is not national in any sense of the word . The interference of the administration could do no good , even If it were attempted . Certainly I have not asked the president to intervene , and shall not do so , " No Tight on Cannon : ? It was authoritatively ascertained that a working agreement between the administration and the governor was not perfected today , but the way was paved for it , and it would surprise no one should Mr. Deneen use his influence to secure the indorsement of Secretary Taft . He will not do so , however , at the expense of Speaker Cannon . He has no intention of antagonizing the speaker and his friends and will join heartily in the movement to instruct the Illinois delegation to the national convention to support the candidacy of the Danville statesman . But if the present good feeling between himself and the administration continues  --  and it will not be the fault of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? he will be found to advocate in the next convention that a resolution be adopted , indorsing Speaker Cannon , approving heartily the policies of President Roosevelt and specifically leistructing the delegation in the event that the nomination of Mr. Cannon can not be brought about , to vote for Secretary Taft as the man to carry on the work of the present administration . Move to Block Fairbanks . The president and secretary of war are delighted with the friendly attitude of the governor , the more because they appreciate that the Most that can be expected from Senator Hopkins , who is tied up with the Cannon and Lorimer interests , is complete neutrality . They want to prevent Cannon from being placed in a position where he can transfer the Illinois Vote to Fairbanks or any other man who Is not considered sympathetic with the Roosevelt policies . - The governor is in sympathy with this purpose , not because of any ' hostility to the speaker or to Senator Hopkins but because of his belief that the great ' state of Illinois should have a real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be used as a mere stalking horse . Moreover , the governor fully appreciates the great value of the administration 's support , and he may need it himself in the gubernatorial contest . Deneen 's Call on Taft . The governor was at the war department exactly thirty-six minutes , twenty of which ? were occupied in a discussion of the Calumet question . Accompanied by President McCormick , Chief Engineer Isham Randolph , and Attorney Lindley , all of the drainage district , and Representative Foss of Chicago , chairman of the house naval affairs committee , he went first to the navy department and asked Assistant Secretary Newberry to provide a better ship than the Don Juan de Austria for the Chicago nasal militia . Mr. Newberry suggested that if the organization would retain the Dorothea until next spring probably a better ship than the Austria could be assigned to it . . Then the party went over to the war department , where at 10 o'clock they were received by Secretary Taft . Pleads for Calumet Canal . Mr. McCormick explained that the sanitary district was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the department to grant a permit for the execution of the Calumet project ; that under a la w 0 fthe state of Illinois , approved by a referendum vote of the city of Chicago , the sanitary district had been instructed to build the addition to the canal . Mr. McCormick explained that the district proposed to go ahead with the work , in spite of the decision of the secretary of war and the chief army engineers , and that he hoped the secretary would tile ar injunction suit at the earliest possible moment in order to have the matter settled by the Supreme court of the United States before any more money was expendee . Attorney Lindley talked in the same vein . Secretary Taft listened to the representations made and called attention to the decision of the Supreme court in what is known as the Union bridge case , which upholds his authority to act as he did in the Calumet matter . He announced that he would officially request the attorney general to file the suit at once , Taft and Deneen Together . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the room , leaving the secretary and the governor alone . For sixteen minutes these two officiate talked and they would have continued fat some time longer had not a telephone message been received from the WhiteVouse asking  --  the secretary to come over immediately as the president wanted to confer with hint about an important matter . When the governor appeared in the secretary 's ante room a number of newspaper men asked NM If ' , entice had been discussed . " Politics ? ' he repeated In the manner of the Irishman . " I came here as the representative of the state to support the representations of Mr. McCormick in regard to the Calumet project . I desired also to pay may respects to the secretary . " Secretary Taft passed through the door at this moment . " We are asking the governor , " one of the newspaper men said to the secretary , " whether you talked politics with him . " The secretary gave vent to the Taft laugh . " Say that our talk had reference to the business of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his way to the White house . There was the saute notable disinclination to talk when the White house luncheon was finished and the governor was on his way to the train . " There is nothing to say about politics , absolutely nothing to say . " But every one apparently was content with what had been accomplished , the president , Secretary ' raft , the governor , and the representatives of the sanitary district . Deneen to Run Again . Illinois politicians are deeply interested in I the possible effect of the rapporchement between the administration and Gov . Deneen upon the hitter 's candidacy to succeed hint-self as well as upon his relations with Senator Hopkins . It is accepted as certain that the governor at the proper time will declare his purpose to go before the people once more as a. candidate for a second term , He believes that with the experience he has had lie can give better results than have been achived during his present term . In other words , he is now firmly in the saddle and knows which way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governor , but the , latter has not pledged himself one way or the other , and if he has the administration behind him , which is probable , he may not find it expedient or necessary to enter Into any deal with the senator . Hopkins has been an administration man in the senate , supporting without exception , the policies advocated by the president , but he is likely to damage himself materially at the White house unless he unequivocally speaks for Taft or some other Roosevelt man , after Cannon , of course ; for there is no desire to take from the speaker the indorsement of his own state , which would be regarded as a well deserved compliment . Plans in Other States . The plan to have Illinois indorse Roosevelt 's policies and Secretary Taft 's candidacy is to he followed en other states . The administration fully realizes that one of the results of the Ohio fight is to make other states hesitate to indorse Taft . Naturally they want to ascertain first what his home state will do . This hesitation Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration and its policies , which necessarily will involve the selection of a man known to be in hearty sympathy with it and therm                     