@@676286

txt After remaining ' quiet all day , in face of the faiit that armed militia rode on every trolley car that was run , the lawless element broke out in a demonstration to-night , under cover of a dense fog . The first real disturbance of the evenirg occurred at the railway power house , in the Brooklyn district , where the Blues , a New Haven company , were stationed on patrol . The rain of the early evening was succeeded after 9 o'clock by a thick fog , which rendered it difficult to distinguish objects half a block away . Taking advantage of the fog , a gang of hoodlums , supposed to be Polanders living in that neighborhood , gathered on the . sidewalk across the street from the power house and aimed a volley of stones at two empty cars which were standing there .. The windows on one side of the cars were smashed from one end to the other . I Lieut . Beebe and the whole company of Blues made a dash for the stone throwers , but in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through back yards and alleys . About this time reports of violence in other parts of the city began to come in , the fog evidently suiting the purposes of the rioters . Every car that came in to the centre of the city between 9 and 10 o'clock had evidently been attacked by stone throwers . From the East Main Street line , the West Main Street line , and the Naugatuck , Oakville , and Brooklyn tines there came the same reports of occasional showers of brickbats . Some of the motormen and guardsmen had narrow escapes from injury . It was extremely difficult for the men on the cars to locate the source of the stone throwing , and escape for the rioters was easy in the fog . One arrest was made near the High School building . where some of the militiamen are quartered . A man was found tampering with a switch and apparently attempting to throw it . He was taken into custody and locked up . The crowds in the business section thinned out as the evening advanced . but in the Brooklyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the authorities , the number of people thronging the streets rather increased than diminished . and it was feared that serious trouble might develop there before the night was over , in spite of militiamen on guard . SUGAR REFINERIES CLOSE . Havemeyer Brooklyn Plant Shut Down with 4,000 Men Out ? Jersey City Refinery Stops  --  National Shuts Down Plants Also . Reports that the refineries of the leading sugar companies have suspended operations indefinitely because of the large supply of refined products are officially 4enied . At the office of the American Sugar RefinerieS Company it was said yesterday that only one refinery , that in Jersey City , had shut down . It was admitted that the Brooklyn refineries were not working to their full capacity . Despite this announcement , the Havemeyer refineries on Kent Avenue , Brooklyn , owned by the American Sugar Refining Company and employing over 4,000 men , were shut down last night . The men got their information that the refineries would close when they received their pay at 7 o'clock , the hour when the day shift retired and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the men as to when the refineries would reopen . The men said the shut-down came at a time when they could ill afford it . It has been customary for the refineries to close every Fall after the canning season is over , for a week or more , for the repairing.of the machinery . This shut-down was omitted last Fall on account of the American Sugar Refining Company supplying much of the trade of the National Sugar Refining Company , because the big Mollenhauer refinery in Williamsburg has been closed for a year . Rumors were current during the day that a shut-down was contemplated , but they were denied at the Williamsburg office by Superintendent James F. Bendernagel. who referred all inquiries to the Wall Street office . After the shut-down many of the wives of the men hastened to the South Fourth Street office and begged for the continuation of their husbands ' work . Until a late hour many ! nen remained about the streets in front of the refineries and discussed the situation . The men say the company has 100,000 barrels of sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kent Avenue , and they attribute , the shout-down of the refineries to this ' surplus supply . The National Sugar Company , which has close business relations with the American Company , announced the closing of a refinery in Yonkers and another in Brooklyn . It is declared . however , that these places have- been closed chiefly to facilitate the yearly " cleaning-up ' process . Arbuckle Brothers have not closed any of their refineries , which are said to be working a little more than half time , as the demand for refined sugar is not very heavy at this time of the year .                     