@@676979

txt A matter of great commercial importance to the Pacific Coast is discussed in a report that has been forwarded to Washington by the Chamber of Commerce for the information of President Roosevelt , Secretary Taft of the War Department , and J. L. Bristow , Special Commissioner appointed by President Roosevelt to visit this coast and acquire facts . The question refers to the utility of the Panama route for the movement of freight between San Francisco and the Atlantic States . " There are reasons why the Panama route can not be utilized with advantage in the commercial interchange of commodities between San Francisco and the Atlantic States , " it says , " and with the steady development of transportation facilities between nations as well as between our own States those reasons are becoming more potential every year . In brief they are but two in number : " First  --  Loss of time in transit . " Second  --  Increased freight cost made necessary by transshipment from steamer to car , and from car to steamer . MR . REID GUEST OF EDITORS . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lotos Club . Whitelaw Reid was the guest of honor at a dinner given at the Lotos Club last night by his co-Directors of The Associated Press in commemoration of his appointment as Ambassador to the Court of St. James . Those ' present besides Mr. Reid were Charles W. Knapp , St. Louis Republic ; Herman Ridder , New York Staats-Zeitung ; Charles H. Grasty , Baltimore News ; Gen. Charles H. Taylor , Boston Globe : H. H. Cabaniss . Augusta ( Ga . ) Chronicle ; Albert J. Barr , Pittsburg Post ; George Thompson , St. Paul Dispatch ; W. L. , Philadelphia Bulletin ; Clark Howell , Atlanta Constitution ; A. P. Langtry , Springfield ( Mass . ) Union ; Richard Watson Gilder , editor of The Century ; George G. Ward , Vice President Commercial Cable Company ; Robert C. Clowry , President Western Union Telegraph Company ; J. Hart Lyman , New York Tribune ; Melville E. Stone , Charles S. Diehl , and Charles H. Boynton . Several speeches were made felicitating Mr. Reid on his appointment , and ex- pressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AHEARN SOLVES A PUZZLE . Borough President Straightens Tangle In Fifth , Avenue House Numbers . Borough President Ahearn has settled the controversy over street numbers on Fifth Avenue at Twenty-first Street by I giving the number 160 to the new building on the northwest corner and 158 to E. H. Van Ingen's. structure on the southwest corner . This solution was reached by taking away 158 from the Presbyterian Building , which is on the northwest corner at Twentieth Street , and leaving it with a single number-156 . Mr. Ahearn thinks under the conditions one number is enough for any building . When the Union Clubhouse stood at the northwest corner of Twenty-first Street the entrance was on the side street , and the structure never had a Fifth Avenue number . When the Hudson Realty Company put up the present eleven-story building on the site the owners took steps to get some sort of a Fifth Avenue designation for it .                     