@@676613

txt Since cold cold weather set in there . has been a remission in the activity of those who are maintaining , somewhat at cross purposes , the agitation for the restoration to the section of Broadway.known as the Boulevard something : of the beauty destroyed by the subway excavation . It is desirable that whatever is undertaken in this line shall be begun as early in the Spring as possible ; meanwhile it is necessary that those for whom it has interest shall reach something like an agreement as to what they want , To our enterprising friends of the West Side Association we offer the *suggestion that they secure a competent landscape architect to lay out a plan for the entire section affected by the rapid transit improvement . So far as the Boulevard is concerned this extends from Fifty-ninth to One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street . As the discussion stands at present , the advocates of the improvement of this beautiful avenue are divided into two camps . Some of them want shade trees planted in the small parks which divide it ; others want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are some places where trees will grow and other places where they will not grow . This is a matter in which personal preference counts for very little . Some one of sound knowledge and expert judgment should be employed to study the problem and decide where trees would thrive and look well , and where shrubs would adorn and not contract and belittle the stretches of greensward which are always preferable for large areas . An estimate of the cost of the work should be made . including the provision of as much rich loam as may be needed for what is to be grown ; the plans and estimates should be submitted to the Commissioner of Parks for examination and approval , and the work when authorized should be carried out under the direction of a director and assistants who thoroughly understand the business . Anything less than this will fail to give satisfactory results . It is also desirable that it should-be found out as promptly as possible if there are funds at the disposal of the Rapid Transit Commission which can be employed for this purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board of Estimate and Apportionment will make a sufficient appropriation for it  --  a question which can not be answered until it is known what it is proposed to do and how much It will cost . If this can not be done , it will be necessary to prepare and present to the Legislature a bill or bills which will remove any obstacles to the doing of the work at public cost , since the beauty of the Boulevard was destroyed for public purposes . It is useless to discuss this subject in glittering generalities , or to clamor for ' trees where trees would not grow . A well-considered plan and a well-prepared estimate of its cost are the first , and at present most essential , steps to the undertaking of an important work upon which depend the beauty of a large section of the city and the comfort and happiness of many citizens . As it stands , the cinder path through the middle of the little stretch of anaemic grass which divides the Boulevard into the east and west drives is a ghastly parody of municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upper west side are clamorous for an intelligent restoration of the beauty of the Boulevard , but we do wonder that the West Side Association has not approached the matter more practically .                     