@@677686

txt Sheriff H. A. Campbell of De ' Witt County left this afternoon for San Diego with requisition papers signed by Gov . Deneen for Frederick H. Magill and his bride , who are charged with the murder of Magill 's first wife , Mrs. Pet Gandy Magill. on May 31 . State 's Attorney Arthur F. Miller , who made the charge against the couple said to-day : " I was compelled to take the action because public sentiment demanded that the matter be sifted to the bottom . I think we can convict Magill . The cirttlitiStati-tial evidence is amazingly strong . As to the girl , I almost hope she will be eroded innocent , yet the circumstances are decidedly against her . Faye Graham was as nice a girl as there was in town until she got under the influence of MagilL Ever since it was learned here that they were married great pressure has been brought to bear on me . E. L. Hoffman , County Supervisor , yesterday advised me to act at once . " I believe there was something queer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will have the body exhumed . There was little or no evidence at the inquest , and the entire findings I understand were suppressed by Coroner Jones . " The grounds on which the suspicion against Magill rests are : " The members of the Coroner 's Jury all were intimate friends of Magill , and called at his request . " The public was not allowed to know the facts about the death . Members of the jury declare that both Coroner Jones and Magill ordered strict secrecy . " Mitt even the father of Pet Magill , A. Gandy of Dayton , Ohio , was unable to ascertain the cause of death . and since he attended the funeral has been insisting on an investigation . " Magill 's attention to his present wife . Faye Graham , 19 years old , whom he married one month after his wife 's death . " The letters alleged to have been written by Mrs. Pet Magill , just prior to her death , especially a letter which contained Mrs. Pet Magill 's ' dying re-quest that her husband marry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magill sold out and left town after his wife 's death and talk of prosecution commenced . The lack of evidence showing that Pet Magill ever contemplated suicide . " F. C. Davidson , Postmaster , who was a Snember of the Coroner 's jury , said to-day : " Fred called me up over the telephone the morning of his wife 's death . He surprised me by saying : ' I 'm afraid people will-think I murdered my wife . I want you to be on the jury and do the best you can by me . ' " When I went to the house I saw that Fred had been drinking . He acted very Strangely . I do n't think the inquest was a very thorough one , but I do not think that Fred murdered his wife . I will say that indirectly he was responsible for her death . I think she went almost crazy over the way he carried on with the Graham girl . " Magill did not report the death of his wife for several hours afterward . The body was found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held a bowl of chloroform , in the other a sponge . Her head was wrapped tightly with a towel . Mayor Edmundson , a prominent physician of Clinton , who assisted Mr. Miller in the investigation , said to-day : " In one of the letters reported to have been written by . Mrs. Pet Magill she stated that strychnine and chloroform would be used . If any strychnine is found in the body it will prove that the woman did not die with such apparent composure , because strychnine causes death with convulsions . It is very improbable that a person could be asphyxiated by chloroform and retain such composure as to hold a bowl . " Mr. Miller says he has a - Witness who will testify that the body bore bruises and dark marks about the throat . Magill opened a bottle of beer just before he and his wife retired the night she died , he testified at the inquest . He handed a glass to her and she drank it . He decided not to drink his glassful , and threw It in the sink . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleged to have been written by Mrs. Magill were remarkable in . their exoneration of Magill . One was addressed I to the father , A. Gandy , laying the blame gor Mrs. Magill 's suicide on the mother and sister of another to the pi:laughter , Marguerite , requesting her to ccept Faye Graham as a guardian , and two to Fred Magill , The fifth letter was roduced by Magill nearly a month after is wife 's death . It requested that he marry Miss Graham " expediently : " He ounded his friends by showing . them s letter and asking their advice . Magill it all the letters .                     