@@677839

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. ** reply to the charges preferred against him will be made by Regis Henri Post , Governor of Porto Rico , at a White House conference to be held as soon as he reaches Washington . The Governor comes at the direction of the President , who ordered an investigation of the charges a month ago . A dispatch from San Juan to-day announces his sailing for New York on the steamship Philadelphia this morning . The troubles of Gov . Post grow out of a speech he made before the assembly of the School Superintendents of the Island last September . His remarks on that occasion were reported , according to the Governor and his friends , in " garbled form . " The Governor ; . , however , has not declared that the report of his speech is wrong in toto . But to whatever extent his denials may run it is certain that what he said provoked great indignation in the assembly , and that the next morning the Governor again appeared before the Superintendents to apologize and explain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemies In the island seized upon this occasion to attack him on other scores , and they have made the most of their opportunity . A leader in the fight Is the editor of The Porto Rico Review , who bitterly opposed the appointment of Mr. Post to succeed Beekman Winthrop when the latter became the Assistant Secretary of the TreasurY . According to this paper , Gov . Post in his speech made a bitter attack upon the School Superintendents of the island , declaring them to be a " set of pharisees , " whose influence had been worse for Porto Rico than any other except that of the missionaries . " You are the Pharisees and I am the Samaritan , " he is reported as saying . Then , addressing himself to School Superiptendent Lord directly . the Governor is quoted as shouting : " Lord has been down here seven years and has been a blank failure . " Prom this , according to the report , the Governor went on to call Mr. Lord a Pharisee and to indulge in a variety of coarse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Porto Rican people . The Governor is a close friend of the President , and his personal appointee . He is a graduate of Harvard ' University in the class of 1891 , and is a man of wealth . He was for a time in the New York Legislature , and subsequently became interested in colonial affairs . He offered his services to the President , who appointed him Treasurer of Porto Rico and later Secretary of the island Government . His appointment as Governor came last Spring .                     