@@675523

txt Last year we were saying something about the need for a Professor of Books . Emerson saw with his clear eye the need and importance of a knowledge of the natural history of books , of acquaintance With their outward form and structure , as well as of their inward spirit and texture . Hence his unique expression of the nbeessity for a Professor of Books . We acquire a respect and reverence for their material forms , when we consider that by them we may become linked through the soul in them to the highest minds . The great books read aright are to us as the ladder in Jacob 's dream , with the Eternal standing above it , and immortal messengers between God and man ascending and descending upon it . In silence and alone , we can not look at the dress in which is set out the body that contains for us the mind of Shakespeare ; or upon the habiliments in which the cadences , so human and so divine , of Israel 's shepbera King are clothed , preserving for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penitence , without respect and reverence for the material book , and in like manner for every true book that has come into the world . The finer the conception of the soul that is there , the keener is the appreciation of the fitness with which the body Is adapted to it ; but when trade aims become predominant and catch-penny imethods are adopted , and the prevailing rule of giving the least for the most is applied to books , then is that which is in its nature free , held in fetters , their material side alone is apprehended , and the distinction is lost between their spiritual nature and aims and the accident of their merely remunerative qualities . The educated , and those who work among books and by them , can not look with complacency upon the application of the resources of doubtful art to the enhancement of the price of books of only momentary interest , many of them , at best , but as tares among the wheat . Such methods in publishing account largely for the decay in book buying . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the public ; they are not , properly , bought at all , but distributed by circulating libraries , and sold in course of time for waste paper . A book-buying public can never be formed by such methods ; the results are exactly in the opposite direction . The system is as if devised to eradicate the habit of book buying or any thought of it . And in the meantime prices are obtained  --  which the plan may necessarily entail -- quite double what they must be before a book-buying public can exist . To such books the attention of the people is directed and their minds fixed by all strange and fatuous devices . These things mark a decay in letters . The teaching of a Professor of Books would go toward counteracting such a course , instruct in the appreciation of books in soul , body , and environment , and trace their interesting development from the tablets and monuments of buried ages . through the rolls of antiquity and the folios of more modern times , to the beautiful editions of Mr. Mosher . He would instruct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in private collections and in public libraries , and thus might arise an intelligent order of book handlers , who would turn the knowledge acquired to public benefit , and hand on , in contact with the people , such interesting and productive information as occasion might suggest . The aim and interest of publishers is that the individual should buy , and in this their interest is the interest of the public ; for . that the people might become fruitful readers they should own their books and have them for companions . The world is so arranged that whatever Is for its good generally comes to pass ; deleted about 10 lines In this republic an honorable and mutually free commerce will adjust things to the etival advantage of the author and the people and of all who stand between . What must be chiefly observed is the avoidance of obstacles to this consummation . What would go a long way toward its attainment would be , could the men be found , the ample endowment by the publishers of a Chair of Books in the principal universities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we believe , at present rare ; but whenever the need presses we have no doubt of the qualifications making their appearance . Then by a widespread knowledge of books may many evils under which society groans be removed , as by the expulsive power of new , affections ; and men everywhere will feel it of the utmost importance that they should hear and read , as well as speak , only the truth . The minds of men thus finding a true balance , things in which they are concerned will find a due proportion , and no news will more arouse their interest than of the advent of a real book .                     