@@677057

txt " We will bust Wall Street " is the Inspiring legend upon buttons and badges worn by the cotton planters . Nobody has any objection . Wall Street has not a friend upon earth . Moreover , half of it will cheerfully help ruin the otheP half , and thus push along the good work of the planters , so that it will only be half of Wall Street that the planters will bust if things go their way . If things go the other way , then half of Wall Street will fatten upon the other half , and it is the planters who will be busted . The Southern Cotton Association of course has a finger in the pie , enthusiastically , sending proclamations to a " million members " predicting a nine-million-bale crop and promising a twelve-cent market We do not know the size of the crop nor the price it will bring , and so have no advice to offer . But this we know , that every planter who sells his cotton with reference to anything except its cost to him is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is attacking . When recently cotton was selling at about the cost of production for less than cost with a fair margin of profit  --  it was a safe purchase without reference to the statistical situ ' ation . Now that cotton is selling at nearly double those figures the market is dangerous , also without reference to the statistical situation . The market does not respond to arguments as well as it does to buying and selling , and anybody may have both the best of the argument and the worst of the market . Supply and demand will control in the long run , but only those certain that their margins will last to the end of the run have any business to tail along with the Wall Street busters . What comfort will it be to them if the market does go to 12 cents after their interest and warehouse charges have eaten up any advance beyond the present price ? ROTTISCHILD is said to have made his fortune by not buying cheap or selling dear . A fair price and a fair profit were his maxims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands are risking it by seeking for 125 per cent. , and the difference is not worth the risk . The effect upon the industry is even worse . Unreasonable prices endanger I the American monopoly , threaten the stoppage of mills , and make clothing unjustly dear . These results are undesirable , however admirable may be the busting of Wall Street .                     