@@676739

txt Ths British Government is taking energetic action in the case of the sinking of the British steamer Knight Commander by the Vladivostok squadron . The demands which will be made upon the Russian Government will include compensation to the owners of the ship and to the owners of the goods on board the Knight Commander , an apology for the action of the Russian cruisers , an dan agreement that instructions be given which will prevent a repetition of such action . Ali information received by the Government tends to establish in the official mind a belief that an outrage has been committed for which no excuse exists in international law . Those aware of the feelings of the Ministry said last night that ail the members of the Cabinet were In accord regarding the principle of the inviolability of innocent neutral shipping as well as upon the principle that a neutral ship can not be destroyed , even if carrying contraband of war . British ship owners are up in arms over the dangers which shipping is now running and are bombarding the Government with , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their interests . Seizures in the Red Sea . - The Foreign Office , while expressing regret at the seizure ' hi the Red Sea of the steamer Formosa , says the only possible . explanation consists in the fact that the Russian Government 's orders to cease interfering with neutral vessels have not ' yet reached the commanders of Volunteer Fleet steamers . The Russian Government has given the most explicit pledge that there shall be no more Red Sea seizures . Respecting the Red Sea seizures , while the negotiations have been carried on in the most conciliatory manner , in the representations to the St. Petersburg Government Foreign Secretary Lansdowne declared that Great Britain could not , in view of her treaty alliance with Japan , allow any interpretation to be placed on treaties relating to the Dardanelles which would permit of the-dree passage of vessels of the P.ussian Volunteer Fleet from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean with the view , of their subseqUent employment for war purposes . It has not been generally known that LCirtl Lansdowne went so far as to call Russia 's attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in British and Japanese papers that the action of the Smolensk and Petersburg in traversing the Dardanelles had placed Turkey in the position of giving assistance to Russia , and that this made it Great Britain 's duty to come to the relief of her ally , as required by the Anglo-Japanese treaty . It is understood that the Russian authorities gave careful consideration to this feature of the British representations , and although maintaining the British contention to be unjustifiable determined , in the interest of general peace and in order to settle the question , to waive the war privileges claimed for the two Volunteer Fleet steamers and not to authorize further operations of ships of that character . Premier Balfour 's Statement . Premier Balfour , replying to a question in the House of Commons yesterdz ' , said the Government was not aware Of any Convention concluded In 1901 between Turkey and Russia providing special conditions for the passage of the Dardanelles by . special Russian ships . Mr. Balfour , while disclaiming that he was giving all authoritative decision , said he believed the declaration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration that a neutral flag covers an enemy 's merchandise except when contraband of war . Dealing with the question of whether the Russian Volunteer vessels being private ships commissioned by the State were different materially from privateers , the Premier said that the whole question of the status of the Volunteer ships was now under discussion between Great Britain and Russia , and that it would not be desirable to discuss that point in the House of Commons at present . Regarding the suggestion that rfi view Of Russia 's reservations at Paris in reapect. to privateering and her recent commis : - stoning of the Volunteer ships , the British Government would consider the propriety of denouncing the declaration of Paris and of reserving the right to capture durinst war time an . enemy 's property carried under a neutral- flag , Mr. Balfour said he could not hold out any hope that Great Britain was going to make recent occurrences the occasion of any remonstrance to other powers upon that broader subject . In regard to the sinking of the British steamer Knight Commander by the Russians off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made on the subject , but he was not yet in a position to make a statement . Rues-la 's Action Called Scandalous . Arthur Cohen , one of the counsel for the British Government in the Alabama claims arbitration case , now a Judge of the Cinque Ports and standing counsel for the niversity of Cambridge , said last night : It is scandalous , this reckless seizure and destruction of neutral shipping by Russian - vessels . The sinking of the Knight Commander was totally illegal . Wheaton in his work on international law states explicitly that if the prize is a neutral ship , no circumstances will justify her destruction before condemnation , that if the vessel is destroyed full compensation must be given to her owner , but that owners of contraband of war on board the ship , if any , have no sutstantial ground for complaint . because the destruction of the vessel does not injure them . " Had the Knight Commander been condemned as a good prize the owners of the contraband cargo would consequently suffer no loss by the sinking of the ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compensation , as are the owners of the vessels . " Russia may advance the contention that the Knight Commander was carrying contraband of the character of which her owner was aware , and that he therefore was guilty of an offense against international law . This would not justify the sinking of the Knight Commander , nor Would the unwillingness of the Russian commander to reduce the complement of his squadron in order to furnish a prize crew be an excuse for such action . That was the misfortune of the Russians . " It seems to me to be time for the ' United States and Great Britain to say that they will not allow this extension of the rules relating to contraband of war or this extraordinary interference with neutral commerce . "                     