@@781260

txt Three Other Members of the Crew Searched and Tobacco Found  --  The Vessel Under Customs Guard . Customs officials , aided lay the Police . lastevening arrested one man , charged with smuggling and made a search of the Red Star steamship Finland , lying at the foot of Fulton Street . North River . Thti man , who was found to be wrapped with tobacco cleverly concealed under his clothes , was taiten to the Church Street Station , where he described himself as Jacob von Sternbergen , twenty-six years o/d. a donkey engine man on the steamship. fie was held for the United Stales authorities on complaint of Customs Inspector T. J. Hooley . The arrest followed a series of attempts to get tobacco from the ship . The customs men , ever since the arrival of the vessel from Antwerp , about a week ago , have kept a close watch en the ship , and have ; : poiled several attempts on the part of the crew to get tobacco ashore . Men have been searched and tobacco recovered , hut until last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Inspectors for the Government sonic months ago unearthed a plot to bring Sumatra tobacco from Antwerp into this country without the payment of duty . Two big seizures were the result , one being made on a Red Star line steamship and another in Hoboken . They believe there is an organized conspiracy to defraud the Government out of the duty on tobacco front Antwerp . Just after Inspectors llool ? ? y . Angell , Lippe 1 , and Ncvins of the night for2. , had been stationed on the pier about 4:30 o'clo  --  k yesterday , they noticed von Sternbergen come down the gangway . When the man reached the head of the pier the Inspectors noticed that he was of peculiar shape and ha ltea Hint . A search resulted in the finding that the man was clothed in tobacco . This tobacco was done in bundle  - -  about a foot long and seven incites Wide and half art inch thick . The tobacco had been tied under his clothing and fitted against his body . The man was placed under arrest and taken on board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a search of the ship . Inspector Hooley refused to go down in the ship until the electrician had disconnected all the switches , so that the electric lights could not be turned out . He alleged am , the men had threatened t " do " the officers . It was well that he did so , for the firellIcr and stokers were four later in the alleyway near their quarters trying to turn off the lights . Later they became so threatening that Hooley had to draw his revolver to hold them off . The search resulted i ? no new discoveries , and so the prisoner was taken to the Church Street Station . While the man was being questioned before the desk one of the Inspectors knocked against him . The result was that two more bundles of tobacco were found . They were tied up on his leg between the knee and ankle , like the shin protectors of football phi yevs . The Inspectors said that the man had threatened to kill himself , and so he was thoroughly searc-hed , and even a rope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Twelve pounds of tobacco were taken from the man . At 6:80 " esterday morning Inspectors frieldine .. Tieden. and Lawrence were watching on the dock , when they noticed two men , members of the crew , acting suspiciously near the gangway . The men were searched , and about fifteen pounds of tobacco found on therm While attempting to arrest them , the men escaped back on the steamship . On Friday , the officers declare . they chased a member of the Finland 's crew across West Street after recovering ten pounds of tobacco . The man got away . A guard was placed on the ship last night and a search of the vessel will be made today Every one leaving the ship is searched before leaving the pier . The officers of the Finland say that the vessel was searched for smuggled tobacco three times on the trip to this port .                     