@@678232

txt WASHINGTON . Oct . P. ? The army retiring board which has been investigating the condition of the health of Col. William F. Stewart , the so-called Fort Grant exile , concluded its work to-day , and while the result of its deliberations was not officially made public , it is understood that the board found Col. Stewart to be so seriously afflicted with valvular disease of the heart as to incapacitate him for acti. -e service in the army . The finding which has been agreed on will be repo:t e.1 to the Secretary of War probably to-morrow , and it is considered likely that Col. Stewart 's retiremnt by the President well follow . If not retired , Col. Stewart would still have more than four years of active service , and as he is one of the oldest officers of the Artillery Corps , his friends contend that he would stand a good chance of reaching the grade of Brigadier General before leaving the active ' service . If retired he will receive three-fourths of his regular pay , or about $400 a month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive session to-day it heard a somewhat detailed statement by Col. Stewart relative to his record in the army and listened to brief arguments by Col. Stewatt 's counsel and Recorder Ilowland , who spoke for the service . Col. Stewart was not permitted to go outside his medical record , and who : : his attorney made an effort to elicit from him the circumstances tinder which he had been transferred from Fort Barrancas , Fla. , to Fort Grant , Ariz .. Capt . Howland interposed positive objection , which was sustained by the board . In his statement Col. Stewart said that he had been in the habit of taking horseback rides of Fred : twenty to thirty miles a day for many years past until his removal to . Fort Grant a year ago . He found at Fort Grant only one horse , and as that animal was a cripple he was deprived of this opportunity for exercise . While at Fort Grant , however , he had substituted walking for riding and generally thus covered from eight to fourteen miles a day . He had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and up to a month ago he had received no warning from any physician against these forms of exercise , notwithstanding he had for thirty-five years be ( n under the observation of army surgeons . He said that he had known ever since 1574 that his heart was affected , but paid no attention to that fact . Col. Stewart stated that he had been in the service for almost forty years , and added that there were only four officers having a longer record . " Do you wish to be retired ? " asked Mr. Latimer , the Colonel 's counsel . " No , " responded Col. Stewart with emphasis . Why do you wish to continue in the service ? " asked the lawyer . " Because I have spent my life in the army and am fond of the service . I was horn at a military post , grew up on the irentier , and when I grew up entered the army . I see no reason why 1 should be prevented from remaining an officer until the arrival of the time for my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of counsel were brief , Mr. Latimer. for Col. Stewart , contenting himself with a retrospect of his client 's service , which , he said , had been the subject of much favorable comment , the only criticism being by Gen. Grant , who said that Col. Stewart was an able and efficient officer , but that his efficiency was warred by irascibility . Cape Howland , In reply , contended that there was only one issue before the board and that was whether Stewart is now so seriously afflicted by heart disease as ! to be incapable of performing his duties an officer in the army . He declared also that notwithstanding Col. Stewart 's long record he had spent only six months of that time in the field .                     