@@677840

txt It has been twenty years since a Sec.retary of the Treasury has been able to address a New York audience with Secretary CORTELY01- 'S first words to the : Alerehants- ' Association ? " As a native of New York . " It was a pleasure to hear them from one of the State 's favorite sons . and it is agreeable to add that he spoke words of well-considered cheer . " I believe , " he said , " that if the money of the country , wherever hoarded , were at once put back to fulfill its functions in the channels of trade , there would be within twentyfour hours an almost complete resumption of business operations . " Those words will be read throughout the Nation this morning . Whoever reads them and fails to act upon them can only do so at the cost of consciousness that he is contributing his share to the check of the country 's prosperity . Any profits from such a course of action will indeed be tainted money . Looking further ahead , Secretary COP.TELYOU considers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fuller appreciation of the value of credit , as the result of recent experiences , and it is to be protected against assault by proc.esses of law , " in orderly manner , and 1 regardless of sensational incitement . " Certainly it were well done in that manner , the manner , it may he added , i characteristic of the Governor of the State , who has already taken judicious action looking toward reform of ? our State laws . In the broader field of National legislation , " what we need are fewer and better laws , and better enforcement of them . We should have more co-operation in btsiness . " And he closed by an apt quotation from the President 's predecessor : Resuscitation will not be promoted by recrimination . The distrust of the present will not be relieved by a distrust of the future . A patriot makes a better citizen than a pessimist . The country is not going backward , but forward . American energy has not been destroyed by the storms of the past . It will yet triumph through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that quotation . The spirit is his own , and the calm and cheer of his words , under conditions conducive of agitation and anxiety , will bring courage and hope to many . If the events of the past trying days have shattered some reputations , so they have heightened others , and revealed to us that we have a Secretary equal to his great task .                     