@@780986

txt The Admirals at Taku , acting in concert , are forcibly reopening the railway from Tien-Tsin to Peking . Gangs of laborers are repairing the damaged line , which is guarded by 1,500 men composed of detachments from the foreign fleet . One hundred Americans under Capt . McCalla are among them . They have guns and armored trains for use when the line is repaired , which can hardly be effected before Monday night . Ten thousand troops , of all nationalities , according to a dispatch to The Daily Ex ; - press from Shanghai , will pe sent to Peking to back up the demands of the Ministers upon the Government , or , if necessary , to suppress the " Boxers " themselves . The Daily Mail has the following from Tien-Tsin , dated Friday , June 8 : " The wildest rumors are current here to the effect that Peking is burning , but they lack confirmation . " Trouble has broken out at New-Chwang . The sthate of anarchy around Peking is likely to be imitated in , many quarters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COSSACKS ARE READY . . A Special dispatch from St. Petersburg , dated Saturday , June 9 , says : " I have learned from an absolutely reliable source that minute dispatches have ' been sent to the commanders of the Rug : - sion troops in Manchuria , directing them to prepare three regiments of Cossacks on the Chinese frontier to be in readiness to enter on the day orders are received . " On Friday , according to a dispatch to the Daily Express from Shanghai , a force of Cossacks , reconnoitering outside of Tien-Tsin , was attacked by a rabble of thousands , armed with spears and swords , and some rifles . The Cossacks fired upon their assailants , killing several . A Rus-sian Lieutenant was wounded . by a bulletin the stomach . There is a serious rising at Nan-King . Yesterday , the mob is said to have at-tacked the palace of the Viceroy . All . dispatches out of Peking are censored in the interest of the Empress . The determination of the foreign Ministers to increase the garrison at Peking leads to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the powers will never leave the Chinese capital , but will make China another Egypt . THE MURDER OF ENGINEERS . Details have bee-s received from Shanghai regarding the recent murders of railway engineers by " Boxers . " It seems that a party of thirty , including six women and one child . left Pao-Ting-Fu in twelve boats under military escort . After traversing fifty miles in safety , they missed their way . The boats grounded . and the " Boxers " opened fire upon the unfortunate occupants , using both rifles and wooden cannon . The engineers returned the fire effectively , and the party landed . One woman and three men got separated from the main body . They were brutally killed . The survivors formed a square , with those able to bear arms outside , and the women inside , and made off toward Tien-Tsin . They traveled three and a half days . fighting all the way . More than 2,000 cartridges were expended , and ammunition was running short . They estimated that they killed . at least 100 rebels . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Twelve miles from Tien-Tsin three men disappeared and were murdered . The survivors eventually met the rescue party , and . much exhausted , they were escorted to Tien-Tsin . BRITISH MINISTER 'S REPORT . Sir Claude Macdonald , British Minister in Peking , sent the following telegram to Shanghai on June 7 : , " The movement against the foreigners , which has been allowed to grow to such an extent , has resulted in the burning of railway stations and in the interruption of railway communication for five days . Two British missionaries and several foreign missionaries have been murdered in the district near Peking . " In the country round numbers of converts-have been murdered , and chapels have been pillaged and destroyed , while in the capital itself the British missionaries have been obliged to leave their houses and to take refuge at the legation , which is defended by seventy-five marines . " The Chinese Government is affected by these events so far as to send high officials to parley with the ' Boxers , ' but it does not show any intention of summarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so ; but the throne is still strongly influenced by sympathy with the movement , and the spirit of the troops is doubtful All is well up to the present . The Chinese Minister in London , Lo Feng Luh , when shown the latest dispatches from Tien-Tsin , authorized his secretary to make the following statement : " It is all nonsense to believe that the Empress is encouraging the ' Boxers . ' She is doing all she can to calm them . How can the Chinese Government support a rebellion . when China . alone suffers ? We have already lost property worth f10.000. - 000 . The Empress back of the ' Boxers ' ! It is absurd . " The secretary expressed the opinion that the " Boxers " numbered less than a million of the population .                     