@@676536

txt Under the title of " Military Graphics , " Col. LARNED , Professor of Drawing at West Point , contributes to the current numbers of The Journal of the Military Service Institution two papers of singular interest . The civilian who undertakes the reading of them . under the natural impression that the writer aims to magnify his own office , will be convinced that it is an office of which the importance in modern war is very difficult to overrate . Modern war , according to Col. LARNED , is more and more coming to be dependent on knowledge of position . The enormous value of this knowledge was brought to the attention of all mankind in the Franco-Prussian war , in which the invaders knew actually more about the country in which they were operating than its native defenders . But the differences that have since been made in warfare separate the tactics of to-day from those of a generation ago , more widely than the latter were separated from those of FREDERICK the Great 's time . " The three factors which hate brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effective range of rifle and artillery fire , ( 2 ) the increase in accuracy of firearms and improvement in marksmanship , . and ( 3 ) the disappearance of smoke . " All these things concur to enhance the importance of topographical knowledge and the usefulness of field sketching . Upon the British Army the lessons of modern war were entirely lost , as was exemplified in the most costly way in South Africa . Of BULLER 'S operations on the Tugela Col. LARNED says that " after a fortnight 's campaign of disaster the English found themselves , with shattered prestige and heavy loss , worse off than when they started , having ascertained by bloody reconnoissance in force what they should have learned by the service of a body of officers technically trainer in their profession . " We have not committed that mistake , and drawing and field sketching , which in most services are accomplishments taught only to the staff , are at West Point imparted equally to cadets destined for the line of the army , We experienced the benefit of our system at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the position in front of him was conveyed by a sketch made in the rain , under fire , with the stump of a lead pencil , on scraps of paper fastened together with a paste made of hardtack , by a subaltern of infantry , now Capt . HORACE MAYNARD REEVE of the General Staff . Of the immense Importance of " military graphics " in modern war , Col. LArned 's papers make a vivid and impressive presentation .                     