@@675483

txt When the Republican National Committee met ttoday , it took up the Louisiana contest . After devoting nearly all day to its consideration , the controversy was decided in favor of what is known as the Warmouth faction . Toward the close of the night session the contest in the Twelfth New York District was called , being the HessGoddard case . Ex-Secretary Cornelius N. Bliss is a delegate from the same district , but his seat is uncontested . National Committeeman Gibbs presented the case of Hess , and John Henry Hammond appeared for Goddard. - By a vote of 34 to 11 Goddard was seated . When the committee assembled this morning it was announced that the subcommittee . which was appointed yesterday to consider the Delaware contest , was not ready to report , and passing over this case temporarily , the committee took up that from the first Georgia district . The contestants were Joseph F. Doyle and R. R. Wright , and the contestees J. H. Deveaux and W. R. Leaken . The contest grew out of the rival claims of J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the committee decided in favor of the Deveaux delegation .. The District of Columbia contest was settled in favor of J. E. Jones and W. C. Chase and against Dr. Robert Reyburn and George W. Lee , the latter a colored preacher . The Louisiana case was then taken - up on the question of State delegates . This was a triangular controversy ; one delegation , headed by E. T. Wimberly , claiming position on account of regularity of organization ; another , headed by P. F. Herwig , claiming its head to he the recognized State Chairman , and the " Lily Whites , " ' or sugar planters , headed by ex-Gov . Warmouth . Mr. Warmouth , who presented the case to the committee for the Lily Whites , spoke for about an hour and a half , contending earnestly for the recognition of his delegation . He asserted that it represented a new element in politics in the South , including many who were formerly gold standard or protection Democrats . He charged that , on the other hand , the Wimberly delegation represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fourteen members were Federal officials ; that they were in regular co-operation with the Democrats , their object being to keep only enough men in the party to make sure of retaining Federal office . He asserted that the Wimberlyites made a practice of taking money from the Democrats for ? campaign purposes , and said there was never on their part any effort to secure Republican success at the polls . On the other hand , he declared that if the Lily Whites were . given recognition here they ; would carry three Congressional districts letbe-STa.te , " eled they would do this without asking for a cent of money from the outside . J. Madison Vance spoke for the Wimberly people . He said that Col. Dick , as Secretary of the National Committee , had recognized Mr. Wimberly and his followers as the regular organization and that this organization contained the old-time workers , the battle-scarred veterans in the party in the South , such as Capt . Wimberly and ex-Senator Kellogg . He also charged that the Lily Whites meant to ostracise the negroes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of Louisiana who had been so faithful to the Republican cause would be without a political home . Mr. Herwig made a plea in his own behalf , but his claims were not seriously considered by the committee in reaching a conclusion . The vote stood 25 for the Warmouth faction and 18 for the Wimberly delegation . The delegation seated consists of H. C. Warmouth , L. S. Clark , T. J. Woodward , and Joseph Le Blanc . The committee took a recess at 6:20 o'clock . When it reassembled for the evening session it began the consideration of the district contests from Louisiana . As nearly the same questions were involved as in the State at large , the committee decided to give but five minutes on a side , and the contests were soon disposed of . In the First District C. w . Boothby and Walter L. Cohen , Wimberly , delegates , were seated . In the Second District , E. ICuntz and Ernest Duconge , Herwig-Warmouth delegates , were seated , while in the Third District Charles Fontalieu and E. Sorrell , Wimberley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. F. O'Neil and F. M. Welch , Warmouth delegates , received the committee 's sanction . Another delegation , which has not yet arrived , has served notice of appearing before the Committee on Credentials . In the Fifth District David Young and P. J. Ewen , Wimberly delegates , were successful , and in the Sixth District B. V. Barand and L. J. Souer , Wimberly men , were seated without opposition . A motion was entered to reconsider the Third Louisiana District , and while the parties interested were consulting , the Fifth Mississippi District was taken up , and J. W. Smith and J. T. Iglehart ' were seated . The committee then reconsidered the Third Louisiana case and seated Jules Godschaux and W. J. Bekaat , Vermouth delegates . This action gives Warmouth control . After deciding the New York ease the committee adjourned until to-morrow at 11 o'clock . It is believed that the contested cases can be concluded to-morrow . The contesting delegations are very much disturbed over the action of the National Committee last night in refusing to Alabama men a place on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear that they may be unable to obtain seats in the convention , as in the rush of proceedings the tCommittee on Credentials may not wish to take up very much time in examining the merits of the cases . Many of the contesting delegations are importuning members of the committee to decide their cases one way or another in order that the States may have full representation in the preliminaries of the convention . The action of the committee in the Alabama cases is said to have been largely inspired by a desire to discourage contests . As it makes little difference this year which way the decision goes the committee thinks it would be a very good time to inaugurate a reform . While there may be some discussion of the resolution introduced by Mr. Payne yesterday requesting the President to investigate the interference of Federal office holders in Alabama politics , that ? is all that is likely to come of it . In discussing the subject to-day Senator Hanna remarked that there were enough investigations going on now , and he saw no necessity for bringing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other members of the committee are of the same opinion , and they doubt the propriety of passing such a resolution .                     