@@678305

txt All further negotiations between the ' city administration and the Oak Park Elevated road are off . The two corporations came to the parting of the ways yesterday . The city intends to take matters Into its own hands , and it takes the position that if the road does not do as it wants , so much the worse for the road . If It does , then the administration will consider granting what the road wants . The situation came to a crisis when the council committee on track elevation met in the afternoon . It recommended to the council a mandatory ordinance to compel the road to elevate its tracks in Austin where it now runs on the surface . Back of this ordinance is the promise of Mayok ? Busse that If the road does not accept it he will not wait for the courts to decide whether the council has the power to pass such an ordinance , but will make life Just as uncomfortable for the railroad management as a determined mayor can . The things he can do to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class . Council of War Decides It . The matter started at a conference in the mayor 's office in the morning , at which , in addition to the mayor , were Supt. of Track Elevation Rayrner , Corporation Counsel Brundage , Chairman Foreman of the local transportation committee , Aid . Bennett , and Aid . Egan and Young . the subcommittee Of the track elevation committee . , The latter two made a. formal report . First , they said the terms on which President Clarence Knight of the road wanted to treat with the city were preposterous . His demand that as consideration for elevating the tracks le be allowed a fourteen years ' extension of his franchise , a franchise for a Humboldt park branch , the right to do an express business . and other concessions were out of proportion to what he was willing to concede . At the same time there was no guarantee that if the privileges were given him he then would elevate the Austin tracks , It then was decided that the only thing to do was to proceed without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want . Committee Does Not Hesitate . Whe &the; committee on track elevation met in the afternoon It recommended the mandatory , ordinance without any argument . The claim has been made that a mandatory ordinance to which roads refused to agree would not stand in the courts . Good lawyers always have contended , however , it would , and the roads always have recognized that it was in the power of a mayor and city council to make so much trouble for an objecting road that they have made the best terms through a contract ordinance they could . But this time Mr. Knight flatly refused unless he could get what he wanted . He repeated that refusal yesterday , saying he never would agree to it , because he could not raise the money to elevate the tracks unless the favors he asked were forthcoming .                     