@@676362

txt Much the most important feature of the proceedings at the Jefferson dinner in the Bronx was the speech of Mr. SHRPARD . And much the least interesting and the most discouraging part of that speech was the part devoted to municipal affairs . It would not be fair to say that " Jeffersonian Principles " have nothing to do with municipal affairs . In fact , they have much to do with them , and the propositions for municipal ownership and control of utilities heretofore left to private enterprise look particularly queer in the light of those principles . But when Mr. SHEPARD talks about " we Democrats " as citizens and voters of Greater New York , and says that " we " should realize that Mayor Low 's administration has " aroused no acute or vengeful animosity " be is really arguing upon the assumption that municipal votes should be cast on party lines . That is the assumption that has baffled or nullified so many efforts for municipal reform . It is opposed by the plain statement of fact that the opinions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trusts , on the Philippines , have nothing whatever to do with their common interest in an efficient , honest , and economical administration of the affairs of this municipality , an administration which touches all citizens alike . When Mr. SHEPARD makes the old-fashioned partisan assumption that there should be a " Democratic " municipal administration , as opposed to a " Republican , " he makes an assumption possibly necessitated by his experience , but certainly unworthy of his intelligence . At the same time he is forced to acknowledge the great municipal improvement which has been wrought by the present administration . He does this grudgingly , and the grudgingness adds to the value of his testimony . Even while admitting that " Gen. GREENE has done better " than his predecessor in the most conspicuous municipal department , he insists that the Mayor disapproves of the improvement and cites the Mayor 's polite expressions in his leavetaking of Col. PARTRIDGE . But evidently that will not do . If the Mayor had obstructed or punished Gen. GP ' ? FIN-E for his improvement , if he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been enforced before , then indeed Mr. SHEPARD might say that " the improvement was against the judgment of Mayor Low and his administration . " But when the improvement is actually going on as part of the administration , Mr. SREPA.RD has no right to say such a thing . To put the question in a nutshell , does Mr. SHEPARD himself believe that , if he had been elected Mayor with the " crowd behind him , " and his necessary partisan committals , he could have given the city as useful an administration as has been given to it by Mayor Low ? We think we could trust to Mr. SHEPARD 'S own candor for a correct answer to this question . We are sure we could trust to a vote of the electors of Greater New York , even if the election were to be held to-morrow . And we feel very sure that the municipal administration is growing in public confidence every day .                     