@@677525

txt A terrific explosion of the dynamite stored at Homestead , N. J. , where thetunnel which the Pennsylvania Railroad is constructing under Manhattan Island is to extend beneath Union Hill , shook every building within a radius of twenty miles at 12:12 o'clock this morning , destroyed the telephone connections with Homestead and Union Hill , near by , and undoubtedly and Union Hill , near by , and did tremendous damage to the houses in the Immediate vicinity . Thirty persons are believed to have been killed and upward of twenty-five were seriously injured by the explosion . The injured , who were laborers , were removed from the tunnel to the North Hudson Hospital . Their names have not been learned . The force of the explosion shook every building within twenty miles , and several homes on Union Hill , including that of Mayor Dietz , were practically destroyed . There were seventy-five men working in the tunnel at the time of the accident , which occurred about 500 feet from the mouth of the bore . Six ambulances and petrel wagons removed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party having the greatest difficulty in reaching the dead and injured owing to the fumes that filled the tunnel There are two bores being constructed at the point , each being thirty feet wide . A large number of small cottages In the vicinity were so badly damaged as to make them uninhabitable , the occupants being thrown out of bed and in some cases out of the houses . The westerly end of the tunnel where the explosion occurred is what the railroad men and workmen call the West Portal . From the west there are two tubes entering the hill , running side by side . The hill there is solid rock , and a great deal of blasting had to be done . A representative of the Pennsylvania Railroad said this morning that there were not more than a hundred men at work in the westerly end of the tunnel , at any time . He could offer no suggestion as to the possible cause of the accident , declaring that the Superintendents in charge of the work always gave personal attention to the handling of explosives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamite for use in the tunnel was stored in a specially constructed building at Homestead , which is a mile or two west of the base of the hill and at the edge of the Jersey meadows . It was taken to that storehouse from the factories in small quantities , but the supply on hand there usually was very large . The accident occurred quite close to the Paterson Plank Road . A block to the north stands the silk mill owned by Givinad Brothers . Every window in the building was broken by the force of the explosion , and a cursory  --  examination from the street indicated that the building had been so badly damaged that it would have to be reconstructed . Several greenhouses on the slope of the hill where the tunnel is being bored were completely destroyed , and the homes of the florists had every window broken . In some cases they were so badly damaged as to need rebuilding before they can be occupied again . The roof of the tunnel in which the explosion occurred did not cave in , otherwise it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dead and injured . ? The force of the explosion , apparently , was toward the mouth of the bore , and , as far as could be learned shortly after the accident , most of those injured were working in close proximity to the point at which the dynamite exploded . The Pennsylvania Railroad Company Is boring into the hill on which Schuetzen Park stands from ti'e west . The settlement immediately adjacent to the tunnel work is called Homestead . The work has been in progress for some time , and the bore has been carried into the hill about a e thousand feet . The intention of the engineers was to 6onnect the tunnel through the hill with the subterranean tunnel under the North River at a point in Weehawken . The connection with the main Pennsylvania lines was to be made by extending the road from the westerly mouth of the tunnel under the hill across the meadows toward Rutherford , crossing the northern branch of the Erie Railroad . There are four different shafts from which the work on the tunnel under the hill is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Weehawken end ; another enters similarly at the westerly side . Two shafts have been sunk from ' the top of the ridge . Reaching the level L on which the tunnel is to extend , the bor .. . ing is done in both . directions . . the tiontAm w 0 ; part% Ull ? A'tba ? liana is solid rock , so it is not necessary for'ilietig-gers to Work In compressed air , astlhey have to in the under-river tubes . Since the work began - there have been eev " Qral ** of foremen for storing . slynamite in larger quantities than perSniffed by law . qlx weeks ago Chef of ' Police Nolan of Union Hill caused the arrest , of six men-on this charge . They were - found guilty and heavily fined . A month before this other arrests had been made , . rartly as the result of complaints made by tesidents of Hotreslead , who asserted that the work was carried on at night . causing general disturbance , and that the explosionki-of-dynamite were so severe as to cause injury to their property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand men working in shifts on the tunnel . night and day . The detonation of last night 's explosion was heard . so plainly in all quarters , of Manhattan that residents of all sections awakened under the impression that the accident had occurred close at hand . The shock was so great as to cause the Times Building to seem to tremble . At 137th Street the buildings shook violently . Out at Coney Island the shock was felt . and at Fire Headquarters . Manhattan the explosion was heard with such distinctness that firemen from all the engine houses in the city were orderod out at once to try to locate the trouble . Police Headquarters , in Mulberry Street . was shaken by the shock . and each police station was at once communicated with to learn quickly what had happened . Theories were advanced , and at once assumed the significance of rumors . It was feared for a- time that one of the large electrical power houses had been blown up , then that some terrific accident lad happened in the Subway . The wildest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and every newspaper office in town was besieged over the telephone for Tiettls as to ? what had happened . and whether any one hail been killed . Persons on the west side south of Fitly.tir4/1 Street were certain that the exploeion-was in the Consolidated Gas Works , ? fit Porty-foerth Street and the North Somebody promptly turned in a : fire alarm , and in a few minutes four engines , under command of Battalion Chiof Devanney , arrived at the gas works . There was nothing wrong there , however , and the employes of the gas corn1. ) any refused to allow the firemen to enter . The police fared similarly . while John Jones , a young man . who tried to look through a window into the office of the company . was shoved back to earth so ' forcibly that he did n't regain his breath for two or three minutes .                     