@@677064

txt A Russian-Japanese protocol is now beirig drawn up and the first three articles were to-day placed in it and signed . The three articles are , in substance , as follows : First  --  Russia 's recogneeon of Japan 's " preponderating influence " and special position in Korea , which , Russia agrees , is henceforth outside her sphere of influence . Japan binds herself to recognize the suzerainty of the reigning family , but retains the right to give ' assistance to improve the civil admin. istration of the empire . Second  --  A mutual obligation to evacuate Manchuria , each power to surrender all special privileges in those provinces , and a mutual obligation to respect the " territorial integrity " of China and to maintain the principle of equal opportunity for the commerce and industry of all nations in Manchuria . ( the open door . ) Third  --  The cession to China of the Chinese Eastern Railway from Harbin southward . There was never any question about the acceptance on the part of M. Witte of these articles , the first two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the diplomatic struggle which preceded the war . The third article is a natural consequence of the moult of the war . The cession of the railroad , the building of which cost Russia an immense sum , estimated by some at between $100 , -1 000,000 and $200,000,000 , is to China , ' Japan and China , therefore , will ar-range between themselves the method by which the former is to be remunerated , and through this financial operation Japan might obtain the repayment of a very considerable portion of her own war expenses . The railroad is ostensibly the property of the Russo-Chinese Bank . although built by Government money advanced through the bank and since its completion operated , managed , and policed by the Russian Government . Japan can not take the railroad herkelf . To place herself in Russia 's shoes regarding the railroad would be militarily to control the destinies of the three provinces of Manchuria , which she has promised to return to China . But Japan is entitled to reimbursement for the expense to which she has been put in restoring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rebuilding the bridges and narrowing the gauge . If China could not find the money , some other power or powers might do so , and the road would become hypothecated to the powers which advanced the money , as other Chinese roads are . It was M. Witte himself who organized the Russo-Chinese Bank , in 1895 , and who has always been considered the real organizer of the Chinese Eastern Company . M. Berg , the attorney of the RussoChinese Bank , which owns practically all , if not all , a the shares of the road , is attached to the Russian mission . To-morrow the questions of the status of Port Arthur and the railway in the Liao-Tung Peninsula will be taken up , and if they are settled agreements on them will be added to the protocol . At the rate the envoys are working it is not impossible that still another sub-1 ject may be brought up to-morrow . The articles are being placed in the I protocol in the exact language in which they will go into the treaty , should there be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the question of whether the negotiations will be broken off or not will in all probability be settled . Baron Ko-i mura cabled to the ' Emperor of Japans Russia 's refusal to discuss in any manner four of the Japanese demands . The Mikado 's instructions are expected here by to-morrow or Wednesday . The credentials of Baron Komura and Mr. Takahira are not such as to permit them to deal with such a situation without instructions . M. Witte , on the other hand , has full power to conclude a treaty or to break off the negotiations . Hence the Russian envoy was able to announce at the beginning that he would not discuss the four propositiOns which , at least in their present form , " involve the honor and dignity pe eRteseiae " feCACMikado conference to go on or will meet the iltussian refusal with an ultimatum is I probably not known to the Japanese envoys themselves . But they expect , unless the Mikado 's reply involves furether correspondence , that they will know all about it within twenty-four hours , or forty-eight hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated , are those dealing with an indemnity , Sakhalin , naval limitation , and the interned warships . ltussia 's position is that to discuss such conditions is to place herself in the position of a conquered , prostrate , and supplicative power . Her own view is that she has been defeated , but not conquered . One of the Russians said to-day that M. Witte expected to , take the steamer sailing on Tuesday of next week . Whatever may be M. Witte 's private expectations , he has as yet no information as to what will be the outcome of the conference . Nor can he have until the Mikado 's message arrives . If that message should ineist upon the consideration of the four conditions in their present form , and make it plain that the message is the east word upon the subject , the conference will be broken off . The first condition in the protocol , that of Japanese predominance in Korea , was taken up on Saturday and the discussion was finished at this morn ' ing 's session . As agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language submitted by the Japanese . It has been modified more nearly to meet the wishes of the Russian plenipotentiaries . When the discussion was concluded I the agreement was written out as the first article of the protocol , and signed by the four envoys . The second condition , the evacuation of Manchuria , was then taken up and was still under discussion when , at 1 o'clock to-day , an adjournment was taken for luncheon . At the afternoon session , beginning at 3 o'clock , an agreement was quickly reached , and it was added to the protocol and signed . I The agreement does not specify the date of evacuation . The Russian envoys pointed out that with an immense army there and with the complicated conditions caused by the war it would be difficult to name a positive date at this time . The evacuation is to be at such times and on such lines as shall be fixed by a joint committee appointed under a special protocol to be drawn up hereafter . In the discussion of this article it is positively stated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is declared , wanted to limit the obligation to evacuate Manchuria and to surrender special privileges to Russia , whereas M. Witte contended that the obligation for evacuation and the surrender of special privileges sribuld " lee *Mahal and that the evacuation of the Russian and Japanese troops should take place concurrently . M. Witte is said . to have contended that he was defending not only the interests of Russia but of all the neutral powers . On the other hand , the Japanese assert not only that they did not resist the provision for simultaneous evacuation by the troops of both countries , but they claim distinct credit for the strong stipulations regarding the preservation of the territorial integrity of China . The discussion of the third condition was brief , and an agreement was promptly reached . The third article was added to the protocol after which the conference adjourned . While this last article was under consideration M. Witte left the conference room and took an automobile ride , leaving Baron Rosen to conduct the discussion . When Mr. Sato reached the hotel this evening he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men were awaiting him , and made a rush as soon as he came in . Seeing this , the Summer girls , the Summer men , and the visiting automobile tourists joined in the rush , and Mr. Sato had an escort several hundred strong al he made his way to the rear veranda . When he turned to face this pushing , jostling crowd he laughed . Seeing the impossibility of addressing them all from where he stood , he climbed up on a box amid cheers , and from that elevated position delivered the following statement : " In the afternoon meeting of the conference of Aug. 14 Articles 2 and 3 were discussed and disposed of , and at 6 o'clock the conference adjourned until to-morrow , Tuesday morning , at 9:30 o'clock . " When Mr. Sato had finished , a daring correspondent asked : " What condition will be taken up tomorrow ? " " The fourth , " replied Mr. Sato with a grim smile . The following was the official communication issued after the adjournment for lunch : " In the morning sitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the plenipotentiaries proceeded with the discussion of Article 2 . The meeting adjourned at 1 o'clock , to be resumed at 3 o'elock. " 4 Both sessions of the conference today are described as " amicable . " There were several slight jars , but none of them serious . The plenipotentiaries are showing admirable temper . The change in the weather may be partially responsible for the serenity manifested at the conference table , but it would be perhaps too much to say ' that the fate of such gigantic negotiations can be affected by a few degrees of temperature and a few thousand mosquitos . It is unquestionable that the longer the conference endures the brighter the prospects of a treaty will become . " EvI ery day they sit , " said a very high authority , " increases the chances of peace . "                     