@@781390

txt Strained relations between Directors of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company and the Hudson Companies ' management have arisen out of the latter 's proposal , made last week through its subsidiary , the Hudson &; Manhattan Railroad , to the Public Service Commission , to build an extension of its subway from Sixth Avenue and Thirty-second Street to the Grand Central Station at its own expense . It was said yesterday that this plan was worked out without the knowledge of the Directors of the Hudson Companies , who are also Directors of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company , or at all events without their having knowledge of the terms upon which the Hudson &; Manhattan seeks to build the extension . The Interborough 's contention that it could not afford to build more subways , except with help from the city , was regarded in some quarters as effectively disproved by the offer of the Hudson &; Manhattan Road to build a subway to the Grand Central at its own expense . It is this impression , widely voiced since the filing of the Hudson &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Interborough Interests , and persons with knowledge of the facts admitted yesterday that it was this phase of the matter which was particularly embarrassing . The Interborputlye interest is ecle , not gerd the Hudson &; Manhattan Subway extension scheme as a refutation of the Interborough 's claim that new subways can not be built without city help , but they do admit that it has served to create this impression in the public mind , and , because of this , the Interborough Directors are highly displeased with the course adopted by the Hudson Company interests . What makes the situation all the more distasteful to the Interborough Directors is that they believed that a gentleman 's agreement existed with the Hudson Companies covering ' the territory to be developed by the two companies , as well as other matters , and this Grand Central Station extension of the McAdoo tunnel system is regarded as an infringement of this agreement . The close relationship which has existed between the two subway enterprises1 is shown by the fact that no less than four of the Directors of the Interborough Rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As far as could be learned yesterday none of these had knowledge in advance of the terms ) to be proposed by the Hudson and Man-1 hattan . Several of the Interborough Directors are of the opinion that the Hudson Company proposal should not have been made without some consultation with the Interborough interests regarding the terms to be fixed . The four men who are Directors in both companies are Andrew Freedman , W. G. Oakman , Gardiner M. Lane , and Cornelius Vanderbilt . Of these , all but Mr.1 Lane are members of the Interborough 's Executive Committee . Mr. Oakman is also President of the Hudson companies . Those in a position to know the Inter-1 borough Directors ' view of the case said that this mutual tenure of Directorships in the two companies made it all the more surprising that the Interborough was not kept informed of the terms which the other company was going to propose . One of the Directors who is a member of both boards said that the public was in error in assuming that the offer made by the Hudson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaken with private capital . This was not a new subway , he said , but merely a short extension of an existing system . The fact that private capital could be found for this extension , he said , did not mean that private capital could be found to build an entirely new subway . This misunderstanding between Directors of the Interborough Company and the management of the Hudson companies comes , moreover . Just at a time when the Interborough is seeking to reach a definite conclusion regarding the status of the Steinway tunnel . Those in Wall Street familiar with thesituation which has grown out of last week 's application by the Hudson and Manhattan Company were wordering yesterday whether a close understanding between the Directors of the two companies will be re-established , or whether the resentment which some of the Interborough Directors feel will lead to a complete abandonment of the friendly understanding which is claimed to have existed heretofore between the two companies . THE SNAPSHOTTER SNAPPED . Poetic Justice Meted Out to a Photographer at His Wedding . O'Neill of 1,759 Washington Avenue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience has taken snapshots of hundreds of unwilling couples , was married last night to Miss Ella Hayes of 1,181 Third Avenue in All Saints ' Church , at Madison Avenue and 129th Street , by the Rev. Father Crowley . When O'Neill came out of the church with his wife on his arm , he found what appeared to him to be all the newspaper photographers In the city lined up on the sidewalk with their machines trained and loaded . " Are you ready ? " one called . " Fire ! " came the word . The powder flashed . O'Neill was taken with his hand up , saying : " Do n't do this , boys . "                     