@@676580

txt The first real Winter 's storm of the season came upon this city during the early hours of yesterday morning . and at midnight last night its accompaniments of howling winds and blinding snow were still raging down avenues , swirling through streets and byways with ever-increasing fury , choking areaways , delaying street car traffic , tripping and maiming horses and pedestrians , and whistling and singing around corners . From 3 o'clock in the morning , when the first white outriders of the approaching storm fluttered down on the pavements , to 9 o'clock last night , the fall of snow had reached 7.5 inches , including nearly an inch of sleet . Nearly three inches were added to this before midnight . The wind that had continued all day from the northeast shifted due north at night , and within one hour , from 8 o'clock to 9 o'clock , the temperature fell from 17 te , 11 degrees . The night traffic of the city , from simply being delayed by the blinding , clogging snow , now began to slip on icy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the busy streets . There were congestions of traffic at many crossings , and long lines of street cars were kept waiting at frequent intervals throughout the principal lines . The theatres and amusement resorts of the heart of the city were comparatively deserted , and the city was almost completely given over to the sway of the Winter storm . The present storm is one that can easily be traced by the weather officials . It started in Northwestern Texas and scattered itself over a tremendous area as It swept toward the North and East . It was central yesterday morning at 8 o'clock over the Middle Ohio Valley , but its influence could be felt over half the States east of the Mississippi River . Its southern termination was in cold rains in Tennessee and Kentucky and its northern ' frin  --  e held the New England States in a grip ofice . The beginning of the storm was felt in this city between 3 and 4 o'clock yesterday morning , with a light fall of snow , which drifted down in a desultory sort of way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost stationary for hours at about 20 degrees . It was simply a damp and dark and dismal forenoon , with heavy gray banks of clouds obscuring the-heavens and floating swiftly northeastward above the lower current of wind that was ? blowing ? in almost exactly an opposite direction . The wind freshened to twenty-two miles An hour about noon , and storm signals were displayed all along the coast . Up to 1 o'clock about three inches of snow had fallen , but from this time on the storm settied down to business . The temperature fell two or three , degrees , the fall of snow became heavier , and the wind increased in velocity . On every street car line in the greater city the sweepers were put to work at high pressure , and these precautions were soots ** to keep car traffic ; free . STORM SIGNALS SET . By this time the snowfall had reached the depth at which the snow contractor is called upon to begin his work on the streets . By 2 o'clock the 800 carts and 1,500 men of the Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day clearing the street crossings , were supplemented by about 800 carts and 1,0CG laborers , who began the work of clearing Broadway of snow , but the labor of this force was scat cely discernable in the constant increase of snowfall . There was some work also done in One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street and in some of the more prominent cross streets down town , but later In the evening nearly all of this early work was totally obliterated . As the evening approached the storm increased in fury . About 5 o'clock the snow gave way to a heavy downpour of sleet , which packed down the layer of white with a steel-gray coating an inch in thickness , over which pedestrians and horses slipped and floundered almost helplessly . Then , after an hour of this , the snowfall resumed , and increased in volume as the afternoon settled into night . The devices on the elevated cars were able to keep the feed rails clear of ice . and there was little delay . Cars on the surface lines in Manhattan became blocked on account of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teams from the tracks after delays of a few minutes . As the evening rush hour for home going workers i arrived the weather conditions grew I steadily worse . Later in the evening the I streets were deserted . The wind shifted around due north . and increased in velocity until it went whistling over the city at the rate of thirty-one miles an hour , carrying blinding clouds of snow before it . At times it was impossible to see but a few feet ahead , and as the night came on the confusion at the travel centres In- j creased . At the Brooklyn Bridge all the trolley cars were far behind the regular time . When an empty car drew into the station the crowd rushed forward and many hats and umbrellas were broken . Women were caught in the rush and shoved right and left , and the police had difficulty in preventing serious accidents . During this rush hour a Flushing Avenue car became stalled at the bridge loop , and the block lasted for nearly ten minutes . Cars piled up behind . it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policemen . Many persons were knocked down and several were bruised . The bridge crush lasted until almost 8 o'clock . All of the Manhattan lines were working every available snow sweeper , and each of the main lines had from five to seven machines at work con-tinually The ' horse cars suffered worst , and on those lines cars were run at long inter- ' vals , and the progress was so slow that many of the passengers left the cars in disgust and struggled to the various transferring points . The ferryboats were able to handle their usual quota of passengers . At times the harbor was obscured by the snow as by a thick fog , through which the pilots felt their way by the sound of the fog bells . Few of the boats were run on schedule time . Harbor . traffic generally was delayed and impeded by the blinding cloud of white . Bdt it seemed as if the storm waited only until the city 's workers had been housed when it increased ! n fury . The temperature dropped to 17 degrees at 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 11 degrees . The wind increased to thirtyfive miles an hour , and at this time there was a fall of 7.5 inches of snow , which in the streets below was caught up by the howling winds and piled in some places into banks three feet high . The giant sweeper went whirling up and down the car tracks , and still the cars crept along on something like schedule time . There was little chance for any other sort of traffic , however , except under the greatest difficulty , and the whole city was early wrapped In gloom . FEW BRAVED THE STORM . The Saturday night lustre of the Upper Broadway district was almost entirely extinguished . The audiences in the theatres were about the smallest of the present season , and were made up largely by patrons who had already bought seats far in advance . Up to 9 o'clock in the eveningmorc than 500 unfortunates , beaten out of the streets by the storm , had applied to the City Lodging House for admisison The lodging house has accommodations for only 250 . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warmed , and then sent down to the Charities Department Building at the foot of East Twenty-sixth Street , where ' on the second floor they were allowed to sleep on the floor . Early in the evening the Post Office began to feel the effects of the storM . The . horses were unable to make time , and it was finally decided to close mails at the General Post Office from a half hour to an hour earlier than the regular time in order to be able to catch the trains . The effect of the storm in districts out of New York was made manifest in the delays on nearly every railroad coming into the city . Trains on the New York Central and the New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroads were all the way from a few minutes to several hours late . The principal difficulty the officials had to contend with after the trains reached the city was in the tunnel above Forty-second Street . The snow drifted in through openings in Park Avenue by the ton and clogged up the tracks . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back the smoke of the locomotives and filled the tunnel from end to end with a black pall through which the signal lights barely were visible , and the trains were taken through at a snail 's pace . The eastern mail , coming in over the New York , New Haven and Hartford and due here at 9:50 o'clock , had not arrived at midnight . The same delays were reported at all the Jersey City and Hoboken railroad terminals . On some of the roads it was reported last night at the Post Office the trains are four and five hours late . Mails from the northern part of the State due here on the Erie Railroad train at 7:00 o'clock had not arrived at midnight . The Pennsylvania train due here at 9:35 with mails from Buffalo and the ' West had not arrived at midnight . At the same hour was reportedthe non-arrival of the Pennsylvania train bringing mail from Pittsburg , St. Louis , and Chicago , due here at 0:50 o'clock . The Pennsylvania train . with mail from Washington and Southern points , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post Office officials were Still waiting for its mails at midnight . In the Bronx the Union Railway Company employes made efforts to keep its lines open and by the continual use of its force of electric sweepers maNiaged to keep most of the lines running . At One Hundred and Thirty-eighth Street and Third ' Avenue , where most of the lines in the Bronx intersect , and which is a general transfer point , hundreds of people stood knee deep in the snow waiting for their cars . There is nothing to shelter passengers there and many of them suffered intensely . In Brooklyn cars were sent through Irregularly to Bath Beach . Coney Island , Sheepshead Bay , anti neighboring. points , Fortunately the homeward bound traffic from Manhattan last night was light , the day being practically a business holiday , and for this reason the railroads were in a better position to meet the storm conditions . The new ordinance providing that surface cars shall stop on the " near " side of a cross street caused a great deal of complaint in Brooklyn yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a car must be in line with the crosswalk when the stop is made . This means that the rear niatform. by which passengers are admitted , is back front the crosswalk , and passengers are ' ) Idig( 'd to wade through snow and slush to board tile cars . ' Traffic on the Midland Electric Railroad . which operates through the interior of Staten Island , was practically stopped at 11 o'clock last night . At that hour the ears were stalled . the whole way from Concord to St. George . Several outwardbound steamships are anchored off Stapleton awaiting the ending of the storm                     