@@676902

txt It is said here to-night that the President went over Speaker Cannon 's head in his efforts to learn the sentiment of the House on the question of tariff revision . Both Mr. Cannon and Representative Tawney of Minnesota made canvasses of the lower branch - of Congress . The poll of Mr. Tawney. it is asserted , was made upon the suggestion of the President ; that of Mr. Cannon on his own initiative . Late to-night it was declared by a friend of the Minnesota member that his canvass was made by State delegations . Representative Bates polled the Pennsylvania members . Representative Shurman polled the New York members , Gen. Grosvenor the Ohio men , and so on . The verdict was overwhelmingly against an extra session to take up the tariff . The Pennsylvania and Ohio delegations are solid in their opposition , and the sentiment throughout the East and Middle West is the same . Members say that there is no vital occasion for tariff legislation at this time , and that they will resist the idea of a Spring session with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be any action on tariff matters earlier titan the regular meeting of Congress next December . This is the second canvass Mr. Tawney made . He made one before the conference Saturday , on the question of tariff revision , aside from that of an extra session . he had not told any one about it . and the astonishment of the Speaker and the other stand-patters was great when the Minnesota man blandly told the conferees that an overwhelming majority of the Republican representatives were in favor of having the Finance and the Ways and Means Committete sit in the Summer to prepare a tariff bill . The Speaker set to work at once to make a canvass to find out whether or not Tawney was right . President Roosevelt favors the earliest possible action looking to revision . He so informed the Senators and Representatives who were in conference with him at the While House last Saturday , . and he has made plain his position to others since that conference . He will call the Fifty-ninth Congress into extraordinary session as soon as the committees have indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage . One orthose present at the conference Saturday said to-day , in view of the many conflicting stories published regarding the meeting . that the President informed them that while he did not believe in any sweeping recision of the tariff , and would abide absolutely by the judgment of the two Houses of Congress in a matter that related so particularly to them , yet he did think the time had come when the schedules should be thoroughly examined and there should be a readjustment as to certain of them . It has been pointed out by the tariff experts of the House and of the Senate that it will require many weeks to prepare a measure for submission to the House . The President realizes that this is a practical objection to an early Spring session of Congress . as the members of the committees have not the time now necessary to devote to the preparation of a tariff bill . So far as the President is concerned he would be willing to have Congress in session during the Summer months . Ile has indicated his entire readiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at that time the consideration of a tariff measure . It was added that there is not the least prospect of differences so radical arising between the President and the Republican leaders in Congress over the tariff question as to cause a split in the party . While the President is deeply in earnest in his desire for tariff revision . he regards the question as one of expediency in which ' , no great principle is at stake . As he indicated to the conference Saturday , he is ' , willing to abide absolutely by the judgment of the two houses of Congress in the matter . On another question , however , that of legislation ' relatine. to interstate freight rates of railroads , his mind is quite made up . He will fight for that legislation and fight hard . lie hopes to secure from Congress some definite action regarding that legislation at the present session , but if he does not he will bring the subject again before Congress at the proposed extraordinary session and will urge with all his power the crystallization into law of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . The freight rate question he does not regard as one of expediency . He holds that it is a subject in which a great moral principle is involved , and one very near to all the people of the country . He regards it , in fact , as the paramount issue at this time . far and away more important than the proposed revision of the tariff . He spoke plainly , it is said , of his views at the conference Saturday concerning the freight rate problem . The expression of his attitude on the subject led to a free interchange of opinions regarding it , hut no conclusions could be reached at that time .                     