@@675621

txt Two men made a desperate attempt to steal the day 's receipts of Alaillard 's candy store , in the Fifth Avenue Hotel , at 11:45 o'clock last night , and would have succeeded had it not been for the courage cf Henry Mathey , the cashier , who refused to hold up his hands when one of the robbers covered him with two big revolvers and ordered him to do so . Instead he shouted - " Help ! Police ! " and threw his arms about the big piles of bills spread before him on the table . One of the revolvers flashed , but the ball sped harmlessly by the cashier 's head , and then the bandits darted out into the passing crowd in Broadway , and in another second a wild man hunt was on which ended with the capture of one of them . The two men came In just as the store was closing for the night , and the last customer had left . The cashier 's desk or table is but a few feet from the main entrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sat there counting up his money , the only other person near him being John Wenger , one of the waiters in the place , . who was standing at the top of a step ladder arranging one of the tall showcases . In the back of the store were five other waiters . It was all done in a minute . The men opened the door and walked straight to the table , which was without a railing or protection of any kind . The leader quickly drew two heavy revolvers . " Throw up your hands ! " he shouted , and Mathey found himself gazing into the deadly barrels . - As the shot was fired Wenger fell headlong from the step ladder in his fright , and before he could regain his footing the other waiters had run to the front of the store , and the robbers had passed outside . There they separated . one running west through Twenty-fourth Street , and the other fleeing across Madison Square . with a crowd of several hundred in hot pursuit shouting " Stop thief ! at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half a block away and joined in the chase . The man ran through Twenty-third Street to Fourth Avenue . and then turned south for one block , and at the next block the policeman seized him . The man gave up without a struggle , and walked meekly to the West Thirtieth Street Station , where he said he was Edward Burgess . twenty-five years old , a steamfitter , living at the Mills Hotel , in Bleecker Street . When he was searched there were found upon him three crumpled one-dollar bills and a small knife and the two revolvers . both fully loaded save for the single shot winch had been fired at the cashier . Detectives Were scouring the Tenderloin for his accomplice whose agreed part was probably to grab the money when the cashier 's hands went up . They found clues to his identity which led them to state confidently that they would have him before daylight .. Cashier Mathey later made the following statement ? . ? ? I was making up my cash , as I do every evening , and there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receipts . - . I " was just about to roll it up preparatory to putting it in the safe ? when two men came In . One of them walked up and said . ' Hands up ! ' I put one hand tip and grabbed the money with the other and called out , ? Get out of here ! ' . Then the waiters made a rush at him , and the man ? turned around and ran toward the door . As he ran he faced about and fired at me . The other man who had come in with him stood at the door and threw it open , and when his companion ran , he ran , too . " Mr. Mathey took no part in the pursuit , staying in the store and taking care of the money , but after the arrest he went to the station house and positively identified Burgess as the man who had shot at him .                     