@@676375

txt Mr. A. R. CoLhOuN is a writer whose views it is always worth while to consider . He has traveled much , seen much with keen eyes , has a candid judgment , and , so far as our country is concerned , a most friendly disposition . He has in the current number of The North American Review an article on " The Negro Problem , " with all the conclusions of which we can not agree , but which will repay the study of any one who cares to see one of the most important phases of our National life through the eyes of a trained observer of British birth . Mr. COLHOUN points out that there is not any danger of the peril which has often been represented as impending , the swamping of the whites by the blacks . The former are increasing much more rapidly in our population than the latter . We have instead a large and increasing black population tending to segregation . The negroes , who form a black belt in certain States , tend to form a belt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large part and in some a majority of the population . It is , according to this writer , " a nation within a nation . " The larger nation is progressive , the included one is practically stationary , possibly retrograde . Physically it is a vital race , and withstands the effects of poverty or disease . Mentally and morally the writer thinks that it goes back . It has lost the sustaining and disciplining influences of slavery , and it has not felt the inspiring and strengthening influences of freedom . Its essential characteristics are emotionalism , sloth , vanity , and want of mechanical idea . Its present condition he attributes to tits low stage of development , not to its incapability of development . Individuals of great merit and capabity have arisen from it . The whole race , he thinks , can in the course of time and under favorable conditions reach a constantly higher level , but will not under the prevailing conditions . In a general way , what he urges as a way out of the situation so discouraging is education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition of present unfitness and every possible opportunity for the removal of unfitness for political and industrial equality . Mr. COLQ13-1-10rN suggests the system in operation in Jamaica as a model on which the ' United States might shape its policy . Jamaica is a Crown colony , in which the negroes have no substantial political rights , but in which individual negroes are free to advance to positions of honor and dignity , and are received accordingly , even in official circles . He says : The future of the American negro chiefly depends upon the American white man . His is the responsibility , his the loss or gain in proportion as the negro rises or falls . Great as is the work begun individual negroes of altogether exceptional ' type , they can not hope to wrestle with the problem without co-operation from the great bulk of the American Nation . First , in all justice get rid of the idea that the negro can not rise , that he is a helpless , hopeless log , to be forever whirled about in the torrent of civilization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treat him as a man of alien race , unfitted in his present stage of evolution for self-government or the full rights of citizenship , but as a man notwithstanding , not as a tertium quid between man and dog . En- ! courage him in his struggle upward by a generous acknowledgment of his achievements and by allowing him to glean , in a fair and open field , whatever his talents may entitle him to . The black race is already segregating , and this has happened under a system which was supposed to take them bodily into the Nation . A course such as that adopted in Jamaica , while it gives far fewer rights nominally , gives far more in reality , and creates a modus vivendi under which the two races can live amicably together . Results such as this are brought about less by legislation than by public sentiment . Education is necessary , but not any kind of education . Discipline is essential , and should be enforced by white teachers , preachers , and controllers in every department , to induce steadiness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man must be prepared to treat with sympathy and respect any negro who by his life and ability has earned those sentiments , and he must strive to open to such the doors of political and Social advancement instead of slamming them in his face . Certainly such counsel as this is entitled to respect . It is addressed frankly to public opinion . We can not make Crown colonies of the communities in which the blacks are in the majority . We can probably do little by legislation , either Federal or State . It is the intelligence and conscience of the whites that must settle the " problem , " and of the whites in the South , where the problem exists . In the long run we believe that these will be found equal to the task .                     