@@677084

txt W. J. Bryan , in a published open letter addressed to President Roosevelt , compliments him upon bringing about peace between Russia and Japan . Continuing , he says : " You have been hailed as a peacemaker and you realize how the peaceful victory thus achieved by you outshines your military exploits . Why not use the present opportunity to put on foot a movement for the establishment of permanent peace ? " Last Winter you asked for authority to enter into agreements which would be in effect arbitration treaties , and the Senate , ' wisely , I believe , ' refused to surrender the treaty-making power . But I now if you had been intrusted with the I authority asked you would have hesitated to submit a question involving the Nation 's honor , and it is not always possible to know in advance what questions may be involved . Why not ask Congress for authority to submit all international questions , ' when an agreement can not be reached by parties interested , ' to an Impartial board of investigation and report . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of complaint and reconcile the parties . Questions which a nation might be unwilling to submit to arbitration in advance ' could be settled by investigation by an impartial international board . " BIG REALTY DEAL IN DISPUTE . Operator Marx Will Sue to Get Two Elevated Railroad Blocks . In connection with conflicting reports regarding a . $2,000,000 deal for the two blocks bounded by Seventh and Eighth Avenues , 144th and 146th Streets , owned by the In terborough Rapid Transit Company , downtown real estate circles reached a state of excitement late yesterday afternoon that would have done credit to Wall Street on a tumbling market . Max Marx , a well-known real estate operator , caused it to be made known that he had bought the two blocks . In other quarters It was asserted with equal emphasis that Mr. Marx had not bought the property  --  that no contracts in such a deal had been signid . The facts , as set forth later by Mr. Marx , appear to be that on Wednesday his offer for the two blocks was accepted by the Interborough officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal signing of contracts was fixed for yesterday afternoon . but at the appointed time and place , according to Mr. Marx , the Interborough officials declined to sign and said that they had decided to withdraw the property from the market . George R. Read &; Co. were said to be the , brokers through whom negotiations were conducted , but members of that firm declined to discuss the deal in any way . Mr. Marx says he intends to bring an action for specific performance of contract against the Interborough Company , and that his attorneys will prob. ; ; ably take the first steps in the matter to -- day . The two blocks in question are those which have been used for many years as yards for the storage of cars by the Manhattan Railway Company. - Together they comprise about 128 city lots . KEPT DYING . MAN OFF PIER . Rescuers Delayed in Landing Until Helfenstein Was Beyond Aid . Herman E. Helfenstein , who is described by the Coney Island police as 41 years old , a merchant , of 314 James Street , West Hoboken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He went fishing on the launch Seaboy , and at 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon , when 300 yards off shore , went in swimming . He soon became exhausted and called for help . John and Frederick Simpson , brothers , of 42t Court Street , Brooklyn , who were fishing from a smack near by , put off in a rowboat and reached Helfenstein before he sank . He was unconscious , however , when the rowboat reached the Iron Steamboat pier . According to the Simpson brothers , a watchman on the pier refused to allow them to land , declaring that it was against the rules of the company to permit any beats except its own to approach the pier . They remonstrated with the watchman , they said , and pointed out that the man they had rescued was unconscious and likely to die unless he received medical attention at once . About fifteen minutes elapsed during the controversy , and when the pier hand remained obdurate they rowed to the Dreamland pier . It took ten minutes more to reach that point . Helfenstein was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call to the Coney Island Reception Hospital . Drs . Clay and Morrison ran to the Dreamland pier and began to work over Helfenstein , but he died in a few minutes . The body was carried to the Coney Island Morgue and identified later . BATTLE OF SEA MONSTERS . Baltic 's Passengers See Exciting Fight Between Whales and Swordfishes . A battle the participants in which were several whales and a score or more giant swordfishes took place in midocean last Tuesday . The news of the encounter/was brought to New York by the White Star liner Baltic , in yesterday afternoon from Liverpool . Many of the passengers witnessed the battle . What the outcome was no one knows , as the whales and the swordfishes were still alit when the Baltic lost sight of them . The attention of the passengers was attracted to the battle about 11:30 o'clock , when to the starboard , probably a mile distant , they saw a great mass of foamy water , resembling a water spout , which a closer inspection proved to be the battling sea monsters . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight , but they showed no signs of giving : in and returned the attacks of their morel numerous adversaries with all the power at their command . The swordfishes fought valiantly , their I swords cutting and slashing the whales , i who. unable to get out of the way of the murderous assaults , did they best they could to ward off the vicious blows by I striking with their tails and when poss1-1 ble by putting them out of action by biting them in two .                     