@@676402

txt After a conference lasting from 2 o'clock yesterday afternon until evening between a committee of the Board of Building Trades and the Lumber and Building Material Dealers ' Association a basis of settlement of the present building trades deadlock was arranged . It was stated after the conference that an agreement was reached by which the yards will be " open " ? that is. , that union and non-union men can be employed indiscriminately as material drivers . This also applies to the material handlers at the yards . The agreement will be submitted for ratification at to-day 's meeting of the Board of Building Trades , and if ratified it is believed that the great shut-down will be ended to-morrow or Friday . The committee of the Board of Building Trades consisted of the following members of the board 's Strike Committee of Five : Michael Stanton , Electric Workers ' Union ; Donald Call , Stone Cutters ' Union ; Frederick Lemmon , Elevator Constructors ' Union , and Eugene McCabe , Plasterers ' Union . In the forenoon two delegates representing the Building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two associations of employers , at 1S Broadway . and requested a conference . They were told that the Labor Committee was busy and could not see them , and they went away after leaving their addresses . It was stated afterwards that the Lumber and Building Material Dealers ' Association would have no dealings under any circumstances with the Building Material Drivers Union , and would only confer ' a-1 ' : h the committee of the Board of Building Trades . This wag an important concessicn , as both associations had decided not to tiecognize the Board of Building Trades through this committee or otherwise , While the conference was in progress a letter was received from Emerson . Chairman of the Conciliation Committee of the New York Civic Federation , on the subject of arbitration and suggesting William H. Farley , Secretary of the Board of Building Trades . as umpire . In view ? of the present negotiations , the suggestion was considered unnecessary . The committee of labor delegates held credentials from President Donovan and-Secretary rariey-of the Board of Building Trades , which were accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stated by both sides that an early Settlement was likely . " Good progress has been made , " said James Sherlock Davis , Chairman of the Labor Committee of the Lumber Dealers ' Association . " The whole trouble may be over by Friday . " It was learned that the proposition of the Board of Building Trades for open yards was agreed on . A delegate said if the agreements were ratified to-day the association of employers will be notified tomorrow and the shut-down declared off . The letter to School Commissioner Samuel B. Donnelly from District Attorney Jerome with reference to beginning work on the schools was made public yesterday . It suggested , among other things , that Mr. Jerome be given authority from the Board of Building Trades to call on the two employers ' associations with the proposition that material be supplied for the schools , and that it would be handled without the raising of any labor question . It was further suggested that the board would see to it that there was no disorder or interruption to work oh account of delivery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Building Trades Committee , said last night regarding this letter : s We can settle this matter without Mr. Jerome now . His letter is too late , as circumstances have changed in the meantime . " MORE STRIKES ORDERED . Iron Workers Quit Hotel Job and Many Brooklyn Machinists Go Out . Samuel Parks , delegate of the Housesmiths , Dridgemen and Structural Iron Workers ' Union , ordered a strike on the new hotel at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Fifty-fifth Street . The strike was ordered at the instance of Business Agent Michael J. Hogan of the Building Material Drivers ' Union , who complained that beams carted by non-union men were being delivered at the building . Three hundred men quit work , including structural iron workers , elevator constructors , hoisting engineers , and plumbers . The hotel is to be twenty stories high , and six stories of the iron work had been completed . The Iron League is giving the architectural iron workers , who are on strike , a day or two of grace , it was stated yesterday , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Housestniths . Bridgemen , and Structural Iron Workers ' Union had asked President Buchanan of the National union to come here and take charge of affairs . Strikes of machinists were ordered yesterday in the shops and yards of the following firms to enforce the demands of the International Association of Machinists for a minimum wage rate of Sn a day : Boston Dry Dock Company . Itoss Iron Works , Ellsesser 's Iron Works . Morse Iron ' Works , Columbia Engineering Works , Hall &; Hu ? ihurt , and the Robert White Engineering Works . all in Brooklyn .                     