@@676230

txt The much-talked-of deal by which the Interborough Rapid Transit Company was to secure control of the Manhattan Railway Company finally received official confirmation yesterday . According to this statement the Interborough Rapid Transit Company will lease the Manhattan on a basis of a seven per cent . dividend guarantee of the latter company 's stock by the former . The lease was authorized yesterday at meetings of the Boards of Directors of both companies . the general proposition for such action being approved by both Boards of Directors . The details of the lease are to be worked out by the officers , under advice of counsel . and the completed document will be submitted for approval to the Directors and to the stockholders . TERMS OF THE LEASE . According to the official statement which was issued by Alfred Skitt . Vice President and General Superintendent of the Manhattan Railway , the lease will take effect on April I. 1903 , and will be for 999 years . It will cover all the franchises and property of the Manhattan Railway Company . The rental from April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the net earnings of the Manhattan Company . not exceeding 7 per cent . After Jan. 1 . - ettlft , the rental will be 7 per cent . per annum on the stock of the Manhattan Railway Company guaranteed . by the Interhorough Rapid Transit Company . The Manhattan Railway Company stock is to be increased at once to $55.200.000. for the purpose of completing improvements already planned ; the present stockholders of the Manhattan Railway Company to have the privilege of taking the new stock pro rata at par . Provision is to ha made in the lease for the ultimate increase of Manhattan stock to the total amount of Scos0000 , including outstanding stock , and due provision is to he made for the application of the proceeds of the sale of the increased stock to the further improvement of the Manhattan property . The Interborough Company will pay SIO. - WO per annum to keep up the organization of the Manhattan Company , in addition to the dividend rental which shall be paid to the stockholders. and the Manhattan stock will be stamped with a contract of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lease , according to the statement , will he those customarily adopted in similar cases . The lease v.111 provide security satisfactory to the Manhattan Company for the payment of the dividend rental . The present capital stock of the Manhattan Railway Company is ** and the increase of 87.200.000 to 553.200.000. therefore . represents an increase of about Id per cent . The Street yesterday figured that the rights to subscribe would be worth . about 7 . The banded indebtedness of the Manhattan Company amounts to $39 . SS:3,000 . MR . BELMONT 'S STATEMENT . After the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company . August Belmont authorized the following statement as presenting his views , especially so far as his deep interest in the welfare of the city and of the traveling public is concerned : " The Directors of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company have this day , after previous long deliberation and investigation . determined , for reasons which appear to them important and controlling as affecting the interests not only of the stockholders of the company , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan system of elevated roads for a period of 1519 years on the terms given out this afternoon . " It is believed that this plan , when perfected . will work out a prompt and satisfactory system of interborough transit . both lessor and lessee being thereby engaged in a common effort to stimulate , inCrease , and develop facilities for transportation rather than  --  as would have been the case if the properties had remained separate  --  being engaged largely in the effort to divert traffic the one from the other . " It is not intended by this arrangement that any of the plans for the development of the Interborough system shall be interrupted or departed from . In the meanwhile , however , before these extensions can be completed , the two systems will work in harmony . Nor is it intended to dispense with any additions which are desirable for the Manhattan property . The proposed authorized , but onissued , increase of capital stock of that company beyond the ** up to $60.000,000. an important part of the plan , has been provided for to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement to give in detail the advantages which  --  as the negotiations for a lease have progressed ? have appealed to those who will be practically identified with the management of the united system , but these advantages affect both economy of operation and convenience of public traffic . As I have said , however , in coming to the conclusion arrived at . it has been considered by the Directors of the Interborough Company that they were not alone charged with the duty of caring for the best interests of the stockholders , but also that they carried the re. - sponsibility of the management and development of a quasi-municipal enterprise . and they have come to this decision with the conviction that they were acting for the best interests of the city and the traveling public both for the present and the future . " George J. Gould . President of the Manhattan Railway Company , concurred in these views as follows : " I have seen the interview with Mr. Belmont and . so far as the Manhattan s7. - stem is concerned , we agree with him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfactory solution of the rapid transit problem of the metropolis . while , at the same time , the advantages of a fixed guarantee by a corporation of the character of the interborough Rapid Transity Company will be appreciated and accepted by the stockholders of this company , a large number of whom have , of course , as negotiations have progressed looking to this lease . approved - of the proposed plan . " The Manhattan Railway was formed in 157:1 . It acquired in ISS-1 the Metropolitan and New York Eievated Roads . It now owns thirty-eight miles of double track lines in Manhattan and the Bronx . The Second and Third Avenue lines are now under full electric equipment . On the Sixth and Ninth Avenue lines the change from steam to electricity is now in progress . The lnterborough Rapid Transit Company will operate the subway when it is completed . DEALINGS IN THE SHARES . On the Stock Exchange yesterday the dealings in Manhattan were on an enormous scale , approximating 200,000 shares ? or about one-third of the entire market transactions . The stock fluctuated on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing at the high figure when . shortly after 2 o'clock . the official announcement of the lease was made . At once a heavy selling movement ) set in  --  probably based on the Wall Street axiom that a stock should be sold when the news is out  --  which carried the price down to From there , however , there was a quick recovery to 1563/4. with the close at 1361. , making a net gain of 21 , i points . The greater part of the buying during the day was by Butler Brothers , who are recognized as Gould brokers . The sharp recovery in the stock has done much to convince Wall Street that there still is a substantial short interest on the stock and that the purpose is to force this interest to cover .                     