@@677871

txt Secretary STRAUB presents a most interesting report to Congress . His department is one of the most extensive and varied under the Government , and its several functions are not always connected by a logical harmony , but in this report they have at least this in common , that they are uniformly treated in a straightforward and busiresslike manner . Some of Mr. STRAUS 'S recommendations have a special value at this time . This is true as to his discussion of Chinee exclusion . He urges with clear-fleas the safety , decency , and wisdom of treating this question so as to respect the sensibilities of the Chinese , while ' clairying out the essentials of our pol%Icy . That policy is the exclusion of ChineSe laborers , whether skilled or un- skilled ; and the free admission , on equality with all other countries . of Chinire coming to the United States who are not laborers . In other words , hewonld make the admission general , the exclusion specific and exceptional . - This fie in reality the letter and the mint of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to ourselves as to our Chinine friends to Interpret and apply the law fairly and in good faith . And there are large interests at stake in Stich . a policy . The Chinese people are erzildently deeply stirred by new tendtoward national vitality , toward assertion . of theli ; international rights and the cle-Veiminaent of their Central over their oihi. resources . In atiCh a national movement they may Well need our help , and may well be able to repay it richly with friendly cooperation in the Orient . It is extremely to be desired that the habitual feeling taf China toward us should be cordial , not resentful or suspicious . Certainly the full performance of our voluntarily assumed obligations , the honorable fulfillment of the terms of our own laws , Is not a high price to pay for a friendliness which conceivably may prove invaluable . Secretary STRAUS emphatic argument Creased subsidies to Mail service with South America , Australasia , China , and Japan and our Oriental possessions . He would give the rate now authorized for 20-knot vessels , $4 a statute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The recommendation hardly covers the situation created by our own legislation and described in the following passage : Practically without exception , the laws of other nations permit their subjects or citizens to buy ships in any market , put them under the national ensign , and employ them at least in the foreign trade . Our law restricts American registry and the American flag to vessels built in the United States . That this law is now useless as a measure of protection to American shipbuilders. so far as vessels for the foreign trade are concerned , is amply demonstrated by the fact that for years we have built practically no such vessels under that law . Millions of American capital have been invested in steamships under - have flags engaged in trade with the United States . We are not at liberty to infer that Mr. SIrsaus wished in this passage to bring out the absurdity of the prime policy of the party in power and of his Chief in the Administration . But can there be anything more exquisitely absurd than to pay large sums from the Treasury to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusing the right to use the American flag to Amer. - Awns who have " invested millions " in ships ? It is idle to tell the average ... - Republican Congressman  --  we fear it is idle to tell the the Republican President the United States  --  tiiht this law " is seless as a measure of protection to erican shipbuilders . " It is a part of ho machinery of protection by which - the Republican Party holds its grip on the manufacturers , and any break in that machinery is dreaded . Once admit that its useless parts maybe diepensed with , and the whole business is , put in the way of destruction . If the tiseless can be spared , the injurious - they next be attacked . The end would be ruin .                     