@@675774

txt George C. Holt Backed for the Place by Senator Platt ? E. D. Baldwin 's Chances . The liveliest kind of a political fight is predicted over the selection of a successor to Judge Addison Brown . United States Judge for the Southern District of New York . The latest person named in connection with the place  --  and he has the backing of Senator Thomas C. Platt ? is George C. Holt . a lawyer with offices at 34 Pine Street , and living at PO Willow Street , Brooklyn . Mr. Holt was born in Oswego in 1843 , graduated from Yale in 1RU41 and from the Columbia Law School in 1S89 . He has been a resident of this city for nearly thirty-five years , during all of which time he has engaged in the practice of law . While ' always a Republican , he has been independent in municipal matters . He is a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Association , and also of its Library Committee . Mr. Holt is also a member of the Century , Yale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Revolution . Mr. Holt 's most formidable opponent is E. D. Baldwin of Canton . Ohio , a deputy on the staff of United States District Attorney H. L. Burnett . He is a son of one of President 's most intimate friends , and expects to secure promotion to the bench through the President 's friendship for his father . It is admitted that he owes his present position to President . Gen. Burnett having conceded that he appointed Mr. Baldwin by request of the President . Gen. Burnett is urging his appcsintment to the Judgeship . Justices James A Blanchard and John Proctor Clarke of the Supreme Court each desired to step into Judge Brown 's official shoes , but it is asserted that the organization leaders have informed them that they will be expected to accept nominations next Fall for the offices they now fill by appointment . It was stated yesterday that Senator Platt has recommended the selection of Mr. Holt to succeed Judge Brown . T. SUFFERN TAILER 'S DENIAL . Says He Did Not Discuss in Interview the Bequest to Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pierre Lorillard 's son-In-law , which was printed in one of the New York morning papers yesterday , discussed at some length the bequest of the Rancocas farm to Mrs. Lillian Allien , Mr. Lorillard 's friend . Mr. Tailor , in a dispatch to THE New YORK Times , denied it in these words : I have never made . and do not now authorize statements attributed to me . Alleged Interview never took place . T. SUFFERN TAMER . At the residence of Mrs .. Alllen , 11 East Thirty-first Street , it was said that Mrs. Allien was out of town , and that it was not known there where she had gone . OFF FOR THE PAN-AMERICAN . Three Hundred Members of the 22d Regiment Start for Buffalo . Three hundred members of the Twenty-second Regiment , headed by Col. Franklin Bartlett and Lieut . Col. Henry Treadwell ? left their armory at Sixty-eighth Street and Broadway at 8:30 o'clock last evening to go to the Pan-American Exposition . The militiamen were in uniform , and carried their guns and packs , but little else in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utensils , and other things they need , from one of the Buffalo regiments . They will return home next Thursday morniii3% Seven members of the regiment have already left the city . They departed last Wednesday with the intention of going as far as Albany on horseback . There they will Join the main body . This party took with it a large van the Interior of which had been fitted with folding bunks , and there was room in it also for supplies and various articles that would be needed on the outing . At night and when it storms the seven will find shelter in the van .                     