@@676467

txt The important information was given out to-night at the Colombian Legation that in the cable dispatch received yesterday in regard to the Colombian Senate 's action on the canal treaty there was a statement at the end of the dispatch to the effect that " another proposition " was " under consideration . " This is taken to mean , as interpreted in the light of previous dispatches to Dr. Herran , that the Colombian Congress will adopt a resolution authorizing President Marroquin to negotiate a treaty with the United States along certain lines , and , when a complete agreement has been reached between COThnthia and the United States , to exchange ratifications without again submitting the treaty to the Colombian Congress . When such a resolution has been passed by the Congress that body will adjourn and the matter will have reached a stage where there can be no further doubt of a successful conclusion of the whole matter . It is known that this programme has been Under consideration for several weeks among the friends of the treaty in the Colombian Congress . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and get enough of the opposition in the Senate to agree to it to put it through . The fact that the matter was alluded to in the dispatch to the legation here would indicate that the proposition had enough support to justify going forward with it . It is claimed that there is an unmistakable majority in the lower house in favor of the treaty and onethird of the Senate is in favor of it . The committee to which the treaty was referred stood seven to nine for ratification , with some modifications , which related chiefly to the question of sovereignty and jurisdiction , and were in effect of inconsiderable importance , but were insisted on by the majority as a matter of national . pride . The fact that only two of the members of the committee were radically opposed ' to ratification makes the report about the , rejection of the treaty seem peculiar . Nothing official has been forwarded to Dr. Her- : ran between the dates of Aug. 6 and Aug. 12 , and there must have been important developments in the consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reasons encouraging the belief that the Senate vote was only on some motion which had parliamentary significance and not a vote finally rejecting the treaty . This view is particularly encouraged because the vote of the Senate is cabled as having been unanimous in opposition . The report of the Senate committee passed over the question of compensation to Colombia entirely , although that is still considered by many to be one of the obstacles to the final agreement . Colombia asks not only to be paid in cash the annuity of $2.50,000 , representing the revenue derived annually from the Panama Railroad , but also $15v,000 for the lighthouse and other port fees which she will lose by her agreement to the treaty as it stands . Dr. Herran takes the view , although his information , owing to the deplorable condition of the cable service , is very imperfect , - that it is the purpose of the Colombian Congress not to close all further negotiations , but , on the contrary , to renew them , with the hope of reaching a satisfactory agreement . It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which case it would be necessary to arrange another protocol extending the time from Sept. 22 forward to give a period which would allow time for full consideration , or it may be the idea to make an entirely new treaty . In any event it is clear that the sentiment in Colombia is for further negotiation , and the outlook is considered good for the ultimate carrying out of the plan of building the Panama Canal . Both branches of the Colombian Congress are now eager to adjourn , and a form of disposing of the controversy was tactfully presented to the Senate . No advices have been received here indicating how much support it would have , but it was very evidently a compromise plan which might allow the President to do virtually all that the Congress has been asked to do in ratifying the Hay-Herran treaty . It is said that the Congress has full authority to handle the question in that matter . There is a gap of six days in the reports of the proceedings of the Congress with the treaty , Which must be explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . In one of the recent dispatches received at the Colombian Legation the statement was made , which at the time was not fully understood , that the Senate would take important action on the treaty Aug. 14 . Allowing the interval of time which elapsed between the vote on the 12th and the receipt of the news of that vote in Washington yesterday , there should be some information to-morrow about what the intended action on the 14th was . There is a disposition here to believe that the allusion yeferred to a vote on the proposition to authorize the President of Colombia to negotiate a new treaty or a modification of the present treaty and exchange ratifications without submitting the treaty again to the Congress . Senator Spooner v-as a visitor at the State Department to-day to inquire for additional information from Bogota . but was unable to get it . Asked what he regarded as a reasonable time for the Colombian Government to deti-nmine whether it would make the required concessions to the United States , Senator Spooner said the determination of that question was left by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be defined with even approximate accuracy by one not intimately associated with the negotiations . The term " within a reasonable time " might be one or several months or one or several years , depending upon the character of the matter in hand and the conditions surrounding it . The responsibility for determining the question rested v .. ith the President . Reports have been published to the effect that rejection of the treaty at Bogota would be followed by the secession of the States of Panama and Cauca from the United States of Colombia . Replying to-day to questions on this point , Dr. Herran said such a thing was possible , but he did not believe and had no reason for believing that Panama had made any preparations looking to secession . " If Panama had been making preparations to secede , as some reports indicate , ' ? said Dr. Herran , " and information of such plans had reached the press , the Colombian Government would have discovered it 41 : , n , and would have taken steps to prevent it by making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ferment , but there are no indications of an immediate realization of the secession dream . " I see it reported that I am preparing to close my offices here , " continued Dr. Herran . " This is not true . Even if the treaty negotiations were to end immediately there are other matters of business to be attended to which would keep me here . "                     