@@675424

txt By a vote of 145 to 201 the Bar Association refused last night to pass a resolution appointing a committee of fifteen members to ask the Assembly to inquire into the action of Justice Fitzgerald in connection with the appointment of John F. Carroll to the receivership of the Brooklyn Wharf and Warehouse , - Company. had been agreed upon as receiver by the parties to the action . The report of the committee , together with the testimony taken by the Grievance Committee of the club , was read to the members . Then the general discussion began . Nearly all the opponents of Justice Fitzgerald admitted that he had a legal right to select whomsoever he desired as a receiver , but they questioned his moral right to do so when the parties to the action had agreed on another man . The principal arguments made by those who were pressing the adoption of the resolution , were on the political aspect of the appointment . Those who were opposed to the adoption of the resolution spoke strongly in favor of the Justice 's action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the volume of sound it was clear that the resolution had been defeated ; but those in favor of its adoption demanded a division . Those in favor were assembled on one side of the room , and those who believed that Justice Fitzgerald had done nothing that demanded inquiry stood on the other side , and the members were counted , with the result as given above .. A NEW YORK TIMES reporter carried the news of the result to Justice Fitzgerald at his home , 140 East Seventy-ninth Street . The Justice said : " The vote speaks for itself . I should say that is the reply to the attack made on me . " When the meeting was called to order every seat was occupied and many of tile members of the association were standing about the assembly room . John E. Parsons . President of the association , in his opening address , said : " This is the first time I have had the honor to preside at a general meeting of the association . I am particularly pleased that on the first occasion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which such an important subject , bearing on the work of the profession , should be discussed . " You are here on a special call of the Executive Committee , and the notices you have received explain the object of the meeting . What is the pleasure of the meeting ? ' EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 'S REPORT Almost immediately George E. Rives of the Executive Committee arose and said : " In the absence of Mr. Zabriskie , Chairman of the Executive Committee , I have the honor to present the following report : " TO the Association of the Bar of the City of New York : " The Executive Committee presents the following report in reference to the action of Mr. Justice Fitzgerald in appointing John F. Carron as receiver of the Brooklyn v. harf and Warehouse Company . " This subject has deservedly received a large measure of attention from the press , from the profession and from the public generally , and tee committee is of opinion that it should receive serious consideration from the association . " The essential facts are not doubtful . They appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court . " The United States Mortgage and Trust Company was trustee for bondholders under a mortgage or deed of trust made by the Brooklyn Wharf and Warehouse Company to secure an issue of $17,500,000 of bonds , all of which had been issued and were in the hands of the public . By the express terms of the mortgage , the trustee , upon the commencement of any proceedings to enforce its rights , was entitled to the appointment of a receiver of the mortgaged premises . Default having been made by the Warehouse Company , the United htates Mortgage and Trust Company , as trustee , brought its action to foreclose the mortgage , and applied to Mr. Justice Fitzgerald for the appointment of a receiver , upon notice to the attorneys for the defendant Both companies were represented by counsel of high character and position . The interests of the bondholders were also in charge of a reorganization committee holding bonds to a large amount . This committee was represented by independent counsel of the same high character and position . The unsecured indebtedness of the corporation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also represented by the counsel for the plaintiff and for the Reorganization Committee . " All of the interests so represented by counsel had agreed that Mr. Hugh J. Grant , formerly Mayor of the City of New York , was a suitable person to be receiver , and they so informed Mr. Justice Fitzgerald . Upon his inquiring whether Mr. Grant 's name appeared anywhere in the papers , he was informed that it did not , and counsel suggested that it might be proper to file a written recommendation . To this suggestion the Judge was understood to assent . Counsel thereupon drew up , signed . and filed with the Judge a paper entitled in the cause in the ioilowing words : " We concur ' in requesting that Hon. Hugh J. Grant be appointed receiver in the above entitled cause . " Mr. Justice Fitzgerald took the papers , asked no further questions , suggested no one else as l'eceiver , made no objection to Mr. Grant , and on the following morning . without intimation to the parties or their counsel , appointed as receiver Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this decision , and before the order could be entered in the office of the County Clerk , they filed a consent to an order of discontinuance and a new action to foreclose the mortgage was subsequently begun in Kings County . Mr. Carroll therefore never qualified as receiver . ON MR . CARROLL ' S RECORD . " John F. Carroll is not unknown to the people of this community . For twenty-five years he has held various minor public offices , but , so far as the committee has been able to learn , he has never had ' any mercantile experience . His last and most important employment was that of Clerk of the Court of General Sessions . He resigned that post not long since to become assistant or deputy to Mr. Croker as the head of the Tammany Hall Democracy in this county  --  the party by whom Mr. Justice Fitzgerald was nominated and elected to the Supreme Court . " While Mr. Justice Fitzgerald , in appointing a receiver for the Brooklyn Wharf and Warehouse property , may not technically have been bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the request of the owners of the property and their principal creditors he became peculiarly bound to see to it that the person he selected was one whose character and experience gave every possible assurance of fitness to administer a trust at once so important and so difficult . " The application made to the Judge was for the appointment of are officer to administer an extremely complicated mercantile business , carried on upon property which embraced more than two miles of water front , and which was valued at from fifteen to thirty million dollars . The difficulty of such a task is well known to all who are in the least familiar with the commerce of the Port of New York , and indeed it abundantly appeared from the mere fact that the owners of the property had been so far unsuccessful in conducting their business as to have failed in earning their rent , interest , and taxes . All the facts as to the extent and complexity of the business Mr. Justice Fitzgerala must have known . If he did not know them , it was because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiries of counsel . And yet , when called upon by virtue of his office to choose an officer to manage this vast property , he exercised that high prerogative by selecting on his own motion a politician engaged in no avowed occupation , who had never conducted any kind of commercial undertaking , and whose most important avocation had consisted in keeping the records of a criminal court . INVESTIGATION DEMANDED . " These notorious facts have impressed the committee with the firm conviction that it is the duty of the association , both in the interest of the bar and the bench , to set on foot a thorough investigation , to the end that all the facts may be ascertained , and that such action shall then be taken as may be suitable , having due regard to the As soon as he had completed the reading cf the report , Mr. Rives moved that it be accepted , anu that the following resolution be adopted : " Resolved . The t a special committee of fifteen be appointed by the President . and of which he Audi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York that it will be pleased to inquire into the circumstances attending the appointment by Mr. Justice Fitzgerald cf Joan F. Carroll as receiver of the Brooklyn Wharf and Warehouse Company , to the end that such action may thereafter be token as is required by the due administration of justice , the dignity of the Supreme Court , the respect which is due its members , and the interests which are represented by the bar . " Albert Stickney seconded the motion . The President hardly had time to put the motion when a number of members of the association were on their feet demanding recognition . The first to be noticed was David McClure , who demanded that before the question should be voted on the testimony of the attorneys in the Brooklyn Wharf and Warehouse receivership matter be read to the members of the association . Mr. McClure said that he understood this testimony had been reduced to writing , and he felt that all the members should know exactly what these lawyers had said . When Mr. McClure had finished his speech , ex-Judge Van @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of the committee and the accompanying resolution be laid on the table . " This motion was seconded by a number of members . Mr. McClure arose again and said that he demanded a. statement from the committee , and that he had a right to know the details of the information they had received . Ferdinand Shack followed Mr. McClure , saying : " I am opposed to the motion to . lay the report on the table , because I believe that we would be receiving a report that was highly libellous . " THE TESTIMONY READ . Mr. Shack 's remarks were received with applause . Peter B. Olney said that he hoped Judge Van Hoesen would withdraw his motion , as it would cut off all debate . After some argument this was done , and by common consent Mr. McClure 's request prevailed , and Mr. Rives began to read the testimony taken by the Grievance Committee of the club . This committee consists of William E. Stiger , Henry De Forest Baldwin , Robert Lee Luce . Edward C. Henderson . Samuel H. Ordway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Merrill , and Edward C. Perkirs . The statements made to the committee by John M. Bowers , counsel for the Brooklyn Wharf and Warehouse Company , were first read . Mr. Bowers had confirmed the published accounts of the selection of ex-Mayor Hugh J. Grant as receiver by all of the attorneys interested in the case . He described how he and Julien T. Davies . counsel for the United States Mortgage and Trust Company , had visited Justice Fitzgerald the night before the receiver hail been appointed and told him of their plans . The Justice asked them if they had the consent of all the creditors , and they replied that a majority had consented to the arrangement . Mr. Bowers told how he and Mr. Davies had protested to Justice Fitzgerald as soon as they found out that the name of . Tohn F. Carroll had been substituted for that of Mr. Grant . and that after this he and Mr. Davies had agreed to discontinue the action . When they asked Justice Fitzgerald to sign the order of discontinuance , it is alleged that the Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is he not entitled to no-tice ? " Finally . after Mr. Bowers insisted on having the order signed on the ground that it was his client 's right to have a discontinuance entered when all parties to the suit had agreed to it , the Justice signed the order . Mr. Bowers declared that he had no knowledge of nny one having carried a message from Justice Fitzgerald to Mr. Grant beyond newspaper statements . At this point Mr. Rives was interrupted by Mr. Perkins of the committee , who objected to the reading of the remainder of the testimony , which he considered was obtained by attorneys from clients , and should not be openly discussed . Cries of " No ! no ! Go on ! " were heard all over the hall . and Mr. Rives continued to read Mr. Bowers 's testimony . On the Saturday morning . Mr. Bowers said , he had met Mr. Grant and had advised him to call on . Tustice Fitzgerald . Mr. Grant , however , refused . saying , " If Judge Fitzgerald wo n't appoint me on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . EVIDENCE OF COUNSEL . The evidence , given by Mr. Davies was practically the same as that given by eh ? Boy:nes , as was : flee that of Mr. Joline . In response to the question " Was Justice Fitzgerald embarrassed when the order of discontinuance was presented ? " Mr. Johns This vote was accepted as a complete exoneration of Justice Fitzgerald 's action . and the announcement of it was greeted support and members the by cheers with Judge and the great public interests that wiers of the Justice . Cheers were also given are ) evolved . It is understood that - Air . Justice Fitzfor the Justice personally . gerald disavows political reasons or any the direct interference by Tammany Hall . But The special meeting was called by his on motive some been have ha must there qwq of its membership can effectually conduct any inquiry into these subjects . The.Assembly of the State is the only body which possesses the necessary power and authority , and we are satisfied that the gravity of the occasion is such as to require its interference . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly to make due investigation , and we recommend the adopiiun of the resolution appended hereto . " Dated New York . Feb. 20 , 1000 . Executive Committee of tin Association of the Bar of the City of New York  --  John E. Parsons , George Zabriskie . Albert Stiekney . David Willcox . S. B. Brownell . S. Sidney Smith . G. L. Rives , Michael H. Cardozo , Charles C. Burlingham , John Mei .. Nash , George Welwood Murray . Howard Mansfield . John G. Agar , David B. Ogden . Lewis L. Delafield . " WANTED ASSEMBLY TO ACT . - told the committee that he did not believe so , though the Justice was undoubtedly greatly surprised . He had heard " somewhere , somehow , and from someborly " that " some one " had called on Mr. okrant and advised . him to call on Justice Fitzgerald . He knew nothing of it of his own knowledge , however . Mr. Davies , when examined a second time , had told the committee that Justice Fitzgerald had asked the three attorneys if they objected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not reply directly , " Mr. Davies responded . ' but we told him we wanted the suit discontinued . I do n't wish to . say that the Judge was indisposed to sign the order of discontinuance , but he deliberated some time . " Other testimony from Mr. Joline showed that the latter had written to Mr. Grant , informing him . that his name had been presented to the Court in reference to the receivership . This later was delivered at Mr. Grant 's house on the night before Mr. Carroll 's appointment . Mr. Rivee , speaking to the resolution , said that it seemed to him that when all the parties to an action are represented before the court , the Justice should appoint the receiver who was satisfactory , and whose character , business attainments , and education were such as to make him fit to administer the property for the best interests of all concerned . He alluded to the scandals on the bench in the Tweed regime which resulted in the impeachment of Judge Barnard , and , after declaring that he considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Judge Fitzgerald has practiced what Judge Barnard preached when he announced that he would bestow his patronage on his friends . " The alleged offense of Justice Fitzgerald , he declared , was an impeachable one , and he felt that it was the duty of the association to use its utmost endeavors to raise and purify the bench . - UPHOLDS THE JUSTICE . David McClure followed .. Ir . Rives in a long speech , in which he held that the Justice in such cases had an absolute right to appoint whomsoever he saw fit as receiver . He said : " The Judge is something more than an automaton . He is empowered ! o use discretion in all matters not directly covered by law . The receiver is not the receiver for lawyers or clients ; he is the Court 's receiver . " Mr. McClure said , referri to Mr. Grant : " The gentleman whom it " Vas desired to have appointed passed through a receivership with great credit to himself , and the same people who are now crying out against the appointee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The suggestion that any one had called on Mr. Grant has fallen fiat , as the three witnesses who teeitBed before the committee denied it . This committee had it in its power , in view of the fact that the name of a Judge was besmirched , to call on Mr. Grant himself and inquire whether any attempt hail been made to induce him to see Judge Fitzgerald . " The court , Mr. McClure said , had exerside its discretion in appointing a man who , some people said , was unfit . He denied that anything had been brought out which had proved Mr. Carroll to be unsuited for the place . Cornuing , he asked what was the risk involv d in the appointment of Mr. Carroll . " I have , " he said , - " taken the trouble to examine the order appointing him . I find that the Judge had exacted a bond of *toomoo , which is double what Mr. Davies proposed to have the man whom he desired appointed give . That is the way Judge Fitzgerald considered his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts . " Returning to a statement made by Mr. Rives that - Mr . Carroll had been exposed bythe Mazet committee , Mr. McClure said : - " I do n't remember that the Mazet committee made him cut to he any more dishonest than any one else . The men of the opposite political faith . if I remember rightly , were somewhat disinclined to go into their private business while testifying before that committee . " Edward B. Whitney . who was Assistant Attorney General under President Cleveland , then said that no one present had the slightest suspicion that there was anything in the case . " This is a case , " he said . " where the Bar Association could only weaken Its influence in the future by countenancing any effort to impeach Judge Fitzgerald . " In conclusion . Mr. Whitney referred to the fact that charges have been merle of the distribution by Judges of patronage among their clerks , and he said : " Judges have been appointing their clerks to good receiverships for years , and it is too late . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Bar Association to attempt a reform . " Albert B. Boardman , in opening a brief speech , declared that nothing had been said which would tend to show whether or not the appointment of Mr. Carroll was a good one . He did not believe that Justice Fitzgerald would be impeached by the Assembly on the showing made by the committee 's report . In fact . he declared that he did not regard the matter as a serious attempt to secure the removal of Justice Fitzgerald from the bench . The charges , lie said , as developed heAthe evidence would not be considered by ' the Legislature . And the association would be put in an undignified and ridiculous position . TAMES C. CARTER 'S VIEWS . A number of other members of the association spoke , all of them but two against the charges . Just before midnight , when the throng in the halt had become in patient and was loudly clamoring for the Chair to put the question . a man sitting Lear the front recognized James C. Carter and asked him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appla  --  led , and a large number of men who had drifted out into the reception - room returned to hear Mr. Carter 's speech . Mr. Carter said that such a resolution should not be adopted unless the association was convinced that Justice Fitzgerald had committed a serious breach of duty . He denied that Judges had the right to appoint as receiver any one whom they should choose , and he declared that those who said so made the mistake of confounding right with moral duty . He said that it was the Co.irt 's duty to pay the greatest consideration to requests made for the appointment of a receiver . and that he is hound to ? elect the : person agreed upon unless he chooses some one else who is equally competent . He declared that Justice Fitzgerald 's action was an abuse of official discretion and as much an impeachable offense as any other That he could Commit . Col. E. C. . Tames , who was the next speaker . declared that the case , as made out , was extremely weak . The pending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honesty of a Justice . because he appointed as a receiver a man whom the attorneys hail not agreed upon . He declared that the association belittled itself by undertaking to lend its power to the upholding of such charges . To institute an investigation which would surely fail would , he said , only bring the association into ridicule , if not contempt . Wheeler H. Peckham and Mr. Olney also spoke . Mr. Peckham said it was plain that Justice Fitzgerald had appointed Carroll in payment of a political debt . He said Justice Fitzgerald had been the first and only man to illustrate the danger of- political influence upon our judiciary , which the Mazet committee had disclosed . It was political . there was not - he least doubt of it : it was a menace to the integrity of the bench , and an investigation was imperative . After Mr. Olney had spoken the vote was taken .                     