@@676464

txt For the first time since the shut-down in the building trades , Frank Buchanan , President of the International Association of IBridge and Structural Iron Workers , yesterday took part in the dispute . President Buchanan , it is well known , does not-agree with Samuel J .. Parks on some points , but the Housesmiths and Bridgemen'se Union is a local of the international union , and . he decided to-learn for himself the actual situation here . After several conferences . at the Ashland House with members of the local union , President Buchanan came to . the conclusion that he did not like the arbitration agreement . The work of the housesmiths is the most important in the construction of a building , and how far President Buchanan 's antagonism to the plan will affect the general situation remains to be seen . Yesterday he sent a letter to the Building Trades Employers ' Association , in which he said ; " From such accounts as appear from time to time it would appear that the attitude of the bridge and structural ironworkers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very large extent dictated by a single individual and kept strong by the devotion of the members of the organization to that individual . That this view of the situation should be accepted by the public , I think , would be exceedingly unfortunate and it certainly would be incorrect " In the fatter part of April agreements were reached , through the activities to a very large extent of the officers of the international organization , between the employers and the bridge and structural iron men , applicable to the cities of New York , Philadelphia , Boston , Chicago , Pittsburg . Buffalo , and other large cities . These agreements were substantially copies of each other . The agreement executed as applicable to the New York jurisdiction was reached by a committee composed of the President of the Iron League , J. M. Cornell ; S. P. McConnell of the George A. Fuller Company , and President J. A. Hatfield of the American Bridge Company . The agreement was one that covered the working rules regulating the employment of bridgemen and structural ironworkers , determined the rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endure for twenty . months , and was executed in the latter part of April of this year . " Very frequently it has been given out that there was a very considerable difference between Mr. Samuel Parks , one of the business agents of the Housesmiths ' Union , and the President of the international organization . To some extent this was true . There have been differences be- , tween the President and different representatives , and among others Mr. Samuel Parks . One of the principal causes of differences between Mr. Parks and the President of the international organization was the agreement which has beeneealluded to so far in this letter . Mr. Parks was opposed to this agreement . His reasons for opposition , however , were not known to the President of the international organization . In less than sixty days from the time that this agreement was executed the ' Building Trades Employers ' Association promulgated a new form of agreement as beta een the different union organizations of New York City and the Building Trades Employers ' Association , and insisted upon the acceptance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence of a new agreement was directed as much to the ' bridgemen and structural iron workers as to any other of the unions . It has necessarily occurred to the members of the In-. ternational Association of Bridge and Structural Iron Workers that if an agreement made in the latter part of April could be so ruthlessly overridden within so short a time after its execution , a new agreement with employers would be of little value . They felt that they needed demonstration on the pat t of the employers that the agreement which had been , made hi April would be observed and that if xnodification of that agreement was desired that it should have been sought and demanded . They believe , as I believe , they had a right to assume that the signatories to an agreement upon the one side could not in good faith insist upon a substitution of an agreement in its place , by force of arms , by the power of a lock-out , or by ay other means of ecercion ; that it was a case for pure and simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be secured by negotiation , then that the agreement should stand . " The object sought by the President of the international organization in directing this letter to your body is if possible to appeal to the good : faith of the members of your organization to the end that they may yet recognize that they are not making a demonstration which will do much to clear the atmosphere or secure good feelings as between employer and employe by the continued insistence that a new agreement should be signed in the place of the one that was regarded as good and satisfactory as late as the latter part of April of . the present year . " I think it only fair to our organization to say that since the signing of the agreement , as the President of the organization , I have on several occasions . where controversy had arisen as between local unions and employers , been appealed to by the employers , and have insisted in each Instance upon the performance of the terms of the agreement by the members of the union . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement have taken advantage of and reaped benefits from it by demanding and receiving an immediate response on the part of the National officers , that the members of the union should comply with all its terms . " In other words . ever since the agreement was signed in April . the officers of ? the organization have insisted upon its observance , and they have , of course , . as much right to insist upon its observance by the employers who entered into it . We were as much interested in bringing about the relation between the employer and the employe which would avoid the disastrous effect of strikes and lock-outs , as the employers themselves , and that was to a very large extent , the great inducement to the April agreement . " Chairman Otto M. Eidlitz of the Board of Directors of the Employers ' Association said last night that the letter had been received . He refused to discuss it . but said that a statement regarding it will probably be given out to-day . President Buchanan said that in spite of the assertions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration agreement conflicted with the agreements already in force . At least it conflicted with the agreement of the Housesmiths aed Bridgemen 's Union with the employers . " The arbitration agreement , ' he said . " provides that there will be no sympathetic strikes whatever . Our agreement provides only against sympathetic strikes in trade disputes ; that is , where one union is fighting another , That is quite different . This is only one out of many points of difference . " A conference took place yesterday at 1.123 Broadway between the arbitration boards of the unions which have signed the arbitration agreement ' of the Employers ' Association and the general arbitration board of the latter .                     