@@675766

txt " GERMANIZATION " OF BRAZIL . The Brazilian press is not disturbed by the anxiety of some of our colleagues upon Brazil 's behalf lest it Should be subtnerged and its institutions overturned by immigration from Europe . Viewed from this distaste it has seemed to some that there was significance- in the fact that the Germans there flocked together , and retained their own language and customs . But The RIO News explains this most naturally : Brazil is larger than the United States , ( exclusive of Alaska , ) and le so thinly peopled and so little known topographically that its land laws and surveys are defectiv'e . Hence Germans are not able to buy small tracts to advantage from numerous scattered land offices -- there being nbneabilt are almost compelled to repurchase portions of large grants , which are surveyed and opened to settlement by companies . This explains to Brazilians a gregariousneds which has been attributed here to political aims . The Germans in Brazil " are good and loyal citizens , and con- eider themselves Brazilians , just as the descendants of German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Germans do irt differ In these respects from the Italians , the next most numerous class of immigrants , who rank second also in Brazilian es-1 teem , The Germans now number 400,000 , and their descendants have risen to prominence in the public service there just as they have here . If these facts can be accepted there is nothing in them to alarm even the most vigilant American . There Is here no influential support for making " America for Americans " mean " America for North Americans . " There is neither ' tvish nor reason for limiting our Southern sister republic in its aspirations , and development along lines Used by ourselves . The Germans In Germany and the Brazilians in Brazil have each and alike our heartiest good-will . ' The Brazilians 4tho got rid of , an Emperor of their own are not very likely to import another without-historic traditions or to accept a non-resident suzerain . Either is as unlikely as a reversion to slavery , an institution which also fostered alien colonies by making it impossible for immigrants to buy large estates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were opposed to an increase of free settlers . The more Brazil knows about us and the more we know about Brazil the less likely Is the growth Of antagonism through misunr derstandings , either natural or fostered by agitators . Our benevolence is neither meddling nor malevolent . Brazil 's progress along any lines not prejudicial to the United States neither should nor will displease Americans .                     