@@781379

txt At a conference of Senators and Deputies , held here late tonight , it was unanimously resolved that the Constitution voted by the great National Assembly in 3SSS should be put into force and that Prince Peter Karageorgevitch should be unanimously elected King at tomorrow 's joint meeting of the Skupshtina. and Senate . After the election a deputation of the Assembly will be sent to wait upcn Prince Peter and communicate to him the decision of the National Assembly . The Servian Constitution of 1SSS was a more liberal one than any granted previously and provided that all tax-paying citizens should become electors by whose votes the Skupshtina was elected . It continued in force until May , 1:4 ) 4 , when the late King Alexander by a coup d'etat abolished it and restored the illiberal Constitution of ' 1 . S69 . Complete order has prevailed in Belgrade - up to 11 o'clock to-night , and absolute quiet is reported throughout Servia . The capital wears a much more peaceSul aspect even than yesterday . The military have been - withdrawn from the public offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal palace . Occasional patrols are seen in the streets , which throughout the day have borne . an animated appearance , being crowded with officers , laces , and large numbers of students who have arrived from abroad , it is believed , with the object of demonstrating in favor of Prince Peter Karageorgevitch as King . Some republican tendencies are noticeable among the students who have studied in France and Switzerland . These latter , however , are quite overshadowed by the opinion of the majority , and there seems to be no doubt that the National Assembly will pronounce to-morrow in favor of a monarchy and elect Prince Karageorgevitch . The newspapers continue to : 30111t out the impossibility of the establishment of a republic , and advocate the election c Prince Karageorgevitch in order to assure a brighter epoch in Servian politics . It is expected that the National Assembly will hold two sittings to-morrow  --  one in the morning to constitute itself , and the second in the afternoon tcrelect a King . It is " known that the Minister of Justice is in favor df @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold a republican demonstration-to-morrow . The Monarchists , however , are in a large majority , and nothing is likely to come of the republican aspirations . It is said that at Saturday 's Cabinet council one of the . linisters proposed the candidature of Prince Peter 's son George . now being educated at St. Petersburg . In well-informed circles it is believed that such statements are set afloat with the object of showing that Prince Peter 's electi.:n will be the outcome of a veritable struggle among the opposing political parties and currents . DRAFT OF CONSTITUTION . The radical leaders have prepared a platform for a new Constitution upon the lines of that of 1SSS . The chief points are : The King shall not be the commander of the army . The civil and military authorities must swear allegiance to the Constitution and not to the King . Universal suffrage and the abolition of the Senate . The Constitution of 1S.SS is of a very liberal character , and its adoption was al , - proved at e conference held this morning of Ministers and those Deputies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of the oldest and most prominent members of the Radical Party and an ex-Minister of State . has been appointed President of the Senate in succession to M. Marinkovitch , who has resigned . M. Velimiravitch will take the chair at the joint meeting of the Senate and the Skupshtina to-morrow on the occasion of the election of the new King . After the election of the King to-morrow tha Skupshtina will draw up a programme of procedure for the new sovereign and then will adjourn until the arrival of the King at 13elgr : cle . The sovereign then will form a new Ministry and dissolve the Skupshtina . The Provisional Government yesterday pardoned all persons imprisoned for political and press offenses and ordered their immediate release . No arrests have occurred , nor have any sentences been passed since the tragic events of last Thursday . The Court of Cassation and the Appeal Court suspended their sittings from that time . The Provisional Government has received reports from all parts of the country stating that order prevails . Congratulatory addresses have been received by the Ministry from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warmest terms thanks for its patriotic actlo ' at such a critical moment and hoping that it will carry matters to a successful ending The Foreign Ministry also has received satisfactory dispatches from Lond  --  n . Paris , Berlin . and Rome . all saying that the Governments there have not the slightest intention of intervening in Servio 's internal affairs and expressing the hone that peace and order in the political situation - will soon be restored . An official statement of Russia 's position has not yet been received . but , according to assurances from a reliable source . Russia has no desit intervene and will not object to the elf-cton of Prince Karageorgevitch . The Official Gazette issued to-day is eonfli-1 almost exclusively to the publication of the messages of congratulation received by the Provisional Government . MURDERED PREMIER HAD RESIGNED It is now known that the murdered Premier , Markovics , resigned his portfolio only a few hours before his assassination . His action was the result of a difference of opinion with King Alexander concerning the meeting of the new Skupshtina. rhe K-ng. fearing disturbances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Opposition parties and the editors of the Opposition parties should be arrested before the opening session of Parliament , and later tried on the charge of lose-majeste or disturbing public order . M. Markovics did not oppose the arrest of these men , but objected to the after procedure , and therefore resigned . On returning home he told his wife that he brought good news ; that he had resigned his post . Many people visited the cemeteries and the royal vault this afternoon , and at the graves persons were heard saying that what had happened was good and necessary for the nation . Twenty graves were dug by the troops immediately after the assassinations , but only the bodies of two officers and that of Gen. Petrovics were buried therein . At his widow 's request the body of Gen. Petrovics was removed afterward by night to his family vault . The bodies of Gen. Markovics and his son-inlaw , Capt . Milkovics , were also buried in their own graves . The widow of the latter gave birth to a son almost at the moment that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queen Draga , in an audience with the Foreign Minister a few weeks ago , said she lived in deadly fear , not knowing what the day or night might bring forth . She knew , she added , that she was hated by the people , and that King Alexander was also detested by his subjects , and she was convinced that the country would prove too strong for both of them . Various reports are in circulation regarding the value of the late Queen 's estate , which was said to amount to 82,200,000 , chiefly invested in her sister 's name in Switzerland and Belgium . A commission is now engaged in making an inventory of the property of the royal couple , and it is thought probable that the total private estate of both will be found not to exceed half the sum mentioned . The autopsy on the King 's body showed that he had a skull of the extraordinary thickness of 11 millimeters , whereas the skulls of the strongest men usually measure only 6 millimeters . The brain was found to be in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fat , indicating that the King was an excessive eater and drinker . Prince Karageorgevitch. although little is known of him among the people generally here , not even his photographs being exhibited in the shop windows , seems to have caught the public fancy , and his election evidently will be a popular one . Ex-Queen Natalie has telegraphed to her one-time lady in waiting to make inquiries whether she will be permitted to come to Servia and visit her son 's grave . Lieut . Col. Milislav Zivanovics of the General Staff committed suicide by shooting himself Friday . It is understood that the officer took his life because among the dead King 's papers was found a letter from Zivanovics informing him of the plot against his life . The newspapers , however . attempt to make out the suicide to be the result of money troubles .                     