@@675624

txt RIcard O'Sullivan Burke was discharged from the office of Superintendent of Sewers yesterday by Commissioner . Charges of neglect of duty were flied with the Civil Service commission and Colonel Burke was ' given an opportunity to resign . This he refused to do and he was removed . William E. Quinn . Assistant Superintendent , being appointed in his place , with temporary authority . Burke has the privilege of demanding a trial upon the charges and says he will fight for the retention of his position . The neglect charged was in connection with the Fullerton avenue pumping station , but added t8 this there were circumstances which developed in the meeting of the Finance committee to consider the annual budget , and which , it is claimed , made it impossible for Commissioner to retain the Superintendent . Meets Finance Committee . Colonel Burke , who is one of the five survivors of the Manchester rescue and the head of the Irish Nationalists of Chicago , was censured in the verdict of the Civil Service commission in the trial of the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michael J. Doherty was discharged . He intimated to the Finance committee that he intended to continue the practices for which his department had been condemned , and after a sharp dispute between Alderman Fowler and Colonel Burke Commissioner refused to indorse the action of his subordinate . Colonel Burke asked in his . estimates for $75,000 to continue the city 's policy of taking catch basin work out of sewer contracts and doing the work by day labor . This practice was pronounced dangerous by the Civil Service commission . It was alleged to be a scheme to enable the administration to pad pay rolls and to keep political followers in the city employment . When the item came up for consideration by the committee Alderman Fowler objected . Colonel Burke was asked if he wanted the money . He said that he did . " Commissioner , do you stand for this ? " asked Alderman Fowler . " No , I do n't , " . said the commissioner . " We do n't want the money . " Carelessness at Pumping Station . The charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the superintendent permitted a careless piece of work at the Fullerton avenue pumping station , which nearly wrecked that portion of the sewer system . A nine-foot log stuck in the propeller at the Fullerton avenue station on Dec. 20 and broke the blades , passing on into the sewer . No report of the matter was made to Commissioner , and the fact that the plant had been shut down month was unknown to tihn 41,14ampleint was made on Jan. 15 by officials of the NprthWestern " L , " who use the water from the flushing sewer for condensing purposes . Austin Gibbons , the engineer formerly in charge of the Fullerton avenue station has been transferred and P. E. placed there in his stead .                     