@@677224

txt WASHINGTON , March 9 . ? Assistant Secretary of State Bacon , in cieaning up his desk yesterday , found several ink-spattered , soiled , , and rumpled pieces of paper there . With one index finger he touched a bell button for his messenger . With the other and the thumb that toils with it he lifted one of the dirty bits of paper . " Eddy , " he said , holding up the blotted paper as the messenger advanced to his desk , " what is this ? " " That , Sir , " replied the faithful messenger , " Is your pay : heck . " " And what is this ? " said Mr. Bacon , lifting up another dirty piece of paper gingerly . " That also , " said Eddy , " is a pay check . " " And all these are also ? " " Yes , Sir , they are all pay checks . " " Well , take the filthy things away and cash them , then , " said the Assistant Secretary in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Algeciras that had just been brought in fresh from the deciphering clerk . Two of them were pretty girls , visiting Washington . They listened with hushed attention to the words of wisdom that fell from the lips of the third . He was their Washington cousin and knew all about the Capitol and was graciously explaining its sights to them . " And this , " said he , stopping before a door in the Capitol , " is the Supreme Court of the United States . That , you know , is the highest judicial court in the land . There are other courts in different parts of the country that are just as high , but this is the highest judicial court . " Then they entered and heard an argument delivered before nine Judicial Judges . Down in South Carolina they are unusually solicitous for the personal comfort of Uncle Joe Cannon . Several articles of personal use and adornment have recently come to the Speaker from that State , and yet South Carolina is not satisfied . That the outfit of clothing which began 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be complete , Editor Hemphill of The Charleston News and Courier , has decided to send Uncle Joe a pair of real old-fashioned fancy calfskin boots . And to make the present the more thoroughly representative he has asked for contributions of one cent . He has limited the subscription list to Republicans , and his notification to Uncle Joe of what he is doing says that by that means the boots will be a gift from the entire Republican Party of the State . In fact , Mr. Hemphill is a little doubtful of there being enough Republicans In South ' Carolina at one cent apiece to make up 1,700 necessary to raise the price of the boots , but he says that if that lamentable suspicion of his proves to be well founded he will cheerfully make up the deficit .                     