@@676498

txt President Roosevelt , who returned this morning on the yacht Sylph from his trip to New Jersey , was the guest of honor to-night at the annual dinner of the Seawanhaka-Corinthian Yacht Club , at its . home on Centre Island , in Oyster Bay . This was the dinner that gave rise to the recent Lipton incident , which was ended by Mr. Roosevelt expressing the hope that Sir Thomas would be present . While many men prominently identified with yachting in the East were present , the fufiction was not so elaborate as the Dinner Committee originally had planned , the President having given the club to understand that he could not attend it if it was to be made a great banquet ? .. , with many invited guests outside of the club membership . The President about S o'clock this evening , escorted by Lieut . Charles F. Preston , commander of the Sylph , and Midshipman Hamner entered a launch at the J. West Roosevelt pier and proceeded to the yacht clubhouse , across the bay . He was met at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trustees , and other officials of the club , and escorted to the clubhouse . His entrance was greeted with applause and cheers . The scene presented on the bay and in the grounds surrounding the clubhouse when the President landed was a beautiful one . Yachts of every description dotted the waters , nearly every one being outlined in colored electric lights . The grounds and the clubhouse were decorated with flags and Japanese lanterns . Immediately after the arrival of the President the guests , who numbered about 100 , sat down to dinner . It was purely an informal affair , the various courses being interspersed with songs by glee clubs . in which nearly all the guests joined . Vice Commodore William J. Matheson of the Seawanhaka Yacht Club was the master of ceremonies , and introduced President Roosevelt , who spoke in part as follows : " During the past Summer all have been deeply interested in the international yacht races . It was eighteen years ago when the first of the single stickers came to begin that great duel which has been a feature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise to boast when we put our armor off , rather when we put it on ; but it is a-curious fact that not only has our boat won each series , but every race of all the series . We owe a debt of gratitude to the designers , the Captains . and the seamen who contributed to the winning of the races by the American boats . Now , I am going to ask you to drink to the health of all our gallant opponents of the last eighteen years . and especially to the health of Sir Thomas Lipton. whom we had hoped to have with us to-night . " At this mention of Sir Thomas Lipton 's name the guests rose and cheered enthusiastically , and the toast was drunk with equal spirit . Commodore Bourne spoke briefly . He said it was unfortunate that when Sir Thomas Lipton was about to leave this country with only pleasant memories , even at his defeat , he should be confined to a sick bed in Chicago . " I know that Sir Thomas appreciates the kindliness of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that clover or Shamrock of his , and if he wants to come over and try it again . I assure him no one would be more welcome . " Commodore Bourne expressed the opinion that the limit of perfection in 90-footers had been reached . Such boats , he said , are merely racing machines . and really afford the yachtsmen themselves little epportunity to demonstrate their abilities . He expressed the hope that in some future international race another type of yacht might be entered . Just before the close of the dinner the following message was sent to Sir Thomas Lipton : Clubhouse Seawanhaka-Corinthian Yacht Club , Oyster Bay . N. Y. Sir Thomas Lipton . Chicago : At the annual dinner to-night of the Seawanhaka-Corinthian Yacht Club there Were unanimous expressions of disappointment over your illness and regret at your absence . President Roosevelt proposed your health and expressed best wishes for your speedy recovery . FRANCIS G. STEWART . Secretary . The following telegram was received this afternoon by Secretary Stewart from the private secretary of Sir Thomas Lipton : Regret on account of Sir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put your kind telegram before him . Will do so at earliest opportunity . Am certain had It been possible he would have been delighted to be present at the Seawanhaka Yacht Club dinner . His condition is certainly improved this morning . but he probably will be confined to his hotel for several days . It was almost 11 o'clock when President Roosevelt was escorted by members of the club to his launch and started on his journey across the hay amid the cheers of the yachtAclub members .                     