@@675923

txt ANGLO-GERMANY VS . AMERICA . Mr. T. P. O'CoNNoR has just reminded us anew , in a very interesting article on Lord SALISBURY , that he was once , as Lord RoBERT CECIL , the leading political writer of The Saturday Review . That was the time when WALTER BAGEHOT took occasion to say that he was the only one of the great hereditary nobles of Great Britain who had proved his capacity to earn his own living . It was a different world and a very different Saturday Review . We risk nothing in predicting that the present successor of Lord SALISBURY as leading political writer of The Saturday will not succeed him as Prime Minister of Great Britain . He exhibits , in truth , a strange ineptitude . It was only last week that we were commenting upon the ground taken by The Review that the time was ripe for England to come out as a protectionist nation . Of course , there have from time to time come forth from the British squirearchy moans for the good old times before the repeal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just now and so well recognized that , as an Englishman has put it , " We must make and sell or starve , " that the appeal comes as a voice from the Devonian stratum Equally unseasonable and anachnenistical is his present suggestion that Great Britain shall join Germany , or rather support Germany , in the colonization and exploitation of South America , the Monroe doctrine to the contrary notwithstanding . This , he observes , would be ? ? the most useful counterpoise to the o. erwhelming predominance of the United States . " It is a little difficult to make out what the successor of Lord SALISBURY means . The only danger which Great Britain incurs from the United States is the danger of being undersold in neutral markets , and , in some specialties , in her own market . How could that danger possibly be averted by the establishment of German colonies in South America ? The Saturday seems to have in mind a sort of reversed parody of CANNING . It would " call an Old World into existence to redress the balance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alliance , consisting of Germany and Great Britain , would in any case be highly comic . But it owes a great part of its comicality to its exquisite untimeliness . Is it to be supposed that those verbal bouquets which Mr. CHAMBERLAIN has been throwing to the German Army were intended to prepare the German official mind for the project of an alliance ? And on the same day on which it is proposed that Great Britain shall join Germany in frightening the United States into abandoning the Monroe doctrine appears the versified proposal of Mr. KIPLING that the conscription shall he enforced , by way of waging the little war which Great Britain already has on her hands , a proposal which has been made in prose by persons of more weight than Mr. KIP-LING as practical politicians . But the crowning absurdity of The Review 's suggestion is that it should be put forward just when the only anomaly that we have permitted to stand against the Monroe doctrine , the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty , has been removed with the full and friendly consent of Great Britain , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other party to the proposed anti-American alliance , first , by the spontaneous avowal , on the part of Germany , that she did not seek for so much as a naval station , let alone a colony , in Central or South America , and , secondly , in her courteous submission to us of her plan for coercing her debtors in Venezuela into paying what they owed . The unlikelihood of an Angio-German agreement to defy the Monroe doctrine was never quite so glaring as at this moment , which The Saturday finds opportune for springing the suggestion of it . Decidedly the successor of Lord SALISBURY in political editorship is not likely to succeed him at the head of a British Ministry .                     