@@781147

txt Copies of charges of alleged neglect of duty for failure to suppress alleged gambling at Saratoga Springs , with a request for his removal from office were served upon Sheriff John Bradley , Jr. , of Saratoga County to-night by Ben Smith , confidential stenographer to Gov . Hughes . The charges were filed with Gov . Hughes by Dr. Walter Laidlaw , as Chairman of the Anti-Racetrack Gambling Campaign Committee , with offices at 119 East Nineteenth Street , New York . Sheriff Bradley is summoned to appear In his own defense in the executive chamber at Albany on .64dg. 17 , at 3 P. M. The Governor has directed Sheriff Bradley to file his answer tat the charges by that time . The charges consist of eight specifications , and are dated New York City , Aug. 8 . The Anti-Race Track Gambling Campaign Committee , which was deeply interested in the passage of the so-called Agnew-Hart Anti-Race Track Gambling bills , alleges among other things that although Sheriff Bradley 's attention was specifically called to violations of the anti-race track gambling laws , gambling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were permitted to carry on their business . The charges follow : The Charges . On behalf of the citizens the Anti-Race Track Gambling Campaign Committee , hereby present to you charges of willful neglect of duty against Sheriff Bradley , Jr. , of Sail . toga County . I charge against Sheriff Bradley : First  --  That he has permitted Chapter 9 of the Penal Code , and particularly Section 851 of the Penal " ode , to be violated on the race track maintained by the Saratoga Association for Improving the Breed of Horses , although his attentiln has been specifically drawn thereto , and although requests have been made that lie be diligent in the enforcement thereat . Second  --  That lie has permitted his deputies to allow and connive at violations of the said laws . Third  --  That he has permitted bookmakers to carry on their business at Saratoga during the racing season . Fourth  --  That he has permitted bookmakers to employ agents for the solicitation of business , and permitted them openly to carry on solicitation . Fifth  --  That he has allowed bookmakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run . Sixth  --  That he has allowed bookmakers to receive money wagered on races about to be run . Seventh  --  That he has allowed bookmaking to go on in the hotels of Saratoga as well Mt en the race track . Eighth  --  That his failure to make a single arrest during the nine days of racing already held , while the grandstand and field have been filled with bookmakers prosecuting their business , has been subversive of the purpose of the Penal Code . I therefore ark for the removal from office of the Hon. John Bradley , Jr. , Sheriff of Saratoga County . Says He Enforced the Law . Sheriff Bradley , at midnight , was found at his home in Stillwater , near Ballston . He denied that there had been any violation of the law to his knowledge , and declared that he had enforced the law to the best of his ability , as advised by his counsel , ex-Senator Brackett . The Sheriff said he had not communicated with his counsel after being cited to appear be-fore the Governor , but would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared that he had performed his duty , and said he was prepared to resist any effort to remove him from his of . fice . Ex-Senator Brackett could not be found at his home here to-night . A few days ago , however , in answer to reports that action would be taken against Sheriff Bradley , he declared that the Sheriff , acting under his advice as counsel , was complying with every requirement of the Jaw , and doing his full duty under the rulings of the court on the anti-betting law , and that he was Prepared to defend Sheriff Bradley 's course to the court of last resort . The officials of the Saratoga race track could give no opinion on the possible effect of the Governor 's action , except to say their meeting would be over at the time that the Sheriff is to appear before Gov . Hughes . A mass meeting of the Personal Liberty League-has been called here for Wednesday night , and the promoters of the movement have obtained Convention Hall , - the place of the State political conventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet been announced , but orators from all parts of the State have accepted invitations to address the meeting .                     