@@781418

txt Quite as remarkable as the whole course of the Government in regard to Gen. Sir Redvers Buller , from his recall from the field to his retirement , and as Buller 's own hotheaded Westminster speech , is the considerable outburst of emotional feeling of people who think he has been illtreated . It seems certain also that an element in the Opposition is trying deliberately to take up the case of Sir Redvers for the purpose of harassing the Government very much as the so-called Nationalists of France , who do not care a rap for the laboring man and aim only to restore aristocratic rule , have been posing as the friends of the discontented miners for the sake of troubling the Waldeck-Rousseau Ministry . The Buller excitement , however , can not last long , and the cries of - injustice in his behalf , which are as ridiculous as his own tale of secret enemies , to say the least , lend a pleasing variety to an Uncommonly dull period of politics . So far as the public is concerned its out-burst is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of words . The return from abroad of the Marquis of Salisbury seemed at first rather more important than it turned out to be , but it indicated that the vacation was ending and that the directors of the affairs of the nation would soon get . to ' Work . ? se TRISH REPRESENTATION . Mr. Chamberlain in his Edinburgh Speech surprised many of his hearers by announcing that the question of Irish representation would not-be taken up in the next session , but the impossibility of doing anything to that end at present has already been pointed out in these dispatches . About the war and the conduct of the Vs. ' . we have lately heard little . There Nazi been no news from South Africa to speak of all the week . Whenever that happens , good humor increases . Indeed , it might be a good policy if that sensational newspaper which lately shamed Its rivals and secured an enormous advertisement by ceasing to print the reports of a dirty Police Court case on the ground that it would be detrimental to Its readers ' morals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would cause its readers unhappiness . But it must not be inferred that an Englishmen are dissatisfied with the conduct of the war . The report of the South African Cold Storage Company , lately hidden in small type in the columns of the newspapers , show that it has been paying dividends of 55 per cent . on ordinary shares . Holders of these shares ate probably not anxious for the war to cease . 8s8 stratively welcomed and there will be a deeper feeling in the welcome than is usual in such matters . The people are only too glad to have the heir to the throne back again , and an elaborate programme with military ceremony has been arranged for his arrival here and his escort from the Victoria Station to St. James 's , and , if . Ahe day is clear the pageant will doubtless be impressive and stirring . , E. A. DITHMAR . ANXIETY ABOUT REDMOND . John Redmond , M.P. , had a warm enough send-off by the English press syndicate , but there is considerable interest if not anxiety here as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His denial that he is going begging is received with sneers , of course , and it must be admitted that his explanation indicates a difference without a distinction . Some conSolation is derived by Englishmen from a study of the recent immigration statistics of New York , which show a great I falling off in Irish emigrants . Still , Mr. Redmond thus far has had the best of the argument with his splendid prophecy of 20,000,000 of united Irish standing a.aainst friendless and forsaken England . Besides the celebration of the annierersary of the charge of the light brigade , the week has witnessed the unveiling , with more than usually appropriate ceremonies , of statues to Cromwell and Gladstone . John Morley 's speech at the Gladstone ceremony in Manchester was , of course , wholly eulogistic and there are- many signs of dissent from his estimate of the transcendent powers and ever-wise statesmanship of the great Man whose sincere follower he was . The Idea that Gladstone 's influence is still a living force here is frequently bitterly combatted . Nevertheless , Mr. Morley 's wonderfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One point he made in reference to Gladstone 's mistaken attitude toward our civil war is characteristic of the present state of feeling in England . toward America . Mr. Morley declared that Gladstone misread the signs then , in common with most British statesmen , and these misled British influences , Lut pot , he added , in Lancashire . Whereupon the men of Manchester set up a mighty sheer .                     