@@677160

txt Frustrated by the adverse decision of the Court of Appeals in their efforts to bring about a recount of the vote , attorneys representing William R. Hearst announced last night that they will apply for a legislative investigation of the last election . Clarence J. Shearn , attorney in chief for Mr. Hearst , made it known last night that this , which will be the most aggressive move so far planned by counsel representing the candidates on the Municipal Ownership ticket , has been under consideration for the last ten days . For the same period , it was learned , agents representing Mr. Hearst and the Municipal Ownership League , have been touring the State to ascertain the sentiment of the public and of legislators in particular . The Hearst people profess to believe that a resolution for such an investigation would pass the Legislature , and say either ex-Gov . Frank S. Black or William M. Ivins , the defeated candidate for Mayor on the Republican ticket , will be asked to act as inquisitor in chief . ExGov . Black - is an expert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave to New York the Australian ballot , lately has been actively engaged in efforts for ballot reform . To Get at Ballot Boxes . To bring about ballot law reform will be the avowed purpose of the resolution calling for an investigation , which will be introduced the first week of- the coming session by one of the Hearst-Odell members . Incidentally the attorneys for Mr. Hearst expect that the scope of the inquiry will be ample enough to give them access to the ballot boxes , where they expect to find the material they now lack for beginning quo warranto proceedings to contest the legality of Mayor McClellan 's election . Mr. Shearn outlined last night the plans for the prospective investigation . One phase of the inquiry necessarily will be a searching investigation of the frauds alleged to have been perpetrated at the last election . The great number of affidavits collected by ex-Supt . McCullagh and his detectives in the last five weeks will be brought into play . In addition it is planned to have election officers from all the districts where frauds are alleged summoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorneys expect to get on record the-riumber-o-f-*Toid ballots in each district . Under the circumstances , it is contended , they will be saved the necessity of beginning their quo warranto proceedings on information and belief and then proving their allegations by protracted court proceedings . With their material already In shape in the form of sworn testimony , they expect to be able to go into court and end in a month or two litigation that ordinarly would drag on for years . Another object of the inquiry would have to do with the tracing of campaign contributions in the last election from the original contributor , through Tammany Leader Charles F. Murphy , to the leaders of assembly districts , arid from them to the captains of election districts , who made the final disposition of the funds . To Punish for Frauds . " The most important thing we have in mind , " said Mr. Shearn last night , " is to punish the men who committed frauds and to bring about the enactment of a new election law , which is so greatly needed . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the investigation , for the framing of a law along the lines suggested by Judges Bartlett and Vann in their dissenting opinion on the I ballot box case . In this bill will be incorporated a provision , also , calling for a recount of the entire vote in this city by the Inspectors . " The power of the Legislature to pass such a bill is unquestionable . It is not in any sense retroactive . The ballots are there , preserved by act of Legislature . The Inspectors are still in office , and will be until after the next primaries . Of course the recount will have . no direct ef , feet on Mr. Hearst 's chances of being seated as Mayor . This would have to be , brought about by independent court action if the facts brought to light through the recount would warrant it . Barring appeals we could have it all over with I before Summer . " Altogether independent of the decision by the Court of Appeals , Mr. Hearst 's at , torneys expect to bring about the opening of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the so-called Maxim decision for the purpose of throwing out void and protested ballots . The Maxim case never went to the Court of Appeals . While one of the Hearst attorneys said ' last night that they had no intention of Iplacing any technical obstacles In the way of Mayor McClellan receiving his of the e atai or fd , stay ereesrlirfaiic.naitneg from making the rethrns necessary for the issuing of the certificate was obtained yesterday by the law firm of Lord , Day &; Lord in connection with an order calling upon the Board of Can ' vassers to show cause why certain election Inspectors should not be compelled to come before tbem. and correct ( Its , crepancies between the tally sheets from their districts and the official returns . This order was made returnable on Monday . Other stays are pending in connection with the examination of void and protested ballots before Justice Giegerich and in connection with a similar action in Brooklyn .                     