@@675464

txt Summer heat swept in upon the city yesterday and , finding the inhabitants almost wholly unprepared , wrought discomfort such as is expected only during July and August . It was the hottest May 14 in the history of the Weather Bureau , whose records extend back twenty-eight years . The mercury climbed up to 88 degrees , and the entire city was within a few hours perspiring and suffering . Then the mercury in the unofficial but truthful thermometers ran up into the nineties , and even the new-born leaves on the trees hung limp and listless . Although the sudden weather changes experienced of late have been pretty ' hard to follow , Sunday 's temperature had given a hint that overcoats might safely be disposed of for the season . The thermometer on that day went as high as 85 degrees , but it being a holiday , the majority of the inhabitants , having plenty of time to devote to keeping cool , did not realize the approach of the blighting heat of yesterday . The day began fairly enough , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little , second-class sort of breeze , which came from nobody could tell where . A few of the commuters , who are prepared for anything in the weather line , displayed the courage of their convictions I and came into the city wearing rather stiff and yellowish specimens of last year 's straw hats . By the time the sun had reached the 9 o'clock mark the mercury had climbed up to 76 degrees , and an hour later 81 degrees was the figure . Coats were soon discarded by thousands and vests were folded and uigeonnoied in , office desks . The air in the streets began to glimmer and dance , while the mercury steadily went upward . It stood at 83 degrees at 11 o'clock , and the soda water places all over the city began to have trouble accommodating the crowds . The hokeypokey and lemonade men began to swarm or . the streets and were met with a gratifying influx of trade . By noon the sun beat pitilessly down upon brick and stone , creating a temperature of 86 degrees . The little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time the great throngs in the tenements. sweatshops , and factories of the east side began to suffer , and pouring out of the houses , began to swarm toward the parks , squares , and piers in search of relief . By 2 o'clock the Weather Bureau thermometer registered 87 degrees . At 3 o'clock the top of the silver column stood at 88 degrees , and this was the record for the day . The next hottest May 14 , in the past twenty-eight years at least , was that of 1890 , when the temperature was 80 degrees . These prostrations were reported during the day : PAPP , JAMES , while at work on a canalboat at Pier 14 North River , was overcome and taken to the Hudson Street Hospital . WALSH , JOHN . thirty-one years old , of 673 Bedford Avenue . Brooklyn . was overcome at Bleecker and Mercer Streets . He was removed to St. Vincent 's Hospital in a dangerous condition . GERRY , ELLEN . forty-two years old , of 13 Washington Street , was picked up on Greenwich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ADOLPH. was found at Eighth Avenue and One Hundred and Forty-ninth Street . He was removed to a hospital . LESTER , J. WALLACE , a coffee dealer , was overcome in front of 578 Madison Avenue and taken to a hospital . HANEFtSCHOENF , R. JOHN , sixty-seven years old of 23 Second Street , Manhattan , while walking along Broadway , near Driggs Avenue , Brooklyn , was overcome and removed to the Eastern District Hospital . The mercury remained at the 88-degree mark until after 4 o'clock , when , with the approach of evening it lowered . It stood at 82 at 8 o'clock last night .                     