@@677571

txt Mr. CLEVELAND Is Industrious , but the sundry Legislatures are more so . No one man could be expected to produde briefs against unwise laws as fast as twdscore Legislatures can enact them . The latest example is Mr. CLEVELAND 'S argument against insurance salary legislation , which appears concurrently with the passage by the Texas Senate of a bill to compel the investment in Texas of 40 per cent . of . the " eserve from Texas business . The general character of Texas legislation being similar to this insurance law , the pretense I that the best investments are to be found in Texas is not reasonable . But what of that ? The insurance companies might do better for the policy holders elsewhere , but this law Is not for their benefit . The idea is to do something for Texas ilorroATrs by supplying them capital at the insurance companies ' risk . It is characteristic of this law , as of much contemporaneous legislation , that it seeks to decree benefits to those not entitled to them at the expense of third parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this sort of legislation are the only cure for it , when the teachings of experience are rejected . In his brief upon the salary limit law , Mr. CLEVELAND confined himself chiefly to the financial aspect of the subject . He easily succeeded in showing that the amount of the largest salaries paid bear an infinitesimal relation to the volume of business . His calculations are in hundredths and even thousandths of 1 per cent , although the current allowance to trustees of estates for fees , for less onerous duties , is over 1 per cent . It can hardly be doubted that Presidents could be found who would accept the administration of millions of assets for much less money . In fact , there are those who would be willing to pay for the privilege of handling so much money , from which the indirect profits would easily exceed any salary whatever . It is also obvious that in this legislation , as in the : - ailway rate legislation , a statutory maximum tends to become a practical minimum , and the tendency of the law meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . These are minor objections . No extravagance in ' , salaries seems to us so serious as the fact that thirty-seven States have united in legislation described by so judicious and conservative a commentator as Mr. CLEVELAND in these words : Legislation of this character is so new and startling as to indicate a disposition to depart from all conservative and steady sentiment touching State supervision and regulation of life Insurance companies , The justification of this language Iles in the fact that , although no State can even pretend to have a right to regulate the affairs of corporations of another State , yet if the pending statutes become laws insurance companies preferring not to comply with them will lose their right to do business in five-sixths of the Nation . How unimportant the question is appears from the fact that in one State there are pending seventy insurance bills . Forty-one companies have reported to the Insurance Department of this State increases of taxes absorbing more than one-quarter of their dividends , the taxes totaling $9,000,000 and the dividends $35 , - 000,000 . In the background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legisla- tion are quack remedies , and not addressed to the real trouble , which is that the policy holders have never come to realize that the assets belong to them , and that their officers are responsible to them , and that they are primarily responsible for their officers ' delinquencies so far as they do not check them . How little laws alone can do is illustrated by the elections now proceeding in this State . The indifference of the policy holders is shocking . A livelier sense of individual responsibility and less legislation whose effect is to lull into a false feeling of security those who should look out for their own interests is what the case calls for .                     