@@677468

txt No trains went out of Hoboken over the Lackawanna , Railroad between 9:30 o'clock last night and early morning , and great was the woe of some thousand commuters , who beseiged every telephone within a quarter of a mile of the station , notifying their families that they were unable to get home . At midnight the railroad station was ? still blocked , and the officials were kept busy notifying theatregoers that it would be impossible for the Lackawanna to take them home for awhile . Later the trains got going . Immediately following the Morristown local , which left the Hoboken terminal at 9:30 P. M. , a freight train entered the tunnel . It had gone onipta. short distance when with a crash and tearing sound the roof of a box car was torn off . The train reached the signal tower on the Meadolvs and sent word of the accident . At once all trains were ordered held up while an investigation was made . The officials feared that the roof of the tunnel must have settled . In no other ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine was sent Into the tunnel with a force of men to examine the roof of the tunnel . They declared they saw what Ithey believed to be loose rocks projecting , but found It impossible to tell whether they were caused by the giving way of the tunnel top . This did not decide anything , so the officials decided to make a practical test by sending another box car slowly through the tunnel . It started and disappeared into the opening . Just what happened to it was not commuicated to the would-be passengers . Meantime the trains waiting in the sta- ! tion began to fill with commuters . The 10 o'clock train for Montclair started out , followed half an hour later by the well-filled Orange local . The trains got to within a few hundred feet of the tunnel opening , and there they remained . The passengers fretted , but it did no good , and there was a feeling of relief when ' both trains backed into the station . Long before they came to a stop , the passengers began to drop off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bent - on telephoning , - and as there is only pne telephone at the temporary Station , ' there followed a scramble for places An line.v. - Many passengers , despairing of get  --  ting to the telephone in time , spread out , - ctreit ' ' Photii in the neighborhood was in use . . The situation was not improved by the arrival of the theater crowd , which had not been informed of the accident while on this side of the river . The one trolley line to Jersey City was soon overcrowded . Many persons who objected to hanging on an already overcrowded platform crossed to this side and took other ferry lines back to Jersey City . Early this morning the train dispatcher at the Hoboken terminal said that the train senvice had been resumed . It had been discovered that part of the shields in the roof of the tunnel had worked loose and some rock had fallen . It was considered safe , however , to use it again . ROOSEVELT STILL FOR THRU . Announcement Made of His Accept . ance Despite Congress . Announcement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Simplified Spelling Board , whose list of simplified spellings he adopted last Summer . Three weeks itgo the President wrote the board that he was willing to become a member , but at his request the announcement of the . fact was deferred until yesterday . In his , letter Mr. Roosevelt made no comment on the merits of simplified spelling . In making the announcement yesterday the board called attention to the fact that the President continues- to use the simplified spelling forms as an expression of - his advocacy of the principles of the reform , and that in bowing to the wishes of Congress he did not change his attitude . It was also announced that President David Starr Jordan of Leland Stanford University , who was said to have resigned , definitely retains his membership in the board , arid that William Archer , the English critic , has become a member .                     