@@677133

txt It is the opinion of thoughtful English observers that the strength of royalty in Great Britain has for the past three-quarters of a century been large ; ly due to the character of . the sovereign and of the royal family . Queen VICTORIA came to the throne in 1837 , at the age of eighteen , when the whole of Europe was feeling intensely the wave of revolt against extreme monarchical rule which had caused the overthrow of the Bourbon dynasty in Prance , had cost Spain her American colonies , had kindled the spirit of insurrection in Canada , and which , a dozen years later culminated in the wide disturbances of 1848 , set up the short-lived second republic in France , and shook the founI dations of every throne on the Continent . The United Kingdom , thanks in great part to the saving influence of the reform law and to the prosperity that attended the repeal of the corn laws , met the gathering storm with much less difficulty than other nations , but not without a long and painful struggle between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely the high sense of duty to herr people and the broad intelligence of the Queen that secured a peaceful outcome . In the vexed field of foreign relations the influence of the Queen was still more effectively exerted and was even more beneficent , as the history shows which can only be written after the chief actors have passed away . And it is the judgment of the best-advised observers that her son , the present King , is pursuing with equal intelligence and fidelity a like career . Among the methods in which the Queen manifested her gift for the royal occupation was the contracting of suitable marriages for her family , and in these she was enabled to foster the influence of Great Britain abroad , and fortunately to strengthen the hold of the Crown on the respect and-affection of her people at home . Our own Nation is at this moment a witness to her success in this respect in the conduct of Admiral , Prince Louis of Battenberg , the husband of one of her granddaughters , filling with dignity and efficiency a high office in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a naval Ambassador , and he has won the universal admiration of our People in both branches of his dual mission . Our- sailors , of every degree of rank  --  keen ; and exacting expert judges of their own prcifesson , which abounds in technical and in traditional requirements  --  find him in every respect all right . As a diplomatist , that is , as a representative of his Government called on to express its sentiments within the very delicate and not very broad limits permitted , he has shown apparently faultless discretion an tact . And beyond all this in his quite indefinite and yet obviously important character as a representative of royalty in a democratic country he has been wonderfully successful . It is not easy clearly to analyze the feelings of our people toward royalty . Most of them whose ancestral immigration dates back two generations or more probably look on royalty as a iphase in evolution that has served a good function and still serves one in the proportion that royal power is restricted . A good many , themselves immigrants or the sons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule , and nurse some resentment against its r7- resen tat/ ves . With exceptions too slight to take notice of the latter sentiment has been disarmed by the conduct of the Prince , as , a few years since , it was disarmed by the conduct of another Prince connected with a royal house - much more nearly absolute than that of Great Britain . Such a result , in one case as in the other , is of distinct value in promoting friendly feeling between ' nations . The Admiral 's social rank , whatever we may think in our republican simplicity of its intrinsic worth , undoubtedly makes his visit to us a more markul courtesy on . the part of the Government of Great Britain . His own manly qualitieS are winning a kind and degree of friendly regard that tends to dissipate prejudice and to build up mutual kindliness .                     