@@678105

txt There is a situation In the Taft camp that is giving lively concern to the real friends of the Secretary of War . Two factions have developed , one led by Frank Hitchcock , who was the engineer of the steam roller that flattened out the opposition to the Secretary 's nomination , and the other by Arthur I. Vorys , the original manager of the Taft campaign . Tho tension between these factions is such that it is doubtful if either Hitchcock or Vorys will be named as the Chairman of the National Committee . This matter will be taken up immediately by the President and Mr. Taft and decided within the next week . It is predicted that Postmaster General Meyer will be selected , and if he should fall to obtain the place it may go to some other outside man . It is certain that Vorys would not work under Ititchcock , and the latter probably would not feel like accepting a subordinate job under the man from whom he lifted the laurels . The Treasurer of the campaign in all probability will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations between Hitchcock and Vorys are pleasant . Those who know the Inside , however , say there is absolutely no sympathy between them . In the first place , Vorys is the kind of a man who believes in harmonizing . Hitchcock allied himself with factions in various doubtful States . Vorys started the campaign , and it is asserted made the nomination of the Secretary possible by the way he manoeuvred in Ohio , the Central , Western , and Far Western States . but on behalf of Hitchcock it is asserted that he cinched the nomination for Mr. Taft by his manipulation of affairs In the South . Had Mr. Vorys continued in complete control , it is asserted , not half the contests which were decided by the National Committee would have been presented , and much of the bitterness which developed would have been avoided . Since Mr. Vorys arrived in Chicago and established the Taft headquarters in the Auditorium Annex Mr. Hitchcock has not put his foot inside the rooms . He has had his own headquarters in anotherpart of the hotel , and /to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is also asserted that Mr. Hitchcock has adopted the habit of issuing statements of what he proposed to do without first getting the approval of the Ohioan , and the latter has never objected because he did not want to handicap the Secretary in the race . Several members of the National Committee , which will be reorganized immediately after adjournment of the convention to-morrow , have informed the Secretary , it is stated , that they do not believe it would be in the interest of good polities to make Hitchcock Chairman of the Committee to manage the campaign . Mr. Hitchcock has friends , however , upon the committee , and they want him . It is their view that he deserves reward for the splendid way in which he obtained the support of practically all the Deathern States for Mr. Taft . Senator W. Murray Crane of Massachusetts would make an ideal campaign manager , but he has indicated his unwillingness to serve as Chairman of the committee . With Mr. Crane at the head of the committee there would be no question as to the attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations between Taft and Crane always have been of the most friendly character , so that if the Bay State man should be selected ft Blared it would be an - excellent caut. of a very troublesome question . With Creme out of the running , the general opinion here seems to be that Postmaster General Meyer will be named as Chairman . Mr. Meyer Is believed in by the President , He enjoys intimate relations with Mr. Taft . He is a business man , and as such has the confidence of the business community . There was a proposal to-night to summon Secretary Taft to Chicago to Weer with the  --  committee on the Chairmanship , but after some discussion it Wati abandoned .                     