@@678500

txt A large touring automobile in which were seated two men , while speeding north at a great rate along Audubon Avenue about 9 o'clock last night , knocked down and seriously injured Mrs. H. T. Lockwood , wife of Henry T. Lockwood , a metal merchant of 100 William Street , almost opposite her home , 165 Audubon Avenue , without slackening speed , and followed by  --  a howling crowd the automobile went on , and , at 181st Street and Audubon Avenue , after again narrowly missing knocking down a woman bumped Into the side of the curb with such force as almost to upset the machine . The impact was severe enough to break off the rear right wheel . The car bumped along on three wheels until finally it broke down at 184th Street and Audubon Avenue . Hearing the cries of the mob at their back , the two men jumped out add disappeared in the brushwood of Speedway Park . At Midnight they had not been captured , but a large force of police were busy scouring the neighborhood . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine belonged to Elias Gusaroff , a builder , of 600 West 140th Street . One of the occupants was said to be Edward Thomson of 15 Audubon Avenue , Mr. Ginaroff 's chauffeur . It was also ascertained that the car had been taken out without Mr. Gusaroff 's authority from the Hudson Automobile Garage , 518 West 145th Street , where is was stored . Mrs. Lockwood had been taking a walk with her husband . Reaching their home they started across Audubon Avenue . A shout caused Mr. Lockwood to look around , and he say the automobile coming toward him at a great rate . He grabbed his wife to pull her aside , but as he did so the machine swerved in the same direction . Mrs. Lockwood received a glancing blow , was'knocked to the ground , and left unconscious . Her husband picked her up and carried her home . . ur . Lynn L. Fulkerson , who lives at the same address , was called in . He found that Mrs. Lockwood was suffering from a fractured right arm , a broices-tiose " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the driver put on more speed . The avenue was crowded , and the accident was . seen by many . Their shouts were taken up by those further on , and Soon " -a hundred men were racing after the car . Just then the wind blew off the hat of one of the occupants . It was a Derby , with the initials " C. C. " inside . As the car neared 181st Street , which is a popular crossing , the crowd scattered . A man and a woman were In danger of being hit , and the machine took a sudden swerve toward the curb , which it hit with terrific force . It seemed as if it would turn over , but somehow it righted itself . However , the blow had snapped off the rear right-hand wheel at the axle , the wheel bounding on to the curb and landing Inside Bryant 's saloon at the corner , through the open door , scattering the men drinking at the bar . After the car had righted itself , the driver steered out into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machine was a wheel short , continued at a good clip . But at 184th Street , which is opposite Speedway Park , the broken axle caught in the road and brought the machine to a standstill . The two men , seeing the crowd nearing them . leaped from the car and rushed across the road into the park , where they were lost In the darkness among the brushwood and trees . Au examination of the wrecked car was the first act of the police on reaching it . In it they found a chauffeur 's cap , which inside bore a chauffeur 's license , the number of which was 1,803L . Investiga tion showed that this was issued to W. J. McCormick of 1,825 Amsterdam Avenue , a chauffeur employed ' at the Hudson Automobile Garage of 518 West 145th Street . McCormick was traced down , but he proved an alibi . However , he did say that the cap was his , and that he bad left it at the garage . The police then learned that Mr. Gusaroff 's machine had been taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his chauffeur , Edward Thomson . They also round that Thomson was alone in ' the car when he took it out . A visit to Mr. Gusaroff 's home showed that Thomson had no authority to ? take the machine out . He had done so without the permission of his employer , according to Philip Gusaroff , son of the owner of the machine . At midnight the police of the West 152 ( 11 Street Station were out In force , searching high and low for Thomson and his corn , panion , the , owner of the hat ' with the I initials " C. C. " Early this morning their efforts had not been successful .                     