@@678337

txt Jesup Tells Baptist Clergy Sudden Fortunes Are Dishonestly Obtained . " What we need to-day is more of the golden rule and less of the golden calf , " said Charles W. Jesup , a retired business man , to the Baptist clergymen at their meeting yesterday . Mr. Jesup , who is a nephew of the late Morris K. Jespp , spoke to the ministers on " The Responsibilities Of Citizenship . " Mr. Jesup said further : " The large fortunes suddenly made today can never be honestly obtained . " Mr. Jesup told of his Wall Street experiences and said that he retired from business several years ago and had undertaken to do what he could in furthering good citizenship . He said that among the many problems of to-day for the clergymen and all good citizens to grapple with was that of immigration . He said that watching the arrival of immigrants at Ellis Island and the faces of the men and women who were coming here to become new citizens was not inspiring . Their faces did not show intelligence . he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cattle . " The country , he said , needs faithful men in high places . We need less Pessimism and more optimism , he said , and a kind of honesty in which a man can not be dishonest for any motive . " I do n't want a man to be honest because its the best policy , " said Mr. Jesup . " I hate that phrase that honesty is the lbest policy . I want to see business men honest for honesty 's sake . To-day large fortunes made suddenly can never be hen , estly obtained . There should be more of the golden rule and less of the golden calf . " NO AID FROM POLITICIANS . Minister Tells Presbyterian Pastors They Only Act Because of Opinion . The Rev. John of Newark told the Presbyterian Ministers ' Association of Greater New ' York and vicinity yesterday at the meeting at 156 Fifth I Avenue that no aid could be expected from politicians In the formation of good public opinion . " The quality of public opinion , " he said , " depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look to the politicians . The politician is not a motive power ; he is the belting and connects the motive power with the machinery . He gets things done when the People have deterrhined what they want done . The , politician will never determine what is the best legal method of dealing with any of the great moral questions of our day  --  questions concerning the liquor traffic , child labor laws , and the Sunday question . " When the people have determined what they want the politicians under the lash of public opinion may be trusted to I carry that determination into effect . " The association indorsed the proposed meetings in shops on week days . HUGHES TO TALK ON HEALTH At Meeting of Tuberculosis Clinics Association Next Friday Night . The Association of Tuberculosis Clinics , 105 East Twenty-second Street , executive head of the various sectional clinics in I this city , will meet in the large ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria next Friday evening at 9 o'clock , President John H. Finley of the City College will preside , and addresses will be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of the Charity Organization Society . Gov . Hughes , who has refused eighty invitations to speak in the past two weeks , takes an unusual interest in the success of this meeting , as he thinks that the poor of the city feel the need of fighting tuberculosis more than those who have means . His subject will be " The Next Step in the Fight against Tuberculosis in New York City . " Tickets will be free to all who call at or telephone to Miss Gordon , secretary for Mrs. J. Borden Harriman , SO Madison Avenue .                     