@@675399

txt After an exciting and grotesque struggle stretching over miles of elevated railway track , the police to-day took entire possession of the whole line of ' the new Northwestern Elevated Railway in this city . The police acted under orders of the Commissioner of Public Works , Lawrence E. . On the outcome of the remarkable contest between the city authorities and the railway company is involved the possible forfeiture of the company 's franchise as well as the sum of *100,000 posted by the railway company to guarantee the completion of the road by Jan. 1 . To-night , besides stopping the work in progress at various points of the structure , the police have erected a barrier of ties and rails at the juncture ' of the Northwestern Elevated tracks with those of the Union Loop at Fifth Avenue and Lake Street , and the regular crew of the company 's one train is under arrest . The arrests are the result of the refusal of the railway officials to comply with an order from the Commissioner of Public Works to cease train running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsafe in its present alleged incomplete state , and that it did not come within the requirements of the ordinance that it be completed for operation by Jan. 1 . The arrest of the train crew which took place at the suburban terminal at Wilson Avenue , did not , however , for a considerable time , prevent the running of the socalled " ghost train , " and temporarily resulted in extraordinary discomfiture of the police . As the crew was being led to the patrol wagon , in waiting at . Wilson Street station , another crew nd some of the officials of the road hurriedly boarded the train , and before the police realized the situation , the train was speeding on its way to the centre of the city , a distance of five and a half miles . The fact was immediately telephoned to the heart of the city , and when the train pulled over the Wells Street bridge across the Chicago River on to the Union Loop tracks at Lake Street , in the business district of the city , fully twenty-five officers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motorman , in spite of frantic waving of clubs and commands to stop , only turned the lever further and the officers made a wild scramble for safety ds the train swung across the switch to the loop tracks . Then the bridge across the river was swung open by the police , and a cordon of officers was stretched across the return track on . Fifth Avenue . But here again the train did not stop . A switch had been turned by some emissary of the railroad , and the train instead of plunging into the river swung around to the tracks of the Lake Street Elevated Railway Company and sped westward over that structure . The baffled police now gave tip the chase of the train , and turned their attention to erecting a barrier across the Northwestern tracks where they enter the loop . A guard was stationed to prevent the removal of the barrier , thus effectually blocking train operations so far as Northwestern connection with the loop was concerned . At a number . of other points ' workmen engaged in riveting uncompleted portions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and guards were stationed to see that the order was enforced . The Railroad Committee of the Common Council will meet to-morrow to hear the reports of Corporation Counsel Walker and City Engineer Ericson on the construction of the road and the ordinance . Both reports are expected to be unfavorable to- the road . The ordinance required the structure to be completed and trains for the accommodation of passengers running by Jan. 1 , under a penalty of $100,000 . Part of the franchise of the Northwestern Elevated includes the tracks on Fifth Avenue used as one side of the down-town loop by the Union Loop Company , which recently repudiated its compensation agreement with the city , and it is expected that Corporation Counsel Walker will advise the Council it has authority to vacate the Northwestern Elevated franchise . including the Fifth Avenue tracks , thus also tying up the Union Loop Company .                     