@@678729

txt Not only did the Finance Committee of the Senate fail to make a report to-day on the appointment of James Freeman Curtis as an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , but it laid aside for future consideration the question of reporting on the nomination of Royal E. Cabell of Virginia as Commissioner of Internal Revenue . Both officials are in possession of their offices and are exercising their duties , but the fight that has arisen places their confirmation in the doubtful list for the present . In the case of Mr. Curtin the batteries of the Finance Committee are directed against Secretary of the Treasury MaeVeagh , who chose his personal friend for a high ancrimportant place without consulting the Senators from Massachusetts , and followed this action by criticising Congress for snaking the present tariff law . It so happens that the men who are directly responsible for that law or its most important provisions are members of the Finance Committee of tke Senate . ItlaeVeagh Must Surrender . When Mr. Curtis 's nomination was reached the committee decided to postpone action , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held in January , as there will not be a full committee at the capital after Tuesday next , when several Senators will start for Panama . Whether the nomination will ever see daylight is a mooted question . A great deal will depend upon the attitude of Secretary in tile meantime . If he promises to be good , according to the standard of the tariff lawmakers , then they may relent and permit Mr. Curtis to become an Assistant Secretary . But 1 if Mr , goes over the country making low tariff speeches he will be made to feel the weight of the Senatorial heel , and the war will be on in full vigor . It will not end with this appointment . Most important at this juncture is the attitude of President Taft . He is expected to come to the aid of his Cabinet officer and Insist that ; Mr. Curtis be confirmed . Here then v , il he the test between Senator Aldrich nd his committee on the one hand and the President , who has rounded out nearly one year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not at all backward in private conversation in declaring that Secretary MatVee.gh should resign , and in the event of his failure to do so they point to the fate of Mr. Crane , former Minister to China , who talked too much . When Secretary 's 's attention was called to the attitude of the Finance Committee on the appointment of Curtis he said : " Some one else than the Senators from Massachusetts must have objected to it , for both Messrs . Lodge and Crane felicitated me upon the wisdom of my selection . " He refused to comment upon the criticism of his speech here Wednesday night on the tariff . Iliteheoek 's Man Ignored . But the surprise of the day and a fight of an entirely different sort is that which has opened against Royal E. Cabell of Virginia . the new Internal Revenue Commissioner , who has been in office since last October . Ho was chosen to succeed Capt . Capers , and was inducted into office with considerable pomp and was pointed to as the man who was to turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 years old and is a bright man , of intellect far beyond his years . He is a natural politician and as Postmaster of Richmond rendered value , ble aid to Postmaster General Hitchcock in a political way . The latter recommended Mr. Cabell to tho President , and ho was appointed . The allegations against Cabell are general and not specific . It is declared that he has shown a lack of qualifications necessary to the conduct of the office . Further , it is alleged , that he has'indiscreetly and forcibly expressed himself against Congressmen who attempt to exert their influence for appointments in the bureau , and has expressed himself as independent of Congress . As there are no Republican tienators from Virginia to be offended by discourtesy the failure to act on Cabers appointment is a direct thrust at the President and Postmaster General Hitchcock . Fighting the latter with Mr. Taft at his back will be quite a different proposition from the hostilities against Mr. Curtis , The Postmaster General is somewhat of a fighter and is resourceful . He will demand to know why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn that the Senators intend that only discreet persons shall fill important positions . This contest will engross attention between now and Jan. 10 next , about which time the Finance Committee will hold its next meeting . Seldom has It been that a Senate committee of the same political party has held up the nominations of the favorites i of two Cabinet officers at one sitting .                     