@@678706

txt Action looking toward the elimination of the most popular branch of sport in the schools was taken yesterday by the Board of Superintendents of New York public schools at a meeting held at the Board of Education building , Fifty-ninth Street and Park Avenue . The action is more sweeping than any that has yet been taken against the game , as it included in its effect the abolition or the game at a large number of institutions . This important resolution was made by Dr. William H. Maxwell , Sillierintentent of Schools , who is Chairman of the board : Gustave Straubenmuilcr , Edward B. Shallow , Thomas S. O'Brien , Andrew W. Edson , Clarence E. Meleney , John II . Walsh , and John H. Haaren , all of whom are assistants to Dr. Maxwell . Just when the ban will go into effect and whether it will eliminate the remainder of the games which the High School teams have scheduled - is not known , as the final seal will have to be given to the resolution of the Board of Superintendents by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are about fifty , twenty-four in Manhattan , fourteen in Brooklyn , four in the Bronx , four in Queens , and two in Richmond . It is considered certain , however , that the Board of Education will ratify the action that has been taken by the Board of Superintendents or the latter body without such assurance would not ? have taken sun drastic measures . While football has been Abolished at a number of institutions , .. at some . during the past few weeks , th- ; , - ' 5. " ' esent-action by the largesteducatic ; . ( i ' .. : tin4 coon- : try will be the heaviest hoTiy --  filthy ' that the gridiron game has received since the sport began to come under disapproval due to the deaths and accidents of the last few years . It is not considered improbable that some of the other public school systems , fcllowing the example of New York City , will also abolish the sport in their respective communities . It is known that the football situation . has received the attention of the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that once before the game was close to the point of being abolished , but that the revision of the rules and the prospect that the new system would eliminate the danger gave the sport a new lease of life . In view of the action of yesterday the only interpretation is that the Board of Superintendents considers the new rules of little benefit , as shown by the casualties of the present season , both on scholastic and college elevens . The record shows that lack of .. physical condition has not always been at the root of the injuries , but that some of the bestconditioned players in the country , such as those at Annapolis and West Point , have been victims of the game , just as well as the high school students . While it is certain that the Board of Education has been on the verge of abolishing the gridiron sport , there is no doubt that the recent accidents have hurried its action , and it is possible that the final games of the high school schedules this season may not be played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stuyvesant , Townsend Harris Hall , Morris , High School of Commerce , Erasmus , Manual , Boys ' High , Curtis , and Commercial . The action , however , will undoubtedly have the effect of the elimination of all school football from the city , as the few private institutions having scholastic teams will be unable to get up a schedule of any pretensions without the co-operation of the high schools of the city . Considering this , it is believed to be a possibility that the private schools will follow the lead set by the Board of Superintendents and also abolish the game . The Public Schools Athletic League . which is the ruling body in scholastic sport in this city , and which includes a membership of more than 150,000 , has always more or less frowned on football since its organization a number of years ago . While there was never any open opposition to the schools having their football contests , the Puolic Schools Athletic League would have nothing to do with the matter , and thus placed football in the position of being the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not come under its supervision . This in itself showed that the ' game was not viewed with favor , and in addition , as its reason for not taking the sport under its wing , the leaders in the Public Schools Athletic League movement said they did , not consider the sport a zit one for the schoolboy to indulge in . Viewed from the point of injuries the scholastic games in this city have not by any means been free from such features . While there have never been any fatalities , a number of instances are on record in which some of the players were incapacitated for a considerable length of time , and broken bones have been of frequent occurrence . In fact , the scholastic players of this city , barring the deaths , have had their full quota , of injuries as compared with the results in the rest of the country . This season ha 's ? seen a number of minor injuries , and in some instances serious results were feared for - a time . Only last Saturday one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the brain in a mass play . The edict against the game will not affect the elementary schoolboys , as they have never , as bona-fide teams , participated in the so-called American game , confining their attention to ' soccer . As the high schools also play ' the soccer game , it is probable that this style of play will supplant the abolished game among the high schools , and ' give it great deleted 1 line                     