@@675467

txt Gov . Smith , who holds that the appointment of W. A. Clark to be Senator by Lieut . Gov . Spriggs is null and void because of fraud , this afternoon appointed Martin Maginnis to be United E tates Senator to succeed Mr. Clark , resigned . Mr. Maginnis was the Delegate from the Territory of Montana in the Forty-third to the Forty-eighth Congress inclusive . He was born in Wayne County , N. Y. , Oct. 27 , 1840 , and was a citizen of Minnesota at the 6utbreak of the civil war , in which he served from 1861 until he was mustered out in 1865 , attaining the rank of Major . He settled in Montana in 1866 and was engaged in mining and publishing and editing The Helena Daily Gazette until his election to Congress . Mr. Maginnis is not allied with either the Daly or the Clark faction , and has always been a strong party man . Major Maginnis went to Washington in 1890 in company with Clark when both were applicants for seats in the Senate . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elections , resulting by a party votein seating W. F. Sander and T. E. Power . Mr. Clark was then very confident that the committee would reject the Republican applicants and seat him and Maginnis , and he suffered keen disappointment when he was refused the seat to which he supposed he had been elected . The Governor arrived from Butte last night , returning from California , and early in the day had a consultation with Attorney General Nolan . His first official step after the consultation was to send the following telegram to Senator Chandler at Washington : " I desire to present in as forcible manner as possible my protest against the course pursued by W. A. Clark in attempting to defeat the action of the Senate of the United States upon the resolution presented by the Committee on Privileges and Elections affecting his title to a seat and to protest against the methods pursued by him in securing an appointment at the hands of the Lieutenant Governor during my absence from the State under circumstances and conditions which to my mind indicate collusion and fraud . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions as he did , if the matter was before a court of justice , would have been considered a contempt of court on his part . " I therefore trust that the committee and the Senate will proceed to proper and complete consideration of the question , so that the rights not only of Mr. Clark , but of the State of Montana in the premises may be determined , and that upon the presentation of his credentials of appointment by the Lieutenant Governor , the same be transferred to the Committee on Privileges and Elections for investigation , and that 1 be permitted to make a more complete and detailed statement of facts concerning the resignation and appointment of Mr. Clark . " Further consultation with the Attorney General and other politicians resulted in the appointment of Mr. Maginnis . Gov . Smith also sent a telegram to W. A. Clark in which he said : " I have this day disregarded and revoked your appointment as United States Senator made by Acting Gov . Spriggs on the 15th inst. as being tainted with collusion and fraud and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill the vacancy caused by your resignation . " In making the charge of fraud in connection with Mr. Clark 's appointment , Gov . Smith alleges that the resignation of Senator Clark was written in April and that the date it now bears , May 11 , was the result of the erasure of the original date which , it is alleged , can be easily proved by examinatioh of the document . He also declares that the resignation was in the possession of Charles A. Clark , son of the Senator . for several weeks , and that the resignation of Clark at the time he did resign and his appointment by Lieut . Gov . Spriggs were part of a plot to insure his appointment-by the Lieutenant Governor . The Governor has also issued an open letter to the people of the State denying that he had any knowledge of the contemplated step when he left Montana for California . He says he went to California at the request of Thomas R. Hinds to look into the title of some mining property in which Miles Finlen was interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he might earn a fee that would be applied on the indebtedness . " I shall prove by my conduct in the future , " he concludes , " that I was not guilty of any Wrongdoing or any idea of wrong . " Miles Finlen is one of the Democrats in the Legislature who voted against Clark .                     