@@677996

txt A gas explosion in the basement of the Natchez Drug Company , a five-story brick building , to-day blew out a rear wall , crushing the adjoining brick temellet building . John Carkett , Ti years old , a retired undertaker , was caught by falling walls , and both legs were broken . Cleveland Laud , 25 years old , ch tef of the laboratory department , and five girls are believed to be buried in the ruins . The wreckage caught fire . FOUGHT A DUELWITH SHOVELS Irishman Finally Gives Italian a Fatal Blow In a Trench . Patrick Sullivan and Joseph Feneri engaged in a duel with shovels as weapons yesterday afternoon while at work In an excavation at Eighteenth and Bath Avenues , Bath Beach . After fighting for fifteen minutes Sullivan managed to crack FenArl 's skull . Police Captain Devanny and his wardman , Fletcher Fairchild , happened along and jumped into the trench to stop the row just as Sullivan hit the Italian . Some one shouted in Italian that the two mon in plain clothes were trying to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hand in the row , battering the Captain and his wardman . The reserves of the Bath Beach Station were summoned , and reached the scene In time to save the lives of the Captain ' and wardman . Then an ambulance was called from the Coney Island Hospital . Feneri was placed in it , but died before reaching t he hospital . Sullivan , who lives at . Bay Twentieth Street and Benson Avenue , was locked up in the Bath Beach Station on a charge of homicide . 1 HIS HONOR , LITTLE TIM , Spends a Brief Temporary Mayoralty in Planning a Model Cabinet . " Little Tim " Sullivan was Mayor of New York yesterday . He will continue to occupy that post to-morrow and the next day , owing to the absence of Mayor McClellan and President from the City . The Mayor is taking a few days ' rest , and Mr. is suffering from the grip . Mr. Sullivan spent yesterday " doping out - a now city administration . He expressed the belief that he would make Dr. Parkhurst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education . For Controller he had slated Alderman Downing of Brooklyn , though he expressed pleasure at not having the Power , even if he really was Mayor , to remove Mr. Metz . He thought he would like to make B. W. B. Brown keeper of the City Hall and Marty Reese , the present keeper , Water Commissioner . TO STOP TRAIN COLLISIONS . Device Invented by a Broker Tested on Many Roads . The burglar alarm suggested a safety device for railroads , which is the invention of Robert J. Zorge , a broker , of Chicago . The device was tested yesterday at New Durham , If . J. , on the West Shore Railroad . The test was said to have been successful . Mr. Zorge 's apparatus alarms the crew and passengers on a railway train by an automatic explosion of torpedoes whenever they enter a danger zone . The automatic torpedo machiper tested yesterday consisted of a horizontal disk about three feet in diameter put in a case beside the West Shore tracks . The disk was fitted with twenty arms each with two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranged that a short circuit of electric currents throws a torpedo under a train when it enters the block with another train . The device is being tested by the St. Paul system near Chicago , by Pennsylvania Railroad officials at Mineola , L. I. ; on the Long Islan.I Railroad , and by the Vanderbilt interests at New Durham . It is also being investigated by the InterState Commerce Commission .                     