@@676684

txt A Kansas experimenter is engaged in registering in a phonograph the accents of cats by way of finding out something about their language . The voice of the instrument addressed to the living cat is found to bring out responses showing a familiarity with the dialect , but so far precise interpretation of the colloquy and knowledge how its terms dovetail with each other elude the efforts of the experimenter and are matters of more or less plausible conjecture . But he thinks he is making progress , and will presently have a cat synabary and vocabulary which will let everybody into the secret of the language . It is quite possible that it covers a wider range of meaning and a more differenced signification than most people suppose . That is what the investigator is trying to find out , and he hopes that the phonograph will aid him in his search . Everybody is interested in cats more or less , and a wider familiarity with their mental and emotional processes would no doubt tend to increase our sympathy with them and our general admiration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was saying to herself in her soft purr on the rug by the fireside or in her mistress 's lap or what she was saying to the other cat in her midnight colloquy on the back fences would admit us into a new world of language and sensibility hitherto beyond any possibility of exploration . If the instrument with its wiry repetition of the feline dialectic assists us in this direction it may take up the case of other animals as well , and by critical comparisons throw some light on what they mean by the various familiar sounds they make and which have been generally considered to carry a ' somewhat sterile monotony of implication . Correctly interpreted , they may mean a good deal which we have not hitherto surmised . They seem to be the same , each after its kind , in all lands and ages ; the neigh of Bueephalus would be as that of GaArrr 's war charger ; Rome 's clamoring geese that saved the capital had no accent that man could distinguish from the voices of their kind everywhere and in all their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard was , as he thought , " the selfsame song that found its path through the sad heart of RUTH when , siok for home , she stood tears amid the alien corn . " But if all these sounds and others like them have been the vehicles of various weaning like the language which men and women employ when they address each other the fact would be an important one to find out , and any assistance which the phonograph may afford in this direction will widen the field of its usefulness considerably beyond the limits of expectation .                     