@@676331

txt It is not at all surprising that the German press , after a few preliminary and perfunctory compliments to the Czar on his reform decree , should proceed to pick holes in it . The Berlin Post remarks that , after critical examination , " It is soon apparent that there is reason enough and to spare for discounting exaggerated illusions very considerably . " This is an example of the tone of the press , which betrays inspiration from authoritative sources , and it is characteristic . It is in the form that would suggest itself to a man who had been bidden to hedge . It is confused , clumsy , and pointless . There is no occasion for illusions in connection with the Czar 's decree , certainly none for exaggerated illusions . The decree does not present definite plans of reform , and does not pretend so to do . It does announce several aims which the Czar seeks . One of these is toleration of religious opinions and forms of worship . Another is greater scope to the advice and suggestions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modification of the peasants ' relation to the village , or Mir . A fourth is the reform of the conditions under which forced labor is now exacted . Now it will be noticed that all but the first of these are improvements needed and desired by 1 the peasants and the rural nobility , or calculated to promote better relations 1 between these two classes . There has been a steady and increasing agitation for them in the agricultural regions . It has been opposed by the bureaucracy . The principal representative of the bureaucracy in the Ministry , M. DE PLErrvE , has used all his influence to suppress this agitation , and even when the Czar was anxious to know what were the real bases of it his Minister is believed for a long time to have deceived him . In spite of this , with the aid and support of M. un WITTE , the Czar has learned enough to persuade him to act . He has acted by the open declaration that he is on the side of his people ; that he sees the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that he is determined to bring them about . Is it nothing that the Autocrat of All the Russias will publicly make such an an-nouncement ? The decree closes with a " command " to all Ministers and chief officials to submit their views regarding the execution of the intentions avowed in the decree . The assistance is asked of " persons enjoying public confidence , " in order that the principles laid down " may be further developed and adapted to the special conditions of individual localities . " This , the German papers remark , does not " represent a development in the direction of parliamentary life . " That is precisely what it does represent . The development is slight , but it exists , and it is in that direction . The Czar appeals to his people to declare their wishes . He indicates the points as to which he is ready to prepare for action . He promises through the local and provincial assemblies to provide organs of expresssion . It would be absurd for any one to argue from this that in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution , will be set up in Russia . But there is advance , and it is toward that end . When we consider the ? enormous difficulties with which the Czar has to contend , and the progress lie has made , we are bound to recognize that of all the rulers of Europe to-day he shows the strongest and best-directed desire to promote the real interests of civilization at home and abroad .                     