@@675825

txt The girl strikers at the W. B. Conkey printing plant in Hammond , who already have achieved some distinction . gained new laurels last night by forming a bucket brigade and fighting fire at the coal storage building of the Erie railroad . The girls were drenched by the water and at times almost enveloped ty the smoke , but they fought on undaunted , and people in Hammond believe it was only by their efficient aid to the Fire department that the main building of the coal pocket was saved . Lily Agnew , Clara Portz , Frances Agnew , and Annie Lewis , all officers of the Book Bindery Girls ' union , which Is in line with the striking men at the Conkcy works , were the leaders of the brigade . Strike Forgotten at the Fire . Although the strike has been the absorbing topic In Hammond for some time , it was forgotten last night when It was learned that a fire was in progress at the coal pocket and that the Fire department was having trouble In subduing the flames . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikers included , hastened to the scene . The fire started in the engine-house of the plant and gained strength rapidly by feeding on the screenings of the coal from the screening plant close by . Hammond boasts of but one set of Are apparatus , and it availed little In checking the progress of the llamas . When the girls arrived at the pocket , which is over a mile from the center of the town , they wasted little time in getting to work . Twenty of them formed a brigade , and as soon as they had obtained the necessary buckets they lent their aid to the firemen . Union Leader Brigade Chief . Lily Agnew , who has played the leading part among the strikers , also led the brigade . Under her direction the contents of the buckets were deposited where they would be the most effective In wetting the marerial upon which the fire was feeding . The varying wind continually blew dense volumes of smoke about the young women , but they paid no attention to It . Bucket after bucket passed along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their efforts until the fire was out . The efforts to save the engine-house were vain , but the other buildings nearby were saved despite the fact that they caught on fire several times . After the Are was extinguished the citizens generally offered the young women congratulations for She plucky work , but the girls declared it was great fun and that they deserved no praise .                     