@@678314

txt Two hundred of the most prominent Congregational ministers of this city met yesterday at the Martha Washington Hotel and discussed the Emmanuel Mcvement . When the Rev. Dr. Leighton Williams of the Amity Baptist Church said ' that " Protestantism , as Protestantism , is a dying thing , " they applauded him . When the Rev. Dr. Robert of the Washington Avenue ( Brooklyn ) Baptist Church said " the new psychology ' . religious movement is leading the Christian Church to get hold of the imminent . near-by God and to discover the real soul " they applauded again . It was the regular monthly meeting of the Congregational ministers of this city and vicinity . The Rev. Sidney Herbert Cox presided . The Rev. Dr. said at the outset that his preaching- and practice of " the new psychology " doctrines was bringing back former parishioners of the Washington AvenueeChurch who had long been indifferent . " The Emmanuel Movement in the Christian Church , " he said , " Is the outgrowth of the Christian Science and New Psychology movements outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a falling off in Christian congregations . " ristian Science and the New Zee -- etiology do not contain full Christianity-and are intensely irrational , but they are answering the day 's most vital personal spiritual issue . They are filling their believers with the consciousness of the God of which the early Christian mystics were so vitally conscious . " The New Thought Movement has taken 1,500,000 persons away from the orthodox Christian Church . These people are no longer interested in Christian missions and ' Church organization . Charity means nothing to them . They have felt strongly the need of getting divine help in weak moments . They saw that they were not getting it in Christianity , so they deserted it . " If we intend to attract then : back , this work of healing sick personalities and bringing our parishioners into vita : relations with the imminent Deity muse be made a regularly recognized depart ment cf our church work . " Dr. , who practices menta healing among his own congregation then detailed a number of instances in which he had restored persons to health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he often cured people he did not believe lie could cure ; who did not believe they could be cured , merely by making them constantly repeat , with as much simulated faith as they could muster , some such motto as : " Christ has found within mo the hope of glory . " In this way , de said , the patient formed new sub-conscious habits of auto-suggestion . A clereeman asked Dr. what could be clone for a certain heartbroken mother whose boy had ruined her life by his dissipation . " I 'd like to spend two weeks with that boy , " said Dr. impetuously . " He 's dead , " answered the interrogator , and all the two hundred clergymen laughed . " During the Church 's first two centuries , its clergy all practiced healing . " said Dr. Williams or the Amity Baptist Church . " The fundamental weakness of Protestantism is that in It this healing power of the clergy seems to have entirely ebbed away . What we want in our clergy is not only power to reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to convince a man 's reason that an act is bad . It is quite another to help him build up his personality so that he will gradually not want to what is bad . This is what the Emmanuel Movement is doing by training morally ailing persons in sub-conscious habits of healthy auto-suggestion . If Protestantism is to hold its influence it must revive its original function of healing . " I William Hanna Thomson , M. D .. ex-President of the Academy of Medicine and author of " Brain and Personality , " discussed the Emmanuel Movement from the physician 's viewpoint " The physicians themselves were the first to discover that there must be a personality distinct film the brain and that the brain , - by itscllf , could not originate thought , " said Dr. Thomson . " Only ! the other night , one of the greatest surgeons in this city was chatting with me at the Century Club . We 've all got to be Idealists . Materialism has n't a leg to stand on , ' he said to me ; yet he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Dr. Worcester is behind the times a little in his medical knowledge , " continued Dr. Thomson . " He does not know that functional nervous disorders , which he proposes to treat by suggestion are now . believed by scientists to be due to bloodpoisoning . If you introduce his healing practices in your churches . you will con , stantly come in conflict with physicians . There will be ignorant neurologists and unworthy healers . I know from expert , ence how easy it is for abuses to spring up . "                     