@@678591

txt Now , I am better . My cure is finishing and I am very glad I am going to see the soil of America again . My only hope is that the voyage back will be as good as that coming over . " These words were spoken to-night by ? 3 . H. Harriman , the American financier , in reply to a question concerning his health just as he was boarding a tender which had been especially assigned to convey him and his party from Cherbourg to the anchorage in the roadstead of the steamer Kaiser Wilhelm II. , which will convey Mr , Harriman to New York . The steamer sailed late to-night . Harriman'a Special Delayed . Mr. Harriman 's special train , which left Paris at 11 o'clock this morning , did not arrive until I ' o'clock this evening , being forced to reduce its speed on account of the slowness of the regular train preceding it , the locomotive of which was out of order . A crowd of curious persons had congregated at the maritime station when the special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed beside the car as soon as the train came to a stop . Soon Mr. Harriman appeared on the step . Dr. Lyle , Mr. Harriman 's ph ) ' slcian , offered the financier his arm , but although he was pale and appeared feeble , he declined assistance , and slowly descended to the platform of the station . He also declined to use the rolling chair , and Walked without assistance aboard the tender . He was protected from the strong Wind by a big overcoat . The late arrival of the trains delayed the sailing of the Kaiser Wilhelm II . three hours . In Paris Mr. Harriman declined to see any press representative , but through his secretary , Mr. Price , he informed the newspaper men that he was going to his home at Arden to rest and complete the cure inaugurated in Europe . He said also that he had no immediate intention of resuming his business activities . Walked from Motor to Train . Instead of using the regular entrance to the St. Lazare Station Mr. Harriman fief his automobile on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Cherbourg train . He walked - from the motor car to the special . " Mr. Harriman begs to be excused because he is resting , " said his secretary in reply to requests for an interview , " and furthermore he has nothing to say for publication . He planned originally to return home on the steamer Mauretania , sailing Sept. 4 , but he suddenly changed his mind when he found that he could be accommodated at home now . His health is greatly improved as a result of this European trip , but now he is going home to Arden to rest . He will not for the moment resume his active business life . His cure In Germany has been a success , but he is going home to complete it . " Dr. Lyle , Mr. Harriman 's physician , who accompanies him , declared that if Mr. Harriman was weaker it was an effect of the rigid treatment ne had undertaken at Bad Gastein . Felt Better in Paris . " As soon as Mr. Harriman arrived in Paris he felt much better , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the results of overwork . He also had rheumatism of the back , but he has improved greatly under the massage treatment Mr. Harriman eats well of a diet that Is carefully arranged , but the baths naturally have weakened him . Now comes the after cure  --  that is , rest . " Mr. Harriman came to Paris from Munich by train and not by automobile , as was at first understood . He went at once to the home of his friend . James Stillman , who is now in America . Among his callers yesterday was George S. Gould , who has engaged passage for New York on Sept 1 . Extensive precautions have been taken to keep Mr. Harriman 's departure as secret as possible , and to make sure that he would not be disturbed . Few of the 150 passengers for the Kaiser Wilhelm IL , who had left for Cherbourg earlier in the day on the two regular steamer trains were aware that Mr. Harriman purposed traveling with them . Among the passengers are ex-Gov . Oda . Rear Admiral William H. Reeder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Lovett , Vice President of the Union Pacific Railroad Company , received a cablegram from E. H. Harriman yesterday in which Mr. Harriman stated that he was coming home by advice of his European physicians . The cablegram was dated at Paris to-day , and read in part as fellows : " I am coming home for my after-cure instead of staying here . With the treat ment at Bad Gastein I lost about ten pounds . Our home food is better than hotel food , and will help me to gain weight . I hope to recuperate more rapidly there . " The dispatches from abroad about Mr. Harriman 's condition . which reached Wall Street after the opening . were variously interpreted , but that the trading public was inclined to take them at their worst WAS indicated by the sudden check before aeon to the buoyancy which marked the sarlier trading . Business was on a large Scale during the first few minutes of tradag , with prices materially above the : losing prices of Tuesday . Union Pacific Ind New York Central were noticeably strong , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point for the preferred on the . first few transactions . Before 11 o'clock here were reactions all around and the market became slack on the declining prices until shortly betore noon , when there was a moderate reaction . The most vigorous attack on the market came directly after midday , when Union Pacific , Reading , and St. Paul were put down 1 point from Tuesday 's final prices . Before 2 o'clock Union Pacific , which was the centre of interest , had declined to 212y4 , which compared with 21614 , the high price in the openin' gtrading . After spasmodic rallies , which failed to lift the high price in the opening trading . Alter general list , Union Pacific closed at 21114 , 31/s points down .                     