@@676827

txt ' Before the registration booths had been open two hours yesterday there were revelations of the working of Governor-Chairman Odell 's much vaunted card . system which astonished Republicans as well as Democratic leaders , and which led to a perfect clamor of complaint from all over the city . Never before , since the present registration law has been in force , were there enything like the number of challenges which were made yesterday by Superintendent of Elections Morgan 's deputies , and by the-1%000 watchers which Governor-Chairman Odell and Executive Chairman Halpin had had placed at the places of registration throughout the city . The outburst of indignation from Tammany district leaders became so concerted and violent before noon that Charles F. Murphy , the leader of Tammany . Hail , issued a formal statement in which he said that " the days of Davenport were being outdone , " and that the aggressive move of Superintendent of Elections Morgan was " the personification of Odellism . " Superintendent Morgan 's force at the headquarters of the Bureau of Elections was hardly sufficient to cope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in person by those who thought they had been subjected to outrages , be-cause their right to register had been questioned . Mr. Morgan said that the law compelled him to do that work , and that he would continue to do it . Gcv . Odell said last night : We propose to have . a clean election in New York City this year . We do n't desire any advantage , and the statement that we are trying to take any Is absolutely false . We intend to have challenged every man about whose right to register there is reasonable question , whether he be a Republican br a Democrat All we want is a fair chow . " The election law has never been rigidly enforced In New York City before . It will be rigidly enforced this year . I am not responsible for the law . It was not enacted during my administrations . I ca n't help it it some people do not like the law . " Mr. Halpin said that since Sept. 1 the State and County Committees acting in conjunction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . The-total appropriation made for the conduct of the Bureau of Elections by the last Legislature/was . $125,000 , =Politicians declared that Odell and Halpin 's work would cost several times that amount , from which it was argued that the State Committee had a. campaign fund far beTend $750,000. the amount heretofore reported as available . Mr. Odell put the number of challenges prepared at 250,000 . The challenges include all males over the age of twenty-one who have died since the last election ; all persons convicted of crime who will be serving sentences of imprisonment on election day ; all persons who have changed their places of residence since the last election , and all persons who have been arrested for having fraudulent naturalization papers . Among the Republicans who were challenged was Adjt . Gen. Henry , and there were several members of the Republican County Committee whose right to register was questioned . On the Democratic side Charles F. Murphy cited as an illustration of the character of challenges which were being made by Superintendent Morgan 's Men the challenge of the Rev. I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has lived in the district from which he registered for the past fifteen years . Some of the questions asked are as to ' whether the applicant is married . whether he has been convicted of felony , and whether he has received any money for registering or voting . These questions are in affidavit form . Mr. Murphy 's statement says : " Of - all the desperate attempts made by Republicans to intimidate voters to-day 's exhibition at the registration booths was the most infamous in the city 's history . Following the reckless lead of the Republican party managersin their desire to perpetuate their present profit and plunder in the State administration , Morgan , the Superintendent of Elections . caused wholesale challenges of honest citizens in all the Democratic districts . " To make insistent our right to honesty in registration , voting , and counting , I , as the representative of the Executive Committee of Tammany Hall , have called that committee to meet 9 o'clock to-morrow morning in conjunction with the Law Committee , so that definite action may be tme.en for the protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prohibitionists , Socialists , or Populists " Never before in the history of Tammany has it been necessary to call such a meeting as has been called for to-morrow . " Such shameless politics never has been known . The same story comes from every district , and the days of Davenport are being outdone . Mr. Murphy then said that his investigators . careful citizens , had discovered that ' the challenging was being done in Democratic districts . In some strong Republican districts there was none . Referring to the Democrats ' charges that there had been discrimination in favor of the Republicans . Mr. Morgan said : " If these charges are true , as is the claim of certain Democrats , then the Republican leaders of New York have been wasting their time in calling me up on the telephone to-day . Ever since early morning these Republican leaders have kept the wires busy , complaining that I was scaring good Republicans away from the registration places by challenging Republican voters. - Gen. Henry , the Adjutant General of the State , I believe . was challenged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I had ( ; 00 deputies out to-day , all of them armed with long lists of names , which numbe7 into the thousands . These names represent several months ' investigation by ere ) et my men . The deputies have no diseretien ; they must challenge Republican and Democrat alike . " There was abundant evidence that these orders were carried out . The bureau 's list of persons who had moved out of certain districts , he said , contained 63.000 names , without counting those listed as questionable for other causes .                     