@@676583

txt In an opinion by Chief Justice . Fuller the Supreme Court of the United States to-day decided that citizens of Porto Rico are not aliens to the United States and that they are entitled to enter this conntry without obstruction . The opinion was delivered in the case of the Porto Rican woman Gonzales , who in 1902 was refused admission to the port of New York on the ground that she was likely to become a public charge . The decision was based entirely on the immigration act of 3891 and took the ground that the Porto Ricans owe allegiance to the United States and to no other Government . In his opinion the Chief Justice , referring to the act of 1900 creating a civil government for Porto Rico , said that the woman was a citizen of Porto Rico under that act , and added that " There was nothing expressed in the act , nor reasonably to be implied therefrom , to indicate the intention of Congress that citizens of Porto Rico should be considered as aliens , and the right of free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree with counsel for the Government that the test of Gonzales 's rights was citizenship . It said the question was rather that of alienage and added : " We are not required to discuss the Power of Congress in the premises , or the contention of Gonzales 's counsel that the cession of Porto Rico accomplised the naturalization of the people , or that of Commissioner Degetau that a citizen of Porto Rico is necessarily a citizen of the United States . " The question is the narrow one whether Gonzales was an alien within the meaning of that term as used in the act of 1891 . We think it clear that that act relates to foreigners as respects this country , to persons owing allegiance to a foreign Govenment , and citizens , or subjects , thereof , and that citizens of Porto Rico , whose permanent allegiance is due to the United States , are not aliens , and upon their arrival by water at the ports of our mainland are not ' alien immigrants ' within the intent and meaning of the act of 1891. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman . Commissioner Degetau said he considered the decision a stepping stone to a more Pronounced recognition of the rights of Porto Ricans in the United States . The case of Isabella Gonzales first was heard before Judge Lacombe , in the United States Circuit Court last year . The young woman arrived in New York in October , 1902 , and was detained at Bills Island as an alien , without visible means of support . She had come here in search of a man who had promised to marry her and had failed to keep his promise . She told her story to a friend , who in turn told it to Orrel A. Parker , a lawyer at 120 Broadway . In the first action Mr. Parker argued that the woman was not a foreigner , since the United States Supreme Court , in the Matter of import duties , had at that time decided that Porto Rico was a dependency of this country . Be argued that a resident of a dependency , while not necessarily a citizen , was not an alien . Judge Lacombe decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Su- pr me Court , and Coudert Brothers of this city appeared for the Gonzales woman . Mr. Parker said last night that he had learned of the decision , and that , having followed the case closely , he had expected it . " The decision , " he said , " will have a decided bearing on all of the other cases now before the courts . While not crediting the residents of Porto Itico and of the other United States dependencies with citizenship it gives them the right to come to this country when they please without having to undergo the examination given to immigrants . As far as I can see the decision applies to the Philippines as well as to Porto Rico . " The next thing for the Supreme Court to decide is whether the Porto Ricans are citizens . By the decision handed down yesterday they are not aliens . The decision does not say that they are citizens , but leaves them out of both classes . Now , if they are not in either class , the court will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in a new class by themselves . " There are no laws now governing their coming to this country , and the argument will probably be made in Washington when it comes to the point of making laws governing their immigration . " I understand that the decision of the Supreme Court was not necessary in the case of Miss Gonzales , because she has become a citizen of this country through marriage . Some time ago the young man , whom she came here to find , turned up and said that he wanted to marry her , and so her own case really was removed from the courts . The action was continued , however , to prepare for any possible cases which might arise in the future . "                     