@@676023

txt While the newspapers have been resounding with accounts of the invention of various wireless telegraph systems , all of which fall short of complete practicality in some respect , the United States Government has been quietly at work for the past two years in perfecting a system of its own which it believes has overcome all the obstacles and remedied all the defects of the other systems . The system is now essentially complete , and yesterday it was tested before experts of the Navy Department , who had no hesitation in pronouncing it superior to all other systems , and who will recommend it to the department for adoption . Earlier in the we : k Gen. Greely , Chief of the Army Signal Service , had witnessed its operation , and it is understood that he takes the same view of it . The system is to be known as the Fessenden system . It is the invention of Prof. R. A. Fessenden of the Weather Bureau , and it is Prof , Fessenden , who , under the direction of Chief Willis L. Moore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years isolated himself from the world in this remote corner of the seacoast to conduct the experiments which are now reaching a conclusion . Unless the ' Weather Bureau is greatly mistaken the possibilities of the Fessenden system are tremendous , and the naval experts who have witnessed to-day tests , and who have made a study of these questions , do not seem to think that the Weather Bureau 's claims are too high . The system has been practically completed for some little time , and messages have been flashing back and forth between Wier 's Point and Hatteras Inlet several times a day for two weeks . Gen. Greely was here on Wednesday ; he was , it is said , delighted with what he saw , and it is understood that the Fessenden system will be tried in Alaska , where the signal service is anxious to use tho best system of wireless telegraphy . The real test , however , was made yester ? day under orders from Rear Admiral Royal B. Bradford , chief of the Bureau of Naval Equipment . Two naval officers came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Beecher and J. M. Hudgins , both of whom have studied the various systems of wireless telegraphy . Dr. 0 . H. Tittmann , Superintendent of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey , and his assistant , Dallas B. Wainwright , a brother of Commander Ricnard Wainwright , came with them . Prof. ' Fessenden was found at Mantee ? from where the party proceeded to the station at Wiers Point yesterday . His assistant at Hatteras Inlet , fifty miles away , had been instructed to make a test which should comprise not only signals , but complete messages . The operator at Hatteras was to telegraph hourly . There is no receiving instrument at Hatteras Inlet , although one will be put in before the test is completed . The next test will comprise both the sending and receiving of messages at Wiers Point , although yesterday 's toot was limited to receiving . The Hatteras operator was to begin slowly , sending only from three to ten words a minute for the first ten minutes , and after that to increase his speed until he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luck would have it , something turned up which made the test more complete than Prof. Fessenden had counted upon . It happened that at the last moment , too late - to reach Prof. Fessenden by wire , Chief Moore found urgent need to reach Prof. Fessenden with a message . There is no telegraph wire on Roanoke Island ; the nearest station is at Nags Head , and that is closed . Chief Moore therefore determined to try the chance of catching the inventor with his own system , and accordingly he wired his message to Fessenden 's man at Hatteras , directing him to repeat it by wireless to Roanoke Is/and . The message was promptly forwarded and received without a mistake . It was tat words in length , the longest message yet received by the Fessenden system . NEW RECEIVING PROCESS . It should be explained that the principal feature of Prof. Fessenden 's invention , that which differentiates it from the other systems , is in the receiving process . Heretofore it has been believed that messages by wireless telegraphy , no matter what the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fessenden conceived the idea that a receiving instrument could be constructed vastly more sensitive than the coherer , and that if this could be done every obstacle in the way of making wireless telegraphy completely practical for business purposes would be removed . This instrument , the successor of the coherer , he calls the " wave detector . " The test went along hour by hour yesterday without a hitch . Late in the afternoon one of the messages failed to come through in its entirety owing to the interference of lightning between ? ' iers Point and Hatteras . The system has a lightning arrester , but the one Prof. Fessenden had had been burned out , and it was therefore impossible to avert this accident . With this exception there was no flaw in the test . While the Naval officers and the officers of the Coast and Geodetic Survey ( teeth-fed to give a full expression of their views in advance of their official reports , the following statement is of interest as showing their attitude : " We realize that the Professor 's work has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but these was enough to impress us . The possibilities are greater than those of any other system . The most extraordinary thing about it was that Professor Fessenden employed so little power to get his results . He employed only a quarter of an inch spark and got reliable messages over a distance of fifty miles . No coheres- would do that short of a two inch spark . employing much greater power . Then it is more positive than the Marconi system in taking code messages . " The following statement was made by Professor Fessenden to THE NEW YORK Tieues correspondent at the conclusion of the test ; " This work was taken up about two years ago , at the instance of Prof. Moore of the Weather Bureau , who saw the advantage which a practical system of wireless telegraphy would have for use in distributing Weather Bureau signals and in obtaining data for making forecasts . At present they can only obtain meteorological data from the land , and predictions based on these are frequently vitiated by the condition of affairs on the Atlantic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means whereby the state of the barometer , &c..; out on the ocean could be sent in , both on the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans , much more accurate forecasts could be made . " I was asked to undertake this work , and we went down to a point on the Potomac River and started work . The first point that was taken up was the nature of the phenomena involved . We found that it was not due to Hertzian waves , but due to a new form of waves that had never before been investigated , a wave that did not travel outward in a straight line through space , but followed the surface of the conductor . We followed these waves up over hills and along level places and across land , and Produced interference with them , until finally the behavior of this class of waves had been traced out with absolute certainty under every condition . We next traced the depth which these waves penes trated the surface of the earth or water , and found that the maximum penetration was about one foot for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next took up the question of meas urement of energy radiated out by different forms of apparatus and measurement ot amount of energy required to work various forms of receivers . " We next measured the losses in trans " mission and determined these , and were finally able to calculate about how much energy we would get at the receiving station with considerably more accuracy than a telegraph designer can tell how much energy he will have available at the end Of his line . On actual tests our calculations were then checked up and found tO be accurate for all distances between thirty yards and seventy-five miles . " Having found the laws and perfected the generating apparatus . we next turned our attention to the receiver . We systematically took up the various properties of matter , such a light , heat , friction , &c..; and worked out the best form of receivers which we could devise in each class . Of these we have selected three or four . and one of these is the one which was used in the tests before the signal service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by no means the most sensitive of our receivers , but it works well with about one-five hundredth of the ' ener  --  y required by the coherer , and it seemed to be the form which could be most rapidly developed . The work is by no means finished . We have also paid attention to selective methods and multiplexing methods . We have four or five methods , all of which have been successfully tested in practice , and do not anticipate any trouble in this direction . But there is a good deal more of detail work to be done before we will be through with the subject , the designing of the best form of switches . keys , automatic devices to prevent accidents to the apparatus , the best form of tuning devices . &c.,; but these are merely matters of experiment and will be finished just as soon as we can cover the grounds . WIRELESS TELEPHONY ASSURED . As regards wireless telephony , it can be stated definitely that telephoning up to at least 200 miles is absolutely certain of accomplishment . We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have finished our work on the wireless telegraph , but we can definitely state that it is certain of accomplishment . " The essential difference between my system and Marconi 's is difficult to describe , because in no point are the two systems alike . Marconi uses an air transformer at the sending end and concentric cylinders and has his capacity arranged in a certain way . I - use neither of the above , and my capacity is arranged in an entirely different way . At the receiving end Marconi uses an imperfect contact , that is a coherer . I use no imperfect contact , every contact used in my receiving appartus being of solid metal . and there is no principle similar to that of the colierer involved , the method depending upon an entirely different physical law . Naturally , therefore , all the details of the receiving apparatus are entirely different . "                     