@@676955

txt Most people who read in the Pittsburg dispatches yesterday the account of how Mr. ROOSEVELT stopped his special train at Horse-Shoe Curve , inducing the conductor to vary from the orders under which he was proceeding , to have the party photographed against the background of the impressive seen- , ery , will be apt to say that it was " just like ROOSEVELT , " if they do not choose the more popular form , that it was " just like TEDDY , " which , by the way , the President does not at all . resent as a colloquial designation . Well , It is like Mr. RoosEvEt , r , and we do not think it exactly creditable to him . There was an infraction of the rules and discipline of the road ; it carried with it an appreciable risk , not merely for himself , but for others : it interfered with elaborate and precise arrangements made by the responsible officials of the road , the object of which was to secure the comfort , convenience , and safety of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a great road . These effects were lightly incurred by Mr. ROOSOVELT to gratify a whim , quite harmless in itself , though not especially dignified , akin to the desire of the female excursionist to see her interesting form pictured conspicuously amid the splendors of Niagara or , before the facade of the palace of Dreamland at Coney Island . The incident is not without a certain disagreeable significance . It confirms an impression not without previous warrant that a good deal of Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S official life is influenced by his half-conscious reference of it to the camera , his uneasy notion of how it I will look , and his willingness that it shall attract as much attention as pos1 sible . It is terribly hard work , as most of us know to our annoyance , to " look natural " before the photographer 's imposing instrument . , . Only very young children generally succeed . The idea of the camera and the idea of pose are subtly inaeparable , and there is something in the processes of Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S official life that seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , as we have intimated , in itself harmless enough , but when it is indulged at the risks which the incident at the Horse-Shoe Curve really involved , its manifestation is , to say the least , unfortunate . Of course , it was thoughtless ; but that means that it was inconsiderate , and consideration is , in the President , rather a duty .                     