@@675692

txt Gov . Odell returned to Albany this evening . He said he had nothing to say about the charter . He does not regard it as proper for him to discuss the bill in advance of its coming to him for his action . It can be stated authoritatively that some of the provisions of the charter against which there have been many objections will be remedied by special bills . Mayor Van Wyck 's veto message may be here before the end of the week . The programme is to pass the Charter bill as it is over the veto , while special bills to correct the mistakes about which there has been criticism deemed justifiable will be introduced . The probability is that the Governor will send a message to the Legislature indicating the changes which he thinks should be made in the charter . It is certain that two special bills will go in . One will be to remedy the provision which makes it possible for the Board of Education in New York to vote ' public money for the support oP private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made against the section which gives a bounty to certain newspapers . Beyond this there is no certainty . The provision of the charter which provides for the election of ten Magistrates in Brooklyn may be amended to the extent that the number of Magistrates allowed Brooklyn will be reduced from ten to eight , but the distinction of having the Magistrates in Brooklyn elected instead of appointed by the Mayor is likely to be retained . It is argued by the Republican leaders that it is unreasonable not to give the Republican Party any representation among the Magistrates in Brooklyn . The people , they say , can be trusted to elect good men . In his message recommending the special bills Gov . Odell will praise the charter as a whole . He will point out its good features and the benefits to New York which will flow from it . The objectionable features will be excused upon the ground that , in a document of such bulk , it would be strange if some mistakes did not occur . If Mayor Van Dyck , in his veto message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tammany Hail , the Governor 's message will be a full answer to it . The ebullition in New York over the charter has not disturbed the equanimity of the Republican leaders here . They regard it as a spasm for which Tammany Hall is largely responsible . ? ? Four days after the charter has been signed . " said a prominent leader to-day , " the people of New York will forget all about it . " The story of how the private school section got in the ' charter came ' out , here ? tpslay . In the present charter there : is provision made-for State aid to a few sectarian charitable institutions . There were other institutions of like character for which the claim was made that they were as much entitled to State aid as those which had been provided - for . " The managers of these institutions came to Albany when the charter was . upder consicleration by . the Senate committee and appealed to Senator Stranahan , the Chairman of the committee . Senator Stranahan saw no more objection to these institutions being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already in . The only question to be decided was one of relative merit . That was a question which Senator Stranahan believed the New York Board of Education would be more competent to pass upon than the Senate committee , and he inserted the clause leaving it to the discretion of the Board of Education which private schools it would vote to aid . That is the true story of the origin of the section . It was never contemplated that schools other than charitable schools would receive State aid under the authority of the section , for the very good reason that to extend State aid to any other class of schools would be unconstitutional .                     