@@676039

txt MR . EVANS 'S CONFIRMATION . Senate Acts on His Nomination to be Consul General at London ? He Makes a Statement . WASHINGTON . May ** Senate today confirmed the nomination of H. Clay Evans to be Consul General at London . In view of the published statements to the contrary , it can be said on authority that can not be questioned that Commissioner Evans 's desire to sever his connection with the Pension Bureau was not prompted by any suggestion or promise on the part of the President or any one speaking for him . His resignation as Commissioner was a voluntary act and entirely independent of any outside consideration . After the announcement to-day that his nomination as Consul General to London had been confirmed Mr. Evans made a statement in which he said : " Much has been said and much has been written about my retiring from the Pension Bureau . I am exceedingly grateful for the kind treatment and support I have received at the hands of my superiors , the generous support of the press , the approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trained and competent corps of experienced employes in the bureau , while holding the most trying position in the Government . I have given over five years of the best efforts , most diligent attention , and close application to the duties pertaining thereto . I am much pleased with results and present conditions . About 1,100,000 claims have been adjudicated during this period . June 30 , 1808 , there were 635,00o claims pending ; the records show there are now about 3-U1,000 claims pending . The work then was largely in arrears . ( from two to three years , according to the class . ) It is now current . " There have been no scandals connected with the service or any branch of it . The disbursements through its various agencies have amounted to over $700,000.000 . I have been only one of the contributors to this work ; the great results are due to the loyalty , efficiency , and intelligent aid had from the officials and employes of the bureau and its agencies . " I have not felt at liberty until my appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the repeated assertions that I had been forced out of office . I desire to say once for all that such statement is wholly without foundation . " President Roosevelt knew from the first that I was anxious to surrender the office , and that I only waited for an opportune time . I resigned entirely of my own accord , following out a purpose I had had for many months ; the same purpose I had expressed to President , but I intended to remain until any or all charges were disposed of . My resignation was unconditional . and did not hang on any future appointment . "                     