@@675985

txt The freight handlers formerly employed by the New York , New Haven and Hartford and the Boston and Albany Roads . after a very animated meeting , voted not to return to work unless they were taken back in a body . The wool handlers took similar action . The Expressmen 's Union was addressed by Secretary George Innis of Detroit of the National Teamsters ' Union , and other labor leaders , who advised those of the men who had not already returned to work to do so hi the morning . The men filially revoted to go back to-morrow . The freight handlers of the Boston and Maine Railroad voted to return in rho morning , but inasmuch as the company has already a number of men at work in their places and is reported as having 200 more new men to put on , it is not just clear how many of the old employes will succeed in regaining their former positions . The members of O'Connell Assembly , No. 7,171 , Longshoremen 's l'nion. of Charlestown , expressed their determination to apply for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal vote on the matter . The different steamship lines entering Charlestown have quite a number of Italians and French-Canadians taking the places of strikers . Representatives of the transatlantic steamship lines here have agieed to a resolution that if their regular longshoremen do not return on Monday morning they wilt not be afforded nit uppurtuni ty to return on the lormer terms . To-night Noddle 's Island Assembt. of lcogsticremen formally voted to return to work . This action relieves all Knights of Labor longshoremen from the strike . The pnysicai side of the strike breaking to-day presented an army of workingmen rushing helter-skelter to get their old jobs , There had been more than 20,000 places vacated , but fully 10 per cent . of the union men found their places filled . This was the reason for friction all day , affecting only the men themselves , for concerns were too busy raising the embargo r:n goods in their keeping to give heed to talk of unfairness . Freight began to move at docks , freight sheds , from and to wholesale houses and factories , and upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made on the four days ' accumulation of goods . With the breaking of the strike employers of freight handlers , team drivers , or Winners rushed into print with calls for more help . Even concerns which heretofore have been bound to unionism seem to have grasped the opportunity of hiring whom they liked . It is on this point , of all others , that the critical phase of the situation to-night hangs . The real battle to-day was between the men who controlled the strike and the representatives of great interests who had been prevailed upon to consider certain propositions as a way to a settlement of the trouble . As for three days past , it was Gov . Crane , at his office in the State House , who stood between the parties at issue . The Governor kept receiving delegations most of the afternoon , and by great exertion got together President John M. Hall of the New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroad , President Tuttle et the Boston and Maine , and Samuel Hoar , general counsel for the Poston and Albany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Chamberlain , general manager of the Eastern Division of the New Haven Road , was also admitted into the Executive Chamber . These gentlemen were with the Governor for an hour and a half . In the meantime a number of the labor leaders who had been bottling conferences with the State Board of Arbitration , and at the labor headquarters arrived and were taken into the Council Chamber . For an hour the Governor had alternate interviews between employer and employe . During these conferences Secretary Easley of the Civic Federation came into the waiting room and saw the Governor , and he was accompanied by Frank P. Sargent of Cleveland , President of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen , and George E. of this city , Mr. Easley said that he had attended a meeting of the longshoremen during the afternoon and spoke there with Mr. Sargent and Mr. . The meeting was an excited session . but at the close the men all voted to sustain the officers and to re . turn to work . The several conferences ended early this evening , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made this public statement : The situation looks very much more encouraging than last night . The railroads have all agreed to take back as many men as possible without discrimination . As far as the steamship lines are concerned , I understand that the men have returned , or practically all of them . The railroad companies will not consent to discharge men whom they have hired in place of the strikers . but they are well disposed to the men and are very anxious to- take back as many as possible . The question of the loading and unloading teams , while it came up incidentally to-day , was not very much discussed . It will be taken up next week . " The Governor further said that both President Tuttle " and the Boston and Albany officials had used every effort to get the men back . At East Boston . where ninety of the Boston and Maine men went out , all had been taken back . At the same place , where 120 of the Boston and Albany men went out , 10g had been given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Haven Road . he said the company Would be willing to take back as many as possible , but the question df requiring the men to sign an agreement has not yet been arranged . In cases where men are taken back , seniority in service will have the preference . The Governor said that in his talk with the men to-day some of them wanted the railroads and steamship companies to take back every one who went out , but there were other of the labor leaders who said they would be satisfied if a majority of them were given their old places at once . provided the company made every effort to find places for the others .                     