@@677116

txt Miss Alice Roosevelt , tired but happy and in the best of health , arrived in New York last night from her Far Eastern tour . Miss Roosevelt was glad to get to town , and when she set foot upon the Twenty-third Street Ferry from the Erie station in Jersey City she smiled to her companions who had been her constant associates throughout her trip to the Orient and remarked : " I am glad to be back in New York and near to Washington . To-morrow night I shall be in the White House , looking back upon the most pleasant , the most interesting , and the most instructive trip I Save ever taken . " Miss Roosevelt left Washington with the Taft touring party early in September , and has been almost constantly on the go , on steamships and on railroads , ever since . When she stepped from the ferry house at Twenty-third Street last night and gave directions for the disposition of two truckloads of trunks she was the picture of health and happiness . Her step was brisk and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving orders about her luggage she laughingly bade adieu to members of her party , and with her maid entered a carriage and drove to the home of her uncle and aunt , Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Robinson , 10 East Seventy-third Street . " If they could only appreciate how active I have been and how weary I am they would understand it , " she remarked to one of the railroad men . " I would like to see all , but I simply can not . " The trip across the continent was made in seventy-three hours and a fraction . Miss Roosevelt and her party left San Francisco on a trans-continental special flier at 3:30 o'clock Monday afternoon . She arrived at Jersey City at 7:35 last night . Her train started out to break the record from San Francisco to New York , hut before it had gone far the schedule was lowered , and the remainder of the distance was covered at a rate much slower than that originally planned . Miss Roosevelt greatly enjoyed the trip across the country . Just before the train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wh-en he and his wife and children were bidding her farewell : " We have had a quick and pleasant trip . I am sorry that we could n't have broken the records . It would have been exciting . But perhaps it is as well . It has certainly been a comfortable ride . " Miss Roosevelt proved the falsity of that rumor , however , at Arden , where the Harriman , .. , left . tbe The . to their country home . The people of Arden " turned out en masse to greet Miss Rotosee ' - welt and her companions . A band wail at the station ? o receive her , - and =200 ? tehool children stood alongside the railroad tracks waving flags and cheering as the train drew in . Japanese lanterns hung in profusion about the station lawn and promieent among them was sign bearing the words : " Japan Was Never Like This . " As the train approached the station the band struck up " The Star-Spangled Banner " and the children and the crowd generally cheered and clapped their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by Mrs. Harriman and their children . Mr. Harriman was immediately surrounded by half a dozen newspaper men and asked for details about the trip . but he declined to give them . Mr. Harriman. with Mrs. Harriman , entered an automobile and was whirled away to his home . The crowd at Arden clamored to See Miss Roosevelt . Men , women ; and children ran down the railroad tracks to her ear , the " Weymouth , " and called for her to appear . Just as the first of the crowd approached her car they caught sight of Miss Roosevelt dancing lightly in the car aisle to the strains of the band music outside . She was laughing heartily to several of her companions and seemed to be enjoying the situation immensely . Suddenly she heard the cheering outside . however , and stopped dancing . She walked to the rear door of the car , and , looking out in the semi-darkness , waved her hand in answer . to the cheers . Then she returned to her car , and the train , having been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . A loud cheer went up from the crowd as the special sped southward . When the train arrived at Jersey City there were few people on hand to give Miss Roosevelt a welcome . The time of her arrival had been kept secret and only the railroad officials and newspapers had been told when she would reach the city . Ten policemen under Capt . Murphy of the Jersey City police were at the station , and formed a line for Miss Roosevelt and her party as they filed through the depot and got aboard the ferryboat Paterson for New York . Miss Roosevelt walked briskly to the terry . " It feels good to get out of a train and ' on land ' again , " she remarked . " I 'm glad to get back . " Busily engaged in talking to Miss and Miss Boardman , she entered the ferry , which pulled out immediately for Twenty-Qiird Street . The time in coming acrosg ? the North River was occupied by Miss Roosevelt in conversation with Miss Boardman . Miss , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eer . Gillette , who drove to the Forty-second Street station for a train to his home in Massachusetts . Then Miss Roosevelt got in o. carriage which was in waiting for her and drove to the home of her aunt and uncle . They were waiting for her , but declined to allow callers to disturb her . Miss Roosevelt will leave New York this morning , probably at 9 o'clock . She will be accompanied on the trip , which will probably be made in a special car , by Miss and Misr. , Boardman . In ' addition to those who arrived with Miss Roosevelt last night , Senator and Mrs. Newlands and Congressman Longworth were with the party in the Orient . Senator and Mrs. Newlands left the party at San Francisco and Mr. Longworth went to his home in Cincinnati .                     