@@678280

txt Saying that while skilled physicians appreeia.te the therapeutic value of religion and are often glad to send the sick man to the clergyman , The New York Medical Record . issued yesterday , declares frankly that the medical profession is not prepared to welcome the priest as a fellow-practitioner of medicine , ' ? or even to acknowledge that he can exercise that function in the public and wholesale way of the Emmanuel rectors without the danger of doing far more harm than , good . " The full pronouncement of The , Medical Record follows : The announcement made a few weeks ago by the rector of an Episcopal church in this city , that he was going to take up the practice of medicine as a part of his clerical work . calls renewed attention to this - curious movement . While it was confined to the Emmanuel Church people in Boston it was generally regarded as a sort of Neo-Eddyism , one more of the many queer fails with which the citizens oC that town are wont to amuse themselves , and little mace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least of the Episcopal churches in New York are going to adopt the Emmanuel plan of treating disease , and doubtless some of the rectors of other churches in that denomination will be ready to join the ranks of irregular practitioners . It Is time therefore to ask what the movement means , and why physicians , even trained neurologists , are to be found lending themselves to the movement and supporting it by voice and pen . The first question raised by a perusal of the official book of the Emmanuel movement , is , why ? Why clerical healing , and why the limitation of clerical healing to functional diseases ? We do not find either question answered satisfactorily in the book , and we do not see how they can be answered . If the physician is to intrust the care of his patients to the clergyman why not to the lawyer ? The latter is as much the confidant of his clients as the minister of his parishioners , and could speak just as authoritatively to the subliminal self of the sick . But the physician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When he can not , the explanation must be found in that curious state of mind which leads the ignorant to trust thli confident amateur rather than the professional , to pin greater faith to quack remedies or grandmother 's simples than to the prescription of the physician . The skillful physician despises no remedy which may benefit his patient , and if he believes a word from a sincere and tactful ' minister of the Gospel will help , he is glad to send , and often does send . the sick man to the clergyman . As physicians we should regret indeed to lose the powerful therapeutic rorce that resides in religion , but It does not follow from this that we are ready to welcome the priest as a. fellows practitioner of medicine , or even to aoknowledge that he can exercise that function in the public and wholesale way of the Emmanuel rectors without the danger of doing far more harm than ' good . Clergymen are no more than human , like all the rest of us , and once this movement Is well launched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less and less to do with it  --  not we fear , - because they will become eonvinced of their folly in committing patients to the care of men ignorant of the rudiments of medical science , but because the clergymen will no longer care for their help . When men creak with the confidence shown by the authors of " Religion and Medicine , " of matters concerning which their words show them to have only uncertain knowledge , it is but a step to the rejection of all advice and suggestion from the physician . Pride , we are told , Is one of the seven deadly sins , and there is no form of it more enthralling and ineradicable than the therapeutic pride of the unlearned . At present the catchword of the Emmanuel movement is " functional disease . " we are told repeatedly that the clerical healers will have nothing te do with any sufferer from . erganio disease , and they use their medically trained allies to separate the functional sheep from the organic scats , the latter being thrust back into the outer darkness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by " functional nervous disorders " ? Do they really believe that there are two distinct kinds of disease  --  functional and organic ? if they do not know , their medical advisers should tell them , that every day we are shifting so-called functional diseases into the class of organic diseases . Will these clerical healers abandon a functional disease to the medical healers when it is discovered to be dependent upon an organic lesion of brain . cord , or sympathetic nervous system , or will they simply deny its organic basis and continue to treat it ? And once they find themselves treating ere disease called organic , why not others ? why not all ? Every physician knows : hat " cheerfulness , hope , courage , and religious faith and prayer , " which constitute the pharmacopoeia of the New York school of clerical healing , are just as necessary in the treatment of tuberculosis as in that of constipation , and indeed that they are often distinctly curative In various organic diseases . If the clergy have a divine commission to heal the sick they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deprive any of the Lenefit of their healing words , and it will not be long before they recognize that fact and act accordingly . That the law forbids them to practice medicine is , of course , a detail of no importance .                     