@@676540

txt Or late there has been a great deal said , on more or less acceptable authority notably Mr. Ells , Dr. RAINSFORD , and Dr. RMIKIICRST-an the tendency toward moral and social degeneracy which results from what is popularly known as " flat life . " Just what good may be expected to result from this is not clear ; equally is it a matter of doubt that much of what is said on this subject is true . There is no reason why the moral and social life of a family domiciled in apartments may not be as pure and as free from the contamination of undesirable and undesired associations as it ever was or ever can be in the isolated dwelling . The possibility of entire seclusion , if this is desired , is greater in apartments than in one unit of " a row " of brick or stone buildings . Our neighbors opposite or in the rear are of much more interest to us than are those of apartments over or under us in the building designed for a multiple tenancy , N-.:hom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or meet in the common halls , and do not then always know the established resident from the casual visitor . The chief solicitude of those who condemn the multiple dwelling is for the children of the families thus ; loused . For them the confinement of restricted apartments has disadvantages , and even the pathetic little " back yard " of the average private dwelling , with its little square of sickly grass inclosed in a strip of bluestone flagging , giving a chance to breathe the air of out-of-doors with protection from the contamination of the sidewalk or the street , is better in its poor way than anything the " flat " can offer . But there is another side to this picture which those who pity the children of apartment-domidiled families fail to see , or at least to give due weight to . In apartments the family life is less subject to the demoralization of infant morals and manners which results from dependence upon servants . Children are brought more intimately and continuously under the maternal influence , and if this influence is good it makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and should be more wholesome than that of the roomy dwelling favoring the cultivation of solitary tastes and giving more opportunity to escape from parental observation , guidance , and restraint clueing the time when the character is forming and habits are taking shape . Mother and child are much nearer together in the contracted area of an apartment than they are likely to be in the house divided into the horizontal strata of kitchen and basement , parlor , and living and sleeping apartments . This at least is worth thinking of . It may reconcile a great many dissatisfied people to the necessary and unalterable conditions of city life , which are by no means as bad as they are commonly represented . Even the typical " tenement house " is gradually changing for the better , and therein may be found many examples of right living and earnest striving after higher standards which are not interfered with , and certainly not rendered impossible of attainment , by the environment , however unattractive and unsatisfactory to the sensuous side of every properly constituted human being . A well-defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction . Of the million or more who have given up isolated dwellings and find life in apartments more satisfactory . it may be assumed that all are not mistaken , and that most would recognize without waiting to be told of them the demoralizing and destructive tendencies which exist chiefly in the imaginations of those who discover them .                     