@@678288

txt Roy Lamphere , charged with arson and the murder of Mrs. Belle Gunness and her three children by setting fire to the Gunness house on April 28 , was this evening found guilty of arson by the jury which had the case under consideration for twentyfour hours . Within five minutes after the verdict was reported , Judge Richter sentenced the defendant to the State penitentiary at Michigan City for an indeterminate term , from two to twenty-one years . He will be taken to Michigan City to-morrow to begin his sentence . Word that an agreement had been reached was conveyed to Bailiff Matz at dusk , and ho telephoned Judge Richter and the attorneys in the case . The lights m the big courtroom were turned on , and within fifteen minutes the court was packed . Lamphere was brought over from the jail and the jury filed into the courtroom . Foreman Henry Mill announced that the jury had agreed , and he passed a white piece of paper to Judge Richter , who , after making the entry on his docket , read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defendant guilty of arson and that he is 33 years old . " Attorney Worden , for the defense , tonight said that a motion for a new trial would be made , and , should it be refused , an appeal to the Indiana Supreme Court would follow . Mr. Worden declared the verdict to be ridiculous . " If he was guilty at all , " said the attorney , " he was guilty of murder . He should have been acquitted . " The motion for a new trial will be based on the court 's instruction telling the jurors that they could find Lamphere guilty of arson under the indictment . Lamphere. in a statement to-night , said he was confident that the dead body in the fire was that of Mrs. Gunness , although his counsel had tried to prove otherwise . He reiterated his innocence of setting fire to the house , though admitting that he was on the road and saw the fire that night . He also declared that he did not see Mrs. Gunness kill Andrew Heigelein . " I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lamphere . " Things looked pretty blue , but the verdict might have been worse . " To-night all the members of the jury made the following signed statement : We , the undersigned jurors , empaneled and sworn in the case of the State of Indiana versus Ray Lamphere , hereby say that it was our judgment in the consideration of this case that the adult body found in the ruins of the fire was that of Belle Gunness. and that the case was decided by us on an entirely different proposition . But for Jurors Nelson and Travis , the jury would have sentenced Lamphere to life imprisonment , and after the verdict had been returned one of the jurors said that they would have found Lamphere guilty of manslaughter had they remembered that the sentence for that could be made the same as for arson . The Indiana law stipulates that all prisoners , meepting those found guilty of murder , shall go to the State Reformatory if they are under 30 years of age . This explains the last clause of the jury 's verdict , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burned to the ground at 3 o'clock on the morning of April 28 last . The following day , after the ruins had been partly cleared , the bodies of Mrs. Gunness and her three children were found in the basement , burned beyond recognition . Ray Lamphere , a discharged farmhand , whom Mrs. Gunness had prosecuted on charges of insanity , was arrested soon after the fire on the suspicion that he set fire to the house . Lamphere had threatened that he would get even with his former employer . Until the discovery of freshly dug spots in the yard of the farmhouse was called to the attention of the authorities , no suspicion of the secrets of the widow 's yard existed . When excavations were begun . however , the bodies of ten persons , including two women , were dug up in what proved to be a private graveyard . It was then disclosed that Mrs. Gunness had been conducting a private matrimonial agency as a trap for luring her victims to her lair . The history of the woman 's past life was revealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her first husband having died under mysterious circumstances soon after their ' marriage . The discovery that Mrs. Gunness had made murder her . profession , first robbing the men who had answered her matrimonial advertisements , then poisoning them , and after dismembering their bodies , burying them in her private graveyard , created a sensation . A parallel of the case was drawn with that of the wholesale murders of the Bender family in Ransas twenty years ago . e People throughout the country interested in the case have been divided on their opinions as to whether Mrs. Gunness died In the fire which destroyed her home . The finding of a gold tooth , believed to be hers , convinced some that she was dead , while on the other hand rumors from the larger cities throughout the country that a Mrs. Gunness was living ' there inspired searches and made others believe that she was still . living .                     