@@677040

txt Because an automobile frightened the horses he was driving , August Swinton , a wealthy farmer and old settler of the north shore , was probably fatally injured in n runaway accident yesterday . Air . Swinton was driving from Glencoe to his farm. , three miles west of that suburb . His team became frightened at the approac8 of a large touring car and became uncontrollable . As the machine passed , the horses sprang to the side of the road , upsetting the wagon in the ditch and throwing the driver out . Mr. Swinton was dragged between the wagon and the barbed wire fence for fifty feet , and finally crushed against a large post . His head and chest were cut and bruised , and he was internally Injured . He was taken uncpnscious to his dwelling by a neighboring farmer who saw the accident . The automobile did not stop , and the names of its occupants were not learned . Automobile Club Is Stirred . Stirred by the long list of fatal and dangerous accidents for which reckless driving of automobiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on record in denunciation of law breaking chauffeurs . Officers of the club censured irresponsible drivers , who were responsible for the casualties , and said they brought odium uponcareful automobllists whO obey the law . " The club will do anything in its power to put an end to reckless driving , and will cooperate with the city authorities along any line that may be suggested , " said Sidney S. Gorham , secretary of the organization . " I have , talked with the directors on this matter enough to know that I voice their sentiments , as well as those of a large proportion of the members . The selfish Interests of automobilists demand that they take the position of hearty cooperation with the authorities to check heedless driving and punish each reckless driver . Effect of Reckless Driving . " It murt be apparent to any one who will think for a moment that reckless driving has a bad effect on the careful driver and upon the sport as a whole . One act of recklessness , resulting in the injury of a man or woman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clasl , and the ninety-nine men out of a hundred who drive their machines carefully must suffer for the act of the single careless driver . " John Parson , formerly president of the club , said he had always taken the position that lawbreakers among the automobilists , especially those guilty of fast and careless driving , should be punished to the full extent of the law . State Association in Line . The Illinois State Automobile association , the incorporation papers for which were received yesterday , takes the same position regarding unlawful speed as that of the local club , and one of its objects will be to impress this upon the affiliated clubs , which include those of Springfield , Rockford , Decatur , Quincy , Bloomington , Peoria , and Kankakee.                     