@@676927

txt Harry Silverberg , with a score of aliases , a swindler who has made an international reputation and who on various occasions has represented himself to be a nephew of J. Coleman Drayton , was arrested yesterday afternoon at Seventieth Street and Broadway by Detective Sergeants McCauley and McCafferty of the Central Office , by order of Acting Inspector O'Brien , who declares that the arrest has to do with a swindling game of enormous proportions . The Inspector said the game was to reach its climax on Monday next , when the prisoner was to receive $50,000 from one of his latest dupes . O'Brien intimated that he would have more to say about the arrest to-day . O'Brien said that he learned of Silverberg 's presence in New York City on Feb. 6 , when he received a telegram from Chief of Police Kiely of St. Louis , informing him that the swindler had come here . The Inspector added that Kiely 's only reason for sending him news of Silverberg 's presence here was ordinary friendliness between police officers . The impression prevails at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew that Inspector O'Brien wanted to get Silverberg for some very particular reason . Detective Sergeants McCauley and McCaf fery had been looking for Silverberg. and yesterday afternoon found him by accident . They were walking up Broadway at Seventieth Street , when they came upon him face to face . Silverberg wore a long black paddock coat and silk hat . " I believe you are Silverberg , " sale McCaffery . " I beg your pardon , " said the other man , unruffled and polite . " but my name is Young . " He made no objection to going to headquarters , however , and there he described himself as J. Conyrgham , thirty-four years old , but refused to give an address . He was locked up to await the development of Inspector O'Brien 's case . The only charge made against him last night was that of being a " disorderly person . " While declaring that he is confident that Silverberg was to bring off a fiftythousand-dollar swindle on Monday , Inspector O'Brien was evidently much concerned over the arrest , for he remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working on the ca.sio ' . Two telegrams were found on Silverberg . One of them was sent on Feb. 6 from York , Penn. , to Wilkesbarre , Penn. , being addressed to " J. C. Young , Hotel Sterling , Wilkesbarre , Penn . " It read : Phone me to-morrow about 9 . Closed with party . GEORGE W. PORTER . The other telegram was addressed to " J. C. Young , Allen House , Lancaster , Penn. , " and read : Letter received ; important ; reply Friday to Willtesbarre . Love . MAY . Silverberg 's impersonation of a nephew of T. Coleman Drayton was one of the best of his efforts . At one time he hired a private car , and , with several accnntplices , went to Lancaster and other Pennsylvania towns , ostensibly as a promoter for the " Arizona Consolidated Mining Company , " which was found later to have existed only in the advertisement which the swindler issued about it . Yet , with Mr. Drayton 's name , he gained the confidence and interests of many Pennsylvanians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addressed a gathering of prospective investors in " Arizona Consolidated " in Lancaster , at which great enthusiasm was raised for a while in the supposed mine . Unfortunately for the expected coup knowledge of the airy , character of the property began to leak out and Silverberg disappeared . He was heard of next in Germany , where he became acquainted with members of the nobility , and when they feted him handsomely he returned their hospitality by swindling them right and left . He was in jail in Munich for a while , but through some influence he was pardoned . He appeared next in Mexico ; and after repeating his tactics of getting acquainted with well-to-do people and then swindling them he was put in jail there , too . He then went to St. Petersburg , where he married a Russian Countess , and , according to his confession , he stole her money and jewels and deserted her . China was his next hunting ground , and after finding good pickings there , he moved on to Korea . where he was received with open arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a railroad ' company in Korea , and he represented himself there as a nephew of J. Coleman Drayton . His wonderful projects for the extension and improvement of the possessions of his friend the Emperor , fell flat , however , when he decamped with as much of the Emperor 's funds as he had been able to get . Two years ago , in a spasm of repentance , Silverberg made a confession as to the remarkable incidents of his career , which was published in several newspapers . In this confession he admitted to committing more than a thousand swindling operations , to say nothing of such things as marrying and deserting several wives In his wanderings about the earth . He said in this confession that he could no : help doing these things , and that he sometimes regretted himself the way in which he had betrayed the many friends he had made and lost .                     