@@678451

txt The art collection formed by ; lir late John T. Martin is now on exit:little:1 at the American Art Galleries before its sale at Mendelssohn Hall on the evenings of April 15 and 1G . It Illustrates the conservative taste of American collectors In the middle years of the nineteenth century , and contains , as commonly is the case with collectors of that period , a large ' proportion of Barbizon pictures . Among these are a number of remarkably fine examples , paintings that reveal anew the energy and creative genius of the men of 1830 in their good moments , for , like all painters of marked personal quality , they worked very unevenly and their best is far above their average . Corot is represented by one example only , " La Charette , " a country road down which comes a. cart drawn by two horses hitched tandem . A cluster of trees is at the right , a sand cliff on which laborers are at work on the left , and a silvery sky with thick floating clouds curves with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to belong to Corot 's later period , the breadth of the handling and the slight sobering of the tremulous delicacy of the middle period indicating a date not many years before the master 's death , when his powers were at the full , and his taste had d begun to revert somewhat tori:is first ideals with a greater amplitude of style , a firmer modeling of the ground , a liking for large forms and ponderable substance as the framework and support of ethereal foliage and tender mists . Millet 's " Going to Work  --  Dawn of Day " Is a famous example of his most impressive manner . The statuesque figure of a woman whose hands hang at her sides as she plods along the path to her work has the unity and immobility of an Egyptian bronze . The man moves with a free swing of the limbs , and the silhouette of the two figures against the rolling hillside and cool morning sky has the Indescribable dignity with which Millet Invested his peasant forms without the emphatic sentiment that occasionally obtrudes upon the reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl carrying water home through a moonlit field , is full of delicacies of observation . Behind the clumsy bulk of the girl 's form are seen the wraith-like figures of cattle and the moonlight on the path Is beautifully painted . The difference between Millet 's monumental style and the idealization of the commonplace practiced by his followers can be seen by the least initiated if they compare these Virgilian statements of rural life with " The Reaper 's Rest " by Jules L. Breton , in which the little group of tired workers have each the " prettiness " that Millet swore never to permit himself , however the public might inveigh against his ugly types . " Les Bucherons " by Rousseau is another authoritative and stately picture of the Barbizon group . The dramatic sky and the definite modeling of the forms In the  --  eavy shadow of the foreground are characteristic of Rousseau 's power to unite truth of fact with picturesqueness of statement . A fine Dupr &; two pictures by Diaz. one in particular  --  the " Bathers ? ' ? having unusual daintiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beautiful Troyon , with cattle , horse , sheep , and dog , and a delicious Summer sky , complete the list of notable Barbizon paintings . There are others , but they are east in the shade by these really supreme examples . Grouped with them In the lower gallery are a dashing Schreyer , a vigorous ' en Marcke , heavy cattle lumbering through a Summer landscape : a delightful Rosa Bonheur , with sheep and rattle in a sunny meadow , through which C1/115 little river . Not only are the textures ; of the animals ' rough hides and the drawing of their anatomy competently rendered in this picture . but the serene sentiment of the pleasant locality Is truly and delicately conveyed . A landscape by Homer Martin is also in the lower gallery In the upper gallery are congregated disparate examples of the German . French . Belgian . Dutch , Spanish , and American modern schools . An Interesting American picture is one by William S. Mount . showing a couple of men dancing to violin music in an old barn , surrounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brown which Mount used almost invariably with a monochrome effect . Another painting of much greater historic than artistic interest is T. Buchanan Read 's " Sheridan 's Ride , " which is accompanied by an autograph poem and hair from the mane of the horse . A group of minor sculpture is in the narrow gallery , with a few handsome vases . The cream of the whole collection , however , is in the lower gallery . where the . Corot , Millet , and Rousseau dominate the MOM .                     