@@781143

txt The Assembly tonight by a vote of 82 to 17 repassed over the veto of Acting Mayor McGowan of New ' York the Page-Prentice bill providing for a judicial recount and recanvass of the ballots cast at the Mayoralty election of 1905 in New York City . The bill was repassed practically without debate . Four Republicans were among those who voted against the bill . They were Hammond and Schoeneck of Onondaga , Fowler of Ulster , and Yale of Putnam . The Democrats voting against the bill were Buckley , Cuvillier , Dobbs , Eagleton , Keller , McCue , and Schweigler of New York , Baumann , Donnelly , Farrell , Fay , and Geoghegan of Kings , and Croak of Richmond . In an effort to meet the objections to the original bill raised by Acting Mayor McGowan of New York Senator Page tonight introduced a supplemental bill regulating the procedure and providing for the expense in the recount proceedings . The two principal features of the new bill are provisions giving Mayor McClellan the right to intervene and ask the court for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he might designate . The original bill gave Mr. Hearst the right to petition the courts for the opening of " ballot boxes in any ristricts he might designate , but left Mayor McClellan with , authority to intervene and ask for the opening of boxes in other districts . The bill also provides that while the cost of canvassing the votes in the election districts named by the contestants must be borne by him , the recount in the districts named by the Mayor must be borne by the city , and the Controller is authorized to issue special revenue bonds to defray the expense . Senator Page , in introducing the bill in the upper house , asked that unanimous consent be given to have it advanced to the order of third reading , without reference to any committee . Senator McCarren at once objected and the bill was referred to the Judiciary Committee . deleted paragraph " I 'll tell why , " said Raines , with a grim smile . " Because with this bill passed we can safely go home and leave it with the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original bill we would have to stay here . " " Well , I am ' willing to stay here all Summer if necessary to do this thing right , " said McCarren . The Mayor is just as hard to satisfy as ever , " said Senator Grady , with a sneer , after McCarren had finished , " Now that he has been given the right to open the boxes in every election district in New York City and the expense he ought to bear has been saddled on the city his representative here calls the legislation clumsy . I feel for the Mayor . " In the Assembly before the passage of the original bill Assemblyman Prentice asked unanimous consent to introduce the supplementary bill that had been presentOcl to the Senate . Objection was raised by Assemblyman Cuvillier , who talks for the Mayor , and the bill was not put in . It will be Introduced to-morrow morning . J. B. MARTIN FINED $4,250 . Court Directs a Jury Verdict for Violation of Game Laws . Supreme Court Justice Greenbaum directed a jury to find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Caf ? Martin , yesterday for a violation of the game laws . The verdict was for penalties for having in his possession grouse , quail , and partridge after midnight on Jan. 1 , of this year . It was admitted by Martin that the birds were In his possession , but he alleged that they had been taken off the menu before midnight on Dec. 31 , and the only reason they were in the restaurant was because the next day was a holiday , and they could not be taken to a refrigerator then , although the man from whom they were bought had been notified to put them in bond . Justice Greenbaum held that no excuse could be made , the law holding that the mere possession of game out of season was illegal and that Martin was liable .                     