@@676834

txt The rivers are hankfull and the fords are impassable . There are no bridges . Supplies of all sorts are delayed . News has just been received that the Japanese left flank has been driven back with heavy loss and that its retreat has been cut off . A Russian regiment is now being hurried to the scene in the hope of completing the rout . Lone Tree Hill , won by the Russians after a desperate struggle , was the object of a gallant but unsuccessful attempt at recapture by the Japanese . In spite of the awful slaughter with which they had been driven from the . hill , the Japanese returned to the charge last night , recognizing that the hill was the key to the position on the southwest front . Nine regiments participated , creeping up through the night and delivering a furious assault at dawn . But the bill had been bought too dearly by the Russians to relinquish it , and the Japanese were driven back With terrible slaughter . The last defenders , two artillery officers , refused quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Gen. 141Istchenko 's Cossacks , under command of Adjutant Gavriloff , were engaged in a hot fight yesterday toward the southeast . A Cossack horse battery silenced the Japanese guns and drove back several infantry , battalions , but the Russians were unable to capture the guns , which the Japanese succeeded in carrying off . Russians Back at Shakhe . Shakhe station , or what is left of it , has been recaptured by the Russians , who will shortly reopen it for railway traffic with Mukden . An officer who has just returned from Gen. Mistchenko 's division reports that a sanguinary fight has occurred at Laitkhezi , fifteen miles southeast of Shakhe. to which place Gen. Mistchenko retired in order to preserve communication between the Russian centre and eastern flank . The Japanese made a determined effort to cut the line of communication at this point and attacked under cover of a terrific cannonade . Oat of one company of a Russian rifle brigade only fifty men were left . Two companies that had expended their ammunition prior to the last Japanese attack lay in the trenches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians hurled a volley of stoma , charged , and broke the attacking line , compelling the Japanese to flee . There was fighting to-day on both sides of the great Mandarin Road . ? Battle at Mukden Expected . The Japanese still seem to be exerting themselves to force the Russians out of Ilukden . A battle in the positions stirrounding the town is assured . i It is reported that the 7apanese made s ft:n.1.069 attempt to take a wooded hill Pear Da Pass last night . The firing began at 11 o'clock , and continued with rifle and cannon throughout the night . This action was probably part of an attempt by the Japanese , who were already in possession of small hills in the plain , to rush the centre along the foothills at the Shakhe River . The Japanese at 11 o'clock on Sunday night rushed the village of Linchenpo , on the north bank of the Shakhe River and west of the railway , precipitating a thundering cannonade which continued until midnight , rifle fire continuing until dawn . The Japanese now occupy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for miles around , and which affords an unusual advantage for observation and artillery fire against the Russian right . Several attempts to dislodge them have failed . Yesterday Japanese shells fell at Chanchiapo , near Paitapo , showing that the heavy and continuous Russian cannonade had been ineffective . Terrible Russian Losses . During the nine days of continuous fighting the losses were never less than 2,000 per day . The hospitals are hardly able to handle the wounded . Nevertheless they have performed wonders . The duration of the contest already exceeds by several days the common prophecies , as it was believed that neither side was capable of such expenditure of men and munitions . Already the casualties reported are so great as to confirm the declaration of the leaders that the present conflict would be the bloodiest in history . It is not possible to-day to make any close estimate of the Russian casualties . The roads south and southwest of Mukden are filled with refugee native families , trailing homeless toward the sorry streets of Mukden . The army is so near that the environs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded with army traffic . The Chinese have deserted all the villages and the troops are using the woodwork of their houses for fuel . The country south is desolated . It becomes more and more evident that the resources of the country can not support a large army . This season 's crops are spoiled . The roads have been ruined by the rain . Gen. Kuropatkin remains with the troops , having abandoned his headquarters at Mukden . He is indefatigable , personally directing the forward operations . Nothing seems to - affect him , and he wears his usual quiet smile under all circumstances .                     