@@678574

txt A new step in the fight to stop the . emptying of sewage In the New York Harbor was taken uD yesterday when the-Pollution Committee of the Merchants ' Association sent a letter to United States Attorney General Wickersham asking him to bring action against the City of New York , The committee , of which Edward Hatch , Jr. , is chairman , points out that under the law a fine of $21,200 daily is being accumulated against the city because of its present methods of disposing of its sewage , There is now due from the city in fines , the committee says , nearly $66,000,000 , which the Govejnment might collect if it went to court . The violations of which the city is guilty , the committee finds , is in allowing sewage to be emptied into the New York Bay near the mouth of the Gowanus Canal without proper precautions , as required by law , for screenage and sedimentation devices . This fact was brought out in a communication last week from Edlow W. Harrison , chief engineer of the Passaic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Attorney Genera . Mr. Harrison made a point that New York could not legally object to New Jersey getting permission to empty its sewage from Passaic Valley into the bay when New York does the same thing . In its letter to the Attorney General the Pollution Committee says that the Metropolitan Sewage Commission several years ago sent a letter to Mayor McClellan urging that no further ' sewage work be done without taking into consideration " the early need for sewage disposal . " No action was taken on this recommendation and the committee suggests that now it is time for the Government to act . The committee declares that New York 's sewage system is " admittedly bad , " and that arrangements which were permissible when the city was smaller and the knowledge of sanitation was less have now been declared by experts to be intolerable and dangerous . DID N'T GET THIRD AVE . BOOKS . Whitridge Sails Without Ordering Their Production for Utilities Board . The Public Service Commission began hearings yesterday under its order declaring for a physical valuation of the Third Avenue Railroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposition of Receiver Whitridge of the Third Avenue road , for the books and papers which the commission had called for were not produced , Mr. Whitridge 's counsel , Joseph H. Choate , Jr. , could not be made to say that Mr. Whitridge would or would not obey the subpoena duces tecum that had been served upon him . The only fact that was definitely known was that Mr. Whit-ridge had not obeyed the subpoena , but had sailed for Europe , leaving no instructions regarding the production of the Third Avenue 's books for the hearings in the question of valuation . After considerable sparring between counsel yesterday the representatives of the Third Avenue 's receiver said they thought that the required books would be produced and the controversy over compliance with the subpoena was allowed to go over for a week . The commission then heard testimony from three unimportant witnesses .                     