@@676355

txt President Roosevelt 's administraUon has made itself impregnable on the trust question by its great victory in the Northern Securities merger case . Politically the administration has strengthened itself with the people so as to dissipate any doubt of the nomination and election of President Roosevelt if any doubt existed on this point . This is considered the initial round of a gigantic fight on the trusts in restraint of competition . With the prestige of this victory behind it the administration will begin a number of suits to dissolve other Illegal corporations . , President Roosevelt repeatedly has promised the people he would ma.ke a determined fight against unlawful combinations . President 's Promise Is Kept There was a disposition in some circles to doubt the sincerity of the president , but this blow , which killed one of the most dangerous trusts , has convinced every one that the president and his attorney are in earnest . The effect of the decision will be exceedingly favorable to the administration , as the questlo.p involved was one directly affecting the people . In the future it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear of being stamped out by a combination which will undersell private concerns and drive them from the market . William A. Day Explains Victory . Assistant Attorney General William A. Day , who was special counsel in the fight , said today : " The judgment of the court in the Northern Securities case is one of far reaching consequences and reaffirms the right of the people to be free from monopoly , and establishes for all time the high purpose , courage , and legal wisdom of Attorney General Knox . " By this decision doubt has been resolved into certainty , and all may know the limits to which combinations in restraint of commerce may go . The combination Is resolved into its original elements , , with the decree of that they shall compete . - 4 ' " , 98/1tr VIgiticioif " hi ** ' At torn ey General Knox publicly announced that he had given an opinion to the president that the Northern Securities company , which had secured control of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific railways , was an unlawful combination , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that he would at once prepare a bill for its dissolution . Northern States Become Alarmed . " When the Northern Securities company was formed it produced great alarm among the people of the northern tier of states lying between Lake Superior and the Pacific ocean . These states are entirely dependent upon the two roads In question for the transportation of their crops and products to market . It was regarded as such a menace to their prosperity that the governors of those states met at Helena , Mont. , to take such steps as were practicable to prevent the consummation of the proposed monopoly , and they invoked the aid of the federal government to that end . ? " Prior to that appeal the president had asked the opinion of the attorney general whether the Northern Securities company was in violation of any federal law . Pending examination of the facts and law statements were frequently made that this merger scheme was beyond the reach of the federal power . However , the attorney general met the situation , maintaining that no disguise of monopoly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the operation of a freight traffic association , could successfully nullify the declared policy of the federal government . " So , pursuant to his opinion to the president , the suit was instituted and persistently pressed to a trial . Existing Laws Still Powerful . " It was his judgment that the Sherman anti-trust law had not exhausted the power of congress in controlling and regulating combinations in restraint of commerce . This case from the original opinion to the president , step by step , through every phase , has been conducted with the advice and direction of the attorney general . The patient and exhaustive labors involved in his uncompromising attitude can only be appreciated by those whom the attorney general selected as his aids in this great work . " And it was due alone to his prescience that the special tribunal was created to try this and other like cases of great public moment . Perceiving how closely interwoven with the general prosperity were the abuses of monopoly and combination , and appreciating the jeopardy to commercial and Industrial interests of long delays in litigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anti-trust law , he , during the Christmas holidays , conceived a law which requires not less than three Circuit judges , Instead of one , as heretofore , speedily to try such cases and give them precedence over all others . As a result of that law , and within two months of its enactment , the country has the decision of four United States Circuit judges , three of whom have had many year 'S of distinguished service on the bench and who rank high among the most eminent judges of our time . " The victory in this great case is not merely a legal triumph . The case has been fought to success , that the lines of transportation for persons and property might he kept open and that legitimate competition might prevail . " Commission Is Well Pleased . Members of the interstate commerce commission expressed great gratification when informed the Northern Securities case had been decided in favor of the government . Although the commissioners would make no detailed statement individually or otherwise regarding the case , it was stated the decision was without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , and the precedent established would he of the greatest possible advantage in the proceedings against similar mergers in which other roads are interested .                     