@@678272

txt ? The similarity between the proposals to erect an unnecessary elevated railway approach to the Williamsburg Bridge in Manhattan , and to the Manhattan Bridge in Brooklyn , is such that the Public Service Commission 's decision applying to the latter case the reasoning which we advanced regarding the former is commendable . And yet this is not the strongest Point the Cornmiggion makes , convincing as are its argumentsregarding the advisability of keeping clear Brooklyn 's sole street capable of embellishment and service upon lines worthy of a city . This puts Brooklyn 's welfare in the first place , but the Commission argues with Metropolitan breadth . The inter-borough route should be as free from interruption as any street . So others have contended before , but never before has this principle been acted upon by any in authority . Railways whose franchises were limited to a single borough , and bridge officials without any street franchises on either side of the river , have acted unanimously as though their powers limited their reasoning capacity . The Public Service Commission breaks new ground when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boroughs , and contends for through routes , mewling routes which give ac-ease to the further parts of neighbor boroughs , instead of limiting cross-river transit to " terminals " on either bank . ? Having taken this step , we should say that the Commission can not stop there . The decision that no corporation shall have monopoly of access to city property necessitates that all corporations shall have equality of access , and that transit Aball be equally unimpeded in both directions . A certain amount of traffic is erratic , but the bulk of the interborough riding consists of the same persons who simply reverse in the evening their routes of the morning . It ought to be made as easy to go to Brooklyn as to come from Brooklyn , and the fares reversed should be the same . It is not for an outsider to deviSe ways and means , which a traffic official in full command of the situation would make short work of . Freely admitting the difficulties created by the diversity of jurisdictions , and rivalry of corporations , it is submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The city does not control all the elements of the problem , but it does control the commanding factors . If the case were reversed , and the ownership of the bridges were private and absolute as in the case of the railways , the bridges would forthwith be made to i earn something more than their keep . To ' do , this it would be necessary to make them of greater service to passengers . The Commission 's decision contains reasoning showing how this might be done , although no specific plan is mentioned .                     