@@676694

txt If young ruffians like Josurn Rosso , when caught red-handed , are to be relieved of responsibility for crime on the false assumption that they do not know right from wrong and can not be held guilty of offenses which , committed in riper years , would consign them to a prison cell , our courts will become the laughing stock of lawbreakers and our Criminal Code a hollow mockery . A few days ago an automobile passing through one of our east side streets was attacked by hoodlums , and a lady riding thetein was struck on the head by a large stone , thrown with malicious purpose . The pollee immediately instituted a still hunt for the perpetrator of this outrage and finally located him in the person of one JOSEPH Rosso , a desperate young ruffian and a leading member of what is known as the Rubber Nipple Gang . To arrest such offenders is always dangerous business , , but the officers did not flinch from even so desperate a duty . Timing their visit wisely , as it is always good policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his residence and caught him asleep in his crib . Taken thus at a disadvantage , because covered by revolvers , he did not have time to convert his ready rattle into a lethal weapon or to slip his deadly teething ring over the head of one of his captors and strangle him to death . He surrendered , merely remarking " Goo " between his set gums  --  an expletive which among the members of this desperate gang signifies Caramba maledicta , or its idiomatic equivalent . As soon as he could be dressed he was haled to court and arraigned before Justice WYATT , by whom he was discharged on the ground that being only three and a half years old he was too young to be held on a criminal charge . A like false quality of sympathy seems to have been extended to this desperate young thug by the lady he had injured . She refused to make a complaint against him . Whereupon , having again remarked " Goo , " this hardened reprobate went unconcernedly to sleep and was carried home at the head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for law is possible in a community where so lax an administration of justice is permitted to pass unrebuked ? Rosso may be young in years , but a thug less than four years old who can lean out of his perambulator , pick up ' a. paving block , and hurl it with high velocity and inerrant aim at a lady in a passing vehicle , fracturing her skull and putting her life in jeopardy , embodies immeasurable potentialities of Crime , and to turn him loose upon a defenseless community is a great wrong . At fourteen he is likely ' to lose his temper and push over a skyscraper during business hours or kick holes in a Carnegie library building because he can not have his requisition honored by the librarian for that fascinating romance " The Bucket of Blood ; or , The Butcher 's Oath . " At twenty he will be ' found tearing up water mains or pulling trusses out of the elevated railroad structure if perchance he needs a club for offensive or defensive purposes . The infant Hercules in strangling the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in comparison with that of the prodigy Rosso , whose twelve or more adult labors are likely to keep the police busy for the nest half century- or so . To realize that we have at large " in our midst " such a forceful and undisciplined personality is at least disquieting . The police did their duty in arresting him , of course , but the mistaken leniency of the court made their valor useless .                     