@@676852

txt Isadore Rush , the leading lady of the Fisher &; Ryley " Glittering Gloria " company , which was to have appeared at the Isis theater this evening , met death from heart disease in the surf while bathing this afternoon . The body was recovered immediately and every effort was made to bring the spark of life back to it , but it was not possible , though Wilton Ilerlot , another member of the company , who was in the surf at the same time , was revived and will be able to be out within a few days . It is quite the fad among visitors at Coronado hotel to take a dip in the surf here , even If out of the usual season , just because It can be done even in midwinter . Miss Rush , Mr. Heriot , Miss Olney , and other members of the company followed the fad . Sea Unusually Dangerous . The sea during the last few days has been unusually high and was dangerous even for the most practiced swimmer . Miss Rush had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much interest in sports of all kinds . She was a fair swimmer , but even the most powerful man would have had difficulty in battling with the surf that was running this afternoon . So great has been the force of the breakers during the last few days that the sound of their pounding on the shore has been plainly heard in San Diego . Miss Rush and Mr. Heriot had been In the plunge bath , and , with other guests at the hotel , had made a run into the surf Just . to say they had been bathing In the surf in the middle of November . They were swimming midway between the old pier and the bathhouse . The two were some little distance from the others when suddenly a huge breaker broke Just where they were standing . The undertow caught Miss Rush , and , notwithstanding her frantic efforts to regain her feet and battle with the waves , sho was swept out toward the sea . Are Rescued from Breakers . Mr. Ileriot immediately perceived the accident and hurried to her assistance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buffeted by the surf and were overcome . It was some time before those on shore realized t he serious danger , and when the alarm was given E. E. Pitcher , a clerk at the hotel , rushed to the rescue and with others brought both Miss Rush and Mr. lieriet ashore . Mr. Herlot was quickly revived to consciousness and was taken to a room in the hotel , where he is in bad condition , but will recover . When Miss Rush was brought ashore she was unconscious , but efforts were at once made to revive her . First aid methods were applied by those on shore and physicians were sent for . The efforts were continued on the sands of the beach for a time , and at 3.30 o'clock were only discontinued long enough to convey Miss Rush to a room in the hotel , where hot baths and electrical appliances were used , but to no purpose , for respiration could not be brought back and not even a flutter of the heart could be distinguished . Indications of Heart Disease . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lungs of Mr. Herlot , but little from those of Miss Rush , which fact caused the physicians to reach the conclusion that the heart stopped at the first shock and that respiration ceased before the lungs were filled . The date at the Isis theater was canceled and also the dates at Riverside , Fresno , and Stockton , which were for this week . The company will remain- here for several days . Miss Rush was born in Wilkeabarre , Pa. , and had a mother and sister In New York . City , whither the body will be sent for burial . She was the widow of Roland Reed . It is said she was once married to a man named White and that she has a daughter , Maud White , who is also on the stage and is married to Tyron Power , who recently made a great hit in " Robert Emmet. "                     