@@676629

txt It is now said that Hill will name Grout for Governor to punish Tammany , if Parker be nominated for President . Instead of frittering away the State in this foolish fashion , it would be better for the Tammany and Hill forces to get together by compromising on Cleveland for President and Parker for Governor . Then both could be elected . How much wiser than to have a Democratic defeat all round , as in 1806 and 1900 . If it is true that the friends of Mr. Bryan fear that unless they retain the power which one-third will give them they will lose the control of the situation , it is time they thought of the power another one-third can wield if they feel so inclined . Opposed to both is the principle itself that when the majority of a political convention reaches a conclusion with regard to men or principles that should become the gospel of the day and generation in which it lives . Anything else is not democratic doctrine , whatever else it may he said to be . The rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) Register , ( Dem . ) Uninstructed Delegates . The Mississippi delegation , in the opinion of Gov . Vardaman , should go to St. Louis unhampered by instructions . Georgia Democrats at the meeting of the State Committee also advocated the same policy . Uninstructed delegations conduce to harmonious action , and harmony must prevail at St Louis . else there will be trouble in electing the nominee. ? Nashville ( Tenn . ) American , ( Dem . ) Democratic Editors ' Opinions . The Dispatch , to ascertain the feeling of Democrats in Western Pennsylvania . East-elm Ohio , and West Virginia . recently sent queries to Democratic editors to get in touch with lOcal sentiment . ResponseS show that Grover Cleveland is still popUlar with conservative Democrats ; that William Jennings Bryan in many quarters is regarded as the shining light of true Democracy . Judge Parker of the Supreme Court of New York would receive great encouragement from the three States if his New York boom prospers , and Editor Hearst , according to the opinion of many Democratic editors , is considered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) Dispatch , ( Rep. ) Waiting on New York . It is recognized that the Democratic Party has no chance of winning the election without the Electoral vote of New York . There is a very general willigness , therefore , that New York Democrats shall have the privilege of naming the candidate , because it is believed they are in a. position to name the one who stands the best chance of carrying their State. ? Savannah ( Ga . ) News , ( Dem . ) The Southern Democrats . We protest in behalf of Southern Democrats . It is an undeserved imputation to say that they will take up such a man as Hearst , rather than accept Cleveland . It is only the leaders that feel that way . The rank and file have no such feeling toward the ex-President . We find evidence to this effect of the great change of sentiment on every hand . It is expressed through the local press , the best index and reflex to popular opinion . Vicksburg ( Miss . ) Herald , ( Dem . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have 600 votes , and it is simply incredible that Mr. Hearst can command such a vote . It follows therefore that the Hearst delegates , gathered in a unique manner , are to be traded away , and the wonder'at present relates to the spot they will bring up at Birmingham ( Ala . ) Age-Herald , ( Dent ) The Southern Democrats . The signs of the times point to the fact that while the Hon. William J. Bryan is listened to With respect throughout the South . he must prepare himself for disappointment if he expects Southern . Democrats to go to St. Louis with any idea of reaffirming , the Kansas City platform.Wilmington ( N. C. ) Star , ( Dem. )                     