@@675566

txt The Very Rev. John E. Barry of Concord , N. H. , Roman Catholic Vicar General of the Diocese of Manchester , N. H. , was knocked down and instantly killed by a cable car on Broadway directly opposite the Astor House at 4 o'clock yesterday afternoon . The body was wedged under the front end of the car , and it was necessary to jack it up to extricate the dead man . George Miller , the gripman , who lives at 334 East Ninety-third Street , was arrested and locked up in the Macdougal Street Station charged with homicide . Vicar General Barry was one of the many ' : priests who are at present in this city to attend the triduum in honor of the canonization of St. John the Baptist De La Salle at St. Patrick 's Cathedral . He had attended the mass yesterday morning , and after luncheon at the Astor House , where he was stopping , started out with the Rev. Father Culloch , also of Concord , and the Rev. Father Murphy of the De La Salle Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barclay Street in which Catholics Church goods are sold . Shortly before 4 o'clock they returned to the Astor House and left almost Immediately to visit the sister of Father Culloch , who is a nun in a convent in Brooklyn . They started across Broadway directly in front of the Astor House . The two accompanying priests walked a few steps ahead of Father Barry , and barely dodged Cable Car No. 229 , which was going uptown . Father Barry also tried to get across , but the car struck him and he was thrown violently to the ground . Miller , the gripman , immediately put on the brakes , but he could not bring his car to a standstill until the body of the priest had been wedged under the front . An ambulance was sent for from the Hudson Street Hospital and a jack was telephoned for . When the body was extricated Dr. Wilson pronounced the man dead . A hasty examination showed a probable fracture of the skull ; the left leg was broken below the hip , and the right arm above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The body was taken to the Church Street Station , accompanied by Fathers Culloch and Murphy , who had almost collapsed . Coroner Bausch issued an order allowing the removal of the body . and it was taken to an undertaking establishment and prepared for shipment . It will be sent to Concord to-day . Sergt. Mooney of the Church Street Station was standing in front of the Post Office when the accident occurred . He said Miller acted with great presence of mind , and brought his ear to a stop almost immediately . Father Barry was-an elderly man who was nearly 513 : feet tall and weighed more than ** pounds . Ile fell with great violence when the car struck him , and the physician said that death had been instantaneous . The two attending priests knelt down in the crowded thoroughfare as soon as the accident occurred , and as the awed crowd around bared their heads , administered the last rites of the Church to their dying 1 brother . Several men in the crowd knelt with the priests , who continued their prayers seemingly oblivious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose vicar Father Barry was . intended to preach at the services in the cathedral this morning . He has canceled this assignment anti will accompany Father Harry 's body to New Hampshire . The Bishop was greatly affected by the accident . Father Barry 's sister died two weeks ago , and he has another sister , aged and feeble , who lives in Connecticut . She was forI merly his housekeeper and they were much Iattached to each other . Efforts were made 1 last night to keep the news from this NI : - ter , as Father Culloch said that in her present enfeebled condition news of the 1 1 tragedy following so closely the death of her sister would prove fatal . One of the 1 priests , it was said , went to Connecticut last night to break the news as gently aS possible to the sister .                     