@@677201

txt The conference between the Presidents of the anthracite coal-carrying companies and the officers of the mine workers over the demands of the miners is expected to begin at 1:30 P. M. to-day and will be attended by the Scales Committee of Thirtysix of the Anthracite Mine Workers , headed by President Mitchell of the United Mine Workers , and all of the principal mine operators , and coal Presidents . President Mitchell refused to state yesterday what the demands were or give any definition of what the miners mean by recognition of the union . So far as is known the principal demands , as passed on at the Shamokin conference , which li may be modified , are : 1 . A trade agreement between the operators and the unions , which will be a full and complete recognition of the union . 2 . A reconstruction of the present Conciliation Board , so that each of the three anthracite districts shall have a separate and distinct board , the composition of the three Conciliation Boards to be determined by the operators and district officers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes of labor , skilled and unskilled , working in and about the mines . 4 . A 10 per cent , increase in wages , without exception , to all classes of workers , to include the employes of the independent colleries as well as the coal-carrying railroads. 5 . A settlement of many minor grievances existing In the various classes of labor In the anthracite districts which the Conciliation Board has seen unable to adjust under the award of the anthracite commission . There has been much discussion about what the miners will do when the demands they will make are refused . Dolan has said that Mitchell has all along known that the mine workers will not strike but will be satisfied if they secure a renewal of the present agreement . Shrewd observers of what has been transpiring in the ranks of the officials of the mine workers have given it as their opinion that there will be no strike and that a working arrangement with some modifications to meet present exigencies , will be agreed to . Though no formal meeting of the presidents of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they came to a final understanding as to what reply they will make . They have already stated very emphatically that the union will not be recognized in the sense of agreeing to employ only members of the union , though they are willing to make an agreement signed by officers of the United Mine Workers representing all the mine workers In the anthracite districts , union and non-union . This is the sort of agreement that was entered into when the anthracite strike commission was appointed . None of the officers of the union was willing to define yesterday what they meant by recognition of the union . They said that they would not talk until after the conference . As to the eight-hour workday , the operators take the stand that the miners work less than eight hours and that they will not grant the eight-hour workday to the rest of the mine workers . Some of the men who are classed as mine workers do very unimportant work , especially at the breakers . Neither will they grant an increase of 10 per cent , in wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of coal . The conference will probably take place in the offices of the Temple Coal and Iron Company , 143 Liberty Street . The following are expected to represent the companies : W. H. Truesdale , President of the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western Railroad ; Thomas P. Fowler , President of the New York , Ontario and Western Railroad ; E. J. Thomas , President of the Lehigh Valley Railroad ; F. D. Underwood , President of the Erie ; A. J. Cassatt , President of the Pennsylvania Railroad ; David Wilcox , President of the Delaware and Hudson Company , and George F. Baer , President of the Philadelphia and Reading Company . The representatives of the independent operators who will attend are W. L. Connell , Frank Pardee , J. L. Cake , who arrived last night from Wilkesbarre . They were accompanied by a number of officers of railroad companies , who will not be in the conference , but will be ready . to go before the conferees to give any information necessary . Some of them are members of the Conciliation Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coal Company ; General Manager Dryden of the Scranton Coal Company , Superintendent W. A. May of the Erie Company , Col. R. A. Phillips of the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company , C. C. Rose of the Delaware and Hudson Company , and Manager Richards of the Philadelphia and Reading Company . During the day President Mitchell went to St. Francis 's Hospital , in Jersey City , to see National Organizer , who was taken ill on his way here from Pittsburg . When Mitchell returned he said will not be able to attend the conference to-day . A man who followed Mitchell a good deal was set down as a private detective . Some of the miners here thought he was an emissary of Dolan , but others insisted that he was employed by the coal-carrying companies . Mitchell would not discuss the letter regarding the controversy with Dolan which he sent to Vice President Lewis , who is in Pittsburg- . He said , however , that he would stand for the letter . Mitchel did a good deal of talking over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the afternoon Edward A. Moffett , formerly the toarnodf t oofnf Valionrzrannactlf the Union , but now an official of the Civic Federation , called with invitations to members of Mitchell 's committee to attend the annual dinner of the New York Civic Fede  --  tion , which took place in the Park Aveaue Hotel last night . A number of local labor leaders called to see him and had talks with him , but he had little to say . The schedule of demand was prepared by the Scales Committee on Tuesday night , and there was no , necessity for a session yesterday . They ' were ratified by the three dis.trf.ct Presidents at the Ashland House and typewritten , after they had been amended in some details , for presentation to the coal operators today .                     