@@675446

txt Don Quixote 's combat with the windli was a practical operation compared to the contest that the Democratic Party continues to wage , under its present leaders , against the National banks . The infatuated knight at least believed that he was engaged with real monsters , and that it was his duty to attack . them at any risk to life or limb . The Democratic leaders can not believe that there is any , thing appalling in the banks , and they keep up their assaults chiefly because they think that a certain number of ignorant voters will be attracted to their ranks thereby . And unquestionably they grossly exaggerate the number of these persons . This makes a ridiculous situation . Men who act on their belief as to the belief of others , and do not even estimate correctly the latter belief , are not safe leaders . They are of the sort that land themselves and their followers in the ditch . Two very marked and strong movements are to be noted recently in reference to the banks , which show how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One is the movement toward consolidation in the lafge cities , of which the most notable instances are in New York . Shrewd and experienced men of affairs do not form plans involving the permanent investment of capital to the amount of $100,000,000 or more in single institutions unless they have made careful calculations as to the stability of the conditions attaching to their investment . Nor , it may be added , would such investment be profitable in the long run if there were not definite and lasting advantage secured to the business community thereby . Nothing would be more stupid than to plan a scheme of this magnitude that would not render to the public service that the public was ready and able to pay for . The second movement is that which resulted in the banking provisions of the recently passed currency law . There were three provisions of that law that looked directly to the perpetuation of the banking system . One . and the least important , was the permission to issue currency to the par value of the bonds deposited as security . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a provision of which a considerable number of capitalists have already availed themselves . The third and decidedly the most significant was the refunding of $800,000,000 of bonds in new low-rate bonds , with a reduction of taxation for the banks that may take out currency based on these bonds . Now there was a little perfunctory opposition to this bill in Congress , but it was slight and there was absolutely no opposition to it in the country . It was accepted witifout question . And yet the dull persons who aspire to lead the Democratic Party cling to the notion that a popular victory can be secured by endless denunciation of the banks . It is a happy omen on the eve of a Presidential election that no one pays any attention to them .                     