@@781297

txt Public swimming baths about the city are responsible for an epidemic of " pinkeye , " according to Dr. Cary , chief of the staff of physicians of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary , who , with his . assistant 's , are fairly worn out in treating the sufferers who in the last few days have flocked to their dispensary . The other hospitals and dispensaries in the city are get- , ting their full share of the work . One day this week , at the Vanderbilt Clinic , Dr. Ward A. Holden treated more than a dozen cases ; Bellevue reported twenty cases in one day , and Prof. Herman Knapp of the New York Ophthalmic and Aural Institute said yesterday that the disease is very prevalent . The infirmary on Tuesday of this week reached a maximum of 100 cases of " pinkeye " in a total of 196 cases for the day . Children form the great majority of the sufferers , which bears out the statement of Dr. Cary as to the way in which the disease is spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to present themselves for treatment at the same time . The malady is most contagious , but can only be propagated by the actual contact of the contamination , with a healthy eye . " Pink-eye " is most generally spread through households by towels and the use of the same washing facilities . The disease develops with startling suddenness , sometimes , in a few hours . The first symptoms are inflammation and an intense irritation , and the appearance of the pronounced pinkish tint about the eye from which the malady takes it , popular name . The eyelids puff up in great , angry swellings , which often prevents them from opening , and a discharge ensues . A remarkable instance occurred yesterday when a Flower Hospital surgeon saw a man groping helplessly in broad daylight along Lexington Avenue , near Seventyninth Street . The man told him he had just been stricken blind . The doctor saw at once that it was a pronounced case of " pink-eye , " and removed the patient , who was Charles E. Hobson , thirty-four years old , a car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bellevue , . from which he was at once transferred to the City Hospital on Blackwell 's Island , and there isolated from all other patients . Hobson said he believed he caught the disease while swimming in a public bath . Many other cases have been reported in the . neighborhood of the same bath . A son of William . Zeller , a barber , ' in Third Avenue , near Fifty-second Street , was almost blinded for some time after bathing there , and at the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital , where the patients from this section have gone in considerable numbers , the trouble , has . also been laid to the bath . Assistant Sanitary Superintendent Dill-ingham said yesterddy , afternoon that he received no cempletint about the bath . ' would would certainly order an immediate reinspection. deleted paragraph " Pink-eye " is known to physicians as muco purulent conjunctivitis . If neglected at first it may produce total and permanent blindness , yet , Dr. Cary said yesterday , it yields readily to treatment , and patients are generally entirely cured in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms are so alarming and painful generally brings the sufferer to his family physician or the nearest hospital on the run . The original infection in the water , doctors say , may come from adjacent sewers , but It is far more likely to be due to the fact that the crowds of bathers follow each other so rapidly that the water has not time to change with the flowing tide between the detachments . The custom at the baths is to let a crowd equal to the full capacity of the dressing rooms remain in the water for twenty minutes , and then they are driven out and another company immediately admitted .                     