@@675463

txt Of the many disturbances that have arisen from time to time among the 20,000 negroes here the most unusual disorder was developed a few days ago . A mulatto , calling himself " Percy of Dominica , " and declaring that he was , among other things , a new apostle , was at the bottom of the trouble , as a result of which an old negro woman is now dead from self-starvation and five colored men , including Percy , are in prison . It was more than a fortnight ago that the fanatic made his appearance . He arrived during the last week in April on one of the numerous fruit steamers plying between this port and the Dominican Republic , but the news of his coming had preceded him , and the church-going backs of Wilmington had sent their leading divines to the ship 's pier to greet him . As the gangplank was lashed to the vessel 's deck a brass band struck up what was intended to be " Rock of Ages , " and the delegation shouted and prayed loudly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible above the deck 's railing . They did . not wait long , however , before the object of their thoughts hove in sight . Clad in the usual garments of half-civilized men , although there were possibly more of them than are usual with the West Indian negro , he presented an appearance by no means as remarkable as his reputation had indicated . He was tall , with a bright yellow complexion and crisp black hair , and his eyes , which were really the only noteworthy features about the man , showed unmistakable signs of lunacy . They wandered and glared like those of a wild animal and seemed to possess the faculty of perpetual motion . ANNOUNCES HIS TITLE . " I am Percy of Dominica , " said the traveler in a loud voice as soon as he saw the crowd that awaited him . The horns of the brass band continued their blasts and the singers continued to sing , not recognizing their prophet in the tall figure above them , nor hearing his voice through the din of their own making . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a second time , in still louder tones . Every one heard it now . The horns were quiet , and the elders rushed forward to meet the great man , who hastily descended the gangplank , embraced the first half a dozen men he could lay hands on , and then raised his voice in a long , wandering prayer . He thanked God and every saint in the calendar for his safe voyage , finally ending with the announcement that he would shortly free Wilmington from Satanic bondage . From the pier he was escorted with great ceremony to Brooklyn , a negro suburb'of the town . Making his headquarters there , he proceeded to hold daily meetings , and before a week had elapsed hundreds of colored men and women were flocking to hear him preach . " Peace and good will to all men " was the message announced . It mattered not . said the preacher , to what Church or sect any man belonged ; he was privileged to join " the faith " after fulfilling one condition , which was a rigid and unconditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be partaken of during that period . Further , it was declared that the converts I should repeat the starvation process yearly , some time between the 1st of April and the end of June . As a reward for self-torment and continual prayer , the disciples of the new creed were promised that a personal visit from Christ would be made to them in the year MG . He would come down , declared the new apostle , and gather together those who had fasted regularly according to the rule , taking them back to heaven with him in " a golden chariot as big as half a dozen ships . " ONE VICTIM IS DEAD . The preachings continued uninterruptedly until ten . days ago , when it was found that an old colored woman had died of starvation resulting from the religious fast , and that many others , both male and female , were either on the verge of illness or entirely bedridden through weakness from lack of nourishment . It is said that several hundred attempted to obey Percy 's orders , and that he himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When this state of affairs was discovered , Percy and four men who . had been especially zealous in assisting to promote " the faith " were arrested and confined in the county jail . The charge against the leader was murder , while the others were incarcerated for complicity in the alleged crime . Immediately most of the converts throughout the city took fright and abandoned their claims to a ticket to heaven in the golden chariot which Percy had heralded , but even now there are considerable numbers in the various suburbs who continue to fast and hold revival meetings . TEMPTING THE ARISONERS . The prisoners at first refused any food , pushing it from their cells with exclamations of pious horror . Finally , however , they yielded to temptation , one by one , Percy himself being moved by the savory odors of some chicken broth that had been made particularly nice in order to bring about his downfall . He afterward excused the breaking of his fast by saying that the moon had taken a sudden change , telling him he might eat as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much relieved by the turn affairs have taken , because a legal opinion had been handed down by the Solicitor to the effect that forcing food on the prisoners would be assault and battery . The report that the leaders of the movement had ceased their fast has been purposely spread abroad , and it is expected that -- all traces of the disturbance will soon be obliterated .                     