@@678357

txt Henry C. Frick , Charles M. Schwab , Judge E. H. Gary , and a certain New York leader in banking circles are to be invited to appear before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary to testify to their knowledge of the merger which the White House is said to have sanctioned and which resulted in the United States Steel Corporation absorbing the Tennessee Coal and Iron Company . The New York banker already has outlined the testimony he will give , which is to the effect that there was no excuse or necessity for the merger and that the financial institution which was said by President Roosevelt to be in sore straits during the late panic and was used as an excuse for the absorption of the Tennessee Company by the so-called Steel Trust was not in a bad way at all . The testimony of . this banker , it is foreseen , will place the President in a position that will compel reply , and the battle between Congress and the White House gives promise of an early revival . The sensation was loosed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to the conclusion that the investigation was becoming so complicated that it would be unfair to ask five men to shatider all the work and , more im ; . ortant still , all the responsibility . The members of this sub-committee are Senators Clark ; Chairman or the full committee ; Hemenway , Kittredge , Culberson , and Overman . Accordingly It was decided to turn the investigation over to the full committee to continue its prosecution . The fell committee consists of fourteen members . Merger Followed Conference . The merger followed a conference at the White House between the President , Henry C. Prick , and Judge E. H. Gary . As a , result of this conference it is asserted that the two steel men were sufficiently guaranteed that tie action would be started against them by the Government to go ahead with the absorption or the Tennessee Company . The failure of the Department of ' Justice to take action in the merger had been the subject of many remarks in Congress ? but not until this month was anything done about it . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Attorney General for the facts in the case . The Attorney General 's reply is a matter of history . He made a. vague answer to the President , who , in turn , . wrote Ida fa- ? mous " none-of-your-business letter " to the Senate , declaring that Congress could not command any head of an executive department to deliver information or opinions , and that the merger , while not approved by . the Administration , was in the interest of the country : that it saved a big financial concern : and prevented a dangerous spread of the Immo that then was already in progress . As a retort Mr. Culberson introduced still another resolution instructing the Committee on the Judiciary to investigate the merger and report on the culpability of the Attorney General in winking at it and in failing to prosecute it Under the provisions of the Sherman anti-trust law . This went to the committee , which promptly appointed the sub-committee . Every one believed that the resoltition had been lulled peacefully to sleep . The sub-committea. however , has been taking hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Been Found . There is said to have been intrigue piled on intrigue , and misrepresentation on misrepresentation . The New York banker , it is reported , has declared to a member of the committee that no reason existed for the absorption of the Tennessee Coal and Iron Company . The representations made at the White House were that a certain banking concern in New York held securities of that company in such an amount , the company being in such bad shape thal its securities ' were not good as.sets , , that there was a strong possibility of the financial organization going to the wan . This , it was explained at the time , would bring down with it numbers of other banking institutions in New York and transform the panic , already disastrous enough , into a monetary and commercial nightmare . This banker , it is declared on the best authority , is prepared to testify that tile Tennessee Coal and Iron Company was in good condition ; that its securities were considered " gilt-edged , " and that no suspicion of its stability existed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were concerned , and that the President probably was misled . Along just what lines Messrs . Prick and Gary of the Steel Corporation and Charles M. Schwab , late of that corporation , will he quizzed is not quite made clear . No doubt exists that Messrs . Prick and Gary will be asked to divulge just what happened at the White House conference and the arguments they employed in addressing Mr. Roosevelt . Mr. Schwab , it is not unlikely , will be utilized to show that these arguments may not have been altogether fair . At least It is generally believed that he will be questioned more as a witness in rebuttal than directly on the general features of the case . President May Balk Committee . There Is one feature of the situation that is worrying the committee , however . It has discovered that under the law it can not compel the President to make public the reports he has gathered With reference to the corporations . These reports would be invaluable in examining the witnesses in the merger . The creation of the Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' which , after providing for the Commissioner and his assistants and fixing their salaries , declares : The said commission shall have power and authority to make , under the direction and control of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor , diligent investigations into the organization , conduct , and management of the business of any corporation , joint stock company or corporate combination engaged in commerce among the several States and with foreign Nations , excepting common carriers subject to ? an act to regulate commerce . " approved Feb. 4th , 1887. and to gather such information and data as will enable the President of the United States to make recommendations to Congress for legislation for the regulation of such commerce and to report such data to the President from time to time as he shall require ; and the information so obtained or as Much thereof as the President may direct shall be made public . tinder this law it will be impossible , should Mr. Roosevelt object to granting the committee access to the files , for it to get the information it desires . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear before the sub-committee last week . quoted this law as relieving him of the necessity of testifying . It is this rebuff that has put the committee on its mettle .                     