@@678461

txt Slx Chicago theaters figure today in charges of violating the child labor law . On the complaint of Edgar T. Davies . chief of the department of factory inspection , warrants charging misdemeanor were Issued against M. Cory , manager of the comedy " Mary Jane 's Pa. " now playing at the Chicago opera house , and against Augustus Pitou , manager of the " Traveling Salesman , " occupying the Illinois theater . They will be served today . Gretchen Hartman , 11 years old . Is one of the actors in " Mary Jane 's Pa . " Two children appear every night In the performance of the " Traveling Salesmen . " One of these Is S years of age and the other 11 . Cases to Be Heard Today . Managers of the People 's theater , Marlowe theater , Thirty-first Street theater , and the New Grand theater will answer charges of violating the child labor law in Municipal Judge Fry 's court this afternoon . Agalnat the People 's theater on West Van Buren street fourteen counts have been sworn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counts have been lodged against the New Grand theater , five against the Marlowe theater , and two against the Thirty-first street theater . The roundup of theaters which have violated . the state statute with reference to the employment of children is the result of a vigorous campaign which has been waged hv the factory inspection bureau during the last few weeks . It was undertaken in an effort to determine just how much child labor was employed In Chicago theaters , and Is of particular significance at present In view of the fact that theatrical interests have now before the legislature a bill to nullify the law prohibiting child labor In theaters . Inspector Davies Talks . " This bill must not only De uereatet , um . the present law must be made stronger , " said Factory Inspector Davies last night . " The remodeled bill , In the interests of which the theatrical men are doing some powerful lobbying , stipulates that children shall be permitted to work on the stage with the consent of their parents , " An instance of how this will work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girls who is playing nightly before Chicago audiences now is only 11 years old . But she claims that she Is 16 , and her mother , too , asserts that she is that old . Well , if mothers are permitted to swear as to the ages of daughters for the sake of the salaries they may earn on the stage , with the proposed law in effect It will be no trouble for stage managers , with the Droller inducements , to persuade parents to hire out their children . The fact of the matter is that the state must protect these children whether their parents will or not . Stage Has Lure for Chad , " The stage has a lure for the cnrru mat is hard to overcome , and most of the parents realize nothing at all of its hardships and temptations . They may be dazzled by the offer of good salaries , and see nothing else . " The present law is faulty in another detail . It does not permit the factory inspector to remove the child from the playhouse . All we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the manager . That takes time , and the play may be over and gone before we can get action . Provision should be made so that the child can be. , taken from the stage at once , " Aside from the theatrical cases twenty-five factory heads will be called 4efore Municipal Judge Fry today to answer charges of violating the child labor law .                     