@@677298

txt There is one service of considerable National importance and value to be credited to Senator GORMAN in his long political career : he fought successfully the " force bills " by which the Republican leaders sought absolute control of the conventions of their party , and the passage of which would inevitably have produced ? infinite confusion , obstinate disorder , and possible civil conflict in the South . That , so far as our memory serves , is the only thing of real utility either to the Nation or to his own party that this singularly conspicuous politician ever actually accomplished . This , it must be added , he accomplished by devices that were far from commendable in themselves , and some of their consequences were extremely costly in many ways . For one thing he secured the co-operation of the Senators from the " mining camps " by compromises on the silver question that gave to that issue much baleful vitality . For another he bargained with the protectionists , and the outcome of his bargaining was seen in the utter demoralization of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CimvELAND 's second Administration , grappled with the tariff . But device and bargaining were of the essence of politics as Mr. Gonmale conceived and practiced politics . That was shown in the history of his leadership in his own State . So long as his party was strongly in the majority he confined himself to tricking opponents within the party . When the defections from his party and the growth of the State had made conditions more equal , Mr. ** undertook the application of the same tactics in his contests with regular political opponents . One of the most complete examples of these tactics was offered last year when , under the pretense of a scheme to disfranchise the negroes , he proposed one that would enable his own machine todisfranchise any one , white or black . The happy result n-as that he split his own party , though he undertook to bribe his opponents by the amazing promise that if they would stand by him he would get out of politics . Three years ago Mr. GORMAN came back to the Senate to resume the leadership of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas and the ideals of his previous career . How completely he failed of success the history of these years proves . With him in some degree will pass the kind of politics of which he was a representative , and , though it is not a pleasant thing to say of a man no longer living , it will not be bad for the Country that this kind of politics should disappear . Moreover it may be said of him that he was very candid in his own references to the game he played , and thought his methods the only ones by which the principles of his party could be advanced . Personally he was kindly , courteous , and capable of winning and keeping warm friends .                     