@@677864

txt The Society of the Sons of the Revoli.em tion , with many distinguished guests , took formal possession of Fraunces 's Tavern , which has stood since 1719 on the corner of Broad and Pearl Streets , yesterday . It was the anniversary of Washington 's farewell to his officers which took plane in the " Long Room " of the building 124 years ago . Two tablets were uncovered at the tavern , and then the society and its guests adjourned to the Chamber of Commerce , where speeches were made and a letter from President Roosevelt read : The ceremony began with a procession of the members and guests of the society . from the corner of Beaver and Broad Streets to the Tavern . First came a. squad of mounted police , followed by the Seventh Regiment Band ; then the Veteran Corps of Artillery in their blue uniforms , constituting the military society of the war of 1812 . The invited guests followed In carriages , while the officers and members marched behind . The first tablet was unveiled in the " Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hundred guests . It was in bronze and stated that in Fraunce 's Tavern the Cha:nber of Come merce was founded in 1763 ; that here the Committee of Fifty met in 1774 ; that in this room Washington oade farewell to his officers in 1783 , and that the Tavern , acquired by the Sons of use Revolution In 1904 , was dedicated by them in 1007 . The unveiling was followed Dy a speech . of thanks from Edmund Wetmore , President of the society , to Ronert Olyphant , Chairman of the committee which had seen to the restoration of the tavern . A second tablet on the corner of the building dedicated to the memory of Frederick Samuel Taimidgc , formerly a President of the society , whose generosity had led to the acquisition of the building , was then unveiled . The procession then reformed and marched to the Chamber of Commerce Building , where guests and members assembled in the reception hall . There were some 000 present , standing in a semi-circle about the platform on which the President of the society sat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I C. F. Goodrich on the other . A letter from President Roosevelt expressing regret at his inability to be present and con. gratulating the society on their celebration was read . Gov . Hughes also sent his regrets . President Edmund Wetmore made an address recalling the historical incidents of which the tavern had been the scene  --  the meetings of the Sons of Liberty . the occupation by the British , and finally Washington 's leavetaking there after his victorious march through the city . He ended his speech by comparing the conditions of the men of those days to our conditions , and said : " They , starting with a bankrupt Treasury , finally established the Nation 's credit on a firm foundation , and we have seen the wealth we feared as a menace poured out as a flood to stay the advance of National disaster . " A speech from Hugh Hastings , formerly State historian , who represented Mayor McClellan , then followed . He congratulated the society and the cly on acquiring for preservation " the venerable structure whose identity is inseparable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ton . " Two short addresses , one by John Lee Carroll of Baltimore , General of the Sons of the Revolution , the other by J. Edward Simmons . wound up the meeting . MN Carroll spoke of the importance of Nevi ' York as an example to the cities of the Nation and of the dutyof born Americans : to help the incoming foreigners to become , imbued with American tradition and the National spirit . Mr. Simmons thanked the Sons of the Revolution for restoring to its pristine glory the old tavern whletA had been the birthplace of the Chamber of Commerce . After the speeches refreshments were provided in the upper room , and In the evening a meeting of the society was held at Delmonico 's . EMIGRANT RUSH ON THE WANE Adriatic Sails Without Part of Hee Steerage Consignment . Crowded with passengers , the WI ! Ns Star liner Adriatic sailed yesterday for Southampton in a blinding snow soualL She carried 230 first cabin , 325 second ? cabin , and 760 steerage passengers . Owing to storms in the West , 250 intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held ten minutes for them , but word cams that the train had broken down between here and Chicago . Officials of the White Star Line bellexe that the steerage rush Is on the wane , and that the resumption of work by see . eral Pennsylvania manufacturing con. terns has caused many to change their plans . Two Italian steerage passengers , dressed in their working clothes . arrived in a cub just before the gangplanks were taken in . They were hustled aboard the firs cabin way , and their arrival caused much amusement .                     