@@677842

txt Aurel Batonyi , the society whip who married Mrs. BurkeRoche , daughter of Frank Work of New York , arrived in Newport last night and to-day made an effort to see his wife at her apartment in the Robinson . Batonyi on being denied an interview with his wife expressed astonishment , but went away without any further Inquiry . He went to the Lawrence Club , where he announced that he had entered suit aggregating $1,500,000 against Frank Work , Mr. and Mrs. Peter Cooper Hewitt , and Frank K. Sturgis of New York , on the ground that individually and collectively they have alienated from him the affections of Mrs. Batonyi . " I came here , " said Mr. Batonyi. " to inspect some real estate and to get an interview with my wife . In that I failed . She told me that she would like to see me. but she could not as her father had forbidden her to through James Henry Work , the family lawyer , and others associated with him . Tells Work Not to Supply Money . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to communicate with me in any manner or form , and that in compliance with these conditions only could she get any money from her father . To him I have sent this telegram : ' Fanny told me to-day that you , through James Henry Work and other lawyers , have forbidden her to see me or communicate with me . Please do not supply her with any more money , directly or indirectly , as I will look after her needs . I ask you again to let me have my wife back . ' " I have sent many communications to Mr. Work , and I hope that they win be produced at the trial . I think that this is the greatest shame , and that it is against the laws and Constitution of the United States that a man and his wife should be parted In such a manner and that the wife should be turned completely , against her husband . . - - - " In the suit I have brought there will be no compromise and any damages awarded will go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and last drop of blood . I am heartbroken . " In Social Sensations . Mrs. Batonyi , known in her girlhood days In New York as " the beautiful Fanny Work , " has repeatedly been the central figure in sdcial sensations , beginning with her marriage to Mr. Burke Roche of England , whom she subsequently divorced . She made her home after the separation at the home of her father in New York . Her children were with her . More than a year ago society was startled by the announcement that Mrs. Burke Roche had for many months been the wife of Batonyi , whose chief claim to distinction seemed to lie in the fact that he had a special skill in the management of horses . Immediately the serious social troubles of the couple began . Mrs. Batonyi 's father cut off her money supplies and her children declined to recognize her in the streets of Newport as the wife of Aurel Batonyi . The social and financial pressure become so severe that little astonishment was expressed when the announcement was made that Batonyl had left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mile Corner farm , and that Mrs. Batonyi was about to seek a reconciliation with her father and children and reinstatement in that social set in which in former years site had been so conspicuous . That she had been unsuccessful , so far as her father and fashionable society was concerned , has been obvious to Newporters . She has lived in close retirement , no longer uses a carriage , and her interest in the Two Mile Corner property is for sale . There has been considerable speculation recently as to the whereabouts of Mr. Batonyi . His departure was unannounced , and his destination concealed . It was supposed that he had gone to Europe . His arrival here yesterday renewed interest in his affairs , and the statement to-day is taken as Indicating that the breach between himself and his wife is complete .                     