@@676967

txt Without regard to the merits of his cause mankind admires a man who stakes his all upon a single cast . The progress of the war has made the world look forward to a Russian defeat wherever , on land or sea , her forces encounter those of Japan : And yet the world must cheer ROSESTVENSKY , steering up the main track of traffic in : the China Sea , proclaiming to every passer that he is looking for his enemy and ready to meet him . He is doing all one man can do to retrieve the reputation of his country . In fact , however , RosEsTVENSKY'has little to lose , for his own life he nobly counts as little . And he has . everything to win . The case of Russia is manifestly desperate . Her measures must be measures of desperation . The destruction of the last Russian fleet afloat in Eastern waters will not alter her position . But if , by some strange turn of the wheel , it should be the - Japanese fleet which is destroyed or disabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be changed . It is a desperate gambler 's chance that the Russian Admiral is taking , taking it like a man , and is setting his own life , upon the- cast . But the Japanese are in no condition to risk the issue of a doubtful conflict . From the beginning of the war they have husbanded their great ships with noticeable care , even while they were eagerly throwing away their own lives . They will not as they should not , change this policy now , when the adverse out- come of a single naval battle might lay open the , waterway from their islands I to the mainland where their army of half a million is sustained from home . The bravery of desperation which the Russian situation enjoins the Japanese situation discourages and forbids . Conduct which on the part of a Russian Admiral is that not only of a brave mart but of a wise commander , on the part of a Japanese Admiral would be criminal foolhardiness . In other words , it is most unlikely that the Japanese will meet ROJEStVENSKY where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where and when it pleases them . And , when the battle is at last joined , we may he sure that the Japanese have joined it under circumstances which reduce the issue of it to as near a certainty as the nature of naval warfare admits . They will be able to . employ the daggers of their torpedo craft as well as the broadsides of their battleships . There is no such battlefield in the open China Sea . There is such a battlefield in the Korean Strait , which the Russian Admiral must traverse to reach the only " home 1ort " left him in the Pacific .                     