@@676819

txt New York State Day was celebrated at the exposition today . The Garde Republicaine Band of France and Prof. S. H. Groves of New York at the organ furnished music during the exercises in the New York Building , which was beautifully decorated . State Commissioner Edward Lyman Bill of New York City recited . Addresses were made by Director of Exhibits Skiff and Commissioner Bill , to which Gov . Odell responded . In the course of his remarks Gov . Odell said : " Every able-bodied citizen of our country is an asset , and those who through weakness , however painful the admission may be , are incapacitated from labor , must be entered uppn the debit side of the National ledger . Therefore the laws that guard against burdensome toil , too long hours of labor , and against ignorance , are not only humanitarian in their character , but are best calculated to prornote the interest of all the people . " In the division of society , those who labor and those who represent capital should always be in accord , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights of the other . It fs too frequently the case that through misunderstanding of our laws and the higher economical conditions friction does arise between these two great elements of society . The right of every man to sell his products or his labor in the best market is unquestioned , and any interference with this principle of sound government is a menace to the Republic itself . " Every man should be a part of the Government . He should feel it to be as much his duty to respond to civic responsibilities as do those living under a monarchy , whose early tuition instills in them the belief that they owe the best part of their lives to the military service of their Government . As they are undeterred by fear of death or disaster , so should our young men be undeterred from entering public life by calumny , vilification , and abuse , which they see too frequently and too unjustly bestowed upon others . " This evening a reception was tendered to Gov. and Mrs. Odell . SAW SCHOONER BURN AT SEA . Kaiser Wilhelm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A burning three-masted schooner , which was passed off the banks of New Found-land about 6 o'clock last Saturday afternoon , was the most interesting incident of the voyage of the ' North German Lloyd liner Kaiser ' Wilhelm der Grosse , which reached this port late yesterday afternoon . It was impossible to read the schooner 's name , and as her lifeboats were still on deck the crew had undoubtedly been taken off by some passing steamship , after which the vessel was set afire , owing to her ( Ian , gerous position in the path of navigation . When the burning hulk was discovered the Kaiser circled around the wreck to be certain that none of the crew remained , but a delay of half an hour proved that no living thing remained . Some of the passengers made out on the deck the dead bodies of a dog and a Pig , both of which had probably been killed as an act of mercy when the ship was deserted . Peter Cooper Hewitt , the electrical engineer and inventor of the mercury lamp , returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been making an automobile tour in Italy , France , and England with Mrs. Hewitt . Another passenger was the Rev. Dr. William J. Dawson , the London Congregationalist preacher , who was met by the Rev. Dr. Newell Dwight Hillis of Plymouth Church , and expects while in America to deliver about forty lectures in as many days . He will lecture in Plymouth Church Saturday afternoon . Dr. Dawson said that the fight now being made in England against the educational tax appeared to be bearing fruit . He likened the fight to that of the " Boston tea " episode , in that the opposition was not so much against the tax as against the principle of it . Fraulein Hedwig von Ostermann and ' Herr Max Freyburg of the Irving Place Theatre Company , and F. V. Pollock of Illinois , the tenor , who has been in Paris five years and will be with the Metropolitan Opera Rouse company this year , also came over .                     