@@677013

txt Mr. JAMES DALRYMPLE , Glasgow 's managing expert of tramways , hailed , and Imported by the " Lord Mayor " of Chicago and the Municipal Ownership League of New York as the high apostle of boss-run street railways , has experienced a conversion and given his adorers a chill . His change of prospect from the fair municipal landscape of Glasgow to the political bogs and quagmires of Chicago is marked by the following two utterances , the first delivered just after Mr. DALRYMPLE landed and was hugged by the Leagueites in this city , the other on his way back on Tuesday via Philadelphia : I see no reason why Chicago , or any other city in this country , should not be able to own its street railways and to run them with as much success as we have achieved at Glasgow . I admit that the proposition at Chicago is a much larger one than the one we had to tackle , but at the bottom it is the same , The people or Glasgow would not go back . to the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am not saying that a company could not do as well by the public . I know , in fact , that it could , but it would be doing so with a somewhat different end in view . For a company has always the shareholders to consider . And I have to admit that you will find people in Glasgow to-dayquite influential people , too  --  who say that the street-car service is not profitable . To put street railroads , gas works , telephone companies , under municipal ownership would be to create a political machine in every large city that would be simply impregnable . These political machines are already strong enough with their control of policemen , firemen , and other office holders . If , in addition to this they could Control the thousands of men employed in the great public utility corporations , the political machines would have a power that could not be overthrown . I came to this country a believer in public ownership . What I have seen here , and I have studied the situation carefully , makes me realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the citizens of American cities . Ex-Judge D CADY HERRicx , in a notable debate on the municipal proposition before the Reform Club last month , expressed himself as follows : If you consider your officials incompetent , why in Heaven 's name should you add to their responsibilities ? If I were in charge of a political machine I would n't want any better asset than just those activities that you purpose placing under municipal control . What a magnificent opportunity for " graft " : With municipal ownership , either the trades unions would be crushed or would rule everything . Why Ixy municipal ownership before it has been tried thoroughly in other cities ? There is no use ' going from bad to worse . If the honest Scotch expert gets safely back to Glasgow he and Judge HERRICK may extend . " hands  - -  across the sea . "                     