@@676190

txt A notable edition to the controversy over the Government 's Education bill was made to-night by Premier Balfour in an address he delivered before a mass meeting held in connection with the annual conference of the National Union Conservative Constitutional Association . The Premier declared that the agitation against and the opposition to the bill were due to misunderstandings caused by false statements of its provisions and intentions . Mr. Balfour said the voice of the caluminator had been too long uninterrupted , but that the country would no longer be hoodwinked by the travesties of truth which had been drunk in by those from whom better things were to be expected . The Government had chosen to disturb educational peace because the existing system of education was chaotic , ineffectual , and behind the age , making Great Britain the laughing stock of other nations , and it was bound , the Premier said , to provide secondary public education and to co-ordinate all the branches of public education under the control of the boroughs and county councils . If , in doing this , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balfour did not begrudge it . Continuing , the Premier asserted that a majority of the people believed religion should be taught in the schools , but that it did not agree as to what religion , and that the only alternative was a system permitting denominational teaching in schools wholly supported by rates , as well as promoting it in those schools which were not wholly so supported . He said that the claim that representation did not follow taxation was erroneous , since the real control of the schools was vested , not in the church authorities , but in the municipal councils and their constituencies . The threats of the Nonconformists to refuse to pay the rates , the Premier said , were unworthy the citizens of a free country . Civilized government was impossible if dissatisfied citizens refused to obey the laws . The Nonconformists , the Premier declared . should hail the bill with pleasure , for it was an effort to give the people unlimited control of education , and their objections to it were , in reality , political , their object being to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeated in this measure there would be no hope of educational reform , as the agitators did no , desire it . Mr. Balfour said he did not consider the consequences on political grounds , because the stake was the education of a generation of children . " If this reform is not unhesitatingly carried through , " concluded the Premier , " the Government will earn and deserve the contempt of parents and of children yet unborn . " The meeting passed a resolution pledging its support to the bill .                     