@@677344

txt The jury which has been inquiring into the death or Michael Butler , the watchman who was killed on the Plaza Hotel cn July 11 , decided yesterday afternoon that Butler met his death by accident , and that the seven ironworkers , members of the Housesmiths ' Union , who have been held at the Tombs without ball on a charge of homicide should be exonerated . Coroner Acritelli in his charge to the Jurymen after all the testimony had been submitted acknowledged that the George A. Fuller Company , which is constructing the building , was entirely within its rights in putting special watchmen over the ironworkers , and that any opinion that the watchmen had been put there to cause trouble should be ignored . The verdict in substance was : " We find that Michael Butler came to his death by virtue of injuries received by an accidental fall at the building in course of construction known as the new Plaza Hotel . " Immediately after the verdict was announced three of the prisoners , Walter Smith , Terrence H. Kane , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered to connect them with the assaults . The other four , George Smith , John Enright , William Kufer , and John Behan , however , were immediately rearrested and locked up in the Elizabeth Street Station on a charge of felonious assault preferred by William O'Toole , one of the watchmen , who had testified against them . They will have a hearing on the new charge in the Tombs Court this morning . The Jury 's verdict came as a natural conclusion to the unanimous statement of ironworkers who had been called as witnesses by the District Attorney that they had neither heard ' nor seen , any fight at the time Butler met his death . Several witnesses for the defense , members of the union , testified yesterday that they had seen Butler walk to a pillar on the seventh floor of the building and step upon the edges of two planks : , which snipped , throwing him to the floor below . The jury accepted this evidence in the face of testimony offered by Dr. Alfred Stewart of Flower Hospital , who testified that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the ironworkers had attacked him , and that he had been thrown from the seventh floor . Dr. Case of the hospital seemed to think that contusions on Butler 's body had been caused by a fall rather than by blows . Harry , an ironworker , offered important testimony . He told the jury that he had seen Butler walking slowly and carefully along a beam on the seventh floor , evidently intending to go below . " As I looked up from my place on the sixth floor , " he said , " I saw Butler step upon the ends of two planks backed up against each other . The further ends of both planks shot up in the air when he put his weight on them , and the man shot down past me to the fourth floor . The planks fell with him . " Daniel Conahan and Thomas McCormick testified to the same effect . Kufer , Enright , George Smith , and Behan were examined in turn , and - denied that they had had any trouble with Butler , or that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They declared that Butlere identification of them at the hospital had been more or less-vague . At the end of their testimony Coroner Acritelli briefly charged the jury , saying among ether things : " It is your duty in reaching your verdict to consider only the testimony relevant to this inquest , and therefore you should discard the testimony given by Witness Ferguson as to the motives of the Fuller Company in putting the special officers on their job . The Fuller Company was well within its rights in doing Jo , and its motives are not to be questioned in this inquisition . " The jury was out half ae hour . The court room waa  --  crowded with ironworkers and their wives when the jury reported their verdict . The audience cheered when the foreman read the verdict . It was said yesterday at the Building Trades Club that the George A. Fuller Company has employed 100 members of the Housesmiths and Brldgemen 's Union on the Plaza Hotel , which is to be rushed to completion . The Fuller Company is not a member of the Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Building Trades Employers ' Association , with which the former is affiliated , and the news that the firm had members of the union at work again on this hotel caused surprise . when the general strike of the housesmiths was declared for ee a day and the open shop was declared in the trade the Fuller Company was allowed to employ the members of the union because the Plaza Hotel was held to be an emergency contract . The housesmiths had been receiving $4.50 a day before they made the demand , and the Fuller Company . with several of the independent contractors , employed members of the union at a compnerniee rate of el.80 a day . After the killing of the special watchman , Butler , all the union housesmiths quit . Later some nonunion men were employed .                     