@@676312

txt A determined and successful opposition developed to-day to the passage of the Aldrich bill . When the Senate adjourned Saturday the indications for a vote some time to-day were favorable . It was understood that a number of speeches would ' tie made against certain features of ; the bill , but it was expected with the acceptance of amendments and modifications the opposition would be content and allow a vote to be taken . Yesterday there was every evidence of a disposition to interpose factious opposition on the part of a few of the Democratic Senators , and this afternoon these gentlemen , led by Senators Dubois and Rawlins , began a filibuster that was maintained during the afternoon and continued to-night . i To-night Mr. Aldrich practically admits i that the bill is dead . Its death warrant was f signed when Senator Carmack announced 1 in the Senate this evening that the Democrats would use every means in their power to prevent its passage . The Aldrich bill probably will be laid aside when the Senate meets to-morrow , and 1 Senator Lodge will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to get a vote thereon , although it is generally regarded as impossible to get a vote on it at this late day in the session . 1 The Democratic Senators began to-day where they left off Saturday and their speeches and actions showed every mark of determined filibustering . Senator Aldrich , recognizing the desperate situation in which . the bill was placed , allowed it to be laid aside temporarily until late in the afternoon , when the General Deficiency Appropriation bill could be finished . After that he was willing to be gracious and allow Senator Foraker to make an attempt to pass the Hawaiian Irrigation bill . 1 f-hen this long standing bone of contention had dragged along for three-quarters of an hour and showed signs of the usual Prolonged controversy that has hitherto signalized its consideration , he insisted on the special order . When the Aldrich bill was taken up Senator Teller resumed his argument against it . The Republican Senators contributed little to the discussion . Their only course was to sit still and let the opposition discuss the subject to exhaustion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defiant challenge to the majority to take up and finish the Philippine investigation . No Senator on t he other side uttered a sound in reply to 1 him . At 6 o'clock adjournment was taken untii S. Immediately on convening at S o'clock Mr. Dubois moved an adjournment . The motion was lost . Mr. Mason presented the conference report on the Post Office Appropriation bill , which was agreed to . A House bill providing for a. delegate to I he House of Representatives from Porto Rico in lieu of a Commissioner was laid before the Senate . A substitute was offered by Mr. Poraker , providing for the appoint ment by the President of three commise.ioners whose duty shall be to main ' careful investigation into titles and claims of the Holy Roman Catholic Church in Porto Rico and the United States to certain property thole , to make findings and conclusions , and to report to the President . The substitute also provides that Porto Rica as may be naturalized . Mr. Foraker expl Lined that at present Porto Ricans were worse off than aliens . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide for the appointment of a District Judge for the Western Judicial District of South Carolina , and authorizing the Secretary of War to grant a right of way through Vancouver Barracks and Military Reservation in Washington to the Pland , Vancouver and Yakima Railway Col . pant ' . The conference report on the Agricultural Appropriation bill was agreed to . The Aldrich bill then was taken up . Mr. Mallory of Florida offered an amendment . providing that National banking associations shall . preserve deposits of public money separate and apart from the other moneys , and also providing that on loans of public money a rate of interest not to exceed 4 per cent , shall be charged . Mr. MeLaurin . ( Miss. , ) wanted a bill . passed . whereupon Mr. Aldrich remarked that , as it was it Senate bill , it could not possibly become law . " Is n't this hill we are considering a Senate bill " . " inquired Mr. mei.aurin . " Yes . " said Mr. Aldrich , " : tad f hope it will become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought Mr. Morgan to his feet , who said the little colloquy had made an immense revelation of what was going on in the Senate to-night . " There is evidently an arrangement matte by which this bill is to be passed through the House under a rule for its consideration , and that there is nobody in that House , particularly a Democrat , who will be permitted to have a word to say about it . " It was an object lesson , he said . and shows the bill does not stand on the same footing as other legislation . The bill , he said , was a most dangerous measure . At Ibis point Mr. Morgan remarked upon the fact that Mr. Aldrich was smiling , and said it might be clue to the information he had or his ignorance on the subject . " I was smiling , " said Mr. Aldrich , " because the Senator did not refer to the Panama canal . " " That is not connected with a finance bill , " retorteq Mr. Morgan , " except the stealing part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no control over it . " Mr. Morgan then began a discussion of the Panama Canal treaty . Mr. Penrose interrupted to submit the conference report on the Immigration bill . The report was agreed to . Th : conference report on the bill to allow cities of 25,00 inhabitants to be reserve cities of the second class for National banks was agreed to . lt ' , / ) til , ? IiTiff , his remarks . Mr. Morgan attack , d the trusts anti said they were arrogant institutions . If the number of corporations in the United States were known to the people of the United States , he said , they would be astounded . In some sections , he declared , they were nearly equal to the population . He criticised the Aldrich bill , saying there was no limit as to the amount of money the Secretary of the Treasury can put in a . National bank with a small capital , and said that he could not understand how any Senator could draw such a bill and undertake to defend it . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered it . " he added . " Nobody ever thought of offering this bill . " he continued , " until the speculative idea struck the Senator from Rhode Island . I beg your pardon , it struck the Secretary of the Treasury first . " The Secretary of the Treasury , he declared , forced the Wall Street brokers and gamblers in a tight place and did as all Secretaries of the Treasury , including Secretary Carlisle . have found it necessary from time to time to do . " whenever those gentlemen got into trouble all the powers of the United States drifted up to help them . " He said he admired the generosity of the Secretary of the Treasury in flying to the relief of these people . " It is a mock patriotism , " he said . There was no sincere na trintism that violates law or the Constitution . continued Mr , Morgan . Mr. Morgan was followed by Mr. Metall ? i vin , ( Miss. , ) who said he was curious to know upon what Mr. Bailey ( Texas ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was based . " replied Mr. Bailey . " on the vague and indefinite hope that the Democratic Party would some time obtain control of this Government again , and only on that " I will say to the author of this bill . " he continued facing Mr. Aldrich . " that he might as well withdraw it . " He said there was no more chance for it topass the Senate than there was for the Statehood bill to rise out of its shallow grave and become a law ? " You have no one to blame but yourselves , " said he , facing the Republican side . " When Senators on the Democratic side mistakenly retaliate by filibustering against the Aldrich bill it comes with bad grace to complain . " He said that unless the practice of filibustering against every bill is discontinued the American people will compel the Senate to change its rules . Mr. Bailey closed by urging that the majority , after free debate , have a decision . Mr. Tillman then was recognized , and convulsed the Senate by saying that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astute politician in the United States , and that is Matthew Stanley Quay . " It was some time before order could be restored so great was the laughter . He said that all but two Democrats had been led by Mr. Quay to support the Statehood bill , which he believed had been used for the purpose of preventing anti-trust legislation . In reply Mr. Quay said he was deeply indebted to Mr. Tillman for his tribute , and referred to the action taken last June . when by unanimous consent the Statehood bill was made the unfinished business , and before the anti-trust agitation . Mr. Quay declared that he did not put the Statehood bill forward to keep back trust legislation . " Then the Senator from Pennsylvania has been buncoed by the Senator from Rhode Island . " remarked Mr. Tillman , causing renewed laughter . Mr. Patterson . ( Colo .. ) a member of the Committee on Territories . vehemently took exception to the statement that the members of the committee were dupes . The bill was passed . 166 to 1 . The Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to and the bill was sent to conference . 197 to a The conference report on the Post Office Appropriation bill was adopted , 187 to I. The conference report on the Aaricultural bill was adopted . 182 to 2. and the conference report on the Immigration bill was presented . With the question of the adoption of the report pending , Mr. Payne . the majority leader , moved a recess until 11 o'clock to-morrow . The motion prevailed . 1:14 to 48. and at 11:40 P. M. the House took a recess . Mr. Patterson read newspaper extracts hinting that the banking influence of the country , especially in New York . and the Railroad influences all over the union were using all means in their power to rush the Aldrich bill through , the action of the railroads being for the reason that their bonds would appreciate in value . He then referred to the course of the House Committee on Rules in deferring the framing of a rule until they found out what the Senate was going to do about the Aldrich bill . He said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propositions and let the Conference Committee produce the real legislation of the session , which was to be put through at the last moment . He denied that there had been any filibustering against the bill . Senator Aldrich denied the insinuation that railroad or banking influences were backing the bill . He declared that the only communication he had received from a bank about the bill was one in opposition to it . ' I shall not transgress the facts , continued Mr. Aldrich . " when I say that there ; s no intention of discussing this bill on its merits . " Mr. Patterson denied this , and said that ( very speech made on the Democratic side " tended ifs elucidate the hideousness of this nv ' , ure . ' Replying . Mr. Aldrich said he knew it was apparent that Senators who were intending to talk the financial bill to death were doing so because he and others who thought with Wet assisted in defeating another measure  --  the Statehood bill . " They are trying to punish us and punish the country . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the Finance Committee , and that it was a simple business proposition . " It was an entire surprise to me. " he said . " and if the hill is defeated the country should know who is responsible for the defeat . " At 11:55 the Senate adjourned . At the close of to-day 's session of the Serrate conference reports on all the appropriation bills except the Sundry Civil . the Naval , and the General Deficiency bills had been presented and adopted . Of the three ex. ' eptions. the consideration of the Sundry Civil bill by the conferees has been completed , and it will be presented early to-morrow . The Naval and the General Deficiency ' bills are still in the hands of the conferrees.                     