@@676728

txt With disquieting frequency children are ground up under street cars in the several boroughs - of New York . Stich accidents indeed are of almost daily occurrence . It is a tragedy which appeals to the sympathies of the quickly assembled crowd so powerfully that if the motorman under whose car it happens is not protected by the police he is likely to be mobbed . Occasionally he is manhandled somewhat roughly as it is , and may sometimes deserve it . Theoretically , at least , the company owning the car which crushes a child is responsible in damages ; practically it sometimes can not evade paying them . The - law is right in principle , but it is obvious that if the companies ' did not contest the claims brought against them they would be overwhelmed by damage suits , not all just . It scarcely affords proper grounds for popular resentment that the companies make it a rule to defend suits , and that they are less eager to punish their motormen in every instance than are those whose children are run down and mangled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which any observant passenger may see for himself if his nerves are strong enough to stand the tension . Yesterday a passenger on one of the cars crossing the city saw a group of boys playing what we believe is called " tip-cat " on the tracks of an electric street railway . This game employs a stick shypened at either end and a bat . One end of the stick is struck , which causes it to leap into the air , and before it falls it must be again struck with the bat . In the instance under consideration the game was played on the track for the reason that its groove facilitated " tipping the cat " to better advantage than could be done on a level surface . As rapidly moving cars were approaching from opposite directions the boy whose innings it was balanced the " cat " on the south track with his back to the car , performed the feat he had essayed , struck the " cat " in air and followed it , crossing in front of the car coming the other way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than six or eight inches from either car , but he cleared and that was all that apparently concerned him , The other boys of the gang scattered right and left , but immediately closed in behind the cars as they passed . On one of the principal avenues up town children from the tenements of the west side every afternoon congregate in swarms about the car tracks and - torment the motormen and conductors as a recreation . They will cling to the closed sides of the cars , out of reach of the conductor , and ride for blocks , dropping off when they must and waiting for a return car to take them back again . Occasionally one is hurt or killed . It is very sad , of course , and the sorrowing parents are objects of tender sympathy . It is hard to see how such accidents can often , if ever , be the fault of the motorman . That he loses his temper at times is not surprising , but it is doubtful if he is ever angry enough to kill a child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do will avert it . Under these conditions the management of our street car lines is impressed with the duty of devising some means of keeping children off the tracks . It would be cheaper and very much better than killing them ; the duty is one which can not be performed by either motorman or conductor , who can not leave their car and whose scowls and fist-shakings are more amusing than alarming to the children of the streets . It is not a difficult problem , but it has been neglected with consequences too serious to admit of public indifference .                     