@@675738

txt The most sanguine expectations of President Vreeland of the Metropolitan Street Railway Company were exceeded yesterday by the men who prepared the way for the trolley on Broadway to replace the cable . At 7:40 o'clock last evening the first trolley car ran smoothly from the company 's car stable at Fiftieth Street to Fifteenth Street and back . There was a slight hitch at the curve at Fourteenth Street and Broadway , where to accommodate the cables there were the multitudinous number of wheels350 in all . This hitch , too , had been straightened out an hour or two later , and the trial car ran through to Bowling Green . Later passenger cars were runing fram Fifty-ninth Street to Fifteenth Street . The company had switched the controlling power on Broadway from the cable to electricity in little more than twenty-four hours . The trial trips were made with most of the active officials of the road in the car . They included 11 . H. Vreeland , Oren Root , Assistant Manager ; T. A. Delaney , Superintendent of Transportation ; J. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Broadway Division ; Thomas Millen , General Master Mechanic ; Herbert Tillamer , Chief inspector , and Walter A. Pierson , the electrical engineer . It was Mr. Pierson who acted as motorman on the trial trip . He had donned a raincoat over his street clothing , and wore a derby hat . Women along the way who saw him at the motor , and had apparently foreitten about the change of power on Broadway , hesitated to make the usual remarks when he refused to stop for them . But the men shook their umbrellas at him just the same . , This first car left the company 's stable amid the cheers of the crowd , which knew what it meant . Along the way down it attracted little attention . Most persons could see little difference between a car run by the cable and one run by electricity . They insisted on trying to get on , however . At Thirtieth Street a man became particularly incensed when the stylish-looking motorman refused to stop for him . He shut his umbrella and made ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to keep off , but he was of the determined kind . He seemed " madder than a hornet " when the car whizzed by him and left him standing , an exceedingly disappointed man , in the rain . " That fellow will write a letter to me complaining of the motorman in the morning . " remarked Mr. Vreeland . The few who watched the man as he stood looking after the disappearing car , ' however , saw that a light of intelligence crept into his face when he perceived the trolley car following the first one filled with grimy-looking workmen . He seemed to remember then that Broadway cars were not running just yet , and he walked off in disgust . The force which so quickly accomplished the change in the Broadway power , numbered 2,000 men during the greatest portion of yesterday . During the night preceding there . had been working only 1,000 men , most of them skilled mechanics . When morning came another 1,000 were added , and the force which had been working kept right on . La was hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give the public transportation on Broadway again . Much of the energy expended by the workmen yesterday was concentrated at Broadway and Fourteenth Street . The task there was difficult enough ordinarily , but a little mishap during the early hours of the morning had aggravated it . The car which had been used to hold taut the two sections of cable between Houston and Fifty-ninth Streets , while they were being drawn out , struck a snag sna- there on its uptown trip . Some little thing caused the end of the cable to catch , and those who were in the car imagined for a minute that a cyclone had struck them . When it was all over it was discovered that the cable itself was slowly crawling toward its final resting place on a huge spool in the Fiftieth Street stable , and that the last car had been " shipwrecked . " It was necessary to employ horses to get it to its destination The cable got away very well without it . The road , unless something untoward occurs to prevent it , will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an early hour and more are likely to be added during the day . Mr. Vreeland feared at the outset that it might ake unil Tuesday morning before he could resume the running of cars on the road . The weather was favorable yesterday to 1 the work to be done so far as the public was concerned . Sunday has proved to be the day when such a change least inconveniences the public , but a rainy Sunday v. as still better . Both the Sixth Avenue and the Madison Avenue lines put on about 100 cars more each than they usually do on Sundays . but owing to the rain they were not needed . None of the gripmen " will loose their jobs . " Under the tutorage of Chief Instructor J. F. Kane they have Gall become skilled motormen during the last few weeks , having been forced even to perfect themselves by running cars on the other electric roads 1 in the city . Above Fifty-ninth Street trolley cars have been running for a considerable time . and with the opening of the road below that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , via Broadway , can now be made . CONFEDERATE VETERAN CAMP . Members of the Organization Have Exercises in Mount Hope Cemetery . After postponing its Memorial Day from Sunday of last week on account of rainy weather , the Confederate Veteran Camp of New York decorated the graves in its plot in Mount Hope Cemetery yesterday . Before the services were finished . however , the rain came again , and the exercises had to be completed in the railroad station of Mount Hope . The Chaplain , the Rev. Dr. George S. Baker , offered a short prayer . The oration was delivered by " Col. " Thomas H. Neilson . Before the regular programme was begun Mrs. J. H. Parker , representing the New York Chapter of the Daughters of the Confederacy , presented bronze crosses of honor to a large number of the veterans whose war records had been especially brilliant .                     