@@677099

txt The opening this week of two extensive residences for students , in connection with the work of Columbia University . is a subject of great collegiate and considerable municipal interest . It is a very old ' complaint that a youngster did not acquire at Columbia the " college spirit " to which it is somehow assumed that he has a right , and which it is somehow assumed would do him a great deal of unspecified good . We are not contesting either of these assumptions when we say that there is no evidence in behalf of either . No doubt the undergraduate associations of a boy who goes from home to college are more with the college than with the home . But the assumption that , from 18 to 22 say it is better for a boy to have college associations than home associations is as an assumption disputable , and , if not unverifiable , at least unverified . It is true that the great universities of the world have been universities " in partibus , " so to speak , where an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Paris , to be sure , was one of the earliest and most famous . But London has never managed to compete with Oxford and Cambridge , nor , until the resources of the Deutsches Reich were employed in its behalf , did I Berlin begin to rival Heidelberg and Gtittingen . Harvard , on occasion , can defy Cambridge , and the constabulary of New Haven shrinks from tackling all Yale , as much more does that of Princeton from facing an angered and unanimous university . But the metropolitan police has never been deterred , excepting by phlopaedic considerations , from suppressing Columbian excesses . Doubtless the five millions and a half , more or less , of Greater New York ought to maintain a first-class college , and even a first-class university . Since the sincere and persistent attempt , begun under President Low , and continued under President BUTLER , was undertaken to convert Columbia College , not even of the first rank as a college , to a university of the first rank , as a university , the question of " college feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that attempt , has come the admirable and impartial opening by Columbia to all institutions of its prizes on the same basis as that of the graduates of Columbia College . The natural expectation is that the winners from outside of the Columbia scholarships and fellowships , and not the residents of this great municipality , will chiefly occupy the new dormitories . But these prize winners will by hypothesis be mature students , and more or less independent investigators , with whom the police or the " town " will have nothing to do . It Is difficult to make it out that the opening of these dormitories will do anything at all for the " college spirit " in Columbia .                     