@@676100

txt COLONIZING WILD ANIMALS . A project to colonize that despised creature the muskrat in the ponds and watercourses of Germany will strike the American boy as amusing , for the latter , although he is the sworn foe of the little brown " varmint. " is not apt to realize its importance in commerce . Dr. liaNs VON K.enescn , who is advocating the introduction of the muskrat , is an authority on.the birds , beasts , and fish of the ' United States and knows the value of its pelt in the fur trade . This is not the first attempt in modern times to acclimate wild creatures from America in Germany . A breeder of cattle has tried with some success to form a large , well-fleshed hybrid from the American bison and the ordinary cow , obtaining a cross which is hardy in Winter and heavier than European cattle , yielding many more pounds of meat . The introduction of such a cross would meet , however , with the dislike of old populations for innovations ; perhaps it would be difficult , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bison , and this becomes more and more difficult as we permit that animal to become extinct . Attempts the other way have been less fortunate , namely , to introduce European creatures here . The skylark will not take root on Long Island ; the English sparrow , however , is only too accommodating . The German carp - has proved a complete failure because , for eating purposes , it is really a wretched fish , which merely serves as a basis for tasteful sauces , but when plainly cooked has no savor . One variety of the European lobster , the langouste , might-form a welcome addition to our table , while the Europeans , did they but deign to take a hint on matters epicurean from painted savages like us , would colonize their sandy beaches with that sensitive plant of the sea , the shy , retiring clam . Indeed , there are many natural products over here which would delight the European palate if they were found to bear transplantation and would breed without altering the savor of their flesh . Such is the whitefish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neptune ever grew . It would be quite on the cards that this fish should lose its refined savor in European lakes , where its food would in all probability be very different . Fish culturists , however , might breed it successfully , after studying its natural food here , by supplying something similar . In Germany , France , and England the semi-domesticated deer afford very delicious food .. Perhaps the time is not far off when it will pay to keep deer in the United States for hunting purposes and the market , as it is roughly managed already on Long Island by keeping the deer protected almost the entire year . To breed for profit it will be necessary to watch the herds and prevent the depredations of dogs and poachers , a somewhat costly undertaking , as English owners of deer parks know , especially in cases where a large town is within easy distance . Deer are such dainty feeders and are so sensitive in organization that they require a large range and quiet . They swim so easily that it is difficult to confine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such that to fence a range is attended with great cost . A wild creature that might be added to the larder with advantage , but is now , at least in the Middle and Eastern States , unreasonably scorned , is the opossum . It is hardy and prolific and its flesh is rich and to many persons agreeable in taste . Unfortunately American kitchens are ruled too much by European cooks , who bring with them prejudices against many kinds of food which would give variety to our tables ; they want that kind of food only to which they are accustomed and know how , after a fashion , to prepare . It would partake of international comedy if the Europeans should discover a liking for the succulent opossum , introduce it by colonizing , and teach us Americans how it should be served .                     