@@781135

txt In what seemed to be a hopeless deadlock between the Tammany leaders of the Eighth Judicial District in the convention to nominate a successor to the late Judge Stiner last night , the hand of Charles F. Murphy , Tammany 's leader , appeared just in time to straighten things out in order that the certificate of nomination might be filed by midnight . James W. McLaughlin was the nominee . That was the second setback Tammany has administered to William S. Devery since his election as leader of the Ninth Assembly District . The first was in refusing him a seat in the Saratoga Convention . Last night it was the order to set aside Devery 's candidate for the judicial nomination , George Washington Gibbons . It was pointed out as an example of the irony of fate that the order for Devery to subside came from the man he had dubbed the " Sport " of Tammany 's triumvirate , and that the emissary chosen to convey the order was Daniel F. McMahon , the " Two Spot , " in Devery 's phrase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " commented one of the observant politicians . Murphy 's hand did not appear until nearly 11 o'clock . It was the third night of the convention , and the delegates had assembled at 7 o'clock to resume the balloting . Vote after vote was taken . Patrick H. Keahon , leader of the Seventh , steadfastly supported his twenty-eight-year-old candidate , James E. Duross , he being also voted for by the one delegate from the Fifth and the one from the Twenty-seventh Assembly District . William Dalton , leader of the Eleventh , stood by his nominee , James W. McLaughlin . McLaughlin 's support also came from the Thirteenth District delegates under William R. McAuley , and from those of the Twenty-fifth under George F. Scannell . Devery regularly cast his fifty-three votes for Gibbons . The monotonous grind of roll calls continued until the twenty-seventh ballot . Then . Devery , Dalton , and Keahon collected in a corner of the crowded room over the so loon at Eighth Avenue and Thirty-third Street , where the convention was being held , and discussed the situation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keahon disappeared mysteriously from the room . The balloting went on , the votes being cast by lieutenants of their chiefs . Dalton alone was left of the leaders in the convention hall . It developed that about this time Thomas F. Smith , Secretary of Tammany Hall , and Daniel F. McMahon drove up to the corner of Eighth Avenue and Thirty-fourth Street in a carriage . They sent for Devery and Keahon , and were closeted with them in the back room of . a saloon for some little time . Orders were brought from Charles F. Murphy that Keahon should swing into line for McLaughlin , and that if Devery wanted to do the right thing , he must vote the same way . It was represented to the leaders that Judge Stiner himself came from the Eleventh District , and that district was entitled to nominate the man to fill out his unexpired term . It was also pointed out that Dalton 's efforts to get John J. Delany nominated a Supreme Court Justice had failed , and that there should be some recompense . After some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Secretary Smith said McLaughlin would be the nominee . Then Devery and Keahon reappeared in the convention , but with long faces . Chairman John H. Little ordered the thirty-third ballot taken . When Keahon 's name was called , he said : " I 'm a Democrat , and I want to be regular . I do n't retract anything tnat I 've said , but I vote for James W. McLaughlin . " Everybody else voted for McLaughlin except Devery . For the sz.ke of appearances he east the 53 votes for Gibbons , and as soon as the roll call had ended he got up and said : - " The Ninth District withdraws its fiftythree votes , for harmony 's sake , and votes for McLaughlin . " Then pandemonium reigned , except with the Devery delegates , who were almost silent . The minutes and other formalities were then quickly prepared , and a cab was in waiting to take the messenger to Police Headquarters with the nomination . Commissioner of Elections Voorhis had agreed to wait at headquarters until midnight to get the certificate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The messenger reached there just a few minutes before 12 o'clock . Devery was asked after the convention had adjourned if he had not submitted to the " outside interference which he had declared against . " Appertainin ' to that , " responded Devery , " I got nothing to say . We 're a set of novices learnin ' politics , and we learned something to-night . We found that we was licked and there was nothing to do then but get in the band wagon . " James W. McLaughlin . ' the nominee , is about fifty years old . He has been active in the Eleventh District for about fifteen Years . His law practice has been largely in the , Criminal Courts Building . He has never held political office . His B.- epublican opponent is Judge William Armstrong . The unexpired term is for seven years , and the place pays $6,000 a year .                     