@@677774

txt First Lieut . Charles C. Finch , Company G , Twelfth Infantry , U. S. A. , the regiment - forming the garrison on Governors Island , disappeared from the island sev-oral weeks ago , and yesterday afternoon Col. Leven Cl1 Allen , commanding Fort Jay , announced that the officer bad been reported " absent without leave " and that an investigation of Finch 's regimental club and company acounts showed that he was short ' about $1,000 . Finch was Treasurer of the Regimental Club ; and according to his brother officers was the last man in the world they would ever ! have suspected of stealing the money intrusted to him . Lieut . Finch had an excellent record as a soldier . He was one of the volunteers who , entering the regular army at the close of the Spanish war , studied hard and eventually won for himself a com mission in the army . Not until about a ! week after Lieut . Finch 's disappearance did his brother officers of the Twelfth ! suspect that anything was wrong . He had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rather studious disposition , and Col , Allen said yesterday that , so far as - he knew , neither drank nor gambled . The Regimental Officers ' Club is an old institution in the army , but it was only a few weeks ago that the officers of the Twelfth , stationed on Governors decided to form a branch at Fort Jay . Finch , who was the Treasurer of Conn- ! pany G , was elected to the same place in the officers ' club . The investigation of the club funds now shows that when . Finch left Governors Island something over $700 of the club 's funds went with him . The rest of the money that he took belonged to Company G. Lieut . Finch is 33 years old . He fs about 5 feet 8 inches in height , with black hair , He started on his military career at the outbreak of the Spanish war , when he enlisted in the Twelfth Pennsylvania Volunteer ' ' Infantry as a private . It is a coincidence that the number of his volunteer regiment corresponded with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been longest connected , and that the company letter was . " G " in both the commands . When the Twelfth Pennsylvania was disbanded Finch was a Corporal . This was on Nov. 1 , 1898 , and after a visit Of about three weeks - 10 his- relatives in Pennsylvania Finch - went. to the recruiting station in Philadelphia and enlisted as a private in the regular army . A more conscientious soldier than Finch never enlisted in the army , according to the officers who knew him , and in a few weeks he had been promoted to Corporal , within a year he was a Sergeant , and by the end of the first two years of his enlistment he was First Sergeant of Company D. 15th Infantry . On Feb.2 , 1901 , he stood his examination for a commission . In l July of that year he was commissioned a . Second Lieutenant and assigned to the Eleventh Infantry , then about to sail for ! the Philippines . In the Philippines no regiments ever did harder service than the Eleventh and Twelfth , their record Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States not quite two years ago , the War 1Department ordered it to New York , one battalion going to Fort Jay , another to Fort Porter , near Buffalo , and the third to Fort Niagara , the three star assignments in the gift of the War Department . Finch , then of the Eleventh , was transferred to the Twelfth and ordered to New York . In August , 1005 , Finch was pro-moted to a First Lieutenancy , and as such ohe was made Treasurer of Corn-1 pans G. Lieut . Flinch is the second junior officer ' in the Twelfth Infantry to get into trouble since the first battalion of ' that regiment was ordered to Governors Island . The ' . other officer who proved unworthy . of his trust was Lieut . Hamilton , who is now in the prison at Fort Leavenworth . Kansas.1 Hamilton was short in his accounts and was gone several months before he was heard of . He disappeared while the regi-1 ment was in the camp of instruction at Mount Gretna , Penn. , in the Summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Gen. Bell , Chief of the General Staff , received a letter from Hamilton , in which Hamilton said he was going to commit suicide and asking Gen. Bell to see to it that he was buried in Arlington Cemetery , Washington . A few weeks later Hamilton walkedinto the headquarters of the Department of the Lakes , In Chicago , and surrendered . He was sent back to Governors Island , and after one of the longest court-mar ' tials on record. , was found guilty and sentenced to serve a term in the prison ' ' at Fort Leavenworth . Yesterday in tell-1 ing of the disappearance of Lieut . Finch , 1 ! Col. Allen referred to Hamilton . " It is bad enough , " said Col. Allen , , " when one poor fellow goes wrong , but when two young officers in the same regiment prove unworthy of the uniform , 1 it is terrible . "                     