@@675540

txt In response to a request for a statement ' as to his views on the answer of the United Mine Workers to the operators ' proposition , L. H. Watkins , President of the Temple Iron Company , which company is largely interested in coal mining , to-night gave out a statement in which he says , in part : " We will give our men reasonable time to return to work , trusting that they will see the mistake of being guided and inflenced by men who , however honest and sincere they may be in their efforts to benefit the miners of the anthracite region , are unable to advise them intelligently and for their best good , because of their ignorance of the conditions controlling the trade . " Mr. Mitchell apparently thinks that the control of the mining operations rests in the hands of one or two persons , notably Mr. Morgan , or that there is a trust of some sort which can decide the whole question , when , as a matter of fact , there are only three or four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any influence , and they do not represent 30 per cent . of the whole anthracite tonnage . More than 100 different companies and individuals are interested in mining the total tonnage , and no one man can control or have the slightest influence over their action . " The one thing the companies are apparently agreed upon is that they will not agree . Efforts have been made for years to get some plan to which all could agree to control the tonnage so that fair . prices could be secured for a product which requires so large an investment of money with such a great risk to the labor employed , as well as the capital employed , but effort after effort has failed through failure to agree on a plan that would not violate the laws . " But Mr. Mitchell comes here and says in effect- that no mine workers shall go to work until every operator does just exactly what the other one does , and that the Lehigh and Schuylkill men must have a new basis before the men in the Lackawanna and Wyoming regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators and some companies who will lose their last dollar before then will enter into any arrangement with other operators , or will join in an arrangement to recognize the union by agreeing to any arrangement Mr. Mitchell 's organization dictates for a settlencent of the strike . " The leaders of the organization , I trust , will soon see their mistake in insisting upon any further action by the companies and order the strike off . " Our company will be glad to discuss the matter with our employes when they are ready to meet us with a view to going back to work without regard to what Schuylkill operators may db . The strike has already cost us a great deal of money as well as loss of trade , which we may not ? ecover in years . In the meantime soft coal mines are working night and day filling the place ' of anthracite coal . " Before giving out his statement Mr. Watkins submitted it to various operators , among them Superintendent Lathrop of the Lehigh ' Valley Coal Company . at Wilkesbarre , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Co. are allied with the Temple Iron Company , and that Mr. Watkins and Mr. Lathrop are Chairmen of the Operators ' Committees in their respective territories , give added importance to the statement . A. conference of operators is to take place to-morrow afternoon ? at 1 o'clock in the office ? of the Temple Iron Company . Its immediate purpose is not declared , but it is regarded as certain that the counterproposition made by the miners is to be considered .                     