@@675827

txt ? . easy bl , inistaken- as to the berte- ? ' fits of a training which qualifies for orie. ' kind of effort . . As the rule it .. Is not a body-building process - at all , but one of rapid and often irreparable waste , from the effects of - which the victim never fully , recovers. , The , queStion whether intercollegiate athletics have not gone so far that those - , - responsible for college management would find it consistent with their duty , in loco parentis , and with the best interests of the institutions they represent , discreetly to restrain them ; is one which might be . considered With , advantage at the beginning of the college year . They are becoming too intense for the physical or moral welfare of the students , and the attainmukt of professional standards among contestants is essentially undesirable from every point of view . Respice finemAs a wise motto . COLLEGE ATHLETICS AND LONGEVITY . Enthusiasts in the matter of intercollegiate contests have nerhaps been misled by the statistics compiled by Dr. JAMES W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 53 , which show that at the end of nearly forty-nine years 46.29 per cent . of that strenuous class are living in good health , and that of the twenty-seven students who took part in the first Yale-Harvard boat race 55.55 per cent . survive . Of the Harvard class of that year only 44.44 per cent . survive , but this is a relatively large proportion . The average age of the survivors of these classes can not be far from seventy years , and the fact that so many are still living is put to the credit of college athletics . No doubt it should be , but - the athletics which belonged to college life in 1853 were something very different from those which are the outgrowth of the intense rivalries of recent years . Fifty years ago the ambition of the normal young man was to develop a sound mind in a sound body by plenty of all-around exercise and the avoidance of excesses in either the study or the gymnasium . Contestants for intercollegiate honors in athletic events , when these were held , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unknown , and so was everything like special preparation for an event which was of momentary interest , but of no especial significance one way or the other . The Sanitarian , in a discussion of this subject , says : " In the earlier days college athletics had more of nature and spontaneity and less of science and artificiality . There were no hired trainers , but the boys prepared for their races in a sensible way and did not faint in their boat or go to pieces through nervous strain , or curl up and cry hysterically when beaten . These are the college athletes  --  although they did not call themselves by that name in the plain old days  --  who stay on and enjoy life and are good for anything of their weight half a century later . " A consensus of expert medical opinion would undoubtedly be found strongly opposed to the present system of extreme training for events whicfi is the curse of . collegiate athletics . The judgment of the young men in the matter of what is good for them is of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so strongly developed that half of those who go into training for intercollegiate events would be glad to win success at the cost of many good years of after life . They might not make ? this choice deliberately , but so intense are the rivalries engendered and so eager the contestants for the momentary honors of ' victory that those who are selected to defend the college colo ? rs in athleiiC contests would in every instance take large chances of doing themselves permanent , injury rather than suffer defeat . It is                     