@@678109

txt The platform that will be submitted to the Democratic Convention at Denver has not yet been written . but it is now possible tor forecast with substantial accuracy they structural features of its chief declare- ' WM of principles . When the Convention of the Democrats of Nebraska met in Omaha , on March 5 last , Mr. Bryan was present in consultatlon with the Committee on Resolutions , although he did not sit as a delegate . It is known that that platform was Mr. Bryan 's own . In very large part it was of his writing , and , of course , every part had his sanction . It is Mr. Bryan 's present intention to make this platform the basis of the declaration at Denver . There may be additions ? it would be well-nigh impossible for so many representative Democrats to meet in one place without contributing at least a few new ideas to the party pronouncement . But the Omaha platform embodies what Mr. Bryan believes the Democracy should declare as Its body of principles for the campaign . For one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain no Government ownership plank . An attempt will be made to have the platform as terse as possible . It is felt by Mr. Bryan and his advisers that it would be a good thing if the platform could be brought within the limits that would permit printing it upon a postcard , with a view of securing in that way a very wide circulation and reading . This idea has been suggested by the Massachusetts platform , which , occupying less than a Quarter of a column of newspaper print , sets forth succinctly the leading principles which Mr. Bryan wishes to have adopted . It may not be found practicable to compress within these limits the declarations made in the Galatia platform , but the effort probably will be made . What the Omaha Platform Said . Afi the platform adopted by the Nebraska Democrats at their State Convention last March may be with entire confidence accepted as containing in substance and very nearly in form , what Mr. Bryan will ask the Denver Convention to approve , it will be of Interest to present in summary the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the Republican Party is arraigned for having subordinated the Government to the favor-seeking corporations , and , after insisting that we must have " a Government of the people , by the people , and for the people , " with equal rights to all and special privileges to none , the Nebraska Democrats made these specific Statement of principles : The establishment of equal rights , and the abolition of special privileges is the overshadowing issue . Laws prohibiting the pass and the rebate are heartily approved . There must be further legislation , State and National , making it unlawful for corporations to contribute to campaign funds , and requiring publicity before election , of all individual contributions above a reasonable minimum . The centralization of power through judicial construction must be opposed . The Constitutional authority of the General Government for the prevention of monopoly must be exercised in the regulation of inter-State commerce , but , " we insist that Federal remedies shall be added to , and not substituted for , State remedies . " Laws must be enacted which Will compel foreign corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States in which they do business . The election of United States Senators by direct vote of the people is favored . Private monopoly must be made impossible , and the criminal law against trusts and - 'trust magnates must be enforced . For Control of Corporations . Among the additional remedies are specified tree : First  --  Law preventing the duplication Of Directors among competing corporations . Second. ? A license system which will , without abridging the right of each State to create corporations , or its right to regulate as It will foreign corporations doing business with .. , its limits , make it necessary for a manufacturng or trading corporation engaged In Inter-State commerce to take out a Federal license before It shall b permitted control as much as 25 per cent . of the product In which It deals , the license to protect the public from watered stock . and to prohibit tho control by such corporation of more than 50 per c , , , t. of the total amount of any product consumed in the United States . Third. ? A law compelling such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country nit the same terms , after making due allowance for cost of transportation . There must be an immediate revision of the tariff by the reduction of duties , and articles competing with trust-made - a- rtidies should be put on the free list . Such alteration must be made in the schedules " as may be necessary to restore the tariff to a revenue basis " A Constitutional amendment authorizing a tax upon individual and corporate incomes is urged . " We favor a National Inheritance tax to reach the ' swollen fortunes . ' " There should be an immediate declaration of the Nation 's purpose to recognize the independence of the Philippine Islands as soon as a stable Government can be established . We must guard the islands as we guard the independence of Cuba , until their neutralization can be secured by treaty with other Powers . The powers of the National and State Railway Commissions must be enlarged until they shall be able to give full protection against discrimination and extortion . Both the Nation and the States should first ascertain the value of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue of watered stock , or any fictitious capitalization , and the railroads should be forbidden to engage in any business that will compete with their shippers . Rates should be r , duced until they reach a point that will leave only a reasonable return on the present value of the roads . Postal savings banks are favored , and there should be legislation for " the pro // DENVER PLATFORM OUTLINED BY BRYAN // tection of bank deposits , " to the end that the private depsitor map have as good security as the Government demands when it deposits its funds in the banks . The emergency currency , when needed . should be issued and controlled by the Federal Government , loaned upon adequate security , and at a rate of interest that will compel its retirement when the emergency is passed . Government deposits in the banks should be made at competitive rates upon sufficient security , and fairly distributed throughout the country . Plank on Injunctions . An employers ' liability law and the eight-hour day are favored , and in addition this declaration is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to injunctions as will , first , prevent the issue of the writ in industrial disputes except after notice to defendents , and a full hearing ; second , permit trial before a Judge other than the one who issued the writ. , and , third , allow a Jury to be summoned in all cases where the alleged contempt Is committed outside the presence of the court . The admission of Asiatic immigrants who can not be amalgamated with our population , or whose presence would raise race Issues , is opposed , and a stricter enforcement is demanded of immigration laws against persons who advocate assassination . In view of the fact that the anti-injunction plank adopted at Chicago is altogether unsatisfactory to Mr. Gompers , it is possible that the Denver plank will be made even stronger and more specific than that adopted at Omaha . The Omaha ; plank , printed above , demands notice be- , fore the issue of the temporary order . It is well known that organized labor does not attach so much importance to the notice as to the nature of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disobeyed . Labor Men Want Jury Trials . It is the practice at present to deny applications for the restraining order , or , in many cases , to give hearings , unless evidence is produced to show that irreparable damage may result from delay . The labor leaders attach more Importance to the regulation of contempt proceedings . The provision that the trial should be had before some other Judge than the one whose order has been disobeyed , and against whom , therefore , the offense of contempt has been committed , is not altogether satisfactory to them . Judges of equal jurisdiction are apt to be acquaintances , friends , and the spirit of courtesy prevails . For this reason , the jury trial is much more favored by labor . The argument is made , too . that the jury trial should be granted as a matter of right . The acts done in disobedience to a restraining order very often may be criminal in their nature . In such cases the penalties provided by law could only be inflicted after a trial of the offended before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contempt proceedings tries the person In contempt for precisely the same offense under a different name . and there is nothing to prevent his being tried and punished on the criminal charge after he has suffered punishment for the contempt . For this reason the representatives of labor very much prefer such a modification of the law as would compel the hearing of contempt cases before a Jury . The Denver platform will almost certainly be se drawn as to satisfy them in this respect . Senator Hoar some years ago introduced in the Senate a bill which passed that body , providing that there should be a jury trial in cases of indirect contempt , that is , where the act was not committed in the immediate presence of the court , and in obstruction of its procesees . The cases in which labor men re involved are , naturally , " indirect contempt . " Doubt on the Tariff Plank . There Is ta good deal of doubt whether the Dens er Convention will declare in favor of " a tariff for revenue only . " The Omaha platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff " to a revenue basis . " The insertion of the word " only " has always been considered a declaration against the protective principle . The Massachueetts platform , however , declared for a " tariff for revenue only. - That declaration also favored a general parcels post . Mr. Bryan is opposed to this , as he believes that that largo class ' known as " traveling men , " representing commercial houses , would look with disfavor upon such a plank . It is to be expected , of course , that the declaration of the Republicans at Chicago will receive attention in the Denver platform . It is but natural that the Democrats should take advantage of what they consider the errors of their opponents .                     