@@678093

txt The brewers of the United States in convention assembled at Milwaukee . Wis. , are this week considering plans for the elimination of the bad saloon . The driel  --  ing bar at which drunkenness is encouraged , gambling is countenanced , and vile compounds are sold for pure liquor has been the most effective factor in the establishment of prohibition in many States . The brewers now at Milwaukee say they will try to suppress the bad saloon . They can do much toward suppressing it if they try . They have much to gain by doing it , and they have lost a great deal by countenancing the bad saloon in the past . It is a matter of record that some of the worst resorts in this city have been financed by brewers . The beer-brewing industry In this country represents an Investment of $1,000 , - 000,000 . In their efforts to get good returns for their money the brewers have not always been too careful about the character of the saloon keepers they have established , and the financing of many saloons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . In his address before the convention yesterday President Lummox ) ; made several statements with which many fair-minded persons will not agree . He assumed that American beer is " universally pure , " while as a matter of fact a great deal of intolerably bad beer is made in the United States . He declared that " very few of the men and women who preach prohibition have any first-hand knowledge of the saloons . " That pis true only of the sentimental prohibitionists . The prohibition movement now menacing the liquor trade has been largely engineered by practical and experienced persons . Nevertheless , we do not doubt the sincerity of Mr. LIEBMANN% statements , and there was a certain amount of truth in his assertion of the needless complications of experimental liquor legislation , the frequently unjust treatment of liquor retailers , the corruption of the police . He said to his fellow-brewers : It Is our duty to hasten universal enlightenment and to spread the conviction that our industry stands for temperance in the best sense of the word , and will neither countenance nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral and phySical welfare of the people . The brewers , as an organization , can do much to eliminate the bad liquor saloon and solve the liquor problem reasonably . They can do everything to abolish bad beer . If they are in earnest now they have made a good beginning . But they have spoken well-sounding words before , and nothing has come of them . Now they are facing a grave situation . Perhaps they mean what they say .                     