@@678733

txt President ELIOT gave the City Club the other day an amusing account of his attempt to vote intelligently with a Massachusetts ballot . He had to vote for candidates for sixteen offices , and there were several nominees for each office . Among them all he recognized the names of five persons . His inference is that under the Massachusetts method  --  which is above the average method  --  the average voter " simply can not execute an intelligent function in voting . " In this case President ELIOT , a Democrat , voted the Republican straight ticket . This is interesting in connection with a like confession by Ambassador BRYCE . In his lecture at Yale recently on hindrances to good citizenship he declared that he recognized only a single name on the long list at a London election . That candidate was known to him as a Greek scholar and of high character . " Having nothing else to guide me , no suggestions from private acquaintances or from any party organization , I voted for him , and for some of those other men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I could gather , to be associated with his candidacy . " It would be absurd for the average voter to claim either ability or desire to work his country 's institutions better 1 than Ambassador BRYCH or President ErAar . It would seem to be a demonstration , when taken with the like experience familiar to every man , that both the ballot law and party government under it are defective . And one I worse defect remains to be noted , a de-feet also common to both England and 1 the United States , the foremost examples of republican government under universal suffrage . Neither country is able to get its popular mandates executed . It is notorious that the Republicans did not execute their mandate to reform the tariff downward . It would be idle to say that the Asquith Government has any mandate for the policy which it is executing . The English electorate never voted for the budget legislation any more than Americans ; voted for the corporation tax as ' a means of taking power to control corporations in a manner never contemplated until accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the voter , and who when elected do not fulfill the pledges on which they were elected ? In - President ELIOT 'S words : I think that the liberty which we have enjoyed , if I may use that word , during the last thirty years in voting for an impossible number of elective offices is a liberty completely without value and that intelligent freemen ought to be not only willing but glad to give up the chance of exercising that broad suffrage , as it is sometimes described , when they know that nothing but evil and mischief has come from it .                     