@@676380

txt Several persons have observed that electricity has already wrought great changes in the conditions of life ; also it is a matter ' of comment that the use of this mysterious force is still in its infancy . Indeed , the utility and the infancy of electricity have almost supplanted meteorological observations as the staple of ordinary conversation . Although it has revolutionized city and suburban transit , has greatly improved public lighting , and by many is regarded as of surpassing therapeutic value , the importance of electricity as a source of Stupendous profit is by no means exhausted . Thus , the stock sold for a. projected electrical express air line between two large Western cities brought something like $7,000,000 to the promoters , who risked only the cost of the advertising and the printing of the stock certificates . Being men of moderate ambition they did not consider it expedient to construct the line or even survey the route . Electrical inventions still far from complete have served for stock issues which have had a ready sale . There seems to be no limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposits of small savers . ' In the light of experience it ought not to be difficult to credit the statement that $56,000,000 , more or less , has been subscribed to the capital stock of a Chicago company , the declared purpose of which is to draw an illimitable supply of electricity from the great reservoir of the skies . A local " wizard " has discovered that there are electrical belts " a couple of hundred miles or so " high which can be tapped by a device of his own invention . It is obvious to the most credulous small saver seeking investments that with ready-made electricity at command the company may easily control the market and declare unparalleled dividends , should the scheme be carried so far . There is nothing more mysterious about the nature of electricity than about its power to impress the public with a sense of the practicability Of any gigantic scheme with which its name is associated . People who scorned to invest in a company which proposed ' - to draw rain from the sky by suction were eager to put their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold from the sea by electricity . The popular belief in the mere infancy and the boundless possibilities of this Invisible , but tremendous , force is the source of a 1 strong confidence in its ability to do anything which a " wizard " says it can do . It is noteworthy that the stockholders of the Stellar Electric Reservoir Company of Chicago are apparently indifferent to the probable dangers of withdrawing vast quantities of the fluid from the upper regions . It is not a matter merely of extinguishing the brilliant polar aurora and other spectacular phenomena , but also of suppressing the rainfalls . Electrical discharges are associated with our storms , and to diminish the electrical energy may be to dry up our streams and produce blighting droughts in every part of the earth . However , it may not be necessary to apply for an injunction to restrain the etherial operations of the company . Although something is said about a plant at Rogers Park , it is hardly to be feared that the promoters will carry the enterprise so far . According to the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the sale of stock . The persons who have invested in the Scheme have already enjoyed the anticipation of unprecedented dividends , and it has been decided by the . Indianapolis Debating Club that there is more happiness in anticipation than in realization . This decision is commended to the great army of perthons who readily put their money into electric enterprises .                     