@@677188

txt There will be an Investigation of the State Banking Department . The opposition has been routed . As a preliminary to capitulation a resolution will be offered in the Senate on Monday night calling on Gov . Higgins to furnish the Senate with all information in his possession bearing upon the alleged improper conduct of Supt. Kilburn in the administration of his department ; also a statement of the reasons which decided the Governor against instituting an investigation on his own responsibility . It is expected that Gov . Higgins will comply with the Senate 's request for information in time to permit the Finance Committee to have It at the meeting on Tuesday . The Assembly resolution providing for an investigation comes up then , The Assembly resolution will be reported for consideration with the understanding that the report shall in no way prejudice the attitude of any member of the committee . Chairman Malby has been against the proposed investigation ' ever since it was seriously urged . In the fight against Assemblyman Merritt of St. Lawrence for Speaker , Malby was angry with Kilburn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Kilburn 's attitude was influenced by gratitude which he felt toward Gov . Higgins for protection against those who were seeking to have him removed . As soon as it became evident that the reorganizers of the Assembly were not disposed to shield Kilburn , Malby and Merritt changed front . Kilburn comes from their section of the State . Senator Raines , the majority leader , has been with Malby in opposing the bank inquiry . MalIV- , it is understood , will contend that it would be a discourtesy for the Legislature io go behind the Governor 's finding . But both Raines and Malby understand that , even if they made their best fight , they could not defeat the resolution . Their opposition , therefore , is not likely to be strenuous . Senator Cassidy was busy with Supt. Kilburn in the Bank Department to-day , getting material for a speech against the inevitable investigation . Kilburn told the Senator how many institutions were under his supervision , how much money they had on deposit , and the like . Cassidy in his speech probably will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the banking situation may mean runs on banks , with incalculable loss to the depositors of the State . He will contend that if there is any investigation it should be confined to certain banks , to be specified in the resolution ordering the investigation . The situation with respect to the proposed investigation demonstrates the lack of cohesiveness among the forces now in control of the Republican organization . Gov . Higgins all along has made light of the charges . He saw nothing in them to warrant Kilburn 's removal or even to call for censure . Next to Supt. Hendricks Kilburn probably is closer to the Governor than any member of the administration . Kilburn supported Wadsworth earnestly , yet neither Speaker Wadsworth , Majority Leader Moreland , nor any of the reorganizers in the Assembly showed the slightest disposition to shield Kilburn from the inquiry . It was only when the resolution came to the Senate that an effort was made to smother it , and , strangely enough , led by Malby , who bears Kilburn a grudge and whose relations with Gov . Higgins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive chamber . SUBWAY TO CONEY ISLAND .. Meeting of Bath Beach Property Owners Hears B. R. T. Will Build One . According to an announcement made last night at a meeting of the Bensonhurst , Bath Beach , Borough Park , and Coney Island Subway Association , by President Frederick A. Hutson , the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company wishes to bid for a subway to run almost as straight as the crow flies from Fortieth Street and Sixth Avenue , Brooklyn , to Coney Island . President Hutson said he had the news straight from the rapid transit company , and that the route had been decided upon last Thursday . The new tunnel , Mr. Hutson said , would start from the line of the proposed Fort Hamilton Subway , at Fortieth Street and Fourth Avenue , run under Fortieth Street to Tenth Avenue , thence to New Utrecht Avenue , along New Utrecht Avenue to Eighty-sixth Street , thence to Stillwell Avenue , along Stillwell Avenue to Surf Avenue , and along Surf Avenue to a terminal in Coney Island . The meeting directed the Secretary to address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rapid Transit Company .                     