@@678728

txt At a monster meet . ing to-night in Albert Hall , Herbert Henry Asquith , the British Prime Minister , laid down the policy on which the Liberal Government is appealing to the country He repeated what had been said by other Ministers  --  that if it were returned to power the Government would demand the limitation of the power of the House Of Lords , and then went a step further and pledged the Liberal Party to grant selfgovernment to Ireland . The audience which filled the vast hat greeted Mr. Asquith and the Ministers who accompanied him with round after round of cheering . The audience was composed entirely of men , women having been denied admission in the fear that there rnig " t be counter demonstrational by Suffragettes . Every corner of the hall had been searched during the day for women , and a email band of them was routed out , but they managed to gat two male supporters into the meeting , who interrupted Mr. Asquith with cried of " Votes for women , " until they were ejected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman , then Prime Minister , had outlined in Albert Hall the policy of a new Liberal Government which included many reforms . The representatives of the people in the House of Commons had labored faithfully to carry into law the measures promised , but their will had been nullified , and as a fitting climax the supplies which the House of Commons had voted . had been stopped by the House of Lords . Therefore the House of C.ordmons was now on the eve of another dissolution , and it had . fallen to his lot to take up the burden . The last time , he said , the Government had reckoned without their host , but It was not going to roake that mistake again . Representative Government at Stake " I tell you in the name and on behalf of the Liberal Party , " Mr. Asquith proceeded , " we have at this moment : aid upon us a single task  --  a task which domMaces and transcends because it embraces and Involves every great and beneficent social and political change upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vindicate and establish upon an unshakable foundation the principle of representative government . " Referring to the Education and Licensing bills , the Premier said that the Government stood in the main upon the principles of the bills which the House of Lords rejected . The franchise law , he added , was still incumberecl with artificial distinction and impediment for which there was no justification . Upon the topic of woman 's suffrage Mr. As- ' quith said his views were well known . and he had no reason to alter them , de , spite the suicidal excesses of a small section of the advocates for such a change . After referring to the action of the 1-louse of - Lords in regard to the matter of Welsh religious equality , and the fate of certain Scottish land bills , Mr. Asquith turned his attention to Ireland , which he said had been fortunate for once because the measures sent up In her behalf aid not come violently athwart the prejudices of the House of Lords . " Speaking last year before my accession to the Premiership . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one undeniable failure of British statesmanship . I repeat to-night what I said then , and on behalf of my colleagues , and , I believe , on behalf of my party , I reiterate that this is a problem to be solved only in one way  --  by a pace ' which , while explicitly safeguarding the supreme , indivisible authority of the Ira , Pedal Parliamet , can set up In Ireland a system of full self-government as regards Purely Irish afairs . There is not and can not be any question of separation . There is not and can not be any question of rivalry or competing for supremacy subject to these conditions . That is the Liberal policy . For reasons which we believe to have been adequate the present Parliament was disabled in advance from proposing any such solution , but in the new House the Liberal Government at the head of a Liberal majority will be in this matter entirely free . " Mr. Asquith defended tile budget as necessary to social reform , in which he said old-age pensions were the first step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by the Mouse of Lords after weeks of debate , and the Government as a result was confronted with three constitutional innovations , first , the claim of the House of Lords to control in levying taxation ; second , the claim of the same House to the right to compel dissolution of the popular chamber , and , third , the assertion of the House of Lord of their power to make and unmake the executive Government of the crown . Law to Limit Lords Power . " ' what has been cione , " declared Mr. Asquith . ? " may be done again . It becomes our first duty to make its recurrence impossible . We shall , therefore , deman authority from the electorate to translate an ancient , unwritten usage into an act of Parliament , and to place upon the statute book recognition explicit and complete of the settled doctrine of out Constitution that it is beyond the proyince of the House of Lords to meddle with any law to any - degree or for any purpose with national finance . " The Premier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister supported by : a majority in the House of Commons was going to submit again to the rebuffs and humiliations of the last four years . They would not assume office unless they could secure safeguards which experience showed to be necessary for the legislative unity and honor of their party . The Liberal Party , Mr. Asquith declared , was not promoting the abolition of the House of Lords or the setting up of a single Chamber , but it asked the electorate that the House of Lords should be confined to - the functions proper of the second Chamber , and that the absolute Veto must-go . He , personally , did not underestimate the odds against which he had , to contend , but the Government was unanimous in demanding the absolute control of the finances by the House of Commons , the maintenance of free trade , and an effective curtailmet or limitation of the power of the House of Lords . The meeting voted a resolution declaring unabated confidence in Mr. Asquith 's ) leadership , and cheered to the echo David Lloyd-George . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Chairman of the meeting . The Suffragettes routed out of the hall before the Liberal meeting to-night had secreted themselves there last night  --  presumably during their own meeting held ostensibly to welcome Mrs. Pankhurst back from her campaign for the cause in America . The women were hidden away in all quarters of the vast building , some In packing ' cases and others on the roof . One was found curled up inside the huge organ , having squeezed herself in between rows of pipes . Another step forward would have plunged her into the well which is forty feet deep . The Government officials had suspected some such plan of disturbing Mr. Assmith 's speech , and organized a force of beaters , who searched every cranny of the building . Hours were consumed in the game of hide and seek before the promoters of to-night 's meeting were satisfied that the intruders had been cleared out . While Mr. Asquith was speaking for the Liberals , Arthur J. Balfour . the leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons , made a simultaneous plea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took the form of a quiet , dignified election manifesto , addressed to the electors of the City of London who have chosen him as their candidate . Mr. Balfour 's manifesto will be disappointing to an enormous section of his , political followers , Inasmuch as , though it labels tariff reform as the " first plank " in the Unionist programme , it makes no attempt to define tariff reform , but concentrates his attack in an accusation that the Liberal Government is engaging in a conspiracy to destroy the Constitution by substituting a singlechamber Government . The manifesto , which is exceedingly long , declares that the Government 's claim is that the House of Commons should be the uncontrolled master of every class , and without appeal to the country . even in most extreme cases . Mr. Balfour cites the United States , where the fundamental principle of the Constitution is that every class should be taxed . ? alike , and says no such measure as the British budget could be adopted there without a two-thirds majority of both houses or become law without National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while even if the House of Representatives imposed special taxation it could be rejected by the Senate or vetoed by the President . " I am not so immoderate. " said Mr. 73alfou ? in the manifesto , " as to demand such security for the British citizens , but only that , if exceptional taxation is imposed at the caprice of a Minister , he should not be deprived of the only means known to the Constitution by which appeal to his fellow-countrymen may be Cecured . " The charge that the Government has ijor four years engaged in a conspiracy ? h:o secure a single-chamber system , like that of Greece , is developed at great length . Mr. Balfour says there is no doubt that the House of Commons is the ? primary organ of popular will , possessing powers certainly not possessed either in the United States or France ; but these unexampled powers . he declares , will not satisfy the single-chamber conspirators . who want the House of Commons to be independent , not merely of the peers , but of the people . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region of finance and that no machinery , however imperfect . for securing an appeal to the people should be aban. doned until better has been devised . He admits that the House of Lords is open to reform , but says that question is only remotely connected with the present issue . After -a brief criticism of the budget , the manifesto refers at length to the problem of unemployment as one of extreme difficulty which is impossible to remedy by the Government proposals . " It seems to me , " Mr. Balfour declares , " a truism that tariff reform will stimulate home industries . Only by tariff reform can you hope to retain colonial preference , to modify commercial treaties In your favor , and secure home produce from unfair competition in the home market . It will do no injury in neutral markets , and may give valuable aid in pro-tected markets . Is it credible , then . thatit will not keep capital here that otherwise would go abroad : that if it does the demand for labor will not increase ? " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible until a change in government brings a party into office prepared to press through to the utmost of its force the policy of tariff reform .                     