@@678042

txt Half the little French hamlet of Notre Dame de Salette , sixteen miles from here on the Lievre River , Iles buried tonight under a sliding mountain , and at least thirty of its little population are known to have perished . The hamlet has no telephone or telegraph connection . Neither is it on a railroad . Meagre bits of news of the disaster came in by messenger from the physiclans and other rescuers , who were hurried there , when the first calls for aid came at early morning . The River Lievre winds at the foot of the hamlet and a mountain towered behind it Spring rains for days past have been melting the snow and ice on the mountain side , and streams have been coursing down to the river . At 6 o'clock this morning , lust as the little hamlet began to stir for early mass , part of the mountain started to slide toward the river . It tore a path of death and destruction , and those who were not killed Instantly when their homes were engulfed were left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Pointe 's house stood first in the path of the avalanche . He and hi ; family of eleven are known to have perished . Eight others whose names have not been obtained are missing , and in the panic the rescurers are attempting to find definitely how many more are missing . A cottage , occupied by Mrs .. Desjardins , was also swept away , and- she with her two children , a maid and a. hired man are known to be buried in the landslide . De Salette , like many hamlets of its I kind , rambles into gardens and little fields on the mountain aide , so about half Of it was not in the path of the avalanche , The sliding mass rushed with a roar ; and spread fan-like over part of the town and dumped itself in the swollen stream at its foot . Cut off from the outside world . messengers were dispatched to Poupore , the nearest hamlet . Those who arrived first , estimated that at least a dozen houses were crushed in the path of the landslide . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ messengers across the spring roads was slow . Those first on the scene found De Salette An a panic , witli the unitkjured ones packing their belongings for flight . The first messengers to Buckingham ordered twenty-five coffins to be sent to De Salette , and all the physicians of the town were hurried across country with rescue parties . Latest reports from De Salette make the number of known ( lead thirty , of which eleven bodies have been recovered . In all twenty houses were ingulfed in the slide . De Salette was built on the banks of the River Lievre . One house on the west bank , containing the only telephone in the hamlet , was the first obstacle in the path of the sliding mountain , and In its wreck communication with the outside world was cut off . The slide carried two houses on the west bank into the swollen river and across to the east bank , and then covered eighteen houses there . The river was dammed , and those who were not killed in the avalanche were drowned . De Salette was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of limestone . Five years ago there was a similar disaster at Poupore , and each Spring the Inhabitants along the river live In fear of landslides . Poupore then slipped gently into the river without loss of life . Landslides along the river are common each Spring with the rains and swollen streams . HELD UP AT HIS OWN DOOR . Saloonkeeper Puts Up a Stiff Fight with Three Highwaymen . John Campion , who has kept a saloon at 63 Spring Street from time out of mind , closed up his place yesterday morning at 2 o'clock and started for his Harlem home , at St. Nicholas Avenue and 127th Street . He moved out of the old Fourteenth Ward for peace and rest ; it was too stormy down there . Reaching home at S o'clock , he decided to give his bull pup a little exercise before going to bed . He walked the dog down to 125th Street . When he got back and stooped down to put the key in the lock his arms were pinioned from behind . In the struggle that followed he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who is 60 years old , soon lay flat on the ground . He felt their hands going through his pockets . In his waistcoat was a wallet containing  | . The thought of that sent a thrill of new resistance through him . He fought harder and yelled louder . The highwaymen heard the sound of footsteps and ran away . Two policemen front the West 125th Street Station caught two men a block from Mr. Campion 's house . They later helped him to find his wallet , which had fallen out on the ground by the stoop . The money was still In it . Mr. Campion said he could not iden tify the two en , and they were turned loose .                     