@@677600

txt King EDWARD VII . and WintrAni ! uncle and nephew , have with curiously differing expressions of modesty de-j clared themselves to be bearers of the ' olive branch . Nor are their methods the same . No press bureau advertised to the world the King 's intention to establish a'friendship with France , or to make Italy and Spain realize their proper status as guardians of the Mediterranean . It is not his fault , therefore , that his recent pilgrimages to Cartagena and Gaeta were not shrouded in similar silence . The utterances of the German press and Germany 's proclaimed poliov of " non possumus " at the coming Hague Congress show that the uncle 's methods are not approved by the nephew . Yet It would be an insult to the intelligence of the German Kaiser to suppose that he was seeking trouble for the mere purpose of providing employment for his scientifically drilled army and his fleet . For years the real motive remained practically hidden . The last Reichstag election brought it to the surface . The officially inspired propaganda of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is simply this : Germany would establish a colonial empire beyond the seas where future Germans may grow up under the German flag and labor to furnish the home industries with raw materials . As there remains to-day few large areas of unclaimed habitable lands on the earth 's surface , how such an empire is to be founded is obvious . I Should the present German naval Ilprogramme be carried out , the Kaiser will have in 1917 a fleet of warships , which , in tonnage , number of guns , and speed , will show at least a paper superiority to England 's sea power under her diminishing naval programme . To say that this armada is required to protect scarce 1100 miles of coast line of the home country or profitably preserve Germany 's present meagre and stagnating colonial possessions , or even offer convoy to her valuable , yet by no means unequaled , merchant marine , is ridiculous . Germany is building a fleet In order to take advantage of international contingencies to secure territory beyond the seas . Owing to her great increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fed on imported cereals , one-third of German raw foodstuffs comes from abroad , 75 per cent . of Germany 's foreign trade Is sea borne . These contingencies , and only these . force Germany to become a sea power . The recent Reichstag elections leave no doubt that the Kaiser 's programme has the sympathy of a majority of the German people . It was thought that they would call a halt when they discovered how deplorably their sacrifices had been misapplied In Germany 's African possessions . This was a mistake . They have shown themselves ready to make more sacrifices , for the j campaign of Herr DTIRNBERO , the DIrector of the Colonial Department , has convinced them of the economic necessity which lies at the root of the programme and inspires its develop. - ment . Although Germany 's declared , and obvious intentions might justify ' international concern , there is no de-1 nying the state of her necessity , It would be wise statesmanship to deprive the Kaiser 's programme of its chief warrant and to cause the German people to be content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade , trusting to her needs of ran- materials for an equitable reciprocity . Of all countries , the United States is peculiarly fitted to take this initiative , and for that reason the new i tariff agreement with Germany has al peculiar timeliness . Such policies would do more for the peace of the world than many Hague Conferences . They would remove the cause of Germany 's " non possumus. "                     