@@675516

txt It would be easy to maintain the proposition that silence becomes RICHARD CROKER better than speech . As long as he is content to occupy a solemn and autocratic position at the head of the Tammany organization , issuing verbal orders that overawe the ' " mercenaries and toughs " referred to by Mr. HILL at Troy as a too common product of boss rule in large municipalities , - he excites a certain interest among good citizens who are wondering how they are to be plundered next , and he commands admiration and confidence from thosedevotees of the baser sort who live by the misrule of a boss without conscience . While CROMER 'S mind may be quite clear as long as he keeps his mouth shut , it is only necessary to recall a few of his remarks within the space of a month to make it apparent that when he begins to talk he stops thinking . His outpouring of wrath against Mr. Him . on Tuesday was not more-illustrative of his incapacity to think and talk simultaneously than other notable efforts in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 3 he put forward Senator GRADY to attack Huff .. in the meeting of the New York State delegation and to prevent him from becoming a member of the Committee on Platform . Mr. GRADY , speaking- for Mr. CROKER , accused HILL of many shortcomings , of political inactivity , of unworthiness to be trusted to put in the platform of 1900 the principles of 1896 , with being obnoxious to /EMT-AN and his friends , and with unfaithfulness to the party . Mr. Hrt.tr did not reply to GRADY , but to Mr. CROKER , and the Tammany boss soon lost his temper and his ability to think while speaking . It soon became evident that it was Mr. NTT T 's effrontery in daring to criticise Mr. CHOKER 'S course as a political leader that awoke the anger of the boss . ClioicErt gloated over his success . Ah ! " he said ; " thank GOD , we have got you at last where your treachery should have placed you years ago . " But even in that memorable meeting , in which CROKER thwarted an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made evident that he could not think and talk consistently . Having held up Mr. HILL as unworthy to be trusted on the Committee on Platform , because of alleged infidelity in 1896 and of treachery and other crimes enumerated , he declared his purpose of urging HILL 'S nomination as Vice President , notwithstanding he had asserted that Him . was obnoxious to Mr. BRYAN . After hearing CHOKER 'S talk before the delegation nothing could have been wiser than Mr. HILL 'S refusal to accept from Mr. GRADY , his recent accuser , the offer of a nomination which must have appeared to him , as it did to others , but a proposition that he should put himself in the way of Suffering further huthiliation and defeat along with the head of a ticket for which CROKER. shadow of chance for success York State . Now we have the whole chapter of accusation ' recited over again , with some old descriptions of HILL revived for Mr. CROMER 'S use . If Mr. Harz. was always treacherous and always a " peanut " and a " picayune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he be nominated for Vice President , if he believed that BRYAN and HILL would be elected ? It seems to us that his conduct and his words justify Mr. Tin- t , in his description of certain bosses as arrogant , ignorant , imprudent , lacking " reason , judgment , or discretion . " It is almost impossible to conclude that CnoRDR. is not acting ignorantly unless we assume that he is treacherous ; that he never intended that BRYAN should win in New York ; that he wished to compel HILL to share BRYAN 'S defeat , and that he is furious at meeting one Democrat who is not afraid to face and characterize him and who is sustained in his general criticism of the pernicious effects of boss rule of the Democratic Party in this State by an increasing number of the respectable rank and file of the party .                     