@@676759

txt An is quiet on the eastern front . Apparently the Japanese are not attempting any further advance on Liao-Yang , but are turning all their attention to Port Arthur , concerning which there is considerable uneasiness here . Reports are coming in of several land attacks on Port Arthur during the last few days . It was stated on Aug. 10 that the Japanese had before Port Arthur 100,000 1 men and 450 guns , of which fifty were howitzers . Whether Port Arthur stands or falls it win cost the Japanese enormously . It is estimated that they will lose 30,000 men if they take the fortress , but if they do take it it will be serious for the Russian Army , as It will result in the releasing of a majority of the Japanese Southern force for an advance on Liao-Yang . The Japanese seem to be utterly reckless in the expenditure of both men and ammunition . Russian advices from Port Arthur , which come in at intervals , say that the garrison is nerved for a most desperate resistance and is ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese attack on Port Arthur on July 2ti are given by a Russian correspondent : " The Japanese on July 25 sot a summons to the fortress to surrender and served notice of their intention to storm . " On the following morning at 1i:30 they concentrated the fire of 120 guns on Green Hills . Many of their shellb were filled with melinite , which gave off noxious gases . Their land guns were supplemented by the fire of the fleet , and the Japanese infantry moved forward to attack the right wing of the Green Hills position . " There was a perfect cloud of shells and the bombardment was the heaviest so far during the siege . In the course of the day the Japanese artillery sent in from 25,000 to 30,000 rounds . " The attack failed utterly , despite the bombardment . The Japanese were never able to reach our positions , to which our men clung tenaciously . Finally the attackers were rolled back with terrific loss . " The decision to abandon the Wolf Finis Position in view of the attack and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 , and the troops fell back on Port Arthur . " The Nove Kral , in the interests of both sides , raised the question of an armistice to bury the dead , who were left on the field in enormous numbers . " Another Russian correspondent . representing The Associated Press . says : " A Japanese war balloon ascended three I times on the morning of July 20 , carrying photographic apparatus , but its observations were not particularly successful . judging by the results of the artillery fire . " Our fleet during the battle of July 26 greatly hampered the attempts of the Japanese fleet to support the land attack on our frontal positions . Our ships moved to the outer roadstead , the battleship Retvizan , the cruisers Novlk , Diana . and Bayan , with several gunboats and three divisions of torpedo boats , participating . The Japanese had two battleships , armored cruisers , many torpedo boats , and eight or ten auxiliary cruisers . " The bombardment was furious on both sides . The Japanese torpedo boats came in several times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time they were met with equal bravery by our torpedo boats and torpedo-boat destroyers , and their attacks were frustrated . " Toward nightfall the whole Japanese fleet put to sea , followed for a considerable distance by our destroyers , who finally lost sight of it . We left a gunboat outside and retired to the inner harbor . " During the thick of the fight a shell from the Retvizan put a Japanese cruiser out of action . The shell apparently struck a boiler and the main steam connection . and the vessel was enveloped in clouds of steam . Control of her was lost , and she was towEd'otit of action by another cruiser . " The Japanese fleet reappeared on July 2T and July but did not come within range .                     