@@676224

txt Explosions of dynamite , endangering many lives , causing a. panic among citizens and damaging property , occurred in three localities on the south side last night . hour  --  between 6 and 0:30 o'clock . All were in the rear of saloons or garribling houses . but no one was injured . Who caused the explosions and the purpose sought to be accomplished are not known . The places where the explosions occurred were : Rear of James O'Leary ' . resort , 41E3 South Halsted street . Rear of Thomas ' saloon , 360 State street . Rear of 311 South Clark street , Chinese gambling house . Panic at O'Leary 's Place . Many persons had assembled m u-.Leary a concert hall , where an automatic Orchestra was being operated , and a number of them had narrow escapes . There was a wild rush for the exits , tables were overturned , and chairs broken . Parts of the rear Wall were torn out , doors and panels were wrecked , and window lights were broken . ? Joseph Williamson , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second floor of the saloon building George Ilettger , 3899 Wallace street , was dazed by the shock .. Windows in Pfaelzer 's slaughterhouse , across the alley In the rear of the saloon , were shattered as high as the fourth story . John Warren , an engineer for the packing plant , was dazed by the report , and through fear did rot leave the fire room to investigate . The police of the Stockyards station mails an investigation and learned that two men were seen to enter the place and pass to the rear yard a few moments before the explosion occurred . The police were unable to secure a good description of the men . Shatters Rear of Building . . explosion in the rear of 366 State street was the first of the series . It took place at 4:15 o'clock . The explosive was placed in a doorway that is unused , but which opens into a small court at the rear of the building . The noise was deafening , the occupants of the place believing that the whole rear end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shattered and torn from its hinges , the screen door was demolished , and more than a dozen lights of glass in the lower windows of the Jones school were broken . No one was seen anywhere about the rear court at any time . Third Visit Here the explosion was not so loud nor as forcible as at the State street resort , and the damage to the building was slight . But it was as much of a mystery as the other , and no person was seen about the place . Explosions of a similar nature were reported twice within a week at 811 Clark street during the month of April last . Then , as now , the keepers of the resorts were unable to assign any reason for them , except that they might have been caused by some rival in business or by some patron who had lost money at , gaming and had perpetrated the outrage through a desire for revenge , O'Leary Tells of Boycott . Mr. O'Leary was at his house , West Garfield ) boulevard , at the time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About two months ago I was approached and asked to take the musical machine out of my place , " said Mr. O'Leary . " I was told that if I wanted music I should secure union musicians . In answer I told the delegates that I would unionize my machine . They went away , and about a week ago I was informed that my place had been boycotted by the musicians ' union because I failed to grant their request "                     