@@678204

txt DIVIDED THEY FALL . - If the Republican bosses could get together and keep together at Saratoga , they might conceivably prevent the renomination of Gov . HUGHES . But they are unable to unite their strength upon an opposition candidate , and their inability to unite is inherent in the situation . They are Republicans . They desire only the defeat of Gov . HUGHES , not the defeat of their party . They will tot risk parry defeat even to overcome him . So , when one group suggests a candidate , another group promptly objects that he could not carry the State , and if the objectors venture to suggest a man , he falls at once before the same criticism . The worst enemy of the bosses must admit that they want to carry the State . The vital weakness of their position is that , having set aside Mr. I-Inonzs , they can find no other candidate as to whose ability to carry the State they can at ' all agree . This makes union impossible , and without union they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not a question of New York State alone . The Republicans of the West have taken an extraordinary Interest in the public career of Gov . HUGHES . They have confidence in him . They would bitterly resent his defeat in the Convention by the New York bosses . This gives the bosses further occasion for anxiety . The Rev. Dr. N. MAGEE WATERS , who has lectured extensively to Western Chautauqua meetings. , said in the Tompkins Avenue Congregational Church in Brooklyn the other day that " if the New York bosses succeed in shelving HUGHES , the voters of the Middle West will then give willing ear to Mr. BRYAN 'S plea that the Republican Party can not carry out its promise of reform to the people , but will be hopelessly in the hands of the Interests . " The " interests " are very shortsighted if they believe that they can turn back the hands of the clock and revert to those old-time practices which Mr. HUGHES has done so much to cure . They would be much wiser to admit frankly that business can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full of corruption and productive of scandals . The sentiment now prevailing among the people which Gov . HUGHES has done so much to arouse must not merely be reckoned with , but obeyed . Secretary ROOT seeke words of warning upon this aspect of the opposition to the Governor in his speech as Temporary Chairman of the Convention yesterday : When continuous and widespread violations of law have been profitable and many persons have a special pecuniary interest . against any interference with them , they present a degree of resistance to law enforcement which can be overcome only by an awakened public interest , and by a degree of apparent excitement which sometimes seems like undue violence , for force must be proportioned to resistance . It is impossible to burst open doors softly . An incident to this kind of vigorous law enforcement is the resentment and revengeful feeling of the people whose profits are Interfered with . Of this feeling , awakened by Republican law enforcement , the Democratic Party now gladly takes the benefit , and one of the serious questions of this campaign Is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peemit the Republican Party to suffer for having enforced the law in the State and the Nation , or whether they are- going to back up law ' enforcement by their approval shown in their votes for the Republican candidates . The interests of their party in this State , the interests of their party 's candidate for the Presidency , would be ill served by the defeat of Gay . HUGHES at Saratoga , and the bosses know it . It is hard for them to give up the fight , they do not yield graciously , but the forces against which they contend are too powerful to be resisted .                     