@@676026

txt President Roosevelt himself may have to take the responsibility of passing upon the charges that have piled up against the Chicago packers . So serious has the evidence before District Attorney Bethea become that he feels the whole matter should be laid before Attorney General Knox , who is in close touch with the White House . Assistant . Attorney General Day will leave for Washington to-night with the cetrpleted bill in his possession . He may be accompanied by the District Attorney , as ail the preparations are complete for the struggle in the courts . Three days ago the first draft of the bill was made and since then it has been gone over many times . It will not be filed until the middle of next week . By that time Attorney General Knox will have gone over the whole situation . Commission men in cities all over the West wired their customers not to ship a single head of live stock to Chicago , Kansas City , or Omaha . This order means that at the beginning of next week little or no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great packing centres . There are , of course , thousands of cattle now in transit , and they necessarily will be offered , but when these are taken the supply will cease . Western commission men say they have taken this action because of the decline in the price of stock . The condition at the Chicago stock yards is making the stock sellers despondent . The receipts of cattle , hogs , and sheep have , declined rapidly . It is charged by some of those who claim to be conversant with conditions that the packers have caused the slump , for the purpose of retaliation for the exposure of their methods and the possible stopping of their practice of fixing the price of meat . Alfred E. M. Bullowa , the Chairman of ' the committee appointed by the Republican Club of the city to proceed against the Beef Trust , returned from Washington yesterdaymorning . Mr. Bullowa said in part : " I do not think the position of our committee is thoroughly understood by the public . Under the code there is a provision by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendant in order to draw his complaint . And we hoped to persuade the trust to allow us this privilege . But their flat refusal has prevented this . Now we shall devote ourselves to assisting the State and Government officers . " We have learned that the Swift Company has cornered the egg market as an offset to the refusal of the people to buy meat . " I talked with a large and influential cattle raiser from Idaho on the way up from Washington , and he told me of the methods of the trust 's brokers . He said that when he took a herd of . say , one thousand cattle to any of the big markets he would go to , say , Swift 's brokers and ask ' for a bid . " Suppose this were made at 31,4 cents on the hoof . He then went to one of Armour 's brokers and they would offer 3 cents ; Cuaahy 's broker would then offer 2% cents . Btu. when he returned to Swift 's man and said that he had decided to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not afford to give so much now . and that he could only give 3 cents . All this goes to prove that these men , the ' Beef Barons , ' worked together . " It was reported yesterday that Gen. Henry L. Burnett , the United States District Attorney for this district . is investigating the Beef Trust , and that he would begin proceedings against its members in the near future . He was asked if he had begun any proceedings , and he made a denial . Asked what line of investigation was going on , his referred the inquirer to the Attorney General .                     