@@678506

txt The creation of a big fleet of war balloons , with depots at strategic points along the coasts of the United States in which the aerial craft may be housed between flights , is the task set for Major George 0 . Squier of the Signal Corps . Major Squier'recalved instructions to-day to prepare plans for the aerial defense of the Atlantic Coast , and he set to well 's enthusiastically . The plane , when completed and approved , will serve as a model for the Pacific and Gulf Coasts . The War Department is convinced , in the light of the achievement of the Zeppelin balloon , that the era of aerial navigation has arrived . It hopes that Congress also will awake to a realisation of the fact , and that appropriations will be made sufficient to permit this Govern . ment to keep pace with the European nations . It is in anticipation of favorable action by Congress that the Signal Corps has been instructed to prepare the plans . While Major Squier has not yet gone into the technicalities of the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the plan will be worked out . The coast . will be separated into ellipses approximating 250 miles In length , and at each end of these will be built two or three balloon houses and supply depots . The houses win be placed- with a view to **26;699;TOOLONG the artillery des pots or zones , thus gaining protection and being quickly reached whenever the men behind the big guns discover the " necessity of reconnoitering the enentyl position by the use of a balloon . Plans for Patrol Station . The balloon houses will be built in groups so that when it is found expedient to concentrate two or three airships at a given point there will be accommodations for them . A dirigible is safe while in the air , and . even If Its engine should become disabled , can be operated as a free balloon , It is in landing or when at anchor in an exposed position that it is in danger from winds , and housas are an absolutely necessity . It is intended that a coast dirigible shall not pass off its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sailing distance shall be 125 miles south and 125 miles north from its depot . In this man , ner the entire coast , from Maine to Florida , will be patrolled in war , and it will be practically impossible for a hostile fleet to approach the United States with ' out being discovered long before the sentinels on land could see the vessels . Oner , discovered , the fleet 's movements could be watched with safety and its manoeuvreebe sent the length of the coast . The plans will include an elaborate system of vertical searchlights , by which the airships will be guided during night flights . These will mark the various batteries and the balloon depots , and they also will be used in signaling the swiftflying ships overhead . The dirigibles that Congress will be asked to provide will be the equals of the best war balloons now in use in Europe . The envelopes will be not less than 200 feet long , twice the length of the United States Dirigible No. 1 , recently purchased by the War Department from Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is merely a practice ship , and bears small resemblance to the finished fliers that are contemplated in the coast defense plan . Aeroplanes as Auxiliaries . In order to support the dirigibles and act as couriers between the various depots and artillery stations , it is not that the plan will call for a small , mobile fleet of aeroplanes . This phase of the proposed measures has not yet been taken up , although officers of the Signal Corps believe that the aeroplane could be used to advantage when quick flights were necessary for the carrying of orders or the transpcsrtation of officers . It would be used practically altogether as an auxiliary , and its use would relieve the dirigible of certain duties , permitting the balloon to give its entire time to patrol work . If Congress can be prevailed upon to look with favor on the Signal Corps's'proposal , steps will be taken to chart the air currents along the coast . In common with the British Army authorities , a number of officials of the War Department believe that the air currents are as sharpIv @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so stable , it is held that their general trend can be determined . Equipped with a knowledge of the velocity and direction of the wind at varying heights , the Captain of a war balloon might operate his craft with the same degree of certainty that the Captain of4a liner sails the sea . There are so many expensive details such as these that the cost will be extremely heavy in creating such an ? aeriat fleet . It will be necessary to train a small army in the use of the- war balloons , and to maintain plants for the manufacture of hydrogen gas at nearly every depot . In spite of this the Signal Corps officers insist that the investment would prove a paying one in case of war .                     