@@676743

txt Inspector Carroll , the special representative of the United States Department of Commerce and Labor , who obtained the evidence for the Government on which an injunction was issued about two years ago by Judge Peter S. Grosscup of the Federal District Court enjoining the larger packing companies from combining in making the prices either as buyers of live stock or sellers of meat , was in the stock yards here this afternoon investigating conditions . The Inspector 's presence is by direction of the Department of Commerce and Labor , actuated , it is stated , by direct orders from President Roosevelt , who is anxious to obtain exact information . The packers say that they are in a better position to-night than at any time since the struggle began . Arthur Meeker , general manager for Armour &; Co. , said : " The strike may be said to be near an end . At the yate we are securing new employes , it will be only a matter of a short time now until everything will be in normal condition with us once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike , after signing an agreement to submit all grievances to aribitratlon , we made a special effort to win the fight , and we have been a greet deal more successful in our efforts than the most sanguine of the employers had hoped for . The old employes ' places have been filled so promptly that very few of the strikers will ever be able to get back their old places and those who do will come back as individuals . " This assertion was made by Mr. Meeker after the packers had brought in during the day , according to their estimates , 1,300 new men , and another official of Armour &; Co. had said that the packing firms were doing nearly 80 per cent . of their usual business , Police reports of the number of new employes arriving at the yards bear out in a large measure the packers ' state , ments . Despite these declaration of the packers ' representatives , the pens at the stockyards are filled with cattle and hogs that buyers make no bid for in the market . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Transit Company , out of the live stock received yesterday and to-day over 19,000 sheep and 10.000 hogs were reshipped , and unsold stock is rapidly accumulating in the pens . Twelve thousand hogs remained unsold to-night , and the prospect of large receipts to-morrow is causing the live-stock handlers to fear a swamping of their facilities . The indications to-night are that there will be a decided slump in prices of live stock . A is on this-statement-and what further information their own men have been able to secure that the strike leaders base their statements that the packers are still badly crippled . A considerable number of strike breakers who arrived In Chicago to-day were dissuaded from going to work by pickets . In a statement given out by the packers to-night it is asserted that out of the 25,526 union men who went on strike , 3,058 have returned to work . These desertions from the unions , added to the new employes secured since the strike began , It is declared , make the total number of men now at work 15,848 . On published statements that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the housing of employes in the packing plants was a violation of the city ordinance , an inspector from the Sanitary Bureau investigated all the plants to-day , but nothing was found that would warrant the department taking any steps against the packers . The first eviction resulting from the stock yards strike was made to-day . A crowd of strike sympathizers stoned two Constables who put Mrs. Mary Anderson out of her home in Forty-fourth Street for non-payment of rent . Mrs. Anderson 's husband , a striker , had left Chicago in search of work . The wife was Ill in bed when she and her household goods were carried out by Constables . Mrs. Anderson was cared for by neighbors . A patrol wagon of pollee stopped the stone throwers . Before the arrival of the police . however , the crowd had wrecked the cottage from which the woman had been evicted . Nothing was left for any other tenant except bare walls .                     