@@678346

txt Mr. WARD . Manager of the Commercial Cable Company , 61c1 not find the Board of Trade sympathetic to his argument that it is better policy to keaz the surplus capacity of the cables Idle rather than use it for the transmission of cheap messages . Instead of taking action upon Mr. WARD 'S communication the Board instructed its Committee upon Foreign Relations to consider whether it is not possible to arrange for lower rates during the twenty hours daily when the exchanges on both sides the ocean are not open simultaneously . Mr. WARD contends that there is already an excessive supply of ocean cables , because in order to transmit the quantity of offered messages during the four busy hours a greater capacity is necessary than is employable at other hours . The urgent business must be done when the exchanges are open , or it will not be done at all , for it can not wait even minutes . Consequently the high rate must be maintained upon business which is not urgent in order to assist supply. ; and maintenance . of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest  --  to Mr. Wasp -- that it would be foolhardy to enter into competition with the companies already in the field . Still , the spirit of enterprise is not . dead , and there are some who reason otherwise . To them it seems that a new company , which should not be burdened with the excessive supply of cables eating their heads off when idle , might live where companies accustomed to richer fare might think the pickings beneath consideration . Any such company , of course , need not confine itself to low-rate business . It might compete for high-class trade in the blsiness - hours , and reduce its costs by lower charges during twenty other hours . Such a company would have neither capital nor staff idle , but would employ them upon low-rate messages which the ' old companies might not think worth accepting . Either that , or all the companies would do business at a lower average of tolls , and the eldestablished companies would have uninvited company . It would seem to outsiders better Ibusiness policy to forestall competition than to live with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no business desirous of ' transmission at - the defered rate , no I harm would be done by offering the rate . It would prevent any complaint that no such opliortunity is given , and would discourage competition by those who might fancy they could prosper on that rate , although Mr. WARD says the old companies can not live upon it . It is one policy to charge all that the traffic will bear , and another to charge what the traffic will not bear . The idleness of the cables is proof that more is charged than will be paid . No argument is fairly deducible from these Premises regarding the traffic which is not offered . The companies still have their option to accommodate low-rate business or ? to have unwelcome cora-petitors for their highest-priced busi-ness . This competition will be something different from the " keen competition " which Mr. WARD now speaks of in the most serious manner .                     