@@677775

txt Prince Louis of Battenberg was the victim of an error on the part of the local police on his arrival here fronti Florence to-day , but he accepted the incident with good grace and made no complaint . When he stepped off the Florence train , the Prince was approached and searched by detectives who had received instructions from Florence to look out for three men charged with the theft of a pocketbook on the train . On learning of the mistake made by his subordinates the Commissary of Police hastened to call at the Prince 's hotel and apologize . Prince Louis derived much amusement from the mistake . KILLED BY SPEEDING AUTO . Manager of Columbia Theatre in Newark Run Down . Marcus J. Jacobs , manager of the Columbia Theatre in Newark , N. J. , was mortally injured by an automobile at Broad and West Park Streets , in Newark , late yesterday afternoon . Mr. Jacobs was crossing tile street when an auto in which four men were riding came along at high speed . The driver of the car put on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Jacobs was picked up unconscious and taken to St. Barnabas 's Hospital , where he died an hour later . He suffered a fracture of the skull . According to a man who saw the accident the - car , which bore the license number 18,52S N. J .. ran down Broad SI.eet at high speed and came near stril , - g Tax Receiver Robert ** wiroas crossing Market and Broad Streets . Mr. Jacobs , who was 41 years of age , was one of the best-known theatre men in Newark , where he has been manager of the Columbia . Theatre for a number of years . He lived with his wife and two daughters at 132 Third Avenue , Newark . Late last night the police found the auto which , it is alleged , ran down Jacobs . It belongs to Benjamin Morris , a manufacturer of coffins , living at 44 Mont Prospect Place , Newark , who is now in Europe . According to the police , Dr. Walter H. Morris , a dentist in business at 460 Broad Street , a son of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street , another man , and a colored chauffeur were in the auto at the time of the accident . " PLUNGER " WALKER 'S PLAN , Throws Orders to His Brokers from Gallery of the Stock Exchange . J. Brandt Walker , a Westerner who has frequently been in the public eye since the bear market began last Spring , got some more publicity yesterday by appearing in the visitors ' gallery of the Stock Exchange during the declining market and throwing memorandum orders , to his brokers on the floor . Mr. Walker was credited immediately after the March slump . with having cleared something like : ' 2,000,000 from his bear operations . He then made his headquarters in Lakewood and had private wires and a ticker in his house . In order to bring closer the Wall Street atmosphere he had one room fitted up with a quotation board , like any broker 's office , and hired a boy to keep the fluctuations of the market posted . When the Saratoga season opened , Mr. Walker moved to the spa . Tile Stock Exchange prohibits customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a smoking room on the New Street side of 20 Broad Street connecting with the Stock Exchange Building next door , where urgent clients may meet their brokers . Old timers on the Stock Exchange yesterday failed to recall any one who had in the past adopted Mr. Walker 's scheme for getting in quick touch with his brokers by throwing orders from the gallery . It was late in the session when the incident occurred , and the Chairman , whet-occupies a rostrum overlooking the floor during trading hours , did not witness it . Brokers were curious yesterday to know what action the Chairman would take to prevent a repetition of the trick . FIRE CART THROUGH WINDOW , Driver Saves Lives of Woman and Children , Risking His Own . To avoid running down a woman and three children as he was on his way to a fire last night , Edward Purdue , driver of the hose wagon of Engine Company No. 5 , of the East Orange Fire Department , ewas forced to turn his team full tilt Into a plate glass window . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed . Purdue was thrown among the wreckage , but escaped with slight injuries . The alarm was for a burning tenement in William Street , and Purdue was urging his team up Main Street . As the motorman of a trolley car pulled up a woman and her children alighted directly in the path of the cart . Purdue threw his weight on one line , in an effort to make the Ashland Avenue turn , but failed , and crashed into the window of Murray 's caf ? . Fathers Cunningham and O'Malley , who had run up from St. Mary 's rectory , nearpy , on hearing the crash , acted as veterinary surgeons and tied en the wounds of the horse , saving its life .                     