@@678479

txt Chicago 's charter hopes are scheduled to reach a stretch of rough going tomorrow . In both the senate and the house the consolidation bill , which simplifies the methods of municipal government and increases the bonding power , Is due for consideration on the second reading . In the h.suse the bill has been made a spectra order , an effort to call it up today being defeated by the minority side . A number of amendments , one endeavoring to curtail the bonding power , have been prepared . In the senate , if Senator Curtis , who , as chairman of the charter committee , is in control of the bill , calls it up an amendment will be offered to retain the control of the parks for the state administration , The senate charter committee this afternoon in a short session voted to report out the suffrage bill of the series , granting to women the right to vote in municipal elections . A bill granting municipal suffrage all over the state Is on the senate calendar and the senate committee voted out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Downstate Men . These two bills , the consolidation bill on second reading in both houses and the suffrage bill , which will be on second reading dur- , ing the senate session in the morning , represent all of the results which have been ootained thus far and the outcome of Chicago 's third attempt to get a new charter may be made plain by tomorrow 's action . Downstate Republicans and Democrats front Chicago districts , as well as the downstate districts . are opposing the consolidation bill , their ! Deposition being manifest this even-tog , when Chairman Nittleman of the house charter committee endeavored to advance the , matter to third reading . lie was halted by objections and was forced to agree to postpone consideration , doing so with the understanding that the bill would oe made a special order and taken up in the morning . In the house , the opposition runs mainly against the increased bonding power which would give the city , an increase much . in excess of that which would he allowed by the mayors ' bond and revenue bills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senate . Want State Power in Parks . In the senate the principal objection which has corns to the surface relates to the consolidation of the parks and the transfer of their control , from the governor , in the case of the north and west parks . and from the judges in the case of the south parks , to the mayor . As an amendment it Is proposed that there shall be created a consolidated park dlstrIct which shall Include the outer belt park project within Its jurisdiction and that the park commissioners for both the city and the outer parks shall be appointed by the governor . This would make one park district not only for the city but for the forest preserve work and for the establishment of a metropolitan park district . It is argued that the outer park proposiDon , if it siteuld succeed in passleg the legislature again as it did once before and this time should be legally adopted by the people , would ets a te an additional taxing body and that rho city , having rid Itself of three separate park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One Park Taxing Body Sought . By amending the consolidation bill by eliminating the parks and by consolidating - their management with that of the proposed metropolitan park district , according to the supporters of this plan , one park taxing body would be created . The power of appointment would be given to the governor , it being impossible for the mayor to appoint commissioners where jurisdiction extended outside of the city limits . These are the arguments with which some of the legislators . presumably backed by the governor , are preparing to alter the original scheme of the consolidation as contained in the bill drafted by the charter convention . By making such an amendment considerable Republican opposition to the consolidation bill would be removed . but considerable Democratic opposition would be added to that which already is manifest . One argument In favor of the hill with the Democrats Is that , with the parks placed under the city administration . they , by electing a mayor In Chicago , can Increase their patronage . The same argument accounts for some of the Republican opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Representative Murray has prepared the amendment which will be introduced in the house in an effort to curtail the power of the city to issue bonds . The present provisions permit the issuance up to 4 per cent of the full value Instead of 5 per cent of the assessed ? awe , allowing additional issues of over $30 , - 000,000 . It is the Democratic intention to reduce the percentage of the full value to which bonds may be issued and to require a referendum vote on refunding Issues as well as on other issues . The mayors ' bond bills , which were passed by the house last week , are hovering in an uncertain state in Senator Gardner 's committee on revenue , being halted there for some reason not yet explained . Mr. Gardner , being one of Mayor Busse 's personal friends , will report the bills out the moment it Is desired that they come out , but he says that no one has asked him to call a meeting of his committee for the purpose of considering the bills and that lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The men backing the bills have taken cognizance of the present shape and are waiting for other developments before trying to get them through the senate . Referendum Bill . Is Up . Senator Jones today introduced the general referendum bill providing for the submission of all bond ordinances to a public vote before they become effective . It is an administration measure , and if it be Passed by the leg . Islature the governor will sign the bond and revenue bills . The referendum bill provides : " That hereafter no ordinance passed by the city council of any city or tjto president and board of trustees of any village , as the case may be , which provides for or authorizes the Issue of bonds or other obligations , except bonds to refund any existing bonded indebtedness , snail become operative , effective , or valid until such ordinance shall have been submitted to the voters of any such city or village , as the case may be , at the next succeeding general or special election and approved by a majority of such voters voting on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballot which shall be separate and distinct from the ballot for candidates for office , stating the amount of the bond issue provided for in such ordinance and the specific purpose or purposes for which such bonds or obligations are to be issued . " This bill also has gone to Mr. Gardner 's committee and he now has control of the whole situation . If the referendlum bill is passed by the legislature , the governor will be likely to sign the bond and revenue bills . If it be not passed he will be more than likely to veto them . CHICAGOANS IN CHARTER FIGHT , The big fight for the passage of the Chicago charter legislation at Springfield will be made next week . Between 200 and 200 of Chicago 's representative citizens , coming from all of ' the civic organizations of the city , will go to the state capital next Monday night and the main body expects to camp around the statehouse until a definite result has been achieved . Representative Jr.mes M. Kittleman nt Springfield and Aid . Milton J. Foreman , chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kittleman gave the word that all arrangements have been made for the senate and house charter cnnimittees to begin joint sessions next Tuesday morning and to keep continuously at it , until each committee has acted on all of the proposed charter measures which have been Introduced at Springfield . " Next week is the time for the decisive battle . " Representative Kittleman signaled front the capital , and forthwith Col. Foreman started on a roundup of all the friends of the charter legislation to enlist them for the Springfield campaign . Action by Union Leamte . The Union League chili took strong ground favorable to the charter hills end more especially to charter bill No. 1 , the consolidation bill . The committee which has been named by the Union League club met in the nfternoon and made preparations to join the Springfield expedition of next Monday night . This committee consists of Charles Ailing Jr. , Francis T. Simmons . N. Allen Frost . La Verne W. Noyes , Joseph Downey , Louis A. Seeberger , Walter C. Nelson , J. G. Steever . Roy 0 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theodore K. Long , George W. Dixon . John H. Trumbull , Andrew MeLeish , F. W. Upham , Homer A. Stillwell , and Richard C. Hall . The campaign committee authorized by the charter convention will go down to Springfield next week and will assume the field management of the battle " The news from Mr. iiittleman is favorable , " said Aid . Foreman . following his conversation with the chairman of the house charter committee . ? Ile tells Inc the prospect Is good , provided that Chicago does its part In properly presenting its arguments to the members of the general assembly . We now are endeavoring to take to Springfield the most representative delegation of Chicago men which has ever gone down to the legislature in behalf of Chicago legislation . " Indorsement Had a String . Allen B. Pond , chairman of the political action committee of the Union League club , announced during the day that an incorrect account of the action of the committee on Monday had been published . In which it was made to appear that the Union League club had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the organization indorsed the charter consolidation hill In the first place and said the bond bills should he enacted if the consolidation bill failed to pass , but ' that the mayors ' hills would better be supplemented by a referendum law applying to nil bond issues .                     