@@676918

txt The seventeen votes east against the Townsend Rate bill in the House yesterday constitute a roll of honor . To vote according to his honest convictions . to refuse support to a. hasty and crude measure , ought not to confer any special credit or distinction upon a member of the House of Representativea . It is an honor , it is a distinction unfortunately , to have opposed the Townsend bill . In the first place , no intelligent memher of the House expects it to pass the Senate ; many highly intelligent members of that body know it will not pass the Senate -- that its defeat has been prearranged . The rush to vote for it on both sides of the Chamber was largely the fruit of a demagogic impulse . The bill has not shown up well under examination and debate . A large , number of defects have been pointed out , and the point has been repeatedly made that it is not an effectfve remedy for those evils of railroad adininistration like secret rebates , private car lines , terminal discriminations , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints before the Commission are based . The members of the House rare nothing for all that . They have pleased the President by voting for the bill . When they go home among their constituents they earl point to their votes as evidence of their solicitude for the cause of the people against the corporations . What the President most cares for in this measure is the provision which lodges with the : ! It ? r-Stat : Commerce Commission the power of absolute control over freight rates . That is centralization . that is an extension of the Administration 's authority that adds to his own dignity and power . In the judgment of persons most competent to pass upon such matters , it is the one clang , rous feature of the bill . If the bill shmil. -1 hovorne a law and the courts should hold it to be constitutional . it would be a long step toward the effacement of the authority of the States alai the airgrandizernent of the Federal power . There is no public need of it : so little that it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strike that clause out of the bill . amend it in such it way as to give to the Inter-State Commerce Commission the power to prevent all unjust discriminations , many of which are already unlawful : maize the bill really effective as against the actual abuses from which shippers and communities suffer , and there would be no doubt of its passage by the Senate . If the President would sacrifice that part a the bill which is uncalled for and unsafe he might have the pleasure of affixing his signature to it before the 4th of March .                     