@@675511

txt The Chinese in the Pei-ho Valley are paYing dearly for the folly of their Government . The retribution they are suffering exceeds the ordinary penalties of war . Along the river and the roads traveled by the foreign troops between Tien-Tsin and Peking an orgie of looting and destruction continues , with much useless slaughter ot : unoffending inhabitants . While the international forces were ad- ' vancing the.commanders , notably the Japanese , American , and British , enforced a certain degree of protection for property not needed for military purposes . At that time most of the population , except the fighting men , had fled . But now the people are returning to their homes , only to find no shelter or rice or occupation . In the overcrowded , famine-threatened districts away from the river their lives and small possessions are at the mercy of bands of soldiers traveling about without officers . The conditions prevailing leave little ground for the favorable comparison of civilized warfare with Chinese methods . Robbery , the maltreatment of women , and murder are so common that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . TUNG-CHOW DESPOILED . The walled city of Tung-Chow was the only town in the pathway of the international forces whose people remained and attempted to continue business . During its occupation the Japanese patrolled the place efficiently , protected the people , and prevented looting beyond the amount inevitable with any army . Gen. Chaffee stationed a guard around the historic temple outside the wall , forbidding his troops to enter . The commanders encouraged the inhabitants to resume business , promising. ; protection to all peaceful persons . When the armies advanced , however , the guards were removed , only a small British and American garrison being left outside the wall . A correspondent returning from Peking found Tung-Chow stripped like a cornfield after a plague of grasshoppers . Everything portable of the smallest value had been taken , goods from shops , cloth , ing , food , and furniture . Parties of soldiers of every nationality were roaming about unrestricted , and presumably were doing much wanton destruction in a-spirit of deviltry , smashing furniture and glass -- - Ware , and trampling books - and pictures tinder foot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in abject fear . The few Who dared to protest were kicked about Several bodies lay in the streets , apparently those of non-combatants . The inhabitants , without food or clothing , were huddled in back yards in a pitiable condition . The vilages to the southward are even Worse despoiled . One week after Peking was taken the traveler to Tien-Tsin was Seldom out of sight of burning houses . Fires are started daily , although the shelter ' will be much needed if the troops are to hold the country during the Winter " FINE SPORT " FOR SOLDIERS . The soldiers are having " fine sport " in using natives who creep back to their houses or attempt to work in the fields as targets . The sight of a farmer lying where he was shot with a basket of grain or armful of other produce near by is quite common The Russians are the chief actors in this style of conquest , but the French are remarkably conspicuous , considering their small numbers . The Indian troops and the Japanese are participants only when beyond the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Russians has been a blot on the campaign . The recital of notorious facts speaks more forcibly than could any adjectives . When entering Peking correspondents of The Associated Press saw Cossacks smash down Chinese women with the butts of their guns and pound their heads until they were dead . The Cossacks would pick up children barely old enough to walk , hold them by the ankles , and beat out their brains on the pavement Russian officers looked on without protest . GEN . CHAFFEE 'S PROTEST . While Gen. Chaffee was watering his horse at a stream under the wall of TungChow , the Russians found a feeble old man , hidden in the mud , except his nose , and dragged him out by the queue , shouting gleefully . They impaled him on their bayonets . Gen. Chaffee remarked : ' " ' That Ls not war . It is brutal murder . " American officers at Taku , days after the fighting was finished , saw Russians bayonet children and throw old men into the river , clubbing them to death when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before them and begged for mercy . Everybody was disposed to be friendly toward the Russians in the early days of the fighting at Tien-Tsin because of their bravery , but such incidents as the foregoing have been so prominent a feature of the campaign that no one who is supposed to report important facts can ignore them . They are so numerous as to compel the conclusion that they are not isolated episodes , but the ordinary practices of Russian . methods of warfare . The Russians on the walls of Peking would apparently shoot every Chinaman within range outside . A correspondent of The Associated Press found many newly killed in the fields outside of the Russian section of the wall . Some of the bodies were those of women , and none seemed to be the bodies of combatants . Coolies were killed while trotting along the roads with their loads , and farmers when trying to gather in their grain                     