@@677708

txt In New York State , it seems , the grand Republican elephant is to b yoked to the plow . It is not that farnj , values are away down ; that up-State real estate is worth $170,000,000 less to-day than two decades ago ; that 12,000 farms lie abandoned , and that the more remote towns and villages are impoverished by the loss of 40 to 50 per cent . of a population irresistibly attracted to the big cities . The National AdminiStration , which has been a prime mover in calling the convention to be held at Syracuse in mid-October , is not so benevolently concerned in rebuilding the prosperity of the farming districts . But the 50,000 Republican voters those 12,000 abandoned farms are capable of supporting are a matter of profound interest to the President and his Republican advisers . The movement begun in this State is part of a National movement of exploitation of immigrants for political purposes . The Southern organs of public opinion , which have at heart the agricultural and labor problems of the South . are quick to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the new immigration law is subject . The most praiseworthy provision of the new act  --  were the powers it confers not to be taken advantage of for colonizing doubtful States ? is that creating the Division of Information as an adjunct to the Executive Department of Commerce and Labor , " to promote a beneficial distribution of aliens admitted into the United States among the several States and Territories desiring immigration . " Since it became operative on July 1 the Chief of the Division , Mr. TERENCE V. POWDERLY . I formerly Grand Master Workman of the Knights of Labor , has addressed circulars asking the Governors of all the States and Territories and the executive officers of National labor organizations for general data upon labor conditions and the need of immigrants , adding : 1 If you keep us informed of strikes , look-1 outs , blacklists , boycotts , or the probable coming of the same , we will know how to act should applications be made to send laborers to a locality where industrial conaltions are unsettled . Of Mr. POWDERLY 'S outgiving The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and em ' ployes . It reveals the innate potentialities for evil in acquiesence in the theory that the Federal Government shall have anything at all to do with the distribution of Immigrants . ? ? ? The project is FFn assertion that the Federal Government , in its Executive Department , is to attempt to decide what " a beneficial distribution of aliens " may be . That decision might be that it would be " beneficial " for the Division of Information to expedite the movement of a mass of aliens to a locality where a stake was under way for , the purpose of breaking that strike ; that it would be " beneficial " to remove a mass of aliens from another locality for the purpose of breaking some industry there , or that it would be " beneficial " to a party in power in the General Government to turn one section of the country into a dump for a class undesired in another section of the country threatening to be influential at the polls against the party in Power if such relief were not given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution of aliens in this country is about to be overcome . The President 's Immigration Commission , whiCh has traveled in Europe and gained the necessary information , will recommend a plan to the next Congress to control the destinations of immigrants before they land on these sheres . European stations are to be established , and American Consular Agents are to be sent inland te advertise theattractions of particular . localitieS ' and , ' presumably , to offer Such paternal inducements as the needs of the Administration may make feasible . Tammany Hall takes good care of the hordes of immigrants that become naturalized in this city . But Tammany may soon have a rival , whose operations may be conducted on a National scale .                     