@@781095

txt There are larger , more important , and More decorative objects than the scalp of William Halpin involved iii the struggle now going on between the Platt and Odell factions for the control of the Republican Committee of the County of New York , no matter which side is correct as to the animating motives for the present contest . One of Gov . Odell 's lieutenants made this statement yesterday about the candidacy of Congressman J. Van Vechten Olcott to succeed Air . Hal-pin : " The explanation of Olcott 's candidacy is clear . He comes from the Nineteenth Assembly District , which is controlled by Lemuel E. Quigg , who is the legislative representative of Thomael F. Ryan and the interests which Ryan represents . Ryan , wants to secure control of the Board of Aldermen , and he ca n't do it as long as Odell and Halpin control the board . " This made the Platt men laugh . " Rubbish , " said Senator Platt , when the statement was called to his attention . " Mr. Ryan knows absolutely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington . ' The charge , however , brought forth an interesting rejoinder from one of ' be Platt lieutenants . " Why , " said he , " the issue involved is se plain that any one who runs ought to be able to read . Whether or not President Roosevelt . reconsiders his intention not to-run again for the Presidency , he certainly wants to be in a position to name the Republican nominee in 1008 . If he is to do that , It is essential that he should be able to control the New York State Republican organization . He has never get pn well with Odell , and does not trust him politically . " Unless the President and his friends are in a position to name the next . Republican candidate for Governor , Odell will remain the State leader and will control the delegation to the next Republican National Convention . " Platt vonvinced the President that the scandal , affecting Odell , growing out of the insurance investigation , threatened the loss of the State to the Republicans , and suggested that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then went on to say that it was not supposable that Senator Platt would have bluntly announced that President Roosevelt was supporting the movement to oust Halpin unless he had received assurances to that effect from the President . Nor was it supposahie , he said , that Congressman Olcott would have announced his candidacy in the terms he did unless he also had had assurances of Mr. Roosevelt 's support . President for Olcott , Platt Insists . Senator Platt 's attention was directed yesterday to the dispatch from Washington which stated that denial had been made at the White House that It was Mr. Reosevelt 's intention to take sides in the contest being waged between the Platt and Odell factions for the control of the city and State - organizations . When he was asked if he stood by his statement that the President favored the election of Mr , Olcott to succeed Mr. Halpin , he replied : " The President is decidedly in favor of Mr. Olcott . It makes no difference what other people may say . That is the fact . " " Have you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked . " Yes , we have votes enough to elect , " replied the Senator , " It we did not have Buell assurance he would not be a candidate . " " Did you know that Mr. Odell is going to round up the Republican district leaders on Monday ? " " Is he ? Well , I guess that round-up will flatten out . " " Do you understand that Halpin is to be the Odell candidate for the Presidency of the County Committee ? " " From what I heard last night , I imagine he will have some other candidate than Mr. Halpin . " What Wilt Higgins Do ? " How does Gov . Higgins stand in this contest ? " " I do n't know . I have not seen the Governor yet , but I expect to see him soon . However , I have to get through with the county contest - first . " ' ? Congressman Olcott 's attention was called to the denial from Washington that his candidacy had been inspired from I the White House . Mr. Olcott said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he stood by the statement he gave out in announcing his candidacy . In that statement Mrs Olcott said that the requests which had come to him to become a can- , didate for the Presidency of the committee ' ' had come from Republicans so high in the esteem of the party and the people " that he did not feel it right to set up ' his personal preferences against their judgment . The statement , taken in etennaction with ' Senator Platt 's declarationthat the President favored Mr. Olcott 's selection , created the impression in the mines of Republican politicians generally that the President was the power behind the movement for the reorganization of the-County Committee . deleted paragraph received from Republican district leaddozen of the leaders have called on him , and he himself admitted that not all of these agreed to help him in ousting Halpin . A look over the list of leaders , however , will convince almost any one that if President Roosevelt and Gov . Higgins should indicate a desire for Mr. Halpin 's retirement , he undoubtedly would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either Federal or State offices , and it is deemed altogether unlikely that they would stick by Halpin against their own Interests . Lauterbach Anti-Halpin . The fight against Halpin is not being made by the Platt men alone . There is good authority for the statement that State Chairman Odell sent for Edward Lauterbach to ask him to take charge of his interests in the local contest , . and that Lauterbach served notice that he would be unable to do so if Mr. Odell insisted on the re-election of Halpin . Both Mr. Lauterbach and Senator Elsberg are understood to be strenuously opposed to Halpin 's re-election . Their oppcsition is said to rest on the statement which Halpin made about the anti-Jercme circular sent out by the Twentyninth District Republican organization in the recent campaign . Elsberg is the Republican leader of the Twenty-ninth District . He was also the manager of William M. Ivins 's campaign for Mayor . Toward the close cf the campaign a circular was sent from the Republican headquarters in the Twenty-ninth District to every enrolled Republican in that district , instructing him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the circle under the eagle . Mr. Jerome had then been regtflarly nominated by the Republican County Convention as the Republican candidate for District Attorney , but no menth.n was made of the fact , and as Mr. , Jerome 's name did not appear in the Republican column , his nomination having been made too late to permit of his substitution for Charles A. Flammer on the ballot , the effect of the circular was to make votes against Mr Jerome . When the circular was published and treachery charged , Mr. Halpin got busy to straighten the matter out . A countercircular was sent out under his direction , advising all of the enrolled Republican of the Twenty-ninth District to vote for Jerome . Although the name of Senator Elsberg as executive member was printed on the anti-Jerome circular sent out , Mr. Elsberg contented himself with a denial of the fact that he had any responsibility for having it mailed . When Mr. Halpin was asked about the matter on the Sunday night preceding the election , after telling the reporters what he had done to correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I am for Jerome and I will not stand for any district leader marring the integrity of the county organization , and I told Nat Elsberg so over the telephone last night . " From this statement It was inferred that Mr. Halpin did not absolve Senator Elsberg of all responsibility , although he remarked later that if Elsberg had not been so much engaged with the management of Mr. Ivins 's headquarters he did not believe the circular would have gone out . Halpin Denial Refuted . Halpin ascertained recently that he was being opposed by Lauterbach and Elsberg because of what he had said about Elsberg 's connection with the anti-Jerome circular , and he began trying to set himself right with those two leaders . His method of doing so was to deny that he had ever made any statement to the effect that he " would not allow any district leader to mar the integrity of the county organization and that he had told Nat Elsberg so over the telephone . " Unfortunately for Mr. Halpin , the statement was made in the presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the meeting of the Republican County Committee in the Charities Building and informed that he had been quoted correctly . Mr. Halpin 's exact words were taken down by two of the reporters when he uttered them . But he is still denying the statement . While Edward Lauterbach and Senator Elsberg are wroth over Halpin 's criticism in connection with the anti-Jerome circular , and while Elsberg 's friends have been working hard to clear him of responsibility in the matter , it is regarded as singular by Republican politicians that neither Mr. Lauterbach nor Mr. Elsberg has yet fixed the responsibility for the treacherous circular where it belongs . The antagonism of Messrs . Lauterbach and Elsberg to Mr. Jerome had frequently been manifested , and on that account something more than a mere denial of personal responsibility was expected , but nothing has come . Senator Elsberg sails for Europe next Tuesday . He is a candidate for United I States District Attorney to succeed Gen. Burnett , and is being pushed by Lauterbach . Senator Platt 's candidate Is Robert C. Morris . former President of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the Republican County Committee is elected by the members of the County Committee , and not by the executive members . There are over 700 members of the committee , and it is not unlikely that some of them will take an altogether different view from that which is taken by their executive members . The first indication of how the County Committeemen feel about the contest was afforded yesterday by a conference of twenty-eight out of the fifty-four county committeemen of the Thirty-first District , of which Samuel S. Strasbourger is the executive member . The conference was held in the office of Mr. Strasbourger . I In addressing the conference , Mr. Strasbourger said he had been invited by Sen , ator Platt to call on him to confer about the reorganization of the County Committee . He continued : " During my lifetime in politics I have found that one year one non-resident of the City of New York and the next year another non-resident of the City of New York steps in and says how the Republicans of New York County should organize their committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Republicans of this county are men of sufficient intelligence and know the wishes of the people of the county well enough to Organize their committee better than any non-resident . " After this the following resolution was adopted : Resolved by the members of the Republican County Committee for the Thirty-first Assembly District , that in their opinion the organization of the County Committee of New York County is a matter lying primarily with the committee itself , and that notwithstanding the high regard in which we hold those non-residents who are prominent in the councils of the Republican Party , the members of the committee and they alone should determine how the committee should be organized and who its President and other officers should be . and be it further Resolved . That a committee of three be appointed with the view of carrying into execution the purposes of this resolution . Strasbourger has been known as an Odell leader . He has declared that his preference was for the re-election of William Halpin . When the Platt men heard last night of the movement in Strasboarger 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Odell , realizing that he could not win with Halpin , was organizing an anti-boss movement under the leadership of Strasbourger . MERRITT CALLS ON PLATT . Assemblyman Is Supposed to be Odell 's Choice for Speaker . Assemblyman Edwin A. Merritt of St. Lawrence County , who is one of the leading candidates for Speaker , and is supposed to be the choice of State Chairman Odell , has had two interviews with Senator Platt the last few days relative to his chances . Mr. Merritt 's candidacy is being boomed by Senators Malby and Stevens , both of whom were in the city yesterday . Mr. Merritt said he expected to be in the city until the Speakership contest is in a fair way to be settled . Friends of Mr. Merritt said yesterday that they did not expect the Hooker issue would cut much of a figure in the Spea.kership , fight . They said that if Gov . Higgs or any one else attempted to interject that issue there would be the bitterest fight in the Republican delegation in the Legislature that has ever been known in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             