@@676059

txt The fight to depose John F. Carroll as the Democratic leader of the Twenty-ninth Assembly District is on in earnest . A circular has been spread broadcast through the district and was sent to every enrolled Democratic voter , stating the political record of John F. Carroll , as viewed by his political opponents in Tammany Hall . In the list of those who have signed the antiCarroll circular appear the names of John D. Crimmins , Joseph P. Daly , Edgar A. Levy , Alfred F. Sellgsberg , William F. Sheehan , Thomas C. Dunham , and Myer J. Stein . The circular opens with a statement of the condition of the Democratic Party in New York County and says : " The Democratic Party needs reorganizing . The machinery of that party is at present in control of the combination that runs Tammany Hall . This clique is referred to by the public press as the ' Gambling Come , bine . ' It consists of the limited circle of men who controlled the Police Department under the last administration . It regulated vice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is on the top in Tammany and means to be while Tammany lasts . It forced Lewis Nixon out . Croker and the ' Gambling Combine ' act in perfect harmony . It was a characteristic piece of strategy on Croker 's part to make Lewis Nixon nominal leader of Tammany Hall . " Nixon was to be leader as long as he did nothing contrary to the wishes of the Gambling Combine . ' But when he opposed Van Wyck for the position of Grand Sachem of the Tammany Society , he had to go . Now he says he could not remain leader of Tammany and maintain his selfrespect . It would be a hard blow to the ' Gambling Combine ' if it lost the Twentyninth District . Rochard Cooker votes in the Twenty-ninth District , although his home is Letcombe Regis , Wantage , England . John F. Carroll is the Tammany leader of the Twenty-ninth District . " Carroll tried to make Nixon responsible for Van Wyck . Carroll kept in the background . He still wants to put Van Wyck on the Supreme Court bench @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open for him . He hated the cry of ' Ice Trust ' He ordered Nixon to undertake the responsibility . Nixon refused , consequently had to go . Carroll , in defiance of popular uprising of the people last Fall , wanted to put Van Wyck in control of the Tammany Society without appearing as his sponsor , just as he brought about his nomination for Mayor in 1897 , and was responsible for his nomination for the Supreme Court bench- last year . " The future of the gambling combine depends upon whether it will win in the Twenty-ninth District at the coming primaries . It is necessary for it to have the Croker-Carroll delegates sent to the State , Congressional , and City Conventions . Neither Carroll nor Croker desires to lose the district in which both vote . " The primary is the new secret of the people 's power , the new foe of the tyrannical political boss . " The Greater New York Democracy will also make a contest for the control of this district . William S. Devery , ex-Chief of Police , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Ninth Assembly District , according to the statements of several Tammany politicians . The fight in this district is sure to be a three-cornered one . Frank P. Goodwin , the present district leader , with the assistance of Thomas P. Smith , will try to hold control of the regular organization . The action of Leader Goodwin in leaving the Carroll forces and throwing his vote to the Croker-Sullivan contingent is said to be responsible for the determination to ot " TF-iiirrifrom leadership , if possible , by the friends of John F. Carroll . It is known that ex-Chief Devery Is a close friend personally of Leader Goodwin .                     