@@676174

txt John F , Carroll , John J. Scannell , George W. Farbach , Her-. man Ridder , and E. B. Ammend have arrived here and constitute the advande guard of the Democratic Convention . A definite statement from Judge Alton B. Parker as to his position as regards the Democratic nomination for Governor was telegraphed here to-night and was read with much interest by Mr. Carroll and the ' other Democrats here . Judge Parker , when asked whether he would accept the Demo ? cratic nomination for Governor , is quoted as saying : " I have not changed my mind in the least on the Gubernatorial question . That is enough to say and that is all I will say . " A friend of Judge Parker , who has been with him for the last twenty-four hours , says that neither Mr. Hill nor anybody else will be able to induce Judge Parker to accept the nomination . There is no doubt that the leaders of the Democratic Party prefer Judge Parker to any other candidate who has been mentioned , and that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by acclamation . His declaration is thought to remove him finally from the list of probabilities . With Judge Parker out , the contest is considered an open one , with the chances in favor of Mr. Coler . It is stated on good authority that with Judge Parker out of it , Mr. Hill 's mind is open to conviction , as far as the other candidates for Governor are concerned . Mr. Hill undoubtedly was anxious to have Judge Parker run . At the same time , he has expressed the opinion that there was plenty of good available material and that he will not be at all discouraged because Judge Parker refuses to head the ticket . As between Messrs . Coler , Grout , Shepard , Hornblower , August Belmont , and the rest of the candidates mentioned , it is believed to be the intention of Mr. Hill to abide by the sentiment of the convention as to who would be the best man to lead the party . What seems to give Mr. Coler the advantage is that he has the support of the dominant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only candidate for whom , up to the present , there appears to be any up-State sentiment . John P. Carroll said he thought it would be one of the largest gatherings held by the Democracy of the State in many years . Tammany has - engaged forty cars to bring up its delegation , ' said Mr. Carroll . " Each car will accommodate about twenty-seven men , so you can see that the Tammany delegation will alone be more than 1,000 strong . I am told that Devery will be here with 300 men , and there will be a big delegation from Brooklyn . The prospects are , too , that the up-State representation will be very large . " " What will be the attitude of Tammany in the convention ? " " None of the troubles of the organization will be aired here . Tammany will present a united front for the candidate whetn the convention selects as the best man to lead the Democratic hosts . In my judgment , the Democratic candidate will have not less than 811,000 majority in Great , er New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Democratic success in the coming campaign . He said he thought that the Democratic majority in Greater New York would reach 100,000 . Mr. Ridder was asked whether the element which he represents had the same feeling toward the candidacy of Mr. Coler for Governor that they had toward , his candidacy for Mayor . It will be recalled that the German-American organization of which Mr. Ridder is at the head declared that it would support Mr. Coler in preference to Mr. Low if he were nominated by Tammany Hall . " We are still favorable to Mr. Coler , " said Mr. Ridder , " but we will support any good man who is nominated by the Democrats , provided the platform adopted is such as we can indorse . I can not say that I have any especial preference . Like most Democrats I think that Judge Parker would be the strongest candidate we could put forward if he would accept , but if his refusal is positive and final there is no lack of other good material from which to choose . " It is the consensus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make their fight up-State , realizing that the Odds will be heavily against them in New York City . In discussing this point to-night , both Mr. Carroll and Mr. Ridder pointed out the fact that while everything pointed to a harmonious alignment of Democrats in Greater New York . the Republicans were not in good ' shape in both New York and Brooklyn . It is said there is factional dissention among the Republicans , and the Guden scandal in Brooklyn is believed to have disgusted many Brooklyn Republicans with the organization . The opinion seems to prevail that with Judge Parker removed from the available list of candidates , it would be political wisdom for the Democrats to take their leading candidate from the great city . With Democrats of all shades of opinion supporting his leadership , it is agreed that Mr. Hill will never have a better chance to show what he can do than he will have 1 this year . If he loses , the general opinion seems to be that he will have to step aside for a new leader . Mr. Hill evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is making the effort- of his life to redeem the State to the Democracy . The State headquarters which he estabI lished in Albany is a beehive of activity . His play is to reduce the up-State maiorities of the Republicans as much as possible , and make herculean efforts to bring about a great Democratic majority in Greater New York . The action of the convention which will meet here Tuesday is still shrouded in uncertainty as regards nearly every place on I the ticket . It is the prevailing opinion that contests are likely to develop which will keep the convention here several days . This is what Mr. Hill and State Chairman Campbell would like to see . Mr. Campbell says that his experience is that the Democrats always poll their largest vote 1 after they have had a big fight in the con ! vention.                     