@@678707

txt Richard Watson Gilder , editor of The Century Magazine since its organization , poet , author , and one of the last of the circle of American literary men of which William ' Dean Howells is the surviving representative , died almost without warning last evening at the home of Mrs. Schuyler Van Rennselaer , 9 West Tenth Street , where he and Mrs. Gilder had been guests since Monday . ' Although he had almost completed his sixty-sixth year Mr. Gilder had been actively at work up to two weeks ago , when he got his first warning of the impending breakdown . He lectured at the Young Men 's Christian Association Hall at Orange on Nov. 3 on Grover Cleveland , who was a close friend of his , and while speaking felt . the first touch of pain . He continued his lecture , but on his way home had a second severe attack at the Lackawanna Station , where he collapsed after telephoning for his son , Rodman Gilder . He waited in the station while his son and the family physician , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By that time . Mr. Gilder had recovered somewhat , and the'first diagnosis was indigestion , which , his family thought , had been brought on by worry over the illness of his daughter , Rosamond Gilder , who had been operated on at the New York Hospital for appendicitis a fortnight before . The family had just then moved into the new co-operative apartment house at 24 Gramercy Park , in which Mr. Gilder was largely interested , and his illness was at first thought to have no serious significance . He was up and about as ' usual , and it was not until a week had , passed , with occasional attacks of pain , that the physicians decided that the heart I was affected . Alarm at First . Last Monday , because of the annoyance of the work being done o , n the new apart-ment , where the carpenters were still busy , Mr. and Mrs. Gilder accepted the hospitality of Mrs. Van Rensselaer and went to stay at the Ninth Street house ' until the work at the apaa.ment should Ibe finished . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and yesterday morning hewas- so well that Mrs. Gilder Went out for. , . day . At 1 o'clock he was taken with . a sudden severe attack , and Drs . Hodgson , Joseph Colins , and Theodore Janeway were called in . They could do nothing , and it - was quickly realized that Mr. Gilder was dying . The sons and daughters and Mrs. Gilder were summoned , and all except Rosamond Gilder , who is convalescing from her operation at the home of friends in the city , were at the bedside when the end came . Richard Watson Gilder came of Colonial stock and inherited a scholarly bent . One of his grandfathers was a Trustee of Girard College , Philadelphia , and a member of the State Legislature . His father , the Rev. William H. Gilder , of the Methodist denomination , was the founder of Bellevue ' Seminary , Bordentown , N. J. , where Richard was born on Feb. 8 , 1844 . He showed a precocious leaning toward letters in his early youth , and before he was 12 years old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas Register at Flushing , L. I. , whither his father had gone to establish St. Thomas 's Rail , an academy for boys . In the Anti-Slavery Cause . His education was completed under his father 's tuition , and when he was 16 he was following National issues . His ardor for the anti-slavery cause led him at this period to unite with two young colleagues In the production of a newspaper in the support of Bell and Evarts for Presidential honors . He was always somewhat frail , but when the civil war broke out he was anxious to fight , and at the time when the Northern cause seemed threatened , in the campaign of ' 63 , he enlisted in Landis 's Philadelphia Battery , serving until Lee acts beaten back from Pennsylvania . Mr. Gilder 's first serious editorial venture on his own responsibility was the establishment in 1868 of The Newark Morning Register , a daily , which he founded and edited with Murray Crane . The Register was not a financial success , and he gave up his connection with it shortly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as fast an a newspaper can , which is faster than anything else . ' His literary ability had already received wide recognition in this city , which then represented the best thought of the country , and at the age of 26 he was offered the editorship of Hours at Home , published by the Scribners . When this publication was absorbed in Scribner 's Monthly , organized shortly thereafter , he became associate editor under Dr. Holland , retaining that post for eleven years . When , at Dr. Holland 's death , the magazine underwent a further reorganization and change of ownership , becoming The Century , Mr. Gilder followed it as managing editor . He held this post from 1881 until his death . During all the period of his editorial work , Mr. Gilder was writing from time to time verse which was the basis of his widest public appreciation . His first book of verse , " The New Day , " was publiished in 1885 , and among these and the six volumes which ' have followed are included sonnets and lyrics which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been rated by critics as sure to pass into the heritage of the language . Following his first volume , " Two Worlds and Other Poems " was published In 1891 . The reception which these verses met was so universally appreciative that the author was encouraged to the publication of several successive volumes , in fact between 1893 and 1898 he brought cut four volumes : " The Great Remembrance and Other Poems , " " Five Books cf. Song , " " For the Country , " and " In Palestine and Other Poems . " His Work as a Reformer . Mr. Gilder was an Episcopalian , but this fact did not hinder him from relentlessly following the abuses in the Trinity Parish tenements , which his commission showed were among the worst in the city , and it was very largely due to the scandal raised by the light thrown on the neglect by the church corporation of its responsibilities which gave effect to the agitation and brought about the changes in the tenement laws which have since proved so effective . Himself one of eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three daughters , none of whom is married . His eons are Rodman and George and the daughters are Dorothea , Francesca , and Rosamond . No arrangements had been made up to last night for the funeral , but it will be held from the Church of the Ascension at Tenth Street and Fifth Aver ue , of which ti e Rev. Percy Stickney Grant is rector . The interment will be at the old Gilder home , Bordentown , N. J.                     