@@676368

txt Trouble Settles Down Over the Oakland When a Gag Engine la red on Junk , and Then Follow " ' a Strike in Which Even the Night Clerk Join'sPincem Are Filled , but Struggle Continues  --  Proprietor and Son Ran Machinery  --  Cook Remains Loyal . Picketed by union cooks and engineers and guarded by five policemen the Oakland hotel , Cottage Grove avenue and Oakwood boulevard , is in a state of siege . Joshua Hutchinson , proprietor of the hotel , Is holding the fort , and the combined forces of the local branches of the International Union of Steam Engineers and the cooks ' union are attacking it . So far Mr. Hutchinson , supported by his head cook , Peter Christianson , seems to be far from surrender , but Christianson , as the price of his loyalty , Is expecting to be expelled from the union on Monday . The trouble began some time ago when Mr. Hutchinson installed a gas engine to furnish power to operate the elevators in the hotel . Fred Hastings , the chief engineer , is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to have secretly organized the employes of the hotel . Junk . bed to the Engine . In the few days that followed the things that happened to the gas engine were harrowing to Mr. - Hutchinson . Once it refused to work and an expert was called to diagnose its ailment . Result : several pounds of junk and a coil of rope were found inside the cylinder . Succeeding days brought more ' Junk and more rope , and finally Hastings was die-charged . Then came a strike that included the second cook , two dish washers , six waitresses , and even the night clerk . Mr. Hutchinson hired more help and then the fight began in earnest . 13ut as soon as an engineer was secured he would be induced to leave , and after three of them had gone this way Mr. Hutchinson and his 15 year old son undertook to operate the machinery themselves . So well did they succeed that the unions began waging'the fight with renewed vigor . Cook Defies His ' Union . Christianson , the cook , who had remained loyal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Scott , business agents of the cooks ' union , and was told that a strike existed in the hotel . " Come out , " they ordered , but Christianson refused to budge . The union representatives then sought the coal teamsters , the laundry drivers , and the ice men , and deinanded that they deliver no goods to the Oakland hotel . These men in turn referred the matter to the heads of their respective unions , and were told that they had nothing to do with the strike . The union , however , scored a temporary victory , when David Rosenheim , a grocer at 85 Thirty-ninth street , was induced not to deliver supplies to the hotel . This was on Saturday , Rosenhelm 's busy day , and he had no time to investigate the matter . Hutchinson and his porter carried supplies to the hotel , and later the grocery drivers resumed their deliveries . ? ? Police Take a " Hand . Yesterday the union pickets became so Insistent in their efforts to further annoy the hotel ! nal:element that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norris , Adams , Leonard , Roebuck , and Stokes were Threats of violence are charged by Christianson , who last evening said : " They 're trying to terrorize us , but have failed . Why , my helpers have been told that if they do n't quit they would have their ? block knocked off . ' I want to be loyal to the union , but I also want to do what Is right , and in this case I think the union is wrong , We are getting on all right now , and I intend to say by the boss , even- if they throw me out of the union . "                     