@@677114

txt From far and near former members of the Third Presbyterian church will gather in Chicago on Sunday for their annual reunion . They will come from New England and from California , More than 000 of them alrettdY have asked for their old seats , that they may sit Where , they used to when they lived in Chicago and attended the church . The occasion will be unique in local religious Hie . The reunion this year will have an added interest for the congregation of the big church at Ashland and Ogden avenues . It will also be the seventh anniversary of the installation of the present pastor , the Rev. William J. McCaughan . In planning for the celebration the committee , headed by Edward M. Teall , sent letters to the hundreds who formerly worshiped at the church , reminding them of the part the Church had Played in their lives and urging them to come to the great family reunion if possible . Each One to Sit in Old Pew . Each was asked to designate , In his reply , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told that as far as possible the wanderers who returned for the day would be privileged to sit where they formerly had sat . it was the desire to restore the congregation of old days in the greatest possible degree. , To make these returning members feel still more at home , the old ushers were recalled . hen the men and women who have been away from the church for several years enter its doors Sunday morning they will be greeted by the men whom they will recall as having showed them to their seats a decade ago . The pastors to whose sermons these former members used to lister . can not be brought back to address them again . but the committee has arranged something in the way of a substitute . Letters will be read front the Rev. A. K. Kittredge , now occupying a pulpit in New York , and from the Rev. John L. Withrow , who is In Boston . Like a Family Reunion , In all respects the services will partake of the character , of a , reunion . There . will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . evening . Special music will he provided kind the church will he decorated elaborately , , Members who have died will be remembered In special floral designs . " It Is the desire of the church to make the old members feel at home , " said John E. Knobel , one of the committee . " Invitations have been sent out to .3,000 persons who formerly worshiped with us and who have gone from Chicago , and more than 000 re-riles have been received from outside the city . " All told , applications have been received for all of the 1,800 seats In the church . Seventeen ushers will be ready to show the attendants to their pews . " Beside Mr. Teall and Mr. Knobel there are on the committee Thomas Templeton , E. G. Clark , Harry Coffin , and Thomas R. D. Sind ) , Y.                     