@@677609

txt Charles P. Murphy , leader of Tammany Hall , in an interview last night , finally set at rest the report constantly reiterated in the last two weeks , that he was going to retire from the leadership . Mr. Murphy declares his intention of remaining where he Is perhaps as long as he lives . When questioned further last night on this point , he expressed the belief that any movement to oust him would receive scant support from the district leaders . In addition to this Mr. Murphy indicated to a certain extent his understanding of what the peace compact , supposed to have been arranged between Corporation Counsel Ellison and " Big Tim " Sullivan , amounted to . He said he had never understood that he was to get out as a result of the arrangement . Then Mr. Murphy added that some time ago there had been a movement to install an Advisory Committee in Tammany Hall with powers equal to those of the Executive Committee , but the suggestion had been rejected as ridiculous . Mr. Murphy was first asked if there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forced out or had agreed to get out . " I have no Intention of getting out , " said the Tammany leader , " and I may add that there is no understanding with any one to the effect that I shall get out . That is a matter for the district leaders to decide , and If any one wants a vote on whether I shall retire or not , why there is no objection to his having it when the leaders meet . I believe I know how the leaders stand on the proposition . At any rate , I expect to live to a good old age and I expect to remain , right where I am . His View of Peace Parleys . " I do not understand that in the conferences which Corporation Counsel Ellison held with Congressman Sullivan there was any mention of any condition that I was to get out of the Tammany leadership . All that was understood was that the Mayor was to look after City Hall , and we were to look after Tammany Hall spd its affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recognize tiie organization in making appointments ? " was asked . " There was no absolute understanding as to that . ? I-understood with an accent on the pronoun that the Mayor was to appoint Democrats and was not to fight the organization . " " Do you understand that the primary fights have been called off ? " " We ca n't prevent individuals from making primary fights . " " But do you understand that the Mayor is going to continue the primary fights he has started ? " " Oh , I do n't know , " said Mr. Murphy lightly . " I suppose not . " Advisory Committee Suggestion . Mr. Murphy was then asked about a rumor that he had agreed to give up the leadership , and as to the efforts of exJustice Morgan J. O'Brien to bring about peace between the Mayor and Tammany . " There has been a good deal of talk at different times , " said the Tammany leader . " Some time ago it was proposed that an Advisory Committee be appointed , equal in numbers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , with which the Advisory Committee would have an equal voting power . That plan was rejected both by the Executive Committee and myself , because It was considered ridiculous . As I said before , I am in pretty good health , and I am satisfied to stay here as long as the district leaders are satisfied , as they now seem to be . " " Mr. Murphy , do you know how the leaders would stand if a. vote was taken now ? " was asked . " Oh , I would n't like to say as to that , " was the reply . " Would it be about thirty to five ? " " Well , they would n't get very many votes , " replied Mr. Murphy , meaning the opposition . Asked about the shake-up timed to take place in Borough President Ahearn 's office within a few days , Mr. Murphy said : " I do n't want to talk about that . Mr. Ahearn thoroughly understands the business of his office and he can take care of It . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I saw him about four days ago . " Leader Talks Confidently . Mr. Murphy 's statements , coming so long after the peace compact had virtually been discredited by the Mayor as In any way affecting the latter 's attitude toward the Tammany leader . Is taken as indicating that Murphy does not expect any more trouble from the Mayor , no matter how the Mayor may regard him personally . The Tammany leader 's utterances and his manner as well smacked of peace . It was evident that there Is nothing fn the local political situation that worries Mr. Murphy , unless it is the Possibility of a fight with Hearst this Fall , which he did not mention but which , Politicians believe , will take place . The Ahearn matter and the contemplated activity of the Borough President in the axe-swinging line is evidently not concerning the Tammany leader deeply . As was pointed out when the statement wee published that Ahearn contemplated a shake-up , Murphy would have something to gain if Ahearn did his decapitating and appointing under his ( Murphy 's ) guidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Hagan would cause some trouble , of course , but , if their places could be filled by other leaders , or men high in the organization , Who , In turn , would fill the minor vacancies with Tammany braves wearing fewer feathers but nevertheless trustworthy , the effect would be to split the patronage of the Borough President 's office up between a greater number of organization men on the theory that " half a loaf is better than no bread . " Tammany would thus get off much better than It did udder the Lo* Administration . Ex-Justice O'Brien is said to have suggested that the Advisory Committee to which Mr. Murphy referred last-Mght be composed of the high-class men in the organization , the men of wealth and social position . Its members , according to report , were to have been chosen by the Mayor . Had such a committee been appointed , it might have dominated the organization in a short time .                     