@@677088

txt The Commercial Cable Co . Will Start at Once to Extend Its Lines to Yokohama and Shanghai . Through American enterpriae the way has been won to connect the Western Continent by direct submarine telegraphic lines with the Empires of Japan and China . Clarence H. Mackay , President of the Commercial Pacific Cable Company , made the announcement yesterday that his company has secured the necessary concessions to enter Yokohama and Shanghai . Yesterday the last step in a series of diplomatic negotiations , which were begun at the wish of President and lasted three years , was taken when Mr. Takahira , the Japanese Minister to the United States , affixed his signature to Japan 's agreement with the Commerdal Pacific Cable Company for landing rights at Yokohama . An agreement for landing rights at Shanghai was signed by China several weeks ago . When these new cables are completed , Mr. Mackay said , their length , added to 1 other cables already laid or about to be laid will form part of a system which extends two-thirds of the distance around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be made by extending the present lines of the company , which run from 8an Francisco through the stations of Honolulu , Midway , and Guam to Manila . Japan will be reached by laying a cable from Guam in the Pacific Ocean direct to Yokohama . The cable to China will be laid from Manila to Shanghai . " We shall proceed at once ' with the manufacture and laying of these two cables , which will take several months , " Mr. Mackay said . " The Commercial Pacific Cable Company will then pierce the Far East at three points , the Philippines , China , and Japan . With the cable which has just been completed to Newfoundland , plus a fifth cable to Europe which will be laid this month , and the cable from Guam to Japan , and one from Manila to Shanghai , the company will have a system extending over two-thirds of the way around the globe . " It was the earnest wish of President , while the Pacific cable was in contemplation , that in addition we should lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ficulties at that time seemed insuperable , including as they did diplomatic negotiations to secure landing rights in Chips . and Japan , a survey of the hitherfix ilatitii2yrri bed ofthatort. of the PacificOcean and Eastern - Seas where the new rit , bjeata , gild. ' the construction work , but the , President was assured that every possible effort would be mode to comply with his wishes . Among the obstacles which presented themselves more recently was a protest which Russia made against the laying of a cable to Japan as being a breach of neutrality . " President Roosevelt has given his hearty support in qrder that American commerce might have quick service to China and Japan by an American cable . We also received the efficient aid of exAttorney General Knox and of Attorney General Moody . "                     