@@675709

txt Locked tightly within the inner office of President Alexander S. Webb , in the building of the College of the City of New York , are the several hundred copies constituting the last issue of the college publication The Review . Spread over the pages of this edition is the attack of Student Weatherwax of the institution supported by city money on Richard Croker . Upon other pages , over the initials " A. T. F. , " is a treatise upon religions , their origins ' and their folly , which the writer concludes with the observation that Christianity is just as foolish as any other religion and that the only thing worth attention is agnosticism . The authorities of the college suppressed The Review and looked for the editor . They found him and the author of the tribute to Mr. Croker ; but thus far their search for the youthful scoffer who hides behind the letters , " A. T. F. " has n't been successful , The higher journalistic ambition of the editor of The Review first brought its reward on Wednesday morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Review had come out that morning , and was being sold to the students as they made their way past the news stand in the lower hail of the main wing of the building . Prof. Charles G. Herbermann of the Latin Chair was soon approached by two students . " Professor , our faith is assailed , " they told him . in common with all other existing religions and Richard Croker , in this . the student publication , The Review . Do you think it proper , professor , that a publication originating here should so misrepresent the sentiment of the student body ? " The professor hurried with the offending copy to President Webb . Dr. Webb read the two articles in question . Then he looked for the name of the editor . " Send for Mr. Milford Stern at once . " he said to the man who answered his ring . The young editor came in a moment . " Now . Stern , this is hardly the thing , " said the President . " The great trouble has been , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only original , but that would attract attention . I was elected only prior to the issue of this number , as you know . I promised the fellows I would get out a bully ' number , and I did it . I thought it would be all right to have an article attacking Richard Croker. in order to show to the public that we , the students of the College of the City of New York . were taking an Intelligent interest in public affairs . ' Then Dr. Webb and Prof. Herbermann labored with the young man , finalle convincing him that his course had been injudicious . The Croker article had been signed " Wea therwax . ? They sent for Sophomore Weatherwax . At first they tried in a spirit of kindness to show Weatherwax that it was not good policy to write such things about Croker while he was a student in the City College . " But that 's the liberty of the press , " Weatherwax told them . " What 's to become of the liberty of the people and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press be natizzled ? I admit I Wrote that article about the ' big boss , ' but if there were more of them written there would be less bosses-.4 ' " But an institution supported by the people 's money ca n't afford to antagonize the party in power , " Prof. Herbermann said . Now , I want you two . Stern and Weatherwttx. to go with my secretary . " said the President , " to all of the classrooms . You Will announce to the students that it has been thought best to call in this edition . You will hand over all copies to Mr. Mayell here and pay back the money you received for them . Then we 'll have classes here . " Accompanied by Henry Mayell . Secretary to President Webb , Stern and Weatherwax made the rounds while the classes were waiting for them . In some cases the students questioned the right of the officials to thus suppress one of their publications . " Feaows , this edition 's been called in . Pass Hp your copies and get your money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And Weatherwax helped in the distribution of the nickels that the students had given for The Review . Meanwhile Dr. Webb and Prof. Herbermann had gone through the register of students looking for " A. T. F. " They found plenty of F. 's , but no " A. T. F. " There the search rested yesterday . The authorities said they were unwilling to encourage students to inform upon each other , and they did not feel disposed to ask either Editor in Chief Stern or his associates to point cut the particular " F. " wanted . The matter will come up in all probability at the next regular meeting of the Faculty .                     