@@677997

txt Thirteen Congressional Districts and two States held conventions this week for the election of delegates to the Republican National Convention . As heretofore , Secretary Taft was the favorite , getting 26 uncontested delegates and the 34 chosen . Four more , who go uninstructed , are vigorously claimed by the Taft men . They are from the Seventh tend Eighth Virginia Districts , and will in all probability follow the lead of Representative Slemp. the Republican potentate of Virginia , into the Taft column . In two other districts , the Fifth Oklahoma and First Kentucky , double conventions were held , with resulting contests for settlement by the National Committee in the week before the convention meets . Besides the above , Hughes conventions were held in two Missouri districts , the Eleventh and Twelfth , where Taft conventions were held in February . This makes two more contests . These two contests cut four delegates from the uncontested column of 94 credited to Taft last Saturday . To the 90 thus left him this week has added 26 , giving the War Secretary an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , the table stands : Taft 110 ' Uninstructed S Fairbanks 2G Contested 24 Cannon 2 Total lid The two credited to Cannon are from a South Carolina district , where there will surely be a contest , the Taft men declaring that the convention held under the auspices of J. D. Prioleau was a fake . The Missouri contests are due to a curious local mix-up over the Post Office fight in St. Louis . The Taft conventions there were held on the call of the County Committee , and the Hughes conventions were held under the auspices of the Congressional district committees and had the sanction of Walter Dickey , the State Chairman , who , although personally a Fairbanks man , has been counted with the Taft forces owing to the Taft sentiment in the State . It is one of the knottiest problems put up to the National Committee . The two State conventions of the week were in Oklahoma arid Nebraska . Iowa , which is a Taft State , will hold its convention next Wednesday , and New Mexico , also for Taft , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House the prediction that Taft will be nominated on the first ballot has given place to the expression of belief that his opponents will withdraw before the balloting time arrives , and that the nomination will be made by acclamation . Representatives James B. Perkins of New York and Tirrell of Massachusetts , neither of which States is counted on for many delegates by the Taft men , were both at the White House this afternoon . When they came away both said Taft would surely be the nominee . " We told the President that Taft would get it , " said Mr. Perkins . " Nothing would please the people of New York more than to see Gov . Hughes nominated , but when a thing is impossible the next step is to do the best you can . Gov . Hughes is greatly liked by our people , but when he is out of the race threefourths of the delegates will . go for Taft . 0 ? " The trouble about the combination against Secretary Taft is that they will not be able to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . If Speaker Cannon , for instance , should withdraw , three-fourths of the delegrates from that State would at once ' go to Taft . When Fairbanks gets out of the contest nearly every man from Indiana will support the Secretary , and the same thing will be true as to Knox and Pennsylvania . I never knew anything that looked more certain than the nomination of Taft . " " In my district , " said Mr. Tirrell. " every man who has announced himself as a candidate for delegate to the convention has declared for Taft . The delegates will not be instructed , but they will be Taft men and will support him to the last . " The allies hoot at the suggestion of Taft by acclamation , but their hooting is accompanied by a noticeable revival of third term talk . Senator Hemenway , who suggested Roosevelt and Fairbanks this week , is not the Only Senator who has talked of the " old ticket . " This afternoon there was a conference in one of the committee rooms at the Senate end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Atlantic Coast Senator , and V a Senator from the Mississippi alley took part . Two of them are open members of the allies . The other comes from a State whose delegation is always set down in the Taft column , but he himself has never proclaimed his adhesion to the Taft candidacy . They were talking Just for themselves , and all of them declared their belief that Roosevelt would and should be renominated . The Atlantic Coast man , who is far from being in the roll of Administration Senators , finally said : " Well , we could do a good deal worse than have four years more of Roosevelt . "                     