@@678277

txt Emperor William never has been so severely criticised by the German Parliament as he was to-day during the debate in the Reichstag on the conversations published with the permission of the Emperor in The London Daily Telegraph on Oct . S. Remarks on his Court , his Ministers , and his treatment of the Constitution , as well as of his free-dom of speech , went to lengths that astonished observers acquainted with the traditional caution of the Chamber in dealing with the personality of the sovereign . The Emperor seemed to have no defenders . Chancellor von . Buelow made an address lasting fifteen minutes . but he lacked his usual spirit . A person high in his confidence is authority for the statement that he had told the Emperor that neither himself nor his successors could remain in office unless the ruler was more reserved . The House received his eaplanation of the interview In ley silence MI stead of giving it that cordial applause which as a general thing follows the Chancellor 's fine parliamentary declarations . May Limit Emperor 's Power . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as relentless as the Socialists , the Radicals , and the National-Liberals , and to-day 's proceedings are regarded by the extreme Liberals as the beginning of a contest between the Crown and Parliament that may end in Germany having a Ministry responsible to Parliament and not to the Crown . When Herr Rassermann , the NationalLiberal leader , a friend of Chancellor von 1Buelow and a specialist in foreign affairs , began his discussion of the incident there was hardly a vacant seat on the members ' benches , while the galleries were brilliant with the uniforms of officers and the costumes of =women . In the royal box were Prince Christian of SchleswigHolstein , Duke Ernst Guenther , a brother of the Empress : Gen. Jacoby , the Imperial Adjutant , and Gen. von Moltke , chief of the General Staff , while on the raised platforms facing the Chamber sat the members of the Bundesrath , including the resident envoys of all the German federated States . Some thirty foreign newspaper correspondents were in the press tribune . Herr Bassermann recited the evil effects of the Emperor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America had taken note of the fact that the German fleet had been authoritatively described as designed for action in the Pacific . The Japanese press had been in an uproar over this declaration , Great Britain had been stirred to greater naval preparations , and Germany 's relations had become worse with well-nigh all the principal powers , but especially with France , Russia , Great Britain , and Japan . Refers to American Ambassadors . There ought to be an end . Ile declared . to imperial personal policies and interference with the responsibilities of trio Chancellor , such as had been manifested recently in the Tower-Hill and the mouth affairs . Practically sire ent:re . German people was of one mind ceneerning the ruinous effects of di:cet imperial interference in the foreign affairs of the empire . Loyal monarchists could only regret that damage had been done the monarchical principle , especially at a time when a strong Republican party had grown up . This statement u-ac greeted with alMlausesfrom the Sneialiete . " The Emperor Is very badly informed , " the ' speaker continued . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are hostile to Great Britain . It has been affirmed a hundred times in this house that our fleet is . not aimed at Great Britain : that it is solely a defensive precaution for the protection of our coasts . our merchant marine , and our ports . We have never heard before , we who passed the naval programme , that the fleet was intended for action in the Pacific in furtherance of a world policy . " This statement must be absolutely denied along with the other Imperial utterances . The publication cf this imperial declaration is not the worst feati  --  re . pr the incident . These opinions are held and passed from mouth to mouth . No one knows how many similar conversations with foreigners reposa among the archives of other Governments . They all are in contravention of Article 17 of the Constitution , which provides that imperial acts in foreign affairs must be countersigned by the Chancellor . " In conclusion , Herr Bassermann said that the National-Liberals did not demand the resignation of Chancellor Von Billow , but they did insist upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interference from the Emperor . The party was loyal to the Emperor and knew that he had been actuated only by good motives , but it deplored the possibility of a chasm between the sovereign and the people , and sincerely hoped that this Incident would be the beginning of p , strict observance of constitutional relations . ? Herr Bassermann was followed by Herr Wiemer , Radical , who said in part : " We regretted greatly the incident over the appointment of David Jayne Hill to the post of American Ambassador in Berlin , tending as it did to disturb the good re.lations between the United States and Germany . It was well said on the other side of the ocean that ' our representatives abroad shall not be check books , but men . ' " This statement brought out applause . - Herr Singer . Socialist , declared that Germany had sunk low in foreign opinion trough the incapacity and levity of persons in responsible places . In the consti  --  tiltional system of Germany the King was the first servant of the State , he declared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thing as had Emperor William he would be brought before an imperial court for trial . The speaker . explained that he referred to the trial for treason of Prof. Geffken for publishing the diary of Frederick III . Herr Singer brought out Socialist applause . Prince von Buelow spoke earnestly in : reply to the critics of the Government and the Emperor . His solemn address was devoid of gesture . - P I must weigh my words , " he said , " . because of the effect they will have abroad . I do not wish to add fresh prejudice to the damage already caused by the publication in The Daily Telegraph . I assume that the details given therein are not all correct , and I am certain that the story of a detailed plan of . campaign to end the Boer war is not right . This plan consisted merely of some academic ideas concerning the conduct of war in general which the Emperor conveyed to Queen ' Victoria in the course of their correspondence , and it was without practical significance for the operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . " We must defend our policy during the Boer war against accusation and equivocation . We gave timely warning to the Boers that ' they would be alone against England , and that there was no doubt regarding the result . The facts with reference to the question of interyention long have been public property , and whether the communication of these to Queen Victoria constituted a violation of diplomatic rules depends on circumstances unknown to the public . ' Not Hostile to Great Britain . Concerning the statement attributed to Emperor William that a majority of - the German people is hostile to Great Britain , . the expression used by The Telegraph is too strong . Serious and regrettable misunderstandings have existed between Great Britain and Germany , but the Ger -- man people desire peaceful and friendly relations with that empire , joined with Mutual respect . " Too great stress also is laid upon the point in the Interview dealing with our interests in the Pacific Ocean , which are Incorrectly presented as inimical to Japan . We never thought about East Asia except for the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development , and we have no idea of undertaking a maritime adventure there . - The extension of the German fleet is just as little intended for aggression in the Pacific Ocean as in Europe . The task in Germany 's policy is not to limit the development of Japan . " For twenty years the Emperor has striven to improve the relations with Great Britain , often under difficult circumstances . The peoples of both countries occasionally have attacked each other without real justification , and the Emperor considered this a misfortune for both and a danger to the civilized world . - The Emperor 's idealistic thoughts , purposes , and efforts often , without reason , have caused doubts to arise . " We wish to avoid anything like the ; ' currying of favor abroad or anything appearing to savor of our insecurity or the Tanning after any one , but I quite understand the Emperor feeling aggrieved when attacked because of his zealous and honest efforts to bring about good relations with Great Britain . Some have gone so far as to imply secret designs against Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely false . " The recognition by his Majesty of the Unjustified misunderstanding of his utterances with reference to Great Britain and the excitement and regret aroused thereby in Germany . will , I am convinced , lead the Emperor in future private conversations to exercise that reserve which . in the interest of a uniform policy and the authority of the Crown , is indispensable . . " If this proves not to be so , neither I nor any one of my successors could take the responsibility . I accepted the blame for the publication of the article in The Daily Telegraph and offered my resignation , and it was the most difficult task in my political life to - resolve to remain in office . How long I will continue there I do not know , but I consider it my duty at this difficult period to continue to serve the Emperor and the nation . " Herr von Heydebrandt and Prince Hatzfeldt . Conservatives , and Baron von Hertling , a member of the Centre Party , took part in the debate and energetically protested against the personal element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Agrarian and Anti-Semite , surprised the House by the vehemence of his utterances . He declared that the Monarchists , with heavy hearts , found themselves compelled to protest firmly against the Emperor 's statements . The nation 's confidence has sunk to zero . " We do not believe , " he continued , " that the Chancellor can take the responsibility or that the future sell bring any real improvement . The improvement will last only until the next time . Evidence exists that there is further material in foreign hands for use when the occasion calls . The House adjourned " to meet to-morrow , and when the Chancellor departed the crowds outside the doors cheered and hooted him .                     