@@676216

txt Last season Bishop Potter delivered at Yale a series of six lectures on " The Citizen in His Relation to the Industrial Situation . " They are now published in a little volume of some 250 pages of fair print , which can easily be read through at a couple of sittings , and which no one desirous of understanding the influences at work in , this country bearing on the relations of capital and labor to our society can afford to ignore . Bishop Potter naturally and in a sense necessarily speaks . as a moralist and as a religious teacher . But he does not speak as an it priori moralist or a religions teacher launching authoritative utterances ? in vacuo . He has studied his subject not merely in its literature  --  though he has been remarkably thorough in that  --  but through personal familiarity with the various classes of men whose relations , opportunities , duties , and rights he discusses . And the result of his study is a body of opinion and sUggestion of a most interesting and helpful sort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what we know as the working man . He does not fail to recognize the defects , the errors , and the offenies fairly attributed to him , and he characterizes them with much plainness and candor . But he recognizes much more than most men of his own class , indeed with a clearness and warmth rare in any class , the causes of what he can not approve and the spirit in which , if at all , a remedy is to be found . Especially he insists on the high expediency of seeking frankly and patiently and with the utmost consideration to appeal to the reason and the good-will of the working man in order to reach some practical understanding with him . This way , and this way only lies safety for all . And this idea he enforces with much detail and in a convincing manner . On the other hand , the Bishop reserves such . indignation as he thinks proper to indulge for those who possess wealth or power in the industrial world with no adequate sense of the responsibility in the use thereof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is-not difficult ' for him to find phrases in the Scriptures suited to the expression of his feelings . ' Yet , on the whole , he is as just to the rich as to the poor , and it would be a dull Dives who could not derive instruction from this volume . For one thing  --  and it is about all our space permits us to note specifically of the doctrine of the writer  --  he has no trace of Socialism in his teaching as Socialism is usually understood . He has , on the contrary , no illusions as to the need of individual effort . self-control , training , and development to secure the best results in the industrial world . Only he insists that the individual shall recognize his duties as well as his interests and see that his highest and most lasting interests are dependent on the faithful doing of those duties .                     