@@675407

txt At the annual meeting of the Civil Service Reiform Association of Massachusetts , the President , Mr. R. H. DANA ; stated in substance that in no other Administration since the passage of the civil service law had there been so lax an enforcement of the law and so Mach delib. erate retreat from the groundspreviously gained as in this . This is a very severe condemnation of the President for many reasons , but it is deserved . Mr. challenged stricter criticism of his policy in this matter than any of his predecessors because lie adopted the pledge of his party that the reform should be promoted and advanced in all practicable ways , and added to it his own voluntary promise , coupled with ar . unqualified indorsement of the principle and purpose of the reform law based on his experienbe in Congress and as a political leader . It happened that in the campaign of 1S9G a. good many Democrats who rejected the ideas of their party on finance were convinced civil service reformers , and the platform of tile National Democracy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration on this issue that had ever been made by any party . It was with the deliberate purpose of satisfying the demand thus expressed that Mr. Mclirxi.Er made his explicit pledges as to the reform . They served his purpose , and aided in determining many votes to him that other ' wise would have been given to theeNar tional Democratic ticket , or withheld altogether . He was therefore in the situation of a man who for valuable consideration had passed his word , and had incurred an obligation that honor required him to meet fully . We are compelled to say that he has not done so . There is yet time for him to retrieve the injury that he has done to the public service and to his own reputation . The constitutic.1 of the House committee oh the reform of the civil service is extremely favorable , and it is reported that the committee will introduce and press a bill that will extend the principle of the rules ' and especially will provide as far as possible for the systematic application of it to the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opportunity to undo the mischief that has been done and to use his influence to establish the merit system , as he so unqualifiedly promised to do . He can in no way employ more wisely the great power that he has acquired during his term .                     