@@678608

txt Considerable discussion has recently taken place in England over a proposition that the editors of newspapers might form themselves into what is called a " Press League of Silence . " That is , they might agree formally among themselves that to certain matters publicity in their columns should . be absolutely denied . The suggestion sprang from the publication in England and , generally , of course , in India , of the speech written out and delivered in court , with much theatric emphasis , by DFILNGRA , the young Indian who murdered Sir CUR , o ** It is argued , and not without plausibility , that one of the contributing motives to his dastardly I and savage crime was his desire to be widely known as a martyr who faced death for the interest of his race , and that this desire would have been balked in great measure had his grandiloquent proclamation of his purpose been suppressed . This theory is acted on in some Continental countries , notably in Russia , where offenders of this sort have no privilege of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even 4,1fretly . It is to be noted that this eiainple hardly sustains the theory. , on which it is based , wee the passionlit of those in sympathy with the offenders are generally intensified by the arbitrary imposition of silence . The mute martyr is as impressive and exciting as if he were permitted to exercise his eloquence to the utmost . In the case of DRINGRA. there would have been a peculiar element of incongruity in forbidding him , ' on the eve of his death , to proclaim , precisely the same grievances for his race  --  grievances to remove which he - was ready to die  --  that are freely proclaimed , in book form , by Mr. KMIRHARDIE , the Socialist member of Parliament .. The fact , that in both instances they were grossly exaggerated , or worse , would make the policy of silence particularly absurd . But the " Press League of Silence " is not to apply solely to matters of this grave importance .. It is to include In its presumably preventive pOlicy all incitement to crime , direct or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to be denied that publicity in matters ff this sort does have a certain demoralizing influence , but It is extremely difficult to define or measure it . On the other hand , there is a ; counteracting influence which also can not easily be calculated . But quite apart from considerations of this sort , it is plain no such league could be constituted broad enough and firm enough to be seriously effective . There would always be some paper to break away from it in cases where there was enough public curiosity or other sentiment to make it profitable . Here really , in the . limits fixed by public sentiment , is to be found the only ef . fective restraint . Some papers would go more or less beyond those limits ; some would keep well within them , according to their interpretation of the wish of their particular class of readers . How far the results would vary may be judged from the fact that in its most conservative period The Times of London always printed full and detailed Police Court reports in cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ venturesome of American journals . In the long , run the regulation of newspaper publications , like that of general conversation , is a question of the taste and morals prevailing in the class with which the talkers or the writers are associated . Changes are marked often within short periods . Coarse or profane language , for example , is much less common in this country , and , we think , in England , than it was a half century ago , and , despite some conspicumis exceptions , newsnapers are more decent . In graver matters a " Press League of Silence " would be vain unless public sentiment clearly supported it , and then it would be needless .                     