@@676781

txt As the result of a conference last night between representatives of the unions involved in the packing house strike and of the owners of the plants , the end of the long labor struggle is set for the middle of this week . An understanding was arrived at by which the men will meet today or tomorrow and vote on the Question of calling off the strike . According to the plans made , they will be instructed to cast their ballots in the affirmative . These plane were made with secrecy and eare .. ? They originated a week ago in Chicago with certain of the packers and of the conservative labor leaders . Fearing the execution of the scheme would fall if attempted In Chicago , it was determined to make the first move in New York . The ending of the strike In the eastern city by the vote of the men on Saturday was this first step . The settlement there made is the same as that now proposed for Chicago . Points of the Agreement . The following are the chief points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strIfie . The packers to reemploy as many of the strikers as they can give work to , and to give the preference to the former employes In the future ; as many or the new workers as wish to romala are to be retained . Wages of the skilled men to remain at the rats paid before the strike . That the scheme will go through is confidently hoped by the men engineering it . Nothing but the appearance of some unforeseen contingency can prevent the success of the plan , they are certain . The packers , who have often declared they would not meet the labor men , will undoubtedly deny today that a conference has been held . But the fact remains that duly authorized representatives of the owners of the packing plants did meet the labor men . Hinted At by Donnelly . In the first opening of negotiations President Donnelly . it is believed , had no part , and it is uncertain whether he now is directing the moves of the union . In his address to a strikers ' massmeeting yesterday , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the strike to the vote of the members . He said that it was not unlikely that the rank and file would be asked in a few days for an expression of opinion as to the wisdom of giving up the fight . The settlement in New , York and proposed for Chicago and the other packing centers is substantially the same as the union committee was anxious to present to the packers last Monday . When the packers were approached by the union representatives they said they would not meet them . Negotiations appeared to be hopeless . The intended offer of the labor Alen was , however . not overlooked by the employers . Negotiations were opened with some of the strongest men in the butcher workmen 's organization , whose conservatism was known . Several members of the executive board of the union had hardly disguised their clesapprovel of the progress of the strike . ' Secret Ballot to Be Taken . At last night 's meeting the move intended as the culminating blow was arranged . The labor representatives agreed to perform their part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as soon as possible and tile members given the opportunity to vote on ending the strike . A secret ballot will be taken , according to the rules of the union , but the union leaders will tell the men plainly it is to their interest and the majority of them will be reinstated in the packing plants . What doubt existed as to the position of the switchmen in the strike was dispelled last night by Grand Master Frank Hawley of the organization . Hawley , at a meeting of the union , said the men would remain at work . Donnelly Addresses a Meeting . Donnelly 's hint at a vote was made at Morgan and Thirty-sixth streets . It was a neighborhood meeting , and was attended by 1,600 strikers , their wives , . and , children . West of Morgan street there is a large vacant tract extending from Thirty-fifth street to the stockyards , and several blocks wide . " This strike will be continued , " said Donnelly , " until the officers of the union are instructed by the members to cull It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referendum vote of the men . I can not myself order the men back . " It may be that In two or three days the officers of the union will ask you for instructions . Then whatever is done will be done by you members , and not by me or my associates . " I believe In the initiative and the referendum . 1 believe the best way to educate the masses Is by placing upon them the responsibilities of self-government . This is the strike of your organization , which alone can terminate it . If this question is placed before you , as it may be soon , you will have to decide , and your officers merely will have to carry out your expressed will . " Fifty Stock Handlers Go Back . Fifty live stock handlers in the evening called on Supt. Ashby of the Union Stockyards and Transit company and asked that they be given their old positions . Mr. Ashby complied , and the men will return to work In the morning . This is the first organized break In the handlers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calling off of the strike in New York , a representative of the United Dressed Beef company said that it would take a little time to provide places for all of the strikers to whom they could give positions . " In calling off the strike . " he said , " the men go back to work on the open shop basis . That is understood , amino walking delegates will be allowed to enter the plants . " Gompers and Aids Come . President Gompers arrived in the morning and left in the afternoon for Ottawa , Ill. , wi7ere he will address a Labor day meeting . The vice presidents who were in Chicago were John Mitchell , Daniel Keefe , Frank Kawley. and Thomas I. Kidd.                     