@@676317

txt The failure of the Aldrich bill in the Senate was made the occasion of a good deal of disturbance in Wall Street . How much of the feeling aroused by it was sincere or how much of it was factitious no one can say exactly . But the basis of it was undoubtedly the knowledge that the business of the country needs more currency than is available , and that the Aldrich bill promised the re- lease of a certain amount which must now be locked up in the , Treasury . It is not at all clear that the promise of the bill would have been kept . It permitted the customs revenues , which must now go directly into the Treasury . to be placed in the banks , but it is not really known that there will be any surplus from this source . Even if there were , it might be relatively small . Twenty millions+ is the highest estimate that has been made by the advocates of the bill . What has happened , therefore , is that the money market has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure giving an uncertain promise of comparatively small relief . That , it seems to us. is a warning which the business men of the country would do well to heed . It is a notice that Congress can not be depended on to act in this matter with any degree of certainty or promptness . It is also proof that the situation which exposes the money market to appreciable disturbance from the action of Congress on a bill of intrinsically such minor importance and effect needs serious study and substantial treatment If this study be given , we think that it will be found that the only substantial relief must come from a change in the banking currency , giving greater elasticity to the entire system . It is generally recognized that what creates the extraordinary demand for currency " to move the crops " is simply the need of money to pay for commodities and labor . The money is not required for speculative purposes , but for the movement of actual goods having a real and immediate exchangeable value . These goods are as good a basis for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under our present system , no banknotes can be issued on them , no matter how complete the security or how pressing the demand . The same conditions prevail at other times of the year in less degree . They prevail at the present moment , when the demand for money in the interior is regarded by all well-inTormed observers as entirely legitimate and not in the least speculative . It is a fair inference that the relief must come in some measure that will permit the banks to furnish the currency that is needed and that can with perfect safely be issued . Happily this question is about to undergo careful investigation by a committee of able men appointed by the President of the American Bankers ' Association in pursuance of a resolution adopted at its last annual meeting . That resolution unqualifiedly approved of " the enactment of a law imparting a greater degree of elasticity to our currency system , making it responsive to the demands of the business interests of the country . " The New York representatives on this committee are Mr. H. C. FarixEsTock ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHARLES S. FAIRCHILD , President of the New York Security and Trust Company and ex-Secretary of the Treasury . The committee will report to the next meeting of the association in November . Its report ought to make possible some substantive legislation at the next session of Congress .                     