@@675990

txt King Edward and Queen Alexandra last night held the first evening " court " of the new reign . This function , which replaces the drawing room , was held in the ballroom of Buckingham Palace , and was largely a diplomatic and official affair , The whole Diplomatic Corps , the- chiefs of missions , and the First Secretaries , accompanied by their wives , were present , as well as all the Cabinet Ministers and their wives and daughters , most of the ex-Ministers , and all the great officers of state . The beautiful Spring weather of the past few days changed yesterday afternoon to a heavy downpour , which continued throughout the evening , and which quite spoiled , as far as the general public was concerned , the spectacle of the court . In spite of the blinding rain , which turned the roads to quagmires and hid the entrance of the palace in blurred mist , the constant stream of arriving carriages was watched by a large crowd , which cheered most loyally when their Majesties , in a state coach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the Mali and passed into the palace , the guard of honor giving the royal salute and the Grenadiers Band , stationed in the courtyard , playing the national anthem . Their Majesties bowed all along the route , but , in common with the occupants of the other carriages , they could scarcely be recognized through the rain . Once inside the palace , the contrast was most striking . Nothing so brilliant has been seen since the early days of the reign of Queen Victoria . The blaze of the new electric lights , the scent of flowers heaped along the corridors , the glitter of women 's jewels and dresses , and the Court uniforms made a memorable and maginificent scene . King Edward 's private band played in a gallery of the ballroom . There was no dais . Their Majesties stood at one end of the room , a few paces in front of the royal circle , which included the Prince and Princess of Wales , while further back were ranged other royal personages . The breast of King ' Edward was blazing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spirits . Queen Alexandra wore a golden yellow dress , embroidered with irises . Rows of pearls hung from her neck , and she wore a dainty diamond crown . The Queen stood throughout the fatiguing ceremony . The Princess of Wales was attired in white and silver , and the other Princesses were in white . On one side of their Majesties stood a brilliant group of Ambassadors , diplomats , and ladies displaying gorgeous dresses and jewels ; on the other side were the members of the royal household . King Edward received the guests according to precedence and afterward moved ? freely among the brilliant company . An informal supper was served after the reception and the Court continued until midnight . Among the striking beauties present were Lady . Cynthia Graham . Viscountess Castle , .. rea-tif.  - -  'and Lady Arthur Butler . ( n ? e Stager , daughter of Gen. Anson Stager of the United States . ) The Americans presented were Mrs. and Miss Ermentrout of Philadelphia and Mrs. Francis H. Leggett and Miss Sturges of New York . Lady Stratheona presented Miss Twining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is most beautiful , was opened for the first time last evening . A horseshoe table was laden with gold plate and pyramids of flowers and fruit . All the arrangements were highly successful . Following the termination of the King 's Court a most unusual scene was witnessed early this morning . All the fashionable photographers of London were busy taking pictures , with the aid of electric light , of the women in their presentation dresses .                     