@@676537

txt There seems to be a singular want of information at all points to-night on the Isthmus situation Mr. Hay has had no advices from Mr. Beatipre at Bogota for two days , and is beginning to be suspicious as to the conditions which prevent communication . It is known that the Colombian Government has established a.cable censorship at Buena Ventura. where the Pacific Cable Company 's two cables are landed . The censorship there commands not only the cable which goes to Panama ? but also that which goes past Panama and on up the coast , of Mexico . Dr. Herran , the Colombian Chaige , has as little-information from liLC Gavernment as the State Depart- ' ment . He has had no dispatches for several days . His instructions are at this time a week or more old , and manifestly do not apply to the constantly shifting conditions of the situation . It is believed that the protest of Colombia which was : aid before the State Department was prompted more by the general tenor of adviees from the Colombian Government than by distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is difficult to imagine . It seems clear that the Colombian Government does not propose to lie down supinely under the attitude of this Government toward her troops on the Isthmus , and the move to patrol the Magdalena Delta to prevent the departure of Colombian troops destined for the Isthmus . It is doubted here that the Colombian Government , has held up diplomatic dispatches which are always in cipher and privileged . To-night the State Department sent Mr , Beaupre a trial dispatch to see if communication can be established and to determine how long it may take to reach the American Minister with an official dispatch . In a dispatch received a few days ago ' at the State Department from Minister Beaupre he announced that he had decided to refrain from taking advantage of his leave of absence , which was immediately available . until March . No explanation is offered for the change in Mr. Beaupre 's plans , but it is surmised that he foresaw the approaching revcluticn and desired to be at his post when the separation came . No apprehension is felt for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is realized that his lot may be an unpleasant one . Chairman Hitt of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House said to-day that he Introduced his resolution calling on the President for all papers relating to the Panama revolution because he knew that the Democrats would do - it if he did not . Before he introduced it he saw Secretary May . laid the political conditions in the House before him . and obtained his consent to introduce the resolution . Mr. Hitt says that the papers will make a volume when they are printed . They will include all communications of every kind before and during the revolution . the correspondence with American Consuls and with Minister Beaupre as well as the rest . But . Mr. Hitt said , they would not include the correspondence with the agents of the Panama Canal Company . It is likely that when the Democrats learn this they will introduce a resolution calling upon the President for all correspondence with the agents of the Panama Canal Company . It will not . of course , stand any chance of passage . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can get through this House . At present the Democrats have not decided upon their next move . They are awaiting'clevelopments and may not take any action until they have had a chance to read the- papers that will be sent in response to the Hitt resolution and make up their minds how much has been left out . There will . of course , be Democratic speeches in denunciation of the President 's course in Panama . provided time can be obtained in which to deliver them . Last week Speaker Cannon nursed a project for pushing the Reciprocity bill through In a hurry . getting it passed in a week or ten days , and then adjourning the House three days at a time until the Senate acts . This programme would shut off a vast amount of /speechmaking. which is the Speaker 's aim . He thinks the Republicans have nothing to - gain by speeches , while the Democrats could make a lot of campaign material thereby . He has not said much about it lately , but if he adheres to his purpose the Democrats will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . when the revolution will be a month old and the edge of popular feeling worn off . Even then the December recess will intervene and shut off Congressional eloquence and the real opportunities will not come until January .                     