@@677126

txt Since the question has been raised , we all want to have judicial assurance that there was an honest vote and a fair count . But the voters of New York will not sanction , they will sternly condemn , proceedings that have resulted in the dragging out into the streets at midnight of the ballots they have cast and of the exhibition of the ballot boxes upon carts for a day and a night exposed to all the dangers of the streets . It is only the formality of Judge GAYNOR 'S signature that differentiates this interference with the safe , orderly , and usual proceeding under the election laws of New York from an overhauling of the ballots by mob violence . The authority of Judge GAYNOR 'S court was never more inconsiderately employed nor put to a more superfluous use . His Honor commanded the Commissioner of Police and his subordinates " forthwith and immediately , upon service of this order " to remove and turn over to the Board of Elections the ballot boxes that had been deposited in the various station houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote upon the back of the order the statement over his initials that " the police have nothing whatever to do with the ballot boxes , and it is most astonishing that they should have possession of them . They have no right to even touch them . " It is somewhat strange that Judge GAYNOR in his haste should have disregarded both the law and the fact . It is a fact that the ballot boxes were in the station houses and in the physical keeping of the police authorities strictly according to law , and in obedience to an order issued by the Board of Elections on Nov. 2 . Section 11 of the Election Law declares that " it shall be I the duty of the Commissioner of Police and the officers and members of the pollee force , whenever called upon by . the Board of Elections , to render to said board all practicable assistance in the enforcement of the election and primary law . " By virtue of this authority the Board of Elections on Nov. 2 passed a resolution authorizing and requesting the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Board of Elections of the City of New York the ballot boxes used " on Nov. 7 , and carefully to preserve the same until otherwise requested by this board or directed by a court of competent jurisdiction . " It is evident . therefore , that Judge GAYNOR was in error when he said , obiter , that the police had no right even to touch the ballot boxes . Commissioner MCADOO , we think , acted inconsiderately in ordering the ballot boxes to be removed from the station houses in the middle of the night . He had under Judge GAYNOR 'S order the alternative of showing cause at neon yesterday why he should not obey it . He might have shown as a perfectly good cause for not complying with the order the fact that the Board of Elections had no fit and safe place for keeping the boxes . That was the Board 's reason for refusing to receive them , and it is a matter into which any Supreme Court Judge to whom Mr. HEARST 'S application was made might with some propriety have inquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MCADOO this community has been treated to the scandalous spectacle of the public exposure of its ballots upon trucks standing hour after hour in the street , surrounded by curious crowds . In one case a ballot box fell to the pavement , was broken open by the shock , and the ballots were scattered in the mud . Mr. HEARST 'S lawful rights must and will be protected , but there are some hundreds- of thousands of persons in this community who will not patiently see Mayor MCCLELLAN 'S rights invaded or imperiled . As Mayor-eleot prima facie he has rights , we suppose . One of ' them is that due respect should be . paid to the provisions of the election law . Mayor McCauLLAN has nothing to - fear from a review of the count . If ' it should not confirm the result already announced , certainly he would not be injured  --  rather , he would be delivered from the pains and humiliations of occupying a seat lawfully belonging to another . But Mayor McCastaatar can not patiently en.Ante ; the citizens of New York will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interference with the customary rOcedure under their election law . The discovery in Harlem of a ballot box containing Twenty-first ballots is proof of the commission of . a crime . That is a matter . into ; which District Attorney JEROME has the power to inquire . If evidence can be procured as to the identity of the persons who removed the box from its proper place it will not be difficult to secure a conviction . This is a fraud upon the ballot of the grossest nature , and the punishment will of course be severe . Examination ' of the ballots . themselves would probably disclose the intent of the criminals ; that is , it would show against what candidate they WI tended the crime to operate . The District Attorney 's investigation of this affair will probably throw some light upon the general charge brought by Mr.Hearst.                     