@@678397

txt Cutter Manhattan Responds , Quickly , but Capt . ' Landry Says He Expects to Get Off at High Tide . After being buffeted by heavy gales and seas for six days while she was searching for a derelict off the Nantucket Shoals , the United States revenue cutter Mohawk , while on her way to her station at Tompkinsville , struck on the Little Hogback , one of the rocks in Hell Gate off Wards Island last night , and remained there all night . The cutter is resting easily on two rocks about thirty feet from her bows , which are high out of the water . The remainder of the vessel is. afloat , with a depth of twenty-one feet of water at the stern . Capt . Stanley M. Landry , the commander of the Mohawk , said that he was coming up the East River at 5:15 o'clock last night when he had to make a turn in toward the Manhattan shore to avoid a big dredger . Before he could realize his danger the strong ebb tide swung the ' cutter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger of the vessel sinking as there was only a small leak in the forward hold and the water was being kept under control by the ship 's pumps as it poured in . The news of the accident was flashed to the Brooklyn Navy Yard a few minutes after the . cutter struck by Sparks , the wireless operator on board , who asked on behalf of the Captain that the navy tug Powhatan and a transfer lighter be sent to the wreck as soon as possible to take off fifty tons of coal and the anchor to lighten her forward . A second message was sent to the navy Yard for the Merritt-Chapman Company , requesting that two pontoons and a diver with a lighter be dispatched to the Mohawk without delay . Tide Swings Her on the Rocks . I The Mohawk was steaming at about ten knots an hour and would probably have passed clear of the rocks had it not been for the swirl caused by the exceptionally strong ebb tide swinging her bow around at the bend which is considered the most dangerous to navigate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop the engines and go full speed astern directly after the Mohawk struck , ' but ' it was of no avail , as the rocks had evidently pierced her bow plates and pipped- thetera.steel .. in , a fIrm embrace . pilots there are ' about fourteen feet of Water usually over ' the Little Hog Back at low water , and the cutter draws thirteen and a half feet . Officials who saw the accident from Ward 's Island said that the cutter seemed to be rather too close in to the shore of the island when she struck . The ' Navy Department at Washington I was also notified by Capt . Landry of the stranding of the Mohawk . Capt . C. O. Hamlett , the commander of the United States Revenue Cutter Service at this port , received a message from the navy yard at E o'clock and immediately gave orders to hurry the revenue cutter Manhattan to the assistance of the Mohawk . When the Manhattan reached the scene late last night the Mohawk was resting on the rocks with her bows out of water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so low that her cabin lights were almost at the edge of the water , which looked as if she had settled by the stern . In answer to Capt . Hamlett 's hail Capt . Landry said he hoped to float the cutter off at high water , 3:30 A. M. , with the aid of the pontoons and the lighters , *and get her to Shewan 's Dry Dock , foot of East Third Street , by 7 o'clock . It was a bright moonlight night and there was very little wind and no sea . The Mohawk was ? alone , as her captain did not think there was any necessity to have any tugs standing by her . There was no danger , he said , and he was waiting until the wrecking company came with the pontoons and a diver . The fifty tons of coal were in the forward bunkers , and that with the weight of the anchor being taken off would make a considerable difference in lightening the vessel . It was believed that several plates in the bows of the Mohawk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall have made an examination it will be impossible to say definitely the amount of damage done . Capt . Landry shouted to Capt . Hamlett on the Manhattan that there was plenty of water for him to come alongside the Mohawk , but the senior officer thought that it was better to keep off , as he could give no assistance to the Mohawk . Landry May Be Too Sanguine . In view of the fact that neither the tug Powhatan nor the transfer lighter from the navy yard or the pontoons had put in an appearance at the scene of the wreck by 11 o'clock last night It was not considered probable by the Navy Department at the Brooklyn Yard that the Mohawk would be afloat by high water , as Capt . Landry hoped . ' When the cutter struck there was a rush of tugs to her assistance . Towboat 4 of the McConnell Towing Company and New Haven Transfer 18 passed hawsers over her stern , which broke with the strain , but did not budge the Mohawk . A second attempt got her bows around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was heading more directly downstream . Shortly afterward the fireboat George B. McClellan came up and flashed her searchlight on the cutter , which was drawing 131/2 feet of water when she struck . Sergt. Dechel of the Harbor Squad ran his vessel alongside the Mohawk and offered his assistance , and took some dispatches ashore for the ' Captain . The Mohawk is a steel vessel 205 feet long , with two masts . She was built at Richmond in 1902 after the model of a small gunboat , with IMO tons ' displacement and 2,500 horse power engineS . She carries a crew of sixty officers and men . She is registered as a first-class revenue cutter , and was used as an Atlantic Coast I patrol vessel for destroying derelicts , as , sisting vessels ' in distress , and going on butvey , missions .                     