@@675805

txt THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY : We have already admitted that the District Attorney of this city must be more or less actuated by " political motives . " and we have vindicated his right and even his duty to be so actuated in performing the functions of his office . When a great city has fallen under the control of a gang of looters , and can be delivered from that terrible and disgusting domination only through a popular election , it is the duty of every citizen in it to take thought how any action or even any speech of his own may affect the issue of that attempt to " turn the rascals out . " More especially is it the duty of a public prosecutor who is also a good citizen . We think it is the general judgment that Mr. PHILBIN has , upon the whole , been fulfilling his public duty in a very satisfactory manner . He has directed his attention largely to those conditions which render the conditions of living and doing business in New York highly satisfactory to the devil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his point of view differs from that of the devil . Mr. PBILBIN has not been swift , but thus far he has been sure . He had not previously had any experience in criminal practice , which is the branch of the profession with which contests with Tammany are necessarily most closely connected . But he has obtained one important conviction , ? upon grounds which a Judge would incur grave criticism , if not suspicion , for disregarding . He has obtained the indictment of a Police Captain . It is true that he might have secured an indictment for perjury , which would have been politically more valuable . Neglect of duty is nonfeasance , which is negative . Perjury is misfeasance. which is positive . The verdict of the jury in the Bissert case meant that DIAMOND had neglected his duty ; but it also meant that , in the judgment of the jury , he had sworn to the thing that was not . And perjury is , in its political effects , a much graver offense than a neglect of duty , whereof a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his family , and retire from court without very much of a stain on his character . But nevertheless we all have reason to be grateful to Mr. PHILBIN . And we have reason to expect that he will have many chances to exhibit his public spirit and his professional acumen within these coming weeks at the expense of the leaders of Tammany and toward the amelioration of the conditions of life in New York . Gov . ROOSEVELT was extensively criticised for removing AsA Bum GARDNER , and putting Mr. PmLBIN in his place , and in our judgment , which is that of one of the critics , criticised with justice . He removed GARDNER upon charges which amounted to this , that GARDNER , as a District Attorney , was absurd and impossible . Quite true , he was . But , without proofs of specific malfeasance in office , it seems absurd and impossible for a Governor to remove an elective officer simply upon proof of absurdity and impossibility , which are recognized and defined by no statute . But see how the illegal and outrageous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Does anybody imagine that BisSERT , or any other Tammany felon , would have been brought to justice if GARDNER had remained District Attorney ? On the contrary , everybody knows that all complaints against such scoundrels would have died on the threshold of the District Attorney 's office , and never been heard of more . The Tammany District Attorney was outrageously , and by an abuse of authority , got out . But what greater abuses of authority Would he not have committed , had he staid in ?                     