@@676652

txt Capt . White of the Bergen Street Station , l3rileklyn , at the head of a squad of police , raided/the private stable of Robert A. Pinkerton. head Of the Pinkerton Detective Agency , et 3 o'clock yesterday moping , interrupting a cocking main which had already cost the lives of four birds . Another battle between feathered champions was on , when the police burst into the stable , and there were twenty birds waiting their turn to be tossed into the pit . Thirty-two arrests were made in the raid , and this number did not represent the total of those in attendance upon the main , for a dozen or so spectators succeeded in breaking through the lines of the police and making their escape . he Pinkerton stable , at 182 ' Union Ave nue , Brooklyn , is in the very heart of the fashIcnable Park Slope section . The excitement and noise attendant upon the raid awakened the entire neighborho , d , and there were heads in the windows-of many imposing residences , as the police marched their prisoners to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swell , lot of men under arrest . The aftermath of the raid was shrouded in mystery . The police were in entire ignorance of the ownership of the stable when they burst through its doors . They were courteous to their prisoners in a marked degree , and one young man Was treated with unusual favor . He was not even locked up , but was allowed the use of the Captain 's private office while a messenger was sent to the residence of a prominent Park Slope man . The message brought . a prompt response in the shape of a bondsman , and the young man left the station house within an hour after he was brought in . Upon the arraignment of the other prisoners later in the morning , the same man furnished bail . With a single exception , they gave fictitious addresses . The exception was in the ease of Andrew Hannigan , twenty-one years old , who is in ? , charge of the stable and occupies apartments in its second story . It was shortly before 2 o'clock yesterday morning when Patrolman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , happened to pass and heard suspicious noises within . There were little outbursts of enthusiasm , cries of encouragement , and offere of odds , which he found-sufficiently unusual to send him on the run to a telephone . Hb WM ? tip ' the Bergen Street Station and notified Capt . Ail/lite of his discovery . The Captain lost no time in hurrying to , the scene with a picked squad of men . There was not the slightest difficulty in getting into the stable . ' Its initiates were engrossed in a passage at arms between a mettlesome black cock and Spanish red . Before they knew what had , happened the police were upon them . A stampede reStilted when they were told to consider themselves under arrest . Yells of alarm supplanted the little outbursts of interest and applause . After arresting the prisoners the police captured the cocks , a feat which gave them considerable trouble . Then , lining their prisearrsop , the police marched them to the station house afoot . There thirty-one parsons were locked up and one , who gave his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fulton and Clinton Streets , was ceremoniously conducted to the Captain 's office and told to make himself at home while a messenger was placed at his disposal . The messenger was promptly sent out , and in a very short time was back with a bondsman . Mr. " Budd " left as soon as bail was arranged . and did not again appear . With the other prisoners , however , he is due to appear for a hearing in the Myrtle Avenue Police Court this morning . At the residence of Robert A. Pinkerton , 81 Eighth Avenue , it was said yesterday afternoon that Mr. Pinkerton was on the Pacific Slope . Mrs. Pinkerton was greatly surprised when she was informed of the raid . She said , there must be some mistake , that it was impossible that a cocking main should have taken place in her husband 's stable . At the residence of Allan Pinkerton , son of Robert A. Pinkerton , 31 Montgomery Place , it was said that he was in Pittsburg . There was no one at either house who knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also unknown in the neighborhood , of Clinton and Fulton Streets , where he said he lived , nobody in that section of the city having ever heard the name . Hannigan , the stableman , ? refusiel absolutely to talk . Capt . White said he did not think it necessary to give the name of the Park Slope man who went bail for the prisoners . " All I ' will say is that he is an entirely satisfactory surety , " declared the Captain . " As to the identity of ' Allan Budd ' I have n't the slightest idea . The young man is a stranger to me . " WARSZAWIAK A POWIE ( TE . City Mission Monthly Says He is a Pol ? lower of Elijah Iii . In the current number of The City Mission Monthly , the organ of the New York Sity Mission and Tract Society , appears an attack upon Herman Warszawiak , who some years ago posed as a convert from the : Jewish faith and stirred up much trouble in the Presbyterian denomination in this city . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not said one word about this man , who years ago was so unfortunate a cause of disturbance in ' religious circles in this city . As we ' are so often asked as ' to his movements , ice now state that he had gone over to the forces of Alexander Dowie , has been baptized by triune immersion , is at present supPorted by Dowie in this city , and is heralding the praises of the new Elijah with all his might . He has held several Sunday afternoon meetings in the small - Carnegie Hall Music Chamber . " Then . follows the fipellng of the/ united States District Cotirt , Southern District of New . York , which declined to . " accede Ito Warszawialt 's discharge in banigtiptcy on the ground that fraud had been cOrnniitted.                     