@@675406

txt Gossip is already rife among politicians as to the effect the contest between Gov . Roosevelt and Louis F. Payn over the Superintendency of the Insurance Department will have on the next State election . Mr. Payn 's friends make no secret of their intention to oppose the Governor during the present session of the Legislature as well as in the State Conven-41 tion , in the event of Gov . Roosevelt being a candidate for renomination . There are those who predict that if the fight between the Governor and Mr. Payn becomes bitter , and all signs point to such a consummation , Senator Platt and the Republican organization will not be able to hold aloof , but will be forced to take sides in the contest . In this event , say the holders of these views , the Republican Party in this State will become involved in a factional disturbance which will rival , at least , the famous " stalwart-halfbreed " contest which rent the Republican organization in twain and turned New York State over to the Democrats . These views are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present Republican situation with feelings closely resembling jubilation , but are expressed in all earnestness by Republicans who fear that the Roosevelt-Payn trouble will result in the election of the Democratic State ticket and Legislative candidates next Fall . The Albany Evening Journal , which is controlled by William Barnes , Jr. , Chairman of the Republican State Executive Committee , has editorially warned the party leaders of the danger confronting them if the Payn matter is permitted to go on . R. is no secret that influential Republicans are seeking to restore peace , but the prediction is made that their efforts will be in vain . Those who know the Governor say that Payn has forced Col. Roosevelt , by his open defiance , to use every effort to remove him , and as Payn 's friends are in a fighting frame of mind it is the opinion of men who have had long experience in New York State politics that the Payn people will sacrifice the party in the State before they will agree to conform to the Governor 's wishes . There have been persistent rumors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with anything but complacency , and will make an effort to put an end to the trouble with a view of securing New York 's electoral vote at the approaching election . These rumors can not be verified . Superintendent Payn has been having personal talks with State Senators during the past few days . His friends have not lost any of the confidence wn ... ? n has been manifested by them all along , that Mr. Payn would remain Superintendent of Insurance by reason of the Governor 's failure to secure enough votes to confirm another nomination . Some Republicans believe that the situation would be much benefited if Gov . Roosevelt could be induced to become President 's running mate , but many of the Governor 's friends say that it is not to his liking to become a candidate for Vice President , as he desires to serve another term as Chief Executive of the Empire State . There is some speculation as to what course will be adopted by the Democratic Senators when it comes time to vote on the nomination of a Superintendent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW " YORK TiliEs correspondent : " We are playing politics , and will do whatever will bring the best results to the Democratic Party . " A report is in circulation to-night that Gov . Roosevelt will not make any nomination until after the legislative reception , which is to be held at the Executive Mansion Wednesday night . It is said that many Republicans are to be in Albany to attend the reception , and that the Governor expects to discuss the Payn matter with them before sending a name to the Senate . Mr. Payn 's friends say that the publication this morning of his business dealings with the State Trust Company was inspired by persons who are interested in seeing him removed from the Insurance Department . When Mr. Payn was asked tonight if he believed this to be true he answered : " I have nothing to say . " Gov . Roosevelt also declined to talk about Mr. Payn 's connection with the State Trust Company , but did say . " The statement that I am fighting Mr. Payn is untrue . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Governor to select my own candidate , that is all . ' AMPITUDE OP TAMMANY . The part which the Tammany members of the Senate will take in the fight over the confirmation cf a successor to Superintendent Payn of the Insurance Department has aroused considerable interest among local politicians . Senator Grady , when asked yesterday just what course the Tammany members would pursue , said he had not given the matter much thought . " That is a bridge we will cross when we reach it , " the Senator said with a laugh . Representatives of Mr. Payn have consulted with Tammany leaders within the last week , in an effort to gain votes against the confirmation of his successor . Just what answer these emissaries have carried back to the Superintendent of Insurance is not known , but a remark dropped by one of Mr. Croker 's most intimate friends Yesterday indicates that Tammany may be lined up with Mr. Payn in the contest . Mr. Croker 's friend is in constant communication with Mr Croker . In a private conversation , he said that although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direet4e its representatives in the Senate felt that it would be unjust to deprive Mr. Payn of an office which he had filled creditably . From this the inference was drawn that the Tammany men would support Mr. Payn 's friends .                     