@@781355

txt PRINCE RADZIWILL TELLS HORRORS OF PORT ARTHUR SIEGE According to Lieut . Prince Radziwill of the Russian Army , who arrived here last night from Port Arthur bearing dispatches from Lieut . Gen. Stoessel to Gen. Kuropatkln , the temper of the belligerents at Port Arthur has reached an absolutely merciless stage . Prince Radziwell , another Russian officer , two civilians , and one woman , the wile of a Russian staff officer , left Port Arthur the night of Sept. 16 on a junk and arrived here last night . Prince Radziwill got Into Port Arthur a fortnight ago carrying dispatches from Gen. Kuropatkin to Gen. Stoessel . When he landed in this ' port he did not make himself known under his real name , but the correspondent of tshe ' Asiociated Press accidentally discovered his Identity . The Prince and the officer accompanying him brought out dispatches and mail matter from Port Arthur , weighing in all eighty pounds . They were successful in escaping the vigilance of the Japanese . The Prince served with the British in the Boer war , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of affairs at Port Arthur he had no idea that war could be so horrible . It was set forth in these dispatches some weeks ago that serious susgicions were entertained by each belligerent , t the other was misusing the Red Cross flag . These suspicions have been increased by the commission of various acts by the soldiers of both armies , until now even flags of truce or surrender are not respected by either side . Stoessel Expects Massacre . Prince Radziwill declares that the men of both armies are absolutely venomous. in their antagonism . Gen. Stoessel has addressed his garrison , saying that the present mood of the Japanese indicates clearly the necei , sity of resisting them to the last drop of Russian blood , because if the Japanese soldiers enter the fortress it will undoubtedly be impossible for their officers to control them and prevent a massacre . For this reason Ger .. Stoessel Is making no objection to civilians leaving Port Arthur . When , however , the 300 women who are in Port Arthur engaged in hospital work were advised to leave , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massacre than desert their posts . Japanese Dead Unburied . In consequence of the fact that flags of truce are ignored , numbers of Japanese dead who have been lying on the slopes of the hills of the northeast defenses for weeks past are still unburied , and the stench in Port Arthur from decomposing bodies , when the wind is in the right direction , is almost unendurable . The Russian soldiers , who in some cases are posted only fifty paces from heaps of decaying dead , have constantly to wear over their noses handkerchiefs soaked in camphor , as otherwise they would be unable to remain at their posts . In the course of the assaults which occurred the four last days of August , two companies of Japanese soldiers , according to Prince Radziwill , found themselves at the mercy of the Russians and hoisted a white flag . To this , however , the Russians paid no attention , and continued to volley rapidly into the helpless ranks of the enemy . In the meantime Japanese troops in the rear of the companies that had raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expressed their approval of the surrender by firing into their rear . As a result of this fire from friend and foe GOO men were annihilated . The dead fell among the decomposing bodies of those killed in previous assaults . For days afterward the wounded men in this area raised fluttering handkerchiefs in their hands as pleas for help , but the Russians were afraid to venture out to give succor . Within a week the last arm had made its last unregarded prayer for help , and the shambles were a quiet but ghastly field of horror . Among the heaps of dead the Prince saw two soldiers , one a Russian and the other a Japanese , lying locked in a death embrace . The teeth of the Japanese were sunk in the Russian 's throat . while the Russian had forced two of his fingers into the eye sockets of his antagonist . The Prince cited this as merely an incident denoting the ferocity of the conflict at Port . rthur . Prince Radziwill said it was reported that Gen. Nogi had been killed . Persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a successor to Gen. Nogi has arrived at Dalny , but this is denied by local Japanese . Denies Shortage of Ammunition . Continuing , the Prince said : deleted 6 lines " I left Gen. Stoessel in the best of spirits . He is encouraged by the heroic example set by the wounded men , of whom five thousand out of the original eight thousand in the hospitals have returned to the front . " There has been no fighting since Sept. 1 with the exception of artillery and outpost exchanges . " The Japanese shells have done great damage to the hospital and other buildings in Port Arthur , but the loss of life from these bombardments has been very slight . " Mme. Stoessel , wife of the General , is at the head or the Red Cross work in Port Arthur . She is in constant attendance at the hospitals , and cares tenderly for wounded men . In addition to this exhausting work she finds time to give succor to orphans and widows and to superintend the making of bandages . The soldiers consider her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garrison is maintaining a strong and devoted martial spirit and has great confidence in Gen. Stoessel , who is cheered by the men when he rides along the lines . " The newspaper Novy Krai has been suppressed for one month for having rublished matter considered to be detrimental to Russian interests . " Individual acts of heroism during the fighting have been nunterous , and the tragic death of Lieut . Petroff was for long an absorbing topic of conversation . Petroff became surrounded by some Japanese soldiers , whom he fought successfully till his sword broke . He then used his fists upon the Japanese . but their bayonets quickly put an end to his resistance . Before his sword broke Petroff succeeded in incapacitating eight of his antagonists , but Le was wounded all over his body . Troops Ordered to Die . " One company of Russian troopsi were occupying a perilous outpost , and when they found their position to be untenable they sent the following message to Gen. Stoessel : " We are unable to hold this position . ' ' But you can die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid . " The fact that the Japanese have on several occasions used explosive bullets has been verified by Gen. Stoessel . He gives an instance which occurred at Taku-Shan , when two men of the Sixteenth Regiment were killed by such bullets , their bodies being blown to pieces . " On Sept. 14 the bodies of 2,1300 Japanese soldiers were discovered between Fort No. 2 and Fort No. 3 . The stench from the decomposed bodies attracted investigation . The Russian authorities admit that they are not able to explain what engagement resulted in this slaughter . " Another Great Attack Expected . Local students of the military situation at Port Arthur . basing their deductions upon recent developments there , are of the opinion that another grand attack is either- occurring at the present time or is imminent . This opinion is based on the very heavy bombardment of the Russian stronghold on Sept. 1G , such a bombardment forming the usual prelude to an attack : on the arrival here of important messengers from Port Arthur at a time when the running of the blockade is extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ siege works are completed , and on reports from Japanese sources that at Dalny an attack on Port Arthur was expected in a few days . These reports were received last week . In addition there is the common knowledge that the Japanese realize that continued inactivity on their part increases the resisting power of the Russian garrison , and their consequent desire to make such a period of inactivity as brief as possible . Blockading Vessels Alert . Chinese , Russians , and Japanese here all agree that the Japanese vessels blockading Port Arthur are paying particular attention to junks , which for months past have been trying to smuggle supplies into the fortress . When they are caught the crews are roughly treated . The junks generally are sunk and the men on board taken to Dalny . By mistake the Japanese sank a junk which was carrying delicacies to Gen. Nogi , the Japanese commander , from an admirer , but a part of the cargo was recovered . I The Japanese are employing severe measures in this respect with the idea of intimidating blockade runners . Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tinned corn beef is plentiful there and that the fresh meat supply consists of twelve horses slaughtered daily . Port Arthur Band Still Plays . - Life in the town when no bombardment is going on proceeds much as it did in time of peace . Church services are held as usual in the dismantled church , and the band follows the former custom I of playing in public twice a week . All the Russians agree that the Japanese do not occupy any fort on the inner line of defenses . The forts which were damaged have been repaired so that they are almost as good as - taw , during the comparative quiet of the last eighten days . The Russians do not believe that the Japanese will succeed in taking the fortress .                     