@@675808

txt Senior Silva , the Colombian Minister , while without advices from his Government , expressed the belief that the expedition mentioned in the dispatch from Quito was a part of the revolutionary movement , and that it was in no sense organized by the Ecuadorian Government . He said that many years ago there had been friction between the two Governments , but that in recent years no important controversial issues had been raised between them . Minister Silva is in receipt of a letter from Emiliano Isza , the Colombian Minister at Quito , referring to the cordial treatment he had received from the Ecuador officials and the courtesies generally extended to him in his journey through that country . Consequently Senor Silva is of the opinion that the new movement is in connection with the internal revolution in Colombia , unless something unforeseen , of which he has not been dvised , has occurred . Senor Silva said hat the Government of Ecuador always had protested against help given to the Colombian insurgents and had made the utmost effort to observe the neutrality laws forbidding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castro of Venezuela that that country has been - invaded by Colombian Government forces , and that a state of war virtually exists , a comparison of the military strengths of Venezuela and Colombia has become a subject of interested discussion . Official figures of a nation 's standing on land and sea are generally exaggerated , but from persons in this city who are indirectly interested in the South American republics , and , therefore , free from partisanship , some partiqulars- have been learned which may be of value . If there did not exist the compact between Venezuela and her liberal neighbors , Ecuador , Nicaragua , and Costa Rica , to help each other in the event of a war with the conservative Government of Colombia , the latter , it was stated yesterday by an authority on South American affairs , would have a decided advantage in strength of both the army and the navy . But with these countries to figure with , it is said to become quite another story . Venezuela . which country boasts of the names of Bolivar , Sucre , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has produced , aas at present an army of 30.000 men . As that republic in time of peace has a standing army of not mere than 3,000 , it is intimated that it is now practically on a war footing . Should there come a declaration of war , the 30,000 now under arms could , it is claimed , be doubled , thus making 60,000 in all . All male natives over sixteen years of age will be drafted into the service . Whether President Castro - anticipated some day to be confronted with the present situation , or merely intrenched himself against a possible insurrection , the fact remains that he has in the past year purchased in Germany 50,000 Mauser titles . Besides these arms the Venezuelan Government has fortified itself with the most improved French artillery . Venezuela 's weak point is said to be her navy . Seven vessels , none of which is as large as J. P. Morgan 's steam yacht Corsair , constitute that branch of ' her fighting force . The latest acquisition was George J. Goulds pleasure yacht Atalanta , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest of the fleet , is equipped with light guns of small calibre . Venezuelans , however , are said to be not alarmed by his poor showing on sea , for they assert that in a war with Colombia the fighting would be mostly on land , and there they claim to be the superior of the Colombians , ' if not in numbers , at least in fighting ability . That was the view taken by a sanguine Venezuelan speaking to a reporter of THE NEW YORK TIMES yesterday : Nicaragua . Ecuador , and Costa Rica are said to give Colombia much concern . Colomb i in s directly in the centre of these hostile republics . Of these , Nicaragua has the largest and best equipped army , and can easily put 20.000 men in the field . Ecuador can furnish not more than 10,000 , and Costa Rica about the same number . The total force which Colombia will be compelled to cope with , therefore , must be figured close on to 100,000 . Colombia , on the other hang , has two advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and her army has had the benefit of nearly two years of active campaigning against the revolutionists . ? As disadvantages , however , Colombia has an internal strife , poor finances , and difficulty in moving her armies because of the numerous great mountains and poor transportation facilities . The Colombiae Government is said to believe that in a war with a foreign foe the Liberals will abandon their rebellion and help it . This is hardly likely , it is said , as the latter would then be fighting against the Governments that represent their very principles and for the establishment of which they are now battling . In case of war the seat of Government , it is said to be certain , would have to - be moved to the coast , probably to Cartagena , which is now the centre of military operations . This step would be absolutely necessary , as the telegraph system has been t crippled by the insurgents , who have cut the wires , and the time consumed in - a trip from Barranquilla and Colon to Bogota is about sixteen days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops- , who are kept exceedingly busy by the insurgents . By cone scription ' this number would probably be increased to 80,000 . The Colombian Army is well equipped with Remington rifles . Her navy consists of eight vessels of greater tonnage than those of Venezuela . Of these the Cordova , which was purchased here a few years ago , is the largest . Her tonnage is 2,400 . The most recent addition to the navy was James Gordon Bennett 's steam yacht Namouna. bought , in Europe for .5100,000 . She is now the General Pinzon.                     