@@677257

txt After a hard ride up the side of the mountain , The Associated Press correspondent to-day succeeded in reaching the highest /labs itable point on Vesuvius , where Prof. Matteucci , Director of the Royal Observatory , has courageously held his post throughout the eruption . The noted scientist was found to be comparatively undisturbed by his recent fearful experiences . For three days Prof. Matteucci and his little band were cut off from the outside world . Their provisions ran low and their rations consisted of cheese , bread , and dried onions until Prof. Matteucci 's urgent telegraphic appeals led a venturesome guide to push through yesterday with a stock of supplies for their relief . In the meantime the professor had kept at his instruments , taking observations , and making calculations day and night while a perfect inferno raged around him . As he came forward to greet the correspondent his blackened face and dust-covered clothes told of the ordeal through which he had passed . He is of medium height , stocky of build , with ruddy face and silver gray hair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savant and the hardihood of the athlete . His rough garb seemed to belie his profession , for he looked like a Western cowboy after a hard ride in a duststorm . He wore a rough tweed jacket over a woolen shirt , which was held together at the throat with a rough cord . A cloth cap , trousers , leggins , and heavy boots completed his costume . The portico where he stood was knee deep in ashes , which had to be swept aside to make a small footway . From the observatory terrace , to which narrow paths had been cut through the ashes , the correspondent looked out over an ocean of ashes and twisted rivers of lava , while Vesuvius rose grimly in a mantle of ashes and shrouded with dark vapors rising like a gigantic fan . Prof. Matteucci was asked to tell in his own way the story of the cataclysm from the outset . This he readily consented to do , and , speaking in good French , gave the following detailed narrative : " I first observed Mount Vesuvius giving unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to overflow , taking a southwest direction . This gradually increased as several small lava streams formed into one great current . " The real danger began the middle of last week . Then an enormous stream of lava came from the summit , meeting other streams which burst from the lower strata . It was this that overwhelmed Bosco Trecase . Throughout the lava discharge the volcano was comparatively quiet and without electrical phenomena or explosions . The only ominous sign was the advancing wave of lava and the cinders , which formed an enormous cloud in the shape of a pine tree over the crater . " Our really terrible period came at 3 o'clock last Sunday morning and lasted until 8 o'clock . The mountain , which hitherto had been silent , suddenly gave out a deafening roar and a great rent was made in its cone . Huge rocks hurled skyward . Some of them fell near the observatory , threatening to crush in the roof ; but most of them fell far outside the observatory zone . There were no scoriae in this first discharge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaged the windows . " Matteucci employed his hands as well as his voice in order to depict the continuous mass of stones rising like bombs and Roman candles . " At midnight Saturday , " said Prof. Matteucci , " I ordered the removal of the women and children of the household . This was just before the rain of huge stones began , and I was then left with Mr. Perret of New York , my American assistant , and two domestics . There was scarcely any eating , and all domestic order was abandoned . We snatched a few bites now and then ; most of the time I ate right here , " and the Professor pointed to the remains of a recent meal on the desk in his study . " Throughout Sunday , " he continued , " enormous solid blocks of stone rose to a height of 2,500 feet from the crater , while ashes and sand were thrown much higher , but toward Monday the terrible shocks of earthquake gradually diminished . One of the worst features of the eruption was the unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by vivid flashes of lightning , giving the sky a bloodlike color , with short , heavy peals of thunder interspersed . These moments were terrible  --  very terrible . Yes , it was a veritable hell ! " Asked if his scientific observations had yielded valuable results , Prof. Matteucci replied : " Observation was extremely difficult under such disturbing conditions . The seismic instruments were badly affected by the electrical intensity , each explosion being announced by a violent movement of the instruments , which seemed ready to burst into pieces . " Prof. Matteucci sounded a long , rasping " R " like a succession of quick taps on a drum , which , he said , resembled the noise made by the seismograph when affected by a violent explosion . " Compared with other great eruptions , " continued the professor , " this is one of the most important In the history of Vesuvius . Its effects are less terrible than those of the eruption in the year 79 , when Pompeii was buried , but it equals in intensity the great eruptions of 1031 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not yet certain . Eruptions are not an exact science . You can not count on Vesuvius : each of its eruptions has its own characteristics . This one was marked by an abundance of electrical phenomena . I have already collected quantities of cinders and scoriae for comparison with similar matter from other eruptions , and later I will collect large stones . " The professor pointed to the shelves in his laboratory , where there were plates containing cinders of various sizes and bottles filled with ashes , and there were also in the room enormous stones , each labeled with the date of its ejection from the volcano . Asked concerning the outlook for the future , Prof. Matteucci replied : " I am unable to tell with any degree of certainty . I sincerely hope that this eruption is over ; but who can tell whether another terrible convulsion may not come in the next minute ? However , all my indications point to a period of calm for the next few days , and therefore I am hopeful . But I was hopeful last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without any warning . " Prof. Matteucci handed the correspondent a stone the size of a threeinch shell as a souvenir of his visit , saying : " These are very precious stones . Some of them have hit me at one time or another . They represent my wounds . " He then led the way to his sleeping quarters , which showed the confusion that existed throughout the domestic branch of the observatory during the eruption . As he returned to the portico Vesuvius gave another deep groan , ending with a fearful explosion , which blew off a portion of its new cone . " See , " exclaimed the professor , " the eruption may be resumed at any moment . That explosion rent the westerly cone . " Mount ' Vesuvius presented a majestic spectacle from this point of vantage at the observatory . This was far inside the outer circle of smoke which hides the volcano from Naples . The great monster stood out clearly in the bright sunlight . It was entirely white , like a snow-covered mountain , for the ashes had changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The gigantic , jagged cone no longer rose like the setting of an enormous jeweled ring . Instead the top now forms a graceful curve , harmonizing with the gradual slope of the foothills . The white surface of the mountain is slit here and there as with giant sabre strokes , leaving gulches through which lava courses . The wrecked remnant of the Funicular Railway lay at the bottom of one of these gulches , some of the twisted cable protruding from the ashes . . An American is the only scientist sharing Prof. Matteucci 's opportunities of observation . - This is Frank Alvord Perret of New York . " I have only been here three months , " said Mr. Perret . " I came to Italy originally for my health . I had studied volcanic disturbances , and met Prof. Matteucci . We became mutually interested , and he honored me by inviting me to share his observations as an honorary assistant . The post of assistant , to which I was recently appointed by the University of Naples , came at a most fortunate moment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is beyond the faintest conception of those outside the immediate terrors of Vesuvius . " The most terrible moment came last Saturday night . I had gone to Bosco Trecase for the purpose of photographing the laval stream that was then deluging that town . I returned to the observatory about midnight . The dynamic force of the main crater increased enormously , and new crater mouths opened in the mountain side within ten minutes of each other . This caused immense havoc . From Naples crowds flocked to Bosco Trecase to witness the sight , which was grander there than at any other point . " At midnight the situation in the ob // 3ervatory was terrible . The ground rocked under it , and it was impossible : o stand firmly on one 's feet . The roaring of the main crater was deafening . The volcano operated like a ! ountain , its . discharge rising and spreading , ' , and then falling over a ; Teat area . The electric phenomena were terrifying . The claps of thunder were incessant , with a lurid play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the ascending particles generating electricity , which displayed itself in incessant lightning and thunderclaps . " No one thought of sleep , but all stood gazing at the awful scene . At 30 o'clock the observatory . That seemed to be the critical moment , and the brigadier of the carbineers ordered a retreat . We made our way to a small house down the mountain side , but even there the rain of stones continued . One of thee-carbineers was struck on the head and badly cut . After this the intensity of the eruption steadily decreased . " The mountain climb gave the correspondent an opportunity to see the desolation in the stricken districts . The route was through Portici and Resina , passing over Herculaneum to Pompeii . Here ashes had fallen to the depth of three feet and hundreds of military wagons and squads of soldiers were piling them in four parallel drifts ten feet high , through which filed a motley throng of fugitives and lines of military wagons . The fugitives were a miserable lot , covered with rags . Many of them were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the latter having bright new toys , the result of misapplied charity from the fashionable villas . Portici was a sorry sight . The houses were streaked with mud and ashes up to the windowsills . Five hundred refugees were gathered before the City Hall demanding help . Pompeii and Herculaneum were closed up , huge ash piles damming the entrances . The lower slope of the mountain is dotted with beautiful villas and parks in which the orange , apricot , almond , and olive trees were all blasted under the sea of ashes . The donkey on which the correspondent rode labored through ashes I two feet deep . A weird silence enveloped the scene . Even the birds had disappeared . Near the summit the walls disappeared under the high level of ashes . The route lay across the lava beds ejected in the eruption of 1872 . These lay in distorted masses like an ice jam . Naples was faintly visible below through a curs tain of smoke . As the correspondent journeyed upward a new crater suddenly burst and from the summit of the volcano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , . seeming about to renew its convulsions , and the native guides hesitated , declaring that warning had already been given of another outbreak to-day . Fortunately It was a passing manifestation . Toward the top of the mountain the picture was one of unutterable desolation , but natives emerged from their dugouts just below the observatory offering milk and eggs to the party . Vesuvius has no terrors for them . While descending after the interview with Prof. Matteucci the sounds of a mandolin came from one of the dugouts , which was scarcely visible above the desert of ashes . Prof Matteucci , in a bulletin issued this afternoon , said : " The instruments in the observatory are relatively calm . The crater continues to discharge sand , but with less violence . I am awaiting information regarding the streams of lava toward Bosco Trecase , to which spot I can not go in person . The conditions in the zc'r.e surrounding me indicate that a complete cessation of the eruptive phase is near . The sun shone brightly here to-day , and the last vestiges of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sweeping is still going on . but the city has about resumed its normal appearance , while the reports from the villages and towns in the region of Vesuvius say that tee people are gradually returning to their homes ; that the stores are being reopened , and that the inhabitants of the towns which suffered the least are actively engaged in repairing their damaged homes and churches and in opening up the roads , in which they are assistea by the troops and Government engineers . This being the Saturday before Easter , the churches of this city were crowded with worshippers of all classes . Every I service was one of thanksgiving for the danger passed , while requiem masses were celebrated for the repose of the souls of the victims of the volcanic disaster . The feeling of joyous thanksgiving in Naples contrasted strongly with the mournful scenes witnessed in the desolated districts , relatives weeping over their dead and priests going from house to house blessing the homes of the bereaved . The work of disinterring the bodies of the killed continues at Ottajano , San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stricken towns it is believed that all the corpses have been recovered . Several more bodies were found at Ottajano to-day . Part of the roof of the railway station at Torre del Greco fell to-day , but no one was injured . An abundant rain of ashes fell at Pompeii , and a party from the Polytechnic Institute in London was blocked there for the whole day . Sir Thomas Lipton arrived here to-day on board his yacht Erin . He visited the devastated towns and villages , and was greatly impressed by the immensity of the disaster .                     