@@676273

txt The very interesting interview with Seilor ENRIQUE CREEL which we published the other day indicates that the Government of Mexico is working in a careful and intelligent manner toward the adjustment of its currency to the gold standard to which all financial relations with the rest of the world have to conform . Necessarily the problem is difficult and delicate , but it is approached in Mexico with the conservatism and breadth which have characterized the administration of that country now for many years . We have defined its task as that of the adjustment of its currency to the gold standard , which is not altogether the same as adopting a currency of gold or of silver at the intrinsic ratio to gold . For such a change as the latter , Mexico is ill-prepared , nor is it at all certain that the change , were it practicable , would be desirable . The country has a silver currency in common and universal use , to which the minds of the great body of the people are accustomed , which is convenient in denominations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time . If this cur-rency can be continued in use without risk of undue inflation or contraction , and if it can be made of stable value in exchange . it is far better to keep it than to try to replace it . Such an arrangement is not at all impracticable . And the way to do it is indicated by the conditions in the United States . In reality we have almost completely solved a problem in the use of silver very much the same essentially as that of Mexico , and we can at any time make the solution complete . We have in round numbers some $500,000,000 in circulation of silver dollars and silver certificates at a nominal value more than twice the bullion value . This enormous amount of overvalued silver is kept at par by three provisions of the law . First , these dollars are receivable for all public dues ; second , it is made the duty of the Treasury to preserve their parity with gold , though there is no specific obligation to exchange them when presented for gold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount in circulation is strictly limited . Of course , the effect of these provisions is greatly aided by the large and varied internal exchanges of the United States , which afford a definite and steady employment for the silver dollars and the certificates . But these influences would be at work in Mexico in the same way , if the volume of the silver currency were not excessive in the first place , and if it were properly adjusted to the actual needs . That this can be done there is no reason to doubt . A policy substantially that recommended by Mr. FAIRCHILD when he was Secretary of the Treasury Iwould be effective . The country was then under the operation of the Bland I silver coinage law , which required a regular and continuous addition to the Icoinage each year . Mr. FAIRCHILD proposed that this coinage should be suspended whenever silver flowed into the Treasury to a certain amount , showing that there was no active demand for it in trade , and that coinage be renewed 1 when the silver was again withdrawn . IThe process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government of IMexico would be willing to co-operate I with the United States and with other countries having possessions in which silver is in general use , to arrange some international system on these lines . It is a matter worthy of the most serious consideration .                     