@@677004

txt We gave yesterday , in Japan 's experience of ten years ago , one of the reasons why she should be chary of imparting to any third pally , or even to RusSia without some previous guarantee of good faith on Russia 's part , her revised terms of peace . There are others . One of them Is that the war party in Russia would . like nothingbetter than to extract from Japan some terms of peace which would seem to the whole Russian peopleinadmissible . These terms the war party would of course use without scruple to Pike the Russian heart , slow-burning as that organ seems to be . The harsher they were the better . the war party , the thrifty Grand Ducal grafters and the tax-fattened bureaucrats , would like them . Why should 4 Japan make haste to gratify this desire ? We know specifically what terms would have averted the war . They were authentically given out and widely published by Japan a year and a half ago as her justification , which , in fact , in the eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constituted . Japan has made every one of them good by . arms , and much more . Moreover , they included important concessions , made in the hope of preserving peace . Naturally , since they did not attain their object , these concessions were by that failure withdrawn . As a matter of fact , Japan is now in complete and undisputed control of the original subject matter of controversy  --  of all Korea , of all that part of Manchuria south of the railroad which was in the minds of the negotiators , and of the entire Manchurian littoral . About Japan 's original peace terms there is thus no longer any question . The only question is , How much more does she want ? While nobody can do any more than guess at that , it is open to anybody to say that it would be an error for Ja'pan to make terms which would pre ' vent her from living in good neighbor-1 hood with Russia hereafter . But Japan is clearly entitled to require " security for the futhre , " to exact some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight over again during any period within the present purview of her statesmen . Whether she is entitled also to demand the " indemnity for the past , " which is the correlative phrase , is another matter . The control of the Eastern Chinese . ' Railway , the control of Manchuria at least up the main line of the Trans-Siberian , the dismantling of Vladivostok , so that Russia 's commercial outlet on the Pacific shall ? . no longer constitute a military menace to Japan  --  these conditions are pretty plainly indicated . Taken- together , they constitute the equivalent of a very large pecuniary indemnity . Russia objects , it is understood , to the payment of such an indemnity that it can be demanded only as the price of releasing back to Russia some unquestionably Russian territory which at the beginning of the negotiations remains in the hands of Japan , whereas there is no such territory . But if Rtissia demurs to the dismantling of Vladivostok , that disability could be cured by the capture of the place . If it is argued at St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuance of the war , excepting Vladivostok and the Trans-Siberian from Harbin eastward . it may be as plausibly argued at Tokio that the position of Japan would be I much stronger with those pledges in her possession , and that the war should be continued until Russia is driven I west of Harbin and north of the Amur , her ancient boundary , and that it would not be to the interest of Japan to conclude peace until those objects are attained . Such a decision on the part of Russia would thus I amount to an indefinite postponement .                     