@@677023

txt Those for whom the protection of life In theatres has special interest will read with pleasure the details of an invention lately perfected in Germany . It involves a novel Principle , resting upon the assumption that a theatre is likely to burn , no matter what precautions are taken , and that the thing to , do Is , at the , proper moment , to withdraw the audience out of harm 's way . With this in view the pit and box section , corresponding to what in this country would be called the parquette and dress circle . is something like a bureau drawer . With its floor , partitions , seats . &c.,; it is built as a unit , and rests on rollers which , in turn , are supported by rails . If a fire starts , the audience does not need to rise in panic and congest the avenues of escape . They simply keep their seats , the lower part of the house , is set in motion , and recedes to the opposite side of the street . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , however , apply to the galleries . For these the inventor provides extremely numerous and automatically opened exits to suspended balconies . The outside balconies of each gallery are suspended on hinges from heavy outriggers which act as powerful single-arm levers , and turn on pivots fixed below the first balcony . On being lowered by the same mechanism which actuates the recession of the parquette section of the house , all the outriggers and the suspended balconies move to one side and descend to the level of the street . This part of the device may best be described in the language of the inventor : The outriggers are fixed at , , their upper ends to wire ropes which run over a pulley on the roof through the lateral walls to the ground floor , where they are wound on rollers fixed rigidly to the side walls . As the outriggers descend , a transversal shaft is actuated through a conical ' toothed gearing , and the racks fitted beneath the pit as well as the pit itself , which runs on rails , are set in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment the outrigger galleries touch the street the whole pit has been removed from the theatre building . The apparatus is designed to be operated from an inclosed cabin , either by means of a motes or by hand through a crank , on a fire signal being sent . With such an equipment the most nervous person would feel safe : That the withdrawal of the entire lower section of the house is by a method somewhat suggestive of the evisceration of a chicken would probably not occur to the audience at a moment when danger was being exchanged for safety , but if It did it would add an element of gayety to an otherwise grim and disquieting situation . What being lowered to the street by the operation of such a mechanism as he inventor describes would suggest we frankly do not know . It is a beautifUl scheme .                     