@@781093

txt With the arrival tonight of the leaders of the New York delegab:in , and of Col. James M. Guffey , the man " who controls the sixty-eight votes of Pennsylvania , Judge Parker 's chances of securing the Democratic nomination . for President improved to an extent which sent dismay into the camp of his opponents . The leaders of the New York delegation are confident that Judge Parker will have 500 votes on the first ballot , and expect to see him nominated on the second . So absolutely sure are they that the friends of Judge Parker will be in control in the convention that they are talking to-night of having a straight-out declaration for the gold standard in the platform . Although Col. Guffey himself still maintained that the action of the Pennsylvania delegation was undetermined , the managers of the Parker boom seemed to have not the slightest uneasiness as to how Pennsylvania 's vote would be recorded . They expect to see it cast for Judge . Parker on the first ballot . With New Toile , Indiana , Connecticut , Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solid South behind him , his friends believe the logic of this nomination , will be presented to the minds of the delegates with such force that there will be a grand rush to his support on the second ballot . Bryan 's Folk Boom . The most interesting development of today , next to the . apparent strong drift for Parker , as the leaders and delegations began to arrive , was the announcement by the ' friends of Joseph W. Folk , the St. Louis circuit attorney who won fame through the Missouri boodle prosecutions , that ' William J. Bryan would make an attempt to stampede the convention by urging Folk 's nomination on the issue of purity in the administration of public office . It was saidthat ; Bryan would declare the moral - issue raised by the corruption under the Roosevelt Administration and the deleted 2 lines announce the willingness that the Money isque , Shtliila-be put aside temporarily . Flom- the Massachusetts . leaders comes the story that if Massachusetts finds there is no chance of the nomination of Olney ' the vote of the Bay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it became understood here that Senator Gorman would not come to the convention , different constructions were placed upon his decision to remain away . The friends of Judge Parker see in the intention of Vie Maryland Senator to remain at . home evidence that he has given up all hope ' of obtaining the nomination himself . Gorman 's friends say that while he would like to have prevented the nomination of Judge Parker , he refused to lend himself to the schemes proposed by Judge Parker 's enemies to bring about that result . As soon as he learned ' that Grover Cleveland was the man whom ex-Senator Smith of New Jersey and other leaders of the movement to get up an anti-Parker combination had in mind Tor the nomination , he threw up Ms hands . As between Parker and Cleveland , Gorman did not hesitate for a moment , neither could he bring himself to enter into an alliance with either Bryan " or Hearst to keep the nomination from going to Parker . There were-some , however , who thought that the Maryland Senator ' concluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be improved by his remaining away from the convention , and that this vas the true explanation of his decision not to come to St. Louis . How the Hearst Boom Fares . The managers of the Hearst boom are still keeping up a bold front , and discussing the Park &; men of misrepresenting their candidate 's strength , but a few moments ' casual conversation with the leaders who have assembled here give one a strong conviction that the Hearst boom is collapsing . Although the convention is still three days off , St. Louis is assuming a convention air . There are large groups , of politicians to be seen in the corridors of all of the Principal hotels and the interest and animation with which the situation is discussed is in striking contrast to- the apathy and indifference which marked the period- immediately preceding the opening of the Re- I publican convention in Chicago . While the " general expectation is that Parker will be nominated , there are few Who feel that the nomination has been actually foreclosed , and the belief is quite general that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice of a candidate will be preceded by stirring scenes . BROOKLYN CAR KILLS SOY . Reserves Called Odt on Account of . . Crowd Which Gathered . A boy about thirteen  --  years old , litho up to a late hour last night bad not been fled in the Brooklyn Morgue , was killed by De-Kalb Avenue car No. - 535 at De Kalb and Throop Avenues late Yesterday afternoon .. Hundreds of persons saw the accident and many women became hysterical at the sight . deleted paragraph                     