@@781439

txt Gen. Oliver 0 . Howard died at his horny in this I City to-night . Last week Gen. Howard was In Ontario delivering his lecture , " Abraham Lincoln . " His last outdo appearance was at London on Sunday night. , ) On Monday he returned to his home , in Burlington , and was apparently in his usual good health . To-night , while sitting in a chair at his home he was attacked by heart disease , and was dead when a physician reached the house . Thespassingsof Gen. Oliver Otis Howard . melts the extermination of all the ranking army officers who commanded the Union armies during the civil war . Only last year Congress honored Gen. Howard by passing a resolution which placed him ' on the retired list of the Army as a Lieutenant General . He also received the thanks of Congress for meritorious services to the nation during the war . : len . Oliver Otis Howard was a native of Kennebec . County , Maine , where he was born on Nov. 8 , 1830 . Ole was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then obtained an appointment to the Military Academy at West Point . He was graduated from this institution in 1854 , being made a second lieutenant . The following year , with tine rank of first lieutenant , he was made acting professor of mathematics at West Point . At the outbreak of the civil war Prof. Howard offered his services to the Governor of his native State , and went to the front as Colonel of the Third Maine Volunteers . He participated in the Battle of Bull Run . and for his gallant services in that campaign was created a Brigaater General of Volunteers . He was twin wounded in the arm at the Battle of Fair Oaks while leading his brigade in a charge against the enemy . This necessitated his absence from the battle field for almost two months . BM he was not idle all this time . After his stay at the deleted 5 lines Upon returning to his regular corps 6en . Howard took part in the ' Pope PArrYpaign , in Virginia , p &ialcipating; in . the second battle of Bull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General of Volunteers- in 1862 . When Gen , McPherson fell before Atlanta Gen. Howard suc-ceeded him as commander of the army and Department of the Tennessee , and throughout the whole of the grand march through Georgia Ws corps formed the right of Gen. Sherman 's army . For his part in this campaign Gen. Howard was appointed Brigadier General in the regular army . Gen. Howard took a similar part in the campaign in the Carolinas and assisted in the operations which resulted in the surrender of Gen. Johnston 's army in 1861 For this portion of the campaign , Gen. Howard was brevetted a Major General in the regular army . After the civil war Gen. Howard was assigned to duty in the War Department in the bureau of refugees , freedmen , and abandoned lands . After taking part In the eampaign against the . Indians in the West , Gen. Howard was appointed Superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point In 1881 , and served in that capacity until the following year , when he was transferred as commanding officer of the Department of Omaha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atlantic . with headquarters at Governors Island , in this city . Gen. Howard was the founder , and at the time of his death President of the Board of Directors , of the Lincoln Me-mortal University at Cumberland Gap , Tens . He was the author of a number of books , and only a few years ago wrote his war reminiscenes . The degree of LL . D. had been conferred upon him by four different universities , and the French Government made him a Chevalier of fionor.in 1884 . In its report of one of the Hudson-Fulton parades ' Dm TimEs spoke of Gen. Howard as appearing feeble . To this the General replied in the following letter New York , Ott. 5. 1509 . To the Editor of The New Yfok , mites : One of our prominent citizens and a reader of your paper desires me to write to you that I am not " Feeble . " The correspondent made a mistake because he saw my ardent aid-de-camp take me by the arm as I pushed through the crowd to the front of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several addresses in Philadelphia Saturday and Sunday , and got back feeling as vigorous and strenuous as I did at forty years of age . I do not know whether It is of any consequence whether I am feeble or strong , but , have a wonderful work yet to do to get our great monument of Abraham Lincoln thoroughly Completed in this , his centennial year . It Is my last work , I have no doubt , and I need all the vigor the newspapers can give rite .                     