@@677106

txt In one department of Panama Canal work highly gratifying progress has been made . We refer to the department of expenditure . There we have observed no unseemly delay , no sloth , no want of zeal . Under the direction of Congress , of the President , and of the Commission 560,000,000 of the people 's money has already been spent . There Is a great source of comfort and security in the feeling that this work , at least , can not be undone . The Frenchmen have received their forty millions , and will keep it . The Republic of Panama has got its ten millions . The money that the Commission has spent on the work . or in getting ready for the work , or in explaining that it was not yet time to go to work , is also permanently invested . For all this expenditure we have acquired and have on our hands an interesting situation . It develops new features of interest almost daily . The development last week revealed wthe Commission as getting out of a contract made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved by the President . The contract in question was one nominally entered into between the Panama Railroad and Mr. MARKEL , a purveyor of food and lodgings . Really , the contract was made by Mr. SHONTS , who on his own responsibility awarded to Mr. MARKEL the contract to house and nourish the workmen and staff employed on the canal . There was a good deal of criticism of Mr. SHoNTs 's procedure in this matter , but the President stood by him and he could afford to laugh at his critics . Now Mr. MARKEL begs off , and the Commission is glad to release him . Engineer STEvENs  --  through the Department of Materials and Supplies , will furnish board and lodgings to the canal employees . It is a situation which , to put it mildly , excites some curiosity . A few days ago Washington dispatches brought other interesting news about the Commission and Mr. SHONTS . It was declared that Secretary TAFT had insisted with all the emphasis of his rugged physique and firm character that if he was to assume the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there must be no co-ordinate authoriti , or control : there must be nobody coming between him and the President , and to the President alone would he acknowledge responsibility . This was construed as indicating the existence or the possibility of friction between Secretary TAFT and Chairman SHONTS . The correspondent of The Baltimore Sun , in an acute analysis of the situation , intimated that it was as a friend and protector of the Revised Statutes that the Secretary had taken this determined stand . Mr. SHONTS , as a builder and developer of great railroads for private corporations , had acquired a habit of beating down or smashing through the obstacles that stood I way . ' In a Government undertaking like the construction of the Isthmian Canal he found himself confronted with legal limitations , hampering laws , and statutory red tape the breaking or disregard of which was likely to bring on a train of annoyances and embarrassments , such as fines , imprisonment , and the like . Mr. SHoTcrs has attentively studied the history of his country , and the lives of its leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the career of the present President of the United States . IrOssibly it was because he recognized in him a kindred soul , because he observed in the President an impatience of statutory obstacles with which he deeply sympathized , that he expressed a desire to be responsible to the President only , and under his direction to have full authority . It was at that point that he came into collision with the Secretary of War . There was for a day or two some talk of a weak compromise . Somebody suggested that the canal work be transferred to the Stet% Department . Secretary ROOT , who at any moment during the last twenty-five years could probably have passed creditably a civil service examination on the history of the Panama Canal undertaking , would have none of it , and said so . Then Mr. TAFT laid down his ultimatum . There the matter rests , and everybody is waiting to see what Chairman SHONTS will do about it . There is further news of the canal . The Commission , the engineers , and the advisory engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chagres River ; they examined the site of the Bohlo Dam , and probably took soundings by running their walking sticks into the soil ; they slept on board their ship in order that they might have undisturbed leisure to think out and describe sanitary conditions ashore ; finally they sailed for home , and will presently report to the President whether we shall build a lock canal or a sea-level canal . A few days ago six hundred Jamaica laborers quit work on the canal and sailed for home . Things are flying on the Isthmus . Money flies , time flies , the germ-laden mosquito flies , and the laborers flee . Everything flies but dirt .                     