@@781255

txt The first division in the first Parliament of King Edward VII. , which took place yesterday , resulted in cutting down to 45 the Government 's normal majority of 190 . The interest caused by this unexpected event was heightened by Winston Spencer Churchill 's first speech at Westminster and by a heated defense by Mr. Chamberlain of his own policy . The extraordinary slimness of the majority of this strongest British Government of modern times was the result of the refusal of Lord Cranborne , the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , to an-. swer questions regarding foreign policy concerning which notice had not previously been given . John Dillon ( Irish Nationalist ) seized the chance to move an adjournment of the House in order to debate the subject , and , in spite of an unusually large attendance , almost placed the Conservative Party in Queer Street . Mr. Dillon declared that the Under Secretary for the Foreign Office had been muzzled , and that his refusal was a breach of privilege . Sir William Vernon Harcourt , ( Liberal , ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Redmond , and others supported Mr. Dillon . The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour , ( Government leader , ) , in defending the practice , said it had sheen initiated by the Govern-ment after careful consideration . The practice of cross-examining the Under Foreign Secretary was dangerous , would preclude the carrying one Of delicate negotia-tions , and might endanger ' the interests of nations , and possibly the peace of Europe . No other nation . would have allowed the latitude in foreign affairs permitted in this country . A foreign Ambassador had congratulated the late Under Secretary , William St. John Brodrick , on his refusal to reply to questions riot placed upon paper . The House then divided as follows : For adjournment , 204 . Against , 249 . In the course of an interview subsequent to the division , Mr. Dillon said : " I have waited a long time , but , owing to the curious customs of . procedure in the House of Commons , I ' have never had a chance really ' to test the question . I knew quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' me , for members , regardless of party ties , are very jealous of individual privileges . What it all means is that the Government ' will be obliged to revoke the arbitrary ruling made by Mr-Balfour that Under Secretaries of State are not obliged to answer . questions addressed to them . " Had it not been for a fear . of defeating the Government , the number of Tories voting for my motion or abstaining would have been greatly increased . As it was , about ten Torlea followed the Liberals and Irish into the.tobbys while numbers did not vote at all . The question is more important than it appears to be on the surface . ' for , if Mr. Balfour 's ruling should be followed , it would prevent the Irish members front questioning the'lrfsh Secretary , and " even  - -  tually ' deprive us of all . ' rightS : " of free speech .. In , instituting the rule Mr. Balfour broke all precedents , both . by . the rule itself and by failing i to notify the Oppo-sition leader of his intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small results that you may be sure this tonguetying ordinance will not any longer be int-posed on the House of Commons . " There was no collusion between the Irish members and the Liberals in the division . My motion appealed to the individual feelings of members . The Radicals followed ' us because they had no other course . We can not assume that the same spirit of general %rectitude and fairness actuates the Liberals and the Tories , and , should we have the chance , we will divide when the civil list comes up and over the absurd anti-Catholic oaths required of the King at his coronation . " Dealing with Mr. Churchill 's maiden speech , Mr. Dillon paid it a generous tribute . " One might have thought , " he said , " that it was Lord Randolph talking . There were the same intonations , the same lack of nervousness , the same stinging vitality , and the same suppressed energy . Mr. Churchill was perfectly at home , and scored a great success . He is worthy of his American mother . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have ever made their first appearances in this curious assemblage under better conditions . He knew what he had to say , and said it well . " Mr. Churchill 's speech came in reply to the criticism by David Lloyd-George ( Liberal ) of the conduct of the South African war , in the course of which Mr. LloydGeorge had denounced the burning of farms and the keeping of Boer women and children in British laagers on reduced provisions . These charges created a general uproar , and provoked an angry demand from Mr. Brodrick . Secretary of State for War , that Mr. Lloyd-George should offer evidence to substantiate his assertions . Mr. Churchill caught the eye of the speaker and caustically rebuked Mr. Lloyd-George . He indulged in epigrams such as : " No other nation in the world ever received so much verbal sympathy and so little practical support as the Boers . " Then he proceeded , half humorously and half seriously , to belittle the efforts of the pro-Boer members of the House on behalf of their friends . He maintained that the war in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he closed with the declaration of his belief that , at no distant date , there would be an " Anglicized , loyal , peaceful , and prosperous Transvaal . " Sir Robert Reid ( Radical ) argued that all this could be accomplished without unnecessary severity and without withholding terms . Mr. Chamberlain , springing to his feet , stigmatized the speech of Sir Robert as " devoted to abuse of British officers and the policy of Ministers and to praise of the enemies of Great Britain . " He denied that peace with honor was at any time possible before or after the fall of Pretoria . He went on : " The policy of her Majesty 's Government has not varied . liefore the , invasion of Natal we would have accepted the most moderate concessions , but from the moment the invasion occurred and the Boers had fired the first shot the Government determined that not one shred of the independence which the Boers had abused should ever again be conceded to them . " The Conservatives , cheering furiously , rose to their feet from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamber ring again and again . " The Government , " continued Mr. Chamberlain , " challenged the Opposition at the general election on the issue of annexation . We challenge you again . Renewed cheering . To-night six pro-Boers have spoken , and not a single Liberal imperialist . " Sir Robert Reid objected to the term " pro-Boer , " but Mr. Chamberlain stuck to his guns . " I maintain , " he said , " that there is no other name for the men who believe every scandalous libel on British officers and soldiers . " " Do n't insult us ! " shouted Sir Robert Reid . Continuing , Mr. Chamberlain said he believed that , with the development of South Africa , persons of British origin would be largely in excess of the rest of the population . " Before we grant free government to the Boers , " exclaimed the Colonial Secretary , " the country must be restored to something like its normal condition . I believe the Doers know *ell ' the terms offered them . The time is perhaps not opportune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but I have been in communication with Sir Alfred Milner with a view to taking advantage of any opportunity that might present itself . " The struggle had to come . It Originated in the determination , of the Boers to secure the ascendancy in South ' Africa . I believe that , in spite of the sacrifices made , this country is of the same mind as when it entered upon the struggle , and will spare no effort to bring it to a close and will support no party which seeks to stultify , the object in view . " Amid ringing cheers , Mr. Chamberlain , " the head and shoulders of the war , " as Mr. Dillon describes him , resumed his seat , and the House adjourned .                     