@@678170

txt In the basket of the winning balloon in the first point to point race held in this country was . 12-year-old Miss Natalie Forbes , who made her first ascent to-day , and proved a mascot for the North Adams Aero Club . Natalie 's mother did not know that her little daughter was to be in the race in the air , but her father , A. Holland Forbes was with her , and aided Pilot A. D. Potter of Greenfield to take the North Adams No. 1 to victory , The girl was enthusiastic over her privilege of sharing in the race , and while the big balloon was being handled preparatory to its release she threw popcorn at the small boys in the crowd and laughed at them as they scrambled for it . There was not the slightest trace of fear or uneasiness in the conduct of the young aeronaut . " Hurrah for North Adams No. 1 ! " she shouted as the balloon was released at 1:26 o'clock and shot high into the air . The aeronauts had the privilege of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to be the one landing his balloon nearest the Post Office of the town selected . It was . agreed that the points of landing should be at least thirty miles distant from this town . Haydenville was the town chosen by Mr. Potter for the North Adams No. 1 , and he brought his balloon into a field five miles from his objective point at 2:50 o'clock after O. winning trip without incident . The Heart of the Berkshires , entered by the Pittsfield Aero Club , Alan R. Hawley of New York pilot , and with William R. Van Sleet of this city in the basket I with him , was the second balloon to be released . Its destination was Whateley . It started at 1:42 o'clock and landed at 2:30 near Cushman , six and a half miles from its destination , putting it second in the race . The Greylock , owned and piloted by Dr. R. M. Randall of this City , started third and last and scored third place . Dr. nandall chose Leeds , and landed the Greylock twelve and a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrew his balloon , The Boston . His refusal to participate incurred the displeasure of the North Adams Aero Club , who had advertised Mr. Glidden and his balloon as an attraction . Later in the afternoon Mr. Glidden made an ascension in The Boston accompanied by Mrs. H. H. Clayton of Boston . When asked his reason for not starting in the race , Mr. Glidden said : " As in driving , the best hour for ballooning is between 5 and 6 o'clock . At that time the air is cool and calm . I have a lady with me to-day , and I do not propose to place her in any danger . This is a plc-sure trip for me , not a race . "                     