@@677460

txt To Senator Forierceres resolution directing the Committee on Military Affairs to inquire into the facts that led to the discharge of the negro troops at Brownsville , Senator Loran has offered an irrelevant , impertinent , and incompetent amendment declaring that the President discharged the negro soldiers in the exercise of his legal and Constitutional authority as . Commander In Chief . " Senator LODGE offers this amendment with intent to prevent any Senatorial investigation of the President'a action . He evidently reasons that if his amendment is adopted it will " whitewash " Mr. ROOSEVELT and make investigation needless . It appears to be his belief that the Senate will not have the hardihood to reject the amendment , since that would imply that the President has committed an impeachable offense . Therefore the Massachusetts Senator thinks he has the- Ohio Senator " in a hole . " It Mr. FOR.A.X:EIL has not lost his wits and the Senate as a body its sense of dignity and Independence , Mr. LODGE will be disappointed . The amendment can be rejected as not pertinent to the Foraker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not an impeachable offense to Make a mistake . Judges on the bench are continually making wrong decisions , which higher courts reverse . But they do not thereby violate their oath of office or render themselves liable to Impeachment . Congress passed an income tax law , which the Supreme Court declared to be unconstitutional , but Congress was acting within its Constitutional authority in legislating upon the subject It was a mistake , not a high crime and misdemeanor , to pass a law that the Judiciary Department declared unconstitutional . In rendering its decision the Supreme Court did not put any - " affront " upon Congress , any more than in ordering an ifiquiry into the Brownsville matter the Senate would put an affront upon the President by rejecting the Lodge amendment It would be a double affront to the President to adopt the amendment . The question of the Constitutionality of the President 's action is not before the Senate . Unless impeachment proceedings should be begun it can not properly be taken up by that body . A " snap judgment " upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been invited by Mr. LODGE had he fully realized the purport of his amendment In the second place , the offering of it is a confession by one of the President 's most conspicuous friends and defenders that the Brownsville incident will not hear inquiry ; that the President must be shielded against the Senatorial investigation . That admission is so little In accord with the President 's defiant words that we must assume the resolution to have been offered without his knowledge . The foolishness of their friends is one of the chief sources of the troubles of the great                     