@@677251

txt The present eruption of Vesuvius is one of the most terrible on record . For some time past the volcano-has been unusually active , and last week the outbreak began which has now done incalculable damage . An enormous volume of black smoke rises to a height of two miles above the crater . Incandescent masses of stone are thrown up 3,000 feet . A continuous southeasterly wind carries the ashes over Naples , which is so completely enveloped in darkness that for three days our communications by sea have been cut off . Steamers and large sailboats trying to reach Naples find themselves in total darkness several miles from shore and turn back , numbers of persons having fainted from the sulphurous fumes . Fissures have opened far below the cone , emitting many streams of lava , one of which has completely destroyed the town of Bosco Trecase , which had 10,000 inhabitants . Another has reached the outskirts of Torre del Greco . Others have destroyed thousands of acres of fertile cultivated land , with farmhouses and stock . The great cone of Vesuvius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cable railway , the observatory , and the large new hotel near it were all totally destroyed on the night of the 7th . The population of , Bosco Trecase and other ruined places fled in time to Naples , and the roads were choked day and night with every sort of vehicle and crowds of people on foot . Yesterday ( Monday ) I drove through Torre dell ' Annunziata to the point where the main stream of lava stopped on Sunday . The lava carried vast masses of burned stone and sulphur on its surface like dross on melted lead , and nothing was visible toward Bosco Trecase but endless acres of dark scoriae , broken here and there by the greenish curling smoke of sulphur . At the point we reached a great lone pine tree , torn up by its roots and turned to black charcoal , stuck out of the mass at a sharp angle . The air was almost unbreathable , the heat intense . The faces of the people who crowded upon the edge of the arrested stream expressed present terror or exhaustion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to help the homeless people , and the large bodies of troops sent to the rescue have behaved with great energy and courage in saving property . When the stream of fire threatened Bosco Trecase soldiers dug a wide ditch ' across its path and threw up a formidable intrenchment in the hope of diverting its course , but every effort was useless . The molten . stone advanced like a colossal serpent of fire , turning its head to the right and left as a snake does , but keeping its general direction toward the fated town . It was not till it reached the first house , sending up great showers of sparks , that the people finally fled for their lives , taking such belongings as they could carry in their arms or pile upon the creaking carts . I saw men , women , and children and infants whose mothers carried them at the breast or in their aprons . Dogs , toe , and cats were on the carts , and sometimes even chickens tied together by the legs , and piles of mattresses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dust under the lurid glare . I saw one woman lying on her back across a cart , ghastly white , and if not dead already of fear and heat and suffocation , certainly- almost gone . We ourselves could hardly breathe . Happily there has been little loss of life as yet , for lava moves slowly , even in great quantities and down hill , and there has been no explosion of gases . On the other hand , the damage done is permanent , and the rich vinelands on the southern slope of Vesuvius are lost forever and burled under lava and scoriae . The whole t ffect is appalling in the extreme . Near the volcano and in Naples itself there have been frequent shocks of earthquake , and the city was in continual darkness on Sunday and has been subject to the fall of ashes ever since the 6th . Constant news of fresh destruction and the inexplicable impression that the volcano itself is mysteriously moving toward the city have driven the excited people to the verge of madness and the extreme of terror . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. , I can see nothing of Naples or Vesuvius or even of Ischia , thirty miles to the west of the volcano , for all is hidden by a lurid curtain that is not affected by the fresh easterly breeze . The ashes are a fine dark gray dust and are thick in my garden walks , on the terrace , and on all the plants . Even at a distance of fifty yards there is a slight film in the air . The wind being steadily off shore , the sea is quite calm , and the noises from the volcano reach us very distinctly . During the most terrible hours on Saturday and Sunday we heard a continuous roar like that from a battle of artillery , and even now peals of thun-1 rder roll across the bay from time to time , not caused by electricity , but by I the discharge of masses of molten ma- Iterial from the cone . We confidently hope , however , that the worst of the eruption is over , and the panic is certainly subsiding . The admirable conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aosta in visiting the scene of destruction and suffering has done much to encourage and cheer the poor , and the royal family have been royally generous with money . The homeless remember , however , that in previous eruptions the lava has been known to break out again and again for weeks , and the possibility of danger is therefore not yet past .                     