@@678278

txt People must not expect reforms to come fast and furious at the Outset of the Taft administration . Nothing of that sort is likely to happen . The policy of the party as laid down in the Chicago platform and as amplified by speeches of the president elect is distinctly one of progress . The temper of the party end the man who will be in command after the 4th of March is , however , distinctly one of opposition to hysteria in any form . Mr. Taft 's most notable personal characteristic is his perseverance in good work along conservative lines , but without ever turning aside from the goal . He may be depended upon to put before congress in season and out of season all the things upon which he believes legislation is necessary , but he will not bombard the statesmen with messages , nor will the country be in a fever of excitement over his intentions . So far as it is possible to prophesy the program of the next afirnenistratiam it might be said it will involve steady progress rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the fact that there will be no backward steps and no halting . Short Session to Be Business One . In the first place it might as well be understood now that the coming short session of congress is to be distinctly a business one . There will be enough to do in the way of passing grettt appropriation bills and finishing up business left over from the long session last winter and spring . The approach of tire national conventions induced congress to postpone a great many things it otherwise would have attended to . The result is there Is a great amount of unfinished business to be taken up at the short session . This will have to be sandwiched in between the appropriation bills as opportunity offers , and there is not likely to be any new legislation unless it is rendered neceiry by some emergency not now apparent . There will be less obstruction In the short session than usual , because those In the opposition will recognize the futility of it . It will be impossible to hold up a great appropriation bill , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can readily be passed at the special session in time to go Info effect at the opening of the next fiscal year . Special Session Just for Tariff . According to a well understood plan of the republican leaders practically nothing will be done at the special session except to pass a new tariff law . The senate , as usual , will begin its special session on inauguration day , and It will be at work for some time over new appointments to be made by President Taft . When the house meets it Is more than likely , after the organization is completed , that the ways and means committee will be the only one of the subordinate bodies to be put into operation . It will draft a tariff bill along lines partially agreed upon during the short session and , after a brief debate , will present the measure to the senate . While the upper house Is engaged in wrangling over the tariff the lower house will , in all probability , ' do nothing at all , taking frequent recesses and killing time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time , because debate In that body is unrestricted , and besides that the senate always takes pride in seeing how many amendments it can patch upon a house tariff bill . It would be pbssible to occupy the time of the house with measures for postal savings hanks , parcels post , modification of injunc-. tion rules . restriction of railroad securities , and similar items whirls are in the Taft program . It is generally felt , however , that It would be wiser to concentrate the attention of congress and the country upon the tariff alone . The other measures probably will be Introduced and referred to the appropriate committees when appointed , but there Is not much likelihood that any of them will be seriously considered until the session begins M December . 1000 . United Front on Tariff Question . If general legislation were attempted at the special session , It might embarrass the passage of the tariff bill , because it would involve various trades to secure votes for the different measures . The republicans want to go on record an presenting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it Is believed to be immensely important that the new tariff law should be put into operation at the earliest moment , so as to give the people a fair chance to observe its workings before the next congressional campaign is on . It Is the intention , therefore , to hold congress in session until the new tariff law is entirely satisfactory . There will have to be compromises between the two houses , as a matter of course . but the leaders feel that the outcome will he more satisfactory to congress ond to the pepole If the special session is denoted to nothing else but the tariff . In the republican platform adopted at Chicago the party was distinctly pledged to the establishment of postal savings banks . During the course of the campaign the statement repeatedly was made on the stump that these were banks in which the poorer classes were most interested . People who deposit their money in such barks will have behind their deposits the entire credit of the United States . Every deposit will be as good as a government bond , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world than Uncle Sam 's written promise to pay . The postal savings bank was considered to be one antidote to the feeling which was manifested to such a degree In the west for the guaranty of de-Posits In national banks . Will Redeem Postal Bank Pledge . It may 1,0 taken for granted that the party will redeem its pledges for the establishment of postal savings hanks , but it must be understood that no such legislation can be achieved ill any offhand manner . There is I great deal of opposition to the idea , which Proce , his from various sources . Many people who are running private say-tags banks think it is unfair and unwise for the government to become their competitor . Others who have no personal interest In the matter are afraid of the accumulation of an . enormous trust fund for which the government personally will become responsible . Some financiers in congress believe that If the government takes money from the people to the extent of several billions , pays interest upon it , and then seeks to reinvest it at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Ls-night Put those institutions In a position Where they could dictate to the government by threatening to unload , and Ulna. put Une.le Sam in a position where he would have to continue paying Interest on money lying idle In the treasury . Postal savings .. banks will come In. due course of time , but it i.e likely that such a law can be passed only after a long , hard fight , and to accomplish it it may be necessary to take up : not only the whole of the long session , but even the short session following . In the same way Mr. Taft 's plan to prevent the issuance of railroad securities . except upon proof that they represent some tangible value , Is sure to provoke bitter opposition on the part of exponents of high finance , who will not readily surrender that method of getting rich at the expense of the people . The parcels post will be fought by all of the express companies , dud many manufacturers are prepared to exert their influence on congress to prevent Injuenction legislation which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Expected .. Each one of those reforms Is easy to state in a political platform , but It is not likely that any one of them can be-even approached ex-. cept by a long , hard fight , in which the influence of the administration will have to be exerted constantly , and In which the pressure of public opinion will be a potent factor . The history of the fight over the rate bill is likely to be written again and the long sea-pion of the Sixty-first congress , beginning In December , 11101 ) , will be full ofOneat for students of political progress . It is because of certain opposition to most of these things to which the party is ) lodged that It seems to be unwise to complicate the tariff situation by mixing it up with them . The general program of keeping the extra session free from general legislation probably will be followed , as previously indicated . and this will be rendered more or less certain : by failure to appoint necessary committees In the house . thus preventing decisive action on anything except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be remembered in this connection , too , that President Roosevelt held the reins of power for a long time before he entered upon his death struggle with the railroads . All of the reforms promised by the Taft administration are of such character that they regitire careful study before necessary legislation can be even outlined . and even after that every point will have to be fought out , concessions made , modifications of the original plan agreed upon and new tactics adopted to meet changing conditions . It would be surprising If all of this legislation should be passed at the next session of I congress , but the pledg.r of the new president ns delivered In t- Is Inaugural address next March will render it clear that If such laws are not put on the steithe books It will at least not he his fault .                     