@@676744

txt In an open letter addressed to the Right Hon. JAMES BRYCE , ex-Gov . D. H. CHAMBERLAIN discusses the negro problem in a spirit which wins for his views and arguments the warm approval of the press of the Soutnern States . The opinions expressed in his letter will be approved in the North also , and in every part of the Union by persons accustomed to consider the situation and study the interests of the black race with minds free from the bias of partisanship . There can be no doubt about ex-Gov . CHAMBERLAIN 'S qualification to speak upon this subject . He has been a close observer of the negroes , a student of their traits and qualities , for forty years , and during a part of this time was personally and officially forced to deal with the color problem on the spot . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN believes that the problem is not to be settled in our time , or in our century ; its solution belongs to the ages . He points out the exceptional position of the American negroes , differentiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their transition from slavery to freedom was accomplished by no act of their own , that they were set free against the will of their masters , and that political rights were thrust upon them without any demand on their part , without qualifying training or experience , and without even any knowledge or appreciation of what was being bestowed . Their position has been immensely prejudiced and immeasurable harm has been done to them by the persistent and long-continued effort to establish political equality between the two races . " an effort which resulted directly in shocking and unbearable misgovernment wherever the negro race predominated . " It is to this mistaken policy that Mr. CHAMBERLAIN attributes chiefly the race antagonisms and the embittered relations which have for years been an afflicting characteristic of Southern social and political life . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN criticises and censures President RoosEvELT for inviting BOOKER WASHINGTON tO the White House , for the appointment of the negro CHUM as Collector of the Port of Charleston , and for his action in the Lndianola Post Office case . For BOOKER WASHINGTON he has high admiration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did a great and needless injury to the negro race when he invited him to sit at meat in the Executive Mansion . Criu has been appointed by the President four times , the Senate having thrice refused to confirm the ad interim appointments . It is not for a moment to be believed that the President would be so stubborn in the case of any white man in the South . But CRUM , whom he is determined to force upon an outraged and incensed community , lacks the commonest qualification for the office of Collector . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN testifies from personal acquaintance with the man and his family , that though of good character he knows nothing of business , has had no experience in mercantile affairs , and could not keep an ordinary merchant 's account or examine such accounts . The closing of the In6ianola Post Office Mr. CHAMBERLAIN frankly characterizes as an unlawful act . " The President . " he says , " had not a shadow of authority or right to close the Post Office at Indianola , none whatever , and no man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanton and lawless act . " There are , of course , multitudes of Republican supporters of the President who know and feel that his reckless use of the black man to help his own political fortunes has undone a great part of the work accomplished in recent years by the wiser friends of the negro . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN believes that the Anglo-Saxon race is qualified and destined to work out the color problem to a peaceful solution . If the negroes themselves would strive , and successfully , to abate the crime for which lynching is the adopted punishment , " only the old , tried , commonplace virtues are wanted on the part of the white race  --  a deeply human and ChriStian spirit of mind , of heart , manner , and conduct , readiness to hold and defend all the ordinary civil rights , helpfulness to be shown in all practicable and reasonable ways , Infinite and unfailing patience of spirit and . act . " These virtues exhibited toward the negroes , he believes , will do more than all the schools and colleges , me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitterness and violence . These are counsels of high perfection . Ex-Gov . CHAMBERLAIN we have no doubt is right in declaring that the problem will be a long time in solving . It would be unwise , however , to leave altogether out of the account economic forces and the stern laws of nature . The black man was forcibly transported out of his original environment . His relation to the whites is artificial . Nature has at her command the mysterious , stow-working , but irresistible forces by which such mistakes are corrected .                     