@@676222

txt A case Involving $1,051,050.48 , which the American Sugar Refining Company claims to have paid to the United States Government under the ruling of the Treasury Department in excess of the amount that should have been paid as Government taxes for the years 1808 , 1500 , and 1000 , was argued before Judge Kirkpatrick here to-day . There are three points involved in the controversy , the first being whether dividends received by the refining company from other sugar companies on stock which it holds should be taxed as receipts of the American Company ; second , whether the income received by the American Company from its investments in Government bonds should be taxed as income , and , third . if dividends from the stocks of any other companies are to be tavd at all , whether that tax should apply to dividends received on stocks acquired by the American Company prior to the passage of the late war revenue tax . Counsel for the Sugar Company contends that it should not be taxed on any income that it receives from investments made prior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if such income is taxable at all , it can only apply to such invest/7 ents as the company has acquired subsequent to the passage of Ole war revenue act . With reference to the tax upon dividends received from the stock of other sugar companies , the claim is made that it is an unjust burden to place on the American Company , for the reason that it is really in the nature of double taxation , because the other companies are subsidiary and pay taxes to the Government at the ports where they refine sugar . One of the subsidiary companies is the Western Sugar Refining Company of San Francisco , and another is the Franklin Sugar Refining Company of Philadelphia , in which latter concern the American Sugar Refining Company owns one-half of its stock . As to the income received from Government bonds , the claim of the Sugar Company is that the income from that source should not be taxed , on the theory that Government bonds are exempt from taxation . On this point , however , the claim of the Government is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a tax on a part of the inetime of the sugar company , all of which income , with certain defined exceptions , the Government claims . it is authorized by law to impose a tax upon . Another question involved , which was not raised in the argument to-day , is the constitutionality of tile act imposing a tax on raw material , the counsel for the Sugar Company claiming that it is an unjust discrimination on the part of the Government against it and in favor of those companies engaged in the beet sugar industry , which it is claimed by the American Company is enabled to produce refined sugar at a cost of one-fourth of a cent less per pound than the American Company can so long as this tariff is in existence . The American Sugar Company is represented by Robert H. McCarter and the Government by United States District Attorney , David O. Watkins . SUGAR HIGHER AGAIN . War Supposed to Have Ended-6,500 Bags from California Held for Further Advance . After the many statements of a probable war in sugar prices , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugar trade in lower Wall Street was treated to a surprise when the announcement of an advance of 10 cents in refilled sugar to 4.55 was made by all the refiners . A further advance of 10 cents , putting the price back to where it was three weeks ago , was even talked of . Slmultaneously came the announcement of the arrival of li.5124 ) bags of refined beet sugar from California and the statement from the agents for this sugar that it would be stored and held for higher prices . The sugar people took this to mean that the sugar war of which so much had been said had come to an end . Jobbers who in expectation of a further drop in prices because of this war talk had neglected to buy when the price was 4.45 came in yesterday . and took , it at the ten-cent-higher price in anticipation of a further advance .                     