@@677063

txt At the Virginia Republican Convention Secretary SHAW said : Our political opponents may promise high-priced labor and cheap products . high-priced wheat and cheap bread , high-priced cattle and cheap meat , but they make these promises without the possibility of fulfillment . That depends . Some think the Republicans have " made good " in this respect , and are sore on that account.i There can be no doubt that the Repub. licans have raised the price of labor , meat , clothing , and everything else . They say so themselves . Their scorn ' of the cheap man in the cheap coat is undeniable . Just in so far as their success in raising prices and wages falls short of their aim their policy is a failure . It is the other fellow who gets the cheap end of the bargain . There was a little flurry about cheap rails the other day  --  the lot which was to be bought for Panama below what United States railways have to pay . It is undeniable that the farmers have for generations had to sell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anybody in the world would pay , while buying at the prices Secretary SHAW and the Republicans boast of . The situation in British politics at this moment turns upon the British bread eater 's refusal to pay more for his loaf than the lowest price procurable from any seller without discrimination in favor of British colonial supplies . Secretary SHAW compels acquiescence when he says that there can not be combined cheapness and dearness in the same market , but there can be no sort of doubt about American prices being the world 's highest , while American goods are sold abroad at lower prices than at home . There can be no question about Americans ' capacity to cell cheap , because they do sell cheap to foreigners . Neither can there be any doubt about their being compelled to buy dear . That Is what the Dingley law is for , to , compel purchases in the market hoisted by the Republicans . It is for Americans to say whether they like this combination of dearness for them and cheapness for foreigners . As yet they have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always being diverting if not obscuring and overshadowing issues . Secretary SHAW 'S candidacy as the Republican leader would at least have this merit , that what Americans really think about the tariff would be registered at the polls .                     