@@781429

txt The Thomas car in the Paris Matin-NEW YORK TIMES race front New York to Paris at 8:45 to-night shot into Walcott , a town of about 100 souls , four miles from the North Platte River . Walcott is ninety-eight miles from Laramie by the line of the Union Pacific , but the big gray bird was forced to fly 150 miles in order to reach this point , at least 100 miles of the way through the snow . Starting from Laramie at 7:35 this morning , the first thirty miles was easy , and the American car followed a terrific pace set by the pilot car over the level Laramie Plains . Some miles were reeled off close to the even minute , and the Laramie Automobile Club 's representative dropped to the remote rear . Thirty miles out of Laramie we began to meet the snow ; fifty miles out we were plowing through eighteen inches of It . Three miles east of Medicine Bow the Thomas car crossed the Medicine Bow River on two feet of ice . Ten minutes later we stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the scene of Trampas 's death in " The Virginian . " " She 's a go-getter , " said the admiring men of Medicine Bow of our car , and ' while we ate lunch the women of Medicine Bow tied their handkerchiefs to It in the fond but foolish hope that the bits of linen would some day reach Paris . Certain members of the Thomas crew being sadly in need of handkerchiefs ? enough said . On leaving Medicine Bow the flier began to buck real drifts , and for four hours the two cars struggled with the worst snow of the day . It took just four hours to smash through twenty-three miles to Hanna , the biggest coal-mining town in Wyoming . With a terrific hill to face , I decided to ship all excess baggage on to Rawlins , and the car was stripped of all unnecessary weight , the only exception being the fated Capt . Hansen , who may be a good man for Siberia , but here it is a case of " everybody works but Hansen ; he sits around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we put on the chains , and the flier simply romped up the steep incline . We have With us a very " new " young man from the big town on the Bronx , and as a photographer he is all right . His slang is somewhat unknown to Wyoming , but he sizes up the Thomas hill climb in a few well chosen words : " Whee , " he says , " Old Girl puts on her bangles and she walks up one side of the Rocky Mountains and down the other and never draws a long breath . She handles snow just like an ice-cream factory . " Sundown found us again on a divide , and at nightfall we are again plunging through the snowdrifts with all hands overboard every few minutes to fight them . The shovel brigade was often called out in full force to help the Reo pilot through the drifts . The pacemaker met some lovely drifts and three times was literally carried out bodily . The run after dark was a hard one , ' but in another three hours we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here for the night , crossing the North Platte In the morning on the railroad bridge . Walcott is an enthusiastic little town without water . We learn that the Italians are making good time through Nebraska . Wait until . the Marconi fleet arrives in the Rocky Mountains , and- we shall see whether their cathedral on stilts is any good on a side hill . If she gets up against some of the slants ! and angles which the old Thomas negotiated to-day she will be going some . We leave here at daylight in the morning , having missed another reception at Rawlins to-night . However , the sleep will not come amiss , and I have wired the Reception Committee to wrap up the banquet against our need in crossing the Red Desert .                     