@@781049

txt Another crisis is at hand , Involving the indefinite prolongation of the telegraphers ' strike , the probable immediate precipitation of a general strike throughout Russia , and a possible final struggle between the Government and the proletariat . This sudden change for the worse is the result of the shedding of the first blood lin the telegraph strike this afternoon al1 most simultaneously with the action of M. Dummy ? . Minister of the Interior , in throwing down the gauntlet to the labor organizations by arresting without warn ' ing M. Krustaleff , President of the Executive Committee of the Workmen 's Council . About 2 o'clock several companies of Cossacks clattered through the streets leading to the headquarters of the council in Targovia Street . Having barred We approaches , a force of troops and police surrounded the building , after which secret service ; men rushed in and seized Krustaleff . He made no resistance and the affair- was concluded quickly . It was ' impcssible for Krustaleff to conceal the papers of the organization , in which the police evidently expect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed uprising against the Government . Fight In Front of Post Office . A disturbance , In which two strike breakers were ' silkrd and a policeman and several others were wounded , occurred at the same hour immediately in front of the General Post Office . The strikers for two clays have been seeking to persuade the volunteer and regular carriers to refuse to work . At ' the door of the building to-day the strikers , enraged by the refusal of the volunteers to quit , drew knives , whereupon a carrier attempted to defend himself with a revolver . The carrier and a companion were stabbed and sank dead . A squad of policemen were stood off by the strikers and workmen who sympathized with them . Both sides exchanged a fierce fusillade , in which a policeman and several workmen were wounded . Act the strikers were withdrawing , a . Cossack patrol came galloping to the rescue . One of the strikers turned and . threw an imitation bomb , and the Cos= sacks wheeled in order to avoid what they presumed to be a deadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtway and to escape . The news of the arrest of Krustaleff created an immense sensation among the workmen . All the Socialists , Labor , and kindred organizations are holding a meet= trig to-night at which most inflammatory speeches are being made in denunciation of the Government , and all are talking of a general strike in order to save their leader . Krustaleff , as he is called , though that Is not his right name , is regarded as the brains of the revolutionary movement . He has displayed genius in organizing ' the industrial and political strikes , which have terrorized the Government . His offer of financial report to the telek-1 raphers yesterday prevented the CO - lapse of their strike . deleted paragraph it is the intention of the Government to go a step further in the ' direction of appeasing the peasants by providing for purchase by them ' on the installment plant of a portion of the crown lands and the private estates that have been hypothecated to the Government land banks and unredeemed . While such a programme would undoubtedly receive the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration of . order above everything , especially of the l3Usiness interests like the manufacturers of St. Petersburg , who yesterday passed a resolution in favor of prosecuting the agitators to the full extent of the law , it would provoke the Socialists and revolutionaries to desperation . The Moderate Liberals also believe that such a policy would be suicidal and would be sure to bring in its wake repression , then an armed conflict with the proletariat , and finally a bloody revolution . Krustaleff Is Confident . In an interview yesterday . M. Krustaleft said : " It is probable that a general strike will be declared just after Christmas . Delegates who were sent to all parts of the country report that the proposal for a strike has been k welcomed with enthusiasm , and in fact that the whole country is ripe for revolution . A vast majority of the workmen are true revolutionaries , though starvation sometimes compels them to subordinate their political aims . " Preparation for an armed rising is highly advanced , but it can not hope to succeed unless the insurgents are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , has made such strides in the army that the Revolutionaries are justified in counting on sufficient support from that source to insure victory . " The peasants everywhere are willing to join the Revolutionaries . They are the principal sufferers from oppression and excessive taxation , and have lost confidence the Emperor . The Revolutionaries have their own postal and telegraph servicesirotigh which they are able to /keep  --  Mt touch with their organizers throughout the Empire . " Think Witte 's Fall Near . Mapy persons believe that Count Witte will not lend himself to such a programme ; that his fall is imminent , and that when he goes he will leave reaction and revolution face to face . It is again rumored that the Premier has already resigned , and that he ! will be succeeded by Gen. Count Alexis , lgnatieff . Another rumor is to the effect that Gen. Mistchenko , one of the heroes of the war in Manchuria , who is now on his way to St. Petersburg , will assume the dictatorship . The Associated Press is unable to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it learns from a high source that Count Wittc 's position , so tar as the Emperor is concerned , is perfectly secure , and that his Majesty is giving him the widest co-operation . Nevertheless the Count 's failure to accomplish something tangible has caused him to lose ground steadily in public opinion . Even the Slovo , the organ of the " Legal Orders , " turns savagely on him . declaring that he is a failure and urging that it will he impossible to restore public confidence until power has passed to the hands of the Douma , when Count Witte must give way to a Cabinet selectekt by the National Assembly . The editors of the newspapers are holding a meeting to-night to determine their attitude toward the new press law . In view of to-day 's events it is practically certain that they will vote to defy the law . Financial Crisis Tided Over . The Government seems to have succeed. - ed in tiding the Treasury over the present crisis , although the method by which this was accomplished shows to what straits the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ukase authorizing the State Bank to discount $50,000,000 in exchequer bills ; which is permitted by the regulations of the bank , but which savors of the character of a. forced loan . This method has not been resorted to since the days of the Russo-Turkish war . At the same time it is reported that an agreement has been perfected with Herr Fischer , the representative here of the Berlin banking house of Mendelssohn &; Co. , for the renewal of the Treasury notes due in February The great f  --  te in honor of the Order of St. George , conferred only for bravery on the field of battle , which has been held annually at the Winter Palace since the institution of the order , was held to-day at Tsarskoe-Selo , but it lacked the customary brilliancy.                     