@@678134

txt Our neighbor The World inquires whether THE Nzw YORK TIMES and The Brooklyn Eagle are " wholly fair to the Democratic Party when they intimate to their readers that the 1908 platform Is no better than the 1896 or the 1900 platform . " It thereupon proceeds to specify omissions . The Denver platform says nothing about the free coinage of silver or . bimetallism , it does not denounce National banknotes or the Supreme Court , it does not advocate the Government ownership of railroads or th'e initiative and referendum . If the Tammany tiger should erase his stripes and appear in a coat of one color , say , like Mr. KIPLING 'S " bluish silent beast that came around the corner and without a word fell to work , " we should admire and trust him no more than we do now . The claws would be there , the fangs , and the great appetite . Whatever declarations of principles they might make , we could not trust the unsteady men who made this platform nor the ambitious and unsafe man who stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the more it changes the more it is the same thing . The declared purpose may be new and different , the old menace remains . The enactment of a law for the free and independent coinage of silver as demanded by the platform of 1836 would have brought upon the country such a panic , such disasters , and such intolerable monetary confusion that re lief would have been quickly found in repeal . We speedily repealed the Sherman Silver Purchase act when its evil working was exposed to us in the panic of 1893 . The enactment into law of the demand of the Denver platform that Federal licenses be taken out by private business corporations might not bring on a panic , but it would fundamentally change the relation of the people to the Government . It would change the nature of the Government itself . It would introduce elements of paternalism , centraiization , and Socialistic control over private undertakings that are entirely foreign to our Constitutional theory ! and repugnant to the principles declared and established by the founders of the Republic . Should we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so prompt , withdrawal not so easy . We should he likely to go further before attempting any backward step . A system of Federal licenses would put the business of the country into politics . and the grip of the politician is not easily broken . It is the judgment of THE Tress that the consequences of such a step would he perilous . The World is mistaken in supposing that nothing Is said " against " the Federal courts . Is it saying nothing " against " the courts to demand that their discretion be abridged and powers hitherto exercised by them be taken away ? Mr. BRYAN is a little careful in what he says about the courts , Mr. GOMPERS not at all so . His distrust of them has been openly expressed . He would have their powers so limited that they would be unable to restrain the violent and lawless acts of strikers . The anti-injunction paragraphs of the platform were put in to please Mr. GostPERS , and he appears to be satisfied with them . They are not satisfactory to conservative persons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a jury . Yet the platform demands a jury trial . It puts the Democratic Party in the position of insisting that the Judges of the Federal courts be shackled . The platform favors such an increase of the powers of the , Inter-State Commerce Commission as will give it " the initiative with reference to rates and transportation charges " even when complaint is made by no shipper . A tyrannical and vindictive Administration would take great delight in the exercise of the power abitrarily to punish corporations it did not like . But from the business and economic point of view , what sense is there is enacting that the Commission may change rates of which no shipper has complained ? It Is sheer brute centralization for the sake of centralization . The Denver platform demands that the banks establish a fund for the guarantee of deposits . A deposit Is a loan to the bank by the depositor . If the safety of his money is to be assured by ! a guarantee , then by all means loans by banks to depositors ought also to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided that 1 or 2 per cent . be deducted from the face of every bank loan to be set aside as an insurance against bankrupt or elusive borrowers without collateral . The honest and solvent borrowers would be called upon to make good losses through dishonesty and insolvency , just as Mr. BRYAN 'S plan would force the sound banks to pay off the depositors of wildcat institutions It is not necessary to institute comparisons with the Bryan platforms of former years to establish the fact that this platform is bad . It is absolutely , not relatively , bad . It was put forth by a convention of the Democratic Party , but it is not Democratic more than the platform of 1896                     