@@676531

txt Fusion prophets reproached for their failure to foresee the magnificent triumph of Tammany may present the sufficient excuse that Satan had declined to honor them with his confidence . Foresight of a great community 's intention to take such a backward step can be demanded of no good man . It depended on too many things with which it would have been almost sinful for him to be acquainted . But some wisdom after the event is properly expected . It is not wisdom after the event to say , as has been said , that if an independent Democrat had been nominated in the place of Mayor Low he would have been elected . There is not th slightest ground for that assertion . Mr. Low was doubtless the strongest candidate who could have been named by the Fusion forces . An independent Democrat would have polled perhaps not much more than half the Republican vote . It is hard for a conscientious and churchgoing Republican to vote for a Democrat , but there are in the Republican Party in this city tens of thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always to give their support to Tammany against honest and worthy candidates nominated by any other organization . They have to be fairly cudgeled into supporting an independent Republican like Mr. S.rnoivo or Mr. Low . Had an independent Democrat been nominated this year they would have jumped the party fences and found congenial refuge in the bosom of Tammany . The most hideous feature of the problem of self-government in this city is that we stand between the huge Tammany party with its criminal propensities upon the one hand and the Republican Party upon the other , of which hardly more than half can be depended upon to support good government . Nor is it wisdom after the event to say that the corporations have bought Tammany 's way , into power , or that anybody has bought Tammany 's way into power . A small plurality might conceivably be bought in this city , but the business would be extremely dangerous . The buying of a plurality rising 60,000 is out of the question . That the corporations gave liberally may be assumed . That money was copiously spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of public knowledge . But that a plurality was secured by the direct buying of votes ought not to be asserted by anybody . The figures tell the story . In 1901 Mr. Low received 296,050 votes ; this year he received 251,289 , a loss of 44,161 votes . In 1901 Mr. SHEPARD received 265,940 votes ; this year Mr. McCLELLarr received 314,906 , a gain of 48,966 . Mr. MCCLELLAN gains what Mr. Low loses , and a little more . Republican disloyalty may account for some part of this transfer of support , but the most of it unquestionably is due to the fact that Democrats deserting the Fusion cause have this year indulged themselves the luxury of voting for their regular party candidates . It is a Democratic victory brought about by a renewed interest in Democratic fortunes , and a renewed desire to see that party triumph in the State and Nation .                     