@@781099

txt Eugene E. Prussing , the well-known Chicago lawyer , for three years President of the Citizens ' Association there , called on the President yesterday to present his views on corporate reforms . The President read and Jiscussed with interest a brief statement which Mr. Prussing submitted . At the end of the interview the President said : " And now , my dear Sir , I want to pay you a compliment . I did not expect you to give me a single thing . Instead of that you have given me several practical suggestions in concrete form , some of which are e.n-irely new . I shall study them with pleasure . I may say you will soon see them reflected somewhere . " The statement submitted by Mr. Prussing reads : " Currency reform , anti-trust law amendments , and railroad regulation naturally will claim the first places in Congress 's attention . General corporation reform in its various phases may fairly be ' classed seconi in importance . Long and varied experience in corporation matters leads me to offer these suggestions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will in each instance be the challenge of the opposition . Successful effort , therefore , must he along the line- of the least resistance , that is to say , in harmony will ' the principles of State rights and loyal govern-ment , as well as the sentiments based upon these , even if extreme . " National control of inter-State commerce corporations , as distinguished from National incorporation of all or most corporations , will be readily granted by most men of both parties . Compulsory publicity of accounts , the subjection of books . papers , and plans to inspection , Lc. , of Government officials , will be easily accomplished . " The new step advised by the Association of Attorneys General , slightly modified , will be in the right direction , and will be approved by States rights men and Federalists alike . The association recommends that the right to hold stock in any other corporation should . be denied to all inter-State commerce corporatio- It seems to me that the purpose of this , namely , to copel the real owners of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be achieved by requiring the corporation so owning stock in another , and the corporation In which it owns stock . to list such owners and stoekholders respectively in every case in the Department of Commerce . Thus honest holding companies will be permitted , and yet protected against possible assault of local taxation or other unjustly discriminating laws , just as Na tional banks now are , while the public turn will have knowledge of whom it Is dealing with and can protect itself . n The change of all State banks and trust companies to National banks , which can be accomplished by a single amendment of the National Banking act , will also be popular , and can be along States rights lines . The proposed change is this : Give National banks two additional powers and their consequences . " First  --  To accept and execute trusts , by complying with the general State laws on that subject wherever they exist and in the District of Columbia . " Second  --  To accept trust , savings , and time dcposits and to keep separate accounts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawals ? and allow a small percentage of reserves as to these deposits , and also the making of solid bond and mortgage and other savings bank investments of the funds so received . " Thus every National bank becomes the full competitor of State banks and trust companies , and soon the latter will be forced to become National banks . " Go at the general corporation problem in a similar manner . Enlist : he States rights men on your side . Keep the sunject of incorporation and ordinary control local  --  a State concern  --  make the local laws harmonious if possible by appointing a commission to investigate the entire subject . Get the best talent . Root , Choate , Dillon , Morawetz . Grosscup , and others of that type will be glad to serve for patriotic reasons , and a result will be , achieved in the form of a code based on principles and experience suited to our dual Government and varied conditions ? just as it was in Germany In 1810-1875 in the enactment of laws by Prussia and the other States of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test of time . I am sending my paper with a request for comments to the members of the American Bar Association and to the great majority of names in the Directory of Directors , thus reaching the thoughtful persons immediately in touch with the thing itself . The replies already received Indicate an Intellig:mt , generous , and critScat Interest . and no doubt good fruit in the shape of suggestions will result . "                     