@@676478

txt Because President Baer and the other : officials of the anthracite coal mining companies and the associated railroads have defied the government officials in refusing to give information concerning their operation , in violation of the census law , they are In danger of being prosecuted . This information , which was formally demanded of the coal men nine months ago by special representatives of the census department , is regarded as being of the greatest Importance . All efforts to secure the facts and figures have been unsuccessful , and the census officials are seriously considering the commencing of a suit . When President Roosevelt returns to Washington the question will be submitted to him , and it Is be-lived he will order prompt prosecution . The penalty is a fine of $10,000 and imprisonment for one year . ? Have Practically Refused , Schedules calling for this information were sent ' last January to officials of the Pennsylvania , Reading , and Lehigh Valley railroads , but the officials practically , have refused to furnish R. As a consequence the census office and the geological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prosecution Is decided upon there will be a royal legal battle , as President Baer and his colleagues will employ the best legal talent available to test the constitutionality of the law . It is believed that Attorney General Knox would have charge of the case against the coal men , and there is already talk of his gathering an imposing array of attorneys to aid him . It is held that the point at Issue is even more important than the matter of getting the statistics from the coal companies , and that the result of the suit may have an effect on future anti-trust legislation . For this reason the battle In the courts would be a notable one , and it Is believed neither side would rest until the case had been carried to the Supreme court . This Is one of the reasons why the census people have been so formal In making their demands on the 600 officials , for they wanted hitni , in this fart of the nroceedings . Legality of Act Questioned . The legality of this feature of the law authorizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than once since Its passage , but only in an informal way , and the institution of steps to compel the delivery of the information desired by the government will be the first real test of the measure . Detailed Information concerning the operations of the bituminous and anthracite coal companies was called for by the special agents of the census office . It was expected the schedules would be returned in the course of a month or so . This was true with the schedules of the bituminous mines , but in the nine months that have elapsed since the schedules were delivered nothing has been heard from the anthracite coal companies . It is stated by government officials In a position to know that the information desired by the census bureau and geological survey is being held back intentionally by the anthracite nrnn antes . Call for Important Details . The scneatues can torfuetitneu MLUFMatison regarding the operating expenses of the companies , the cost of production of coal per ton , the freight charges of the several affiliated roads , the pay of miners in the anthracite fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and net earnings and profits of the companies , and , in fact , all the information in the possession of the compaies which the government wishes to know . As the newly created department of commerce and labor , with it i bureau of corporations , which the officials say is looked upon with suspicion and disfavor by organized capital throughout the country , would have access to all the returns made by the coal companies , it Is believed that this in part expiates the reluctance and the delay of the companies to thn ciasirarl information . Take Advantage of Technicality . The presidents of the coal companies are taking advantage of a technical error in an amendment adopted in 1002 . The original law provided that the census reports on mining must be completed and published by July 1 , 1003 . It was impossible to gather , assemble , and publish the data within the time limit , and another amendment was adopted extending the period one year , or until July 1 next year . The amendment extending the time one year provides for the obtaining of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The coal presidents are taking advantage of this " error , " holding that the time limit in the original law , which provides for obtaining and publishing , applies to them , and , as July 1 , 11103 , has passed , they are not required to furnish the information . Final Effort blade . Recently it was decided to make a final effort to induce the coal companiei to furnish the information . President Baer of the Reading company , on his return from Europe a few days ago , was told by an agent of the census office that the information requested last January was desired-at once , and it was impressed upon him that unless the coal companies responded at once the government would take steps through the proper channels to force the companies to comply with the terms of the law . So far Mr. Baer and his associates have not responded to this peremptory demand , and If the information is not forthcoming soon the whole question will be laid before President Roosevelt and permission will be asked to proceed through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ' through the department of Justice against the anthracite coal companies . Test of Trust Question . Conservative officials here view toe situation with greatest concern , and admit frankly that the legality of the provisions of the census act and the efficacy of the act creating the trust smashing bureau of the department of commerce and - labor will be finally decided if the matter ever reaches an issue in the courts .                     