@@780995

txt After five hours ' discuSsion of the Stevens Cotnmittee Gas bills the Senate Republican conference to-night broke up in a row when it was proposed XI , the leaders to turn the conference-into a caucus . Ten Senators left the rdom . The remaining nineteen voted to make all the gas bills caucus measures . It was decided , however , to raise the price of gas from 75 cents , as proposed by the committee , to 80 cents . Senators Elsberg and Carpenter , who were not present at the conference , but who were represented by proxy , were pledged to this programme . The ten who left the conference were Brackett , Brown , Cassidy , Coggeshall , Cooper , Davis , Pechter , Gardner , L'Elotnmedieu , and Hinman . Senators Ambler and Wilcox did not attend the conference , but , it is understood , stand with the bolters . Senator Armstrong , while remaining in the caucus , is opposed to seventy-fivecent gas . Hill , McBwan , Prime , and Barnes stayed away from the conference altogether . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their sentiment with respect to the bills . Senators Cassidy and Coggeshall - were opposed to all the bills . Senator Brackett said that he left because he would not be caucused on the State Commission bill , and was ready to beat all the bills rather than let that pass . Senators Davis , Brown , Fechtert and Gardner , it is understood , opposed 75-cent gas . While Senator Armstrong declared himself as opposed to seventy-five-cent gas , he- remained in the caucus and allowed himself to be bound by the action in favor of all bills . The bolting Senators betrayed excitement when the9 emerged from the room . Senator . Brackett said : " Those of us who left when the caucus was proposed had different ideas with resflect to the measures . Some of us were opposed to seventy-five-cent gas , believing that would mean confiscation . " For myself , 1 was so much opposed to the State Commission bill that I decided to stand out in opposition to all of the measures rather than be caucused upon that measure . I intend to fight it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-one Senators represented in the caucus and , ae twentysix votes are necessary , the- prospect ' is that the bills will , be defeated UnlesStheY gain Democratic ' aupport : Witlie ' Senator Grady and Minority Leader Palmer were indisposed . to give any definite . announcement as to the position of the minority previous to the action of the Republican caucus , it Is understood that a number of the Democratic Senators will vote for the bills reducing the price of gas and eUectricity . Speaker Nixon Is behind the gas legislation , and whatever he says prevails with the majority in the Assembly . No caucus of the Assembly Republicans was deemed necessary , and the bills will be voted upon in that body to-morrow . " Personally I am opposed to making such matters party measures in the strict sense , " said Speaker Nixon to-day . " I believe the Democrats should have opportunity to vote for the bills upon their merits , and not be forced to vote against them because they are Republican party measures . " Senator Grady and Assemblyman Palmer were at work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate and Assembly to-morrow as representing the views of the minority . It is the understanding that , in obedience to pisitive orders from Charles F. Murphy to Senator Grady , the minority in both Senate and Assembly will support all of the committee 's bills except the State Utilities Commission bill . That bill will be vigorously fought by the Democrats and by a number%of Republicans . Its passage is exceedingly doubtful . As it would apply to the whole State it is meeting with opposition of the lighting companies up State , as well as those in the City of New York . It was because the Republican leaders had little hope of passing the State Commission bill that the Tully bill increasing the Railroad commission from three to five was passed by the ' Senate to-day . The Odell men want to make certain to provide a good berth for George W. Aldridge . If the State Lighting Commissten bill gets through the Senate the Tully bill increasing the Railroad Commission will be killed in the Assembly . That the Republicans are not sure of the gas legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as fol ' " I may call an extraordinary session to begin Friday , as soon as the present sessionends . If I do call it the extra session Will be for the purpose of finishing gas legislation . I hope , however , that that step may not be necessary . ' Consolidated Gas- Stock dropped - 814 points yesterday , or which . loss only a fraction was recovered , and Brooklyn Union Gas sold down 10 points . Accerdlug to the reports of specialists , the main sellers were so-called , political interests , especially Tammany men , who were described as testifying to their fear of the attitude of the Governor and the Assembly at Albany . The causing leading to the break in these gas stocks were so clistinct.froin those influencLarthe rest of the market that they did not even : influence , selling of other snicks.                     