@@676599

txt On the very day , ? on , which the Senate Foreign Relations Committee reported favorably the Panama canal treaty , the President has , sent to Ulf Senate additional correspondence , letters he held back , between Gen. Reyes , the Colombian . envoy : and Secretary Hay , In this correspondence Gen. Reyes makes his state-. rnent . of the grievances ' of his ' country ' , against the United States with more particularlyethan in any of the correspondence which had previously reached the public . The notes sent to the Senate cover the period from Dec. 23 , to Jan. 6 . In the first of . the series , dated Dec. 23 , Gen .. Reyes , after citing the treaty of . 1846 and de- ? claring that the . Hay-Herran treaty would have been accepted ty Colombia had not the American Ministers repeatedly ' declared that no amendment to it would be accepted , goes ' on : - " If there be an eternal and immutable principle of right , that right of : Colombia has been injured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits set by equity and justice . " Before the coup de main which proclaimed the independence of the Isthmus took place at Panama there were in thin very ' City agents of the authors of that coup in. conference with high personages clothed with official character , . as is asserted by reputable American newspapers . " I have received information to the efe fact that a bank in New York opened a considerable credit in their favor , with a knowledge of the general use for which it was intended , even though unaware that It was to  --  be applied in part to the bribery of a large part of the garrison at Panama . " Before the news was divulged that a revolution was about to break out on the Isthmus , Gen. Reyes says that American cruisers , which reached their destination precisely on the eve of the movement , were plowing the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans .. A United States military officer , he says , stopped the railway from Carrying to Panama , as it was under obligation to do , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just arrived at Colon . " at the very time when its arrival in that city would have impeded or suppressed anY revolutionary ' attempt . " ADMIRAL COGHLAN 'S ORDERS . Gen. Reyes said that in leading the Colombian Army to restore order on the Isthmus he ( Reyes ) had the honor to address a note on the subject to Rear Admiral Coghlan , to which he received a reply without delay , as follows : " His ( Coghian 's ) present orders are to prevent the landing of soldiers with hostile intent within the boundary of the State of Panama . " At this time the Colombian Army consisted of 10.000 men , which Gen. Reyes declared to be more than sufficient to suppress the Panaman revolution , " if you Excellency 's Government had not prevented the landing of the troops under my command that were to embark at Puerto Colombia . " Gen. Reyes continuee : " The true character of the new State of Panama is revealed by the fact that it came into existence by a coup de main effected by the winning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fought against no one , assaulted no intrenchnient , captured no fort , contenting themselves with putting in prison the constituted authorities . " Sad indeed is the fate of my country , condemned at times to suffer calamities from its own revolutions , and at others to witPess the unexpected attacks of a powerful but friendly State , which for the first time breaks its honored traditions of respect for right  --  especially the right of the weak . " The Panama revolutionists , he continues , were counseled by speculators of several countries who had assumed the direction of ( affairs , and he asserts that thousands of the inhabitants of Panama condemned the separatists ' movement . Gen. Reyes says that Panama haeheceme independent because the Government of the United States desired it ; because with its incomparably superiw force the ' United States prevented the landing of Colombian troops : because even before the separatist movement was known in Bogota , the ' United States had its war vessels at the entrance of Colombian ports preventing the departure of Colombian battalions ; " because without regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this matter , the United States has not respected our rights in that strip of land which Colombia considers as a Divine be= , quest for the innocent use of the American , family of States , and finally because the Government of the United States invoking and putting cinto practice the right of might , has taken from us ' by bloodless conquest , but by conquest nevertheless , the most important part of the national territory . In this crisis of the ' life of my country , as un-= looked , for as it is terrible , Colombia rests its most comforting hopes in the sentie ments of justice which animate the Gov ' . ernment of your Excellency , and confidently trusts that that Government which hag so many times surprised the world by its wisdom , will , on this occasion , astonish it by its example . " GEN . REYES PROPOSES THE HAGUE . Gen. Reyes concludes by proposing a reference of the dispute to The Hague . Secretary Hay answered this note under date of Jan. 5 , saying that the Government had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our most friendly sentiments for the Government and people of Colombia . The questions submitted , he said , could be considered only in the light of accomplished facts , of which one is that the Republic of Panama has become a member of the fame ily or nations . " The department has read with surprise , " Mr. Hay comments . " your repetition of gross imputations upon the conduct ' and motives of this Government , which are said to have appeared in reputeble American newspapers . He adds : " By the declaration of independence of the Republic of Panama a new situation- was created . On the one hand stood the Government of Colombia , invoking in.the name of the treaty of 1846 the aid of this Governmint in its efforts to suppress the revolution ; on the other hand stood the Republic of Panama that had come into being in order that the great design of that treaty might not be forever frustrated , but might be fulfilled . The Isthmus was threatened with desolation by another civil war . Nor Were the rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The interests of the whole civilized world were involved . The Republic of Panama stood for these interests ; the Colombian Government opposed them . Compelled to choose between these - two alternatives , the Government of the United States . in no wise responsible for the situation that had arisen , did not hesitate . It recognized the independence of the Republic of Panama . and upon its judgment and action in the emergency the powers of the world have set the seal of their ap-proval- " Under all the circumstances , " says the Secretary , " the department is unable to regard the complaints of Colombia against this Government as having any valid foune dation . " Secretary Hay adds : " For As acceptance cf yc  --  eir proposal of a resort to The Hague tribunal this Government perceives no occasion . Indeed , the questions presented in your statement of grievances are of a political nature , such as nations even of the most advanced ideas as to international arbitration have not proposed to deal with by that process . " Under date of Jan. d Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says he has transmitted Secretary Hay 's answer to his statement of grievances to his Government by cable . The Secretary 's note is construed . he says , as an intimation that the Colombian forces will be attacked by the ' United States on their entering the territory of Panama to subdue the rebellion , and for that reason it would hold the Government of the United States for all damages caused to it by the loss of that national territory . Replying to this , on Jan. 3 . Secretary Hay says : " I will not for a moment accept the imputation of unfriendly motives or sentiments on the part of this country toward Colombia , and even if Co , lumbia should persist in assuming a hostile attitude toward us , it will only be after the most careful deliberation , and with extreme reluctance , that this Government would shape its course in accordance with the deplorable conditions thus created . "                     