@@781252

txt A peculiar accident to a train on the Ninth Avenue line of the Manhattan Elevated Railroad , at an early hour yesterday morning , resulted In the injury of eleven persons . The scene of the accident was near Rector Street . and the injured are : ALEXANDER , ALFRED , twenty-three Years old , salesman , colored , of 401 West Thirty-sixth Street ; internally injured and unconscious ; taken to Hudson Street Hospital . BARLOW , RICHARD B. , of Yonkers. engineer of the train ; scalp wounds and shock ; taken to Hudson Street Hospital . FINDLEY , DAVID A. , of 251 West Twentythird Street ; fracture of the skull ; taken to Hudson Street Hospital . GIBBONS . EDGAR T .. twenty-one years old , of 375 Lenox Avenue ; shocked ; went home . HUTCHINGS , JOSEPH , of One Hundred and Twenty-sixth Street and Eighth Avenue , fireman of the train ; slightly hurt ; went home . MANNING , JAMES , thirty-four years old , laborer of 15 Washington Street ; scalp wound ; , taken to Hudson Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of 862 Columbus Avenue ; suffering from shock ; went home . R.EIF . JOHN , forty-five years old , carpenter , of 650 Leiss Street , Union Hill , N. J. ; slightly hurt ; went home . SHELVEY , THOMAS , Sr. , forty-two years - old , an engineer , of 468 Tenth Avenue , one of the passengers ; internally injured ; sent to Hudson Street Hospital . SHELVEY , THOMAS , Jr. ; slightly hurt ; taken home . SWEENEY , JOHN , 201 West Sixty-first Street ; slightly injured about head ; went home . The train left South Ferry about 3:30 o'clock , bound for . Harlem . It consisted of - two passenger coaches , drawn by Engine No. 106 . A little south of Rector Street is a coaling station for the Ninth and Sixth Avenue trains . It is customary for a train needing coal to signal the fact as it approaches the station . The engine is then stepped in front of the building , a metallic chute is lowered , and the coal poured into the tender . James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in charge of the chute yesterday morning . Engineer Barlow was not in need of coal , and so did not signal . Yet , just as the engine reached the coaling station the heavy iron chute dropped in front of the engineer 's cab , which crashed into it . The roof of the cab was torn off and the engineer and firemen were hurled to the floor by the shock . The engineer 's hand was on the throttle at the moment of the collision , and as he fell he Jerked it further open , and with Ole increased pressure the engine ? dashed up the track and ra , n to Barclay Street , where it Wag stopped . The dangling iron chute had torn through the roofs of the coaches and practically demolished them . The passengers , of whom there were but few , owing to the early hour , were hurled in every direction and greatly frightened . Patrolmen Silk , Boy-land , Thayer , O'Meara , and O'Brien , all of the Church Street Station , heard their shouts as the train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could to the Barclay Street station . They found Barlow , the engineer , and Hutchings , the fireman , still lying on the floor of the cab . McBride. the conductor , was prostrate on the platform of the car upon which he was standing when the accident happened , and the passengers in the two cars were lying scattered about In the midst of the wreckage which the chute had left behind . Alfred Alexander , the colored passenger , was found unconscious from a blown the head . He was picked up bodily by Patrolman Silk and carried into a restaurant on Greenwich Street . Barlow , Hutchings , and McBride were assisted to the station platform , where Hutchings and McBride soon revived . Two ambulances were sent from the Hudson Street Hospital , in charge of Drs . Page and Smith , and the five persons who required medical treatment were taken to that institution . Subsequently Thomas Shelvey , Sr. , and Engineer Barlow went home , and James Manning and Alfred Alexander were removed to Bellevue Hospital . David Findley , whose skull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A wrecking train removed the disabled engine and damaged cars to the shops of the company . None of the officials or employes of the company would give an estimate of the damage , which was principally to the roofs and sides of the cab and cars . The only explanation offered for the accident is that the chute , which is raised and lowered by a crane operated inside the coaling station , became loosened from Its fastenings by the vibration of the train as it approached , and so fell .                     