@@678089

txt We suppose there can be little doubt that the Legislature will authorize the City of New York to reimburse Mayor MCCLELLAN for his expenditure in defending his title to office . There is a theory of law that while the functions of office are public , the title is personal to the incumbent , and any proceeding to establish and maintain it is to be cor.oidered his own affair . Manifestly , however , the voters and taxpayers of any community who have appointed one of their number to hold an office and perform administrative duties could not decently or in justice require him to stand the costs of defending his title as though it were a title to private property unaffected by any public interest . Nomination and election are supposed to be a mark of confidence , the conferring of an honor . If it be held that they also involve the risk of possible bankruptcy it will be seen at once that a confusing and contradictory element is imported into our political procedures , and one that might well make a prudent man hesitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ; people have an obvious interest in the effort of a public officer to sustain his title and retain the office . The presumption is that the man declared elected is elected , and lawfully . He is the man the voters preferred , and it is only reasonable to assume that they would be willing , as a party in interest , to supply their chosen servant with the funds needed to hold his title and his place against contestants . Any other course would be evidence of a. strange lack of pride in enforcing their own decisions . It is to their interest , naturally , that the candidate lawfully elected should hold the office , and this might lead to the conclusion that in the present contest Mr. HEARST as well as Mr. MOCLELLAN should be reimbursed . If Mr. HEARST establishes his title , if the recount shows that he was elected , that conclusion would be supported by precisely the same arguments that are now used to justify reimbursing the Mayor . If Mr. HEARST did actually receive a plurality of the votes cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the office . It was the fault of incompetent Inspectors and of a defective ballot law . A man actually elected to the office of Mayor ought not to be compelled to spend thousands of dollars to prove that he was elected . Not even in that case should Mr. McCLELLAN be compelled to defray his own costs , for the fault of the wrong*declaration would be his no more than Mr. HEARST 'S . If the community has n't sense enough to enact a safe and sensible ballot law and to appoint intelligent inspectors , it ought to bear the expense incurred in consequence of its neglect . This is not to say titht every beaten candidate should be at liberty to make a contest at public expense . That would encourage frivolous litigation without any merit . The present recount does not thus far disclose palpable fraud . Ignorant and clumsy marking of the ballots and misjudgment of the Inspectors in passing upon questions of validity appear to be the ground of the errors brought to light for correction . That is to say , the community has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining its electoral will , which is an injustice to itself and a greater injustice to the men who become Its candidates for office . These considerations obviously have a bearing upon the question of who shall pay the bills for the recount.                     