@@677102

txt We are inclined to believe that the people who keep writing to , us to protest against the amount of space which we give to the utterances of Mr. JOHN D. ROCKEFELI.ER , at prayer meetings , receptions , and the other kinds of assemblages which pass with him for social functions , must be friends of his . At least they must be friends of old age and prosperity . Their mental attitude must be that of the sons of NOAH , who regretted and to the best of their ability repaired the indiscretions of the old man . Such persons may read THE TIMES 'S reports of Mr. ROCKEFELLER 'S doings and sayings with their " faces backward . " But why anybody who disapproves of the venerable financier should also disapprove of the amount of space which we give to his automatic disclosures is what we fail to see . Of course there is an almost unlimited number of old asses , and even a considerable number of old Midases , who make feeble and platitudinous addresses to Sunday schools in this country every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . If we did , TEE TIMES would not contain the things that would be reported . If we make an exception in favor of Mr. ROCKEFELLER the reason is plain . He is the only billionaire in the lot who makes Sunday school addresses . He is the richest man in America . And it can not but be wholesome as well as interesting for the youth of America to be able to judge , from his own authentic utter ' ances , what kind of man is the American who has most amply attained the kind of success which is perhaps in- creasingly coming to be accounted the only kind of success that is worth having- . Nor is the Rockefellerian eloquence entirely beneath contempt , even on its intrinsic merits . The description which the venerable billionaire gave of himself last Sunday as having formerly been a sponge , but being at present a pump , is really felicitous , the more because so many persons are visibly attempting to get hold of the handle . But we admit that his attempt to portray himself as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DICKENS will remember , in " Little Dorrit , " that old fraud Casby , who managed to pose as an amiable patriarch until the Irate Pancks cut off his flowing locks . It was only then that he was exposed as what his creator describes as a " goggle-eyed booby . " or words to that effect . It is superfluous to observe that Mr. ROCKEFELLER is already devoid of these adjuncts to the patriarchal make-up , and therefore can not be deprived of them . Our readers who think that we make too much of Mr. ROCKEFELLER ought really to consider that what we are doing is to give him the public opportunity of showing how little he makes of himself .                     