@@677219

txt Supt. KILBURN 'S remarks regarding branch banking resemble the theory of branch banking  --  the bearing of them lies in their application . If the Superintendent had in mind the ease in which one bank has twenty branches more or less , and pays taxes only in the single case of the parent institution , they may be said to be justified . If the Superintendent meant to condemn the practice of branch banking without adequate notice to all concerned , again he is right . There are cases in - which the legal notices published by the banks fail to inform the unwary of the brood whose business is lumped as though it were an undivided unit , although it is in fact highly subdivided . On the other hand , remarks well warranted in these and other respects are open to criticism if directed against the principle of branch banking . The theory of our National system is opposed to the practice . Hence we have some thousands of National banks which are National only In name . and whose occasional embarrassments frighten foreigners as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great virtue of this system is that it has given us a currency which is truly National . The great defect of the system is that It has not given us a rate of interest which is as National as the currency . The ideal is not impracticable . Wherever the Bank of France has a branch money may be borrowed at the Paris rate . It is an empty aspiration that we might have money as cheap throughout the United States as it is in New York , and as steady as it is throughout France , where the rate does not change for years together . But it is not impracticable to have a New York State rate for money , and that the rate of New York City . A branch bank system would promote this , but the law forbids it . City banks may have branches only In the city , where they are lleast necessary . Our rural friends mistrust a suggestion of branches throughout the State , fearing lest the country should be drained for the benefit of the city . This might happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowest market . Being like other merchants , they would sell in the dear marks t whenever they could , and the city would be drained for the ' benefit of the country . A better way of stating It would be that city and country would mutually assist each other 's needs , to the advantage of both . A good branch bank system would be a good thing , but Supt. Knatunx is right in remarking  --  though not in such words ? that we have the defects but not the advantages of such a system .                     