@@678058

txt With the Governor 's campaign against race-track gambling and bossism taken up to-day in connection with the Senatorial contest in the Niagara-Orleans district in a hundred churches in the district , there came from an apparently authentic source a report that the Wadsworth forces were getting in line for William C. Wallace , the Republican candidate , who has pledged himself to support the Governor 's reforms . Should this prove true , and there is every indication of it , the election of Wallace over Henry A. , the Democratic candidate , is assured Wallace so far has stood S to 10 in the betting . The report reached some of the Democratic leaders through political channels that a pledge to Wallace had been given by the Wadsworths , and it has caused them a great deal of anxiety . Relying upon the bi-partisan pact whereby the Merritt-Wadsworth faction was to throw Its support to them , they have conducted no campaign . Their candidate has not made a single speech , and has not even taken the trouble to state publicly where he stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Wadsworth forces have been moved to act by the strong intimations by Gov . Hughes in his speeches in Niagara and Orleans that he might become a candidate for re-election on an anti-gambling and anti-bossism platform . James W. Wadsworth , the ambitious Speaker of the Assembly , has Gubernatorial aspirations . The elder Wadsworth , in common with all of the party bosses , would like to see Gov . Hughes eliminated as a factor In Republican politics in the State . If the political retirement of Gov Hughes can be assured and the way paved for the nomination of the younger Wadsworth by the passage of the AgnewHart bills , then there is every reason why the Wadsworths should aid Wallace . The emissary is said to have gone from the Wadsworths to Wallace within the last twenty-four hours to assure him of the support of all their adherents at the polls next Tuesday . The friends of the Republican candidate prior to these assurances had little hope of support from that direction . Aside from appeals made to-day from the pulpits throughout the two counties that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his reforms , little interest is being manifested except among the small fraction of independents in both parties who will support Wallace . : Among thgt.rafilLa.nd file of organization Republicans there is the utmost apathy toward the race-track reforms , and not a little resentment that the Governor Should have . put the district to the expense a a. special election . While the registration is usually big , the vote is likely to be far below the normal . The Democrats expect to get out 60 per cent . of their vote . It is generally admitted that the percentage of voting Republicans  --  unless the leaders should greatly bestir themselves between tonight and Tuesday morning  --  will be below that of voting Democrats . The farmers have their Spring plowing to do . The rumors that a large amount of money has teen thrown into the district for campaign purposes by the race-track Interests is declared by well-informed persons to be without foundation , It 3S generally admitted that the Democratic organization it : Niagara County has a fund of about . $5,000 for campaign expenses . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Niagara County by the Democrats , but if distributed evenly by election districts it would give each onl7 about $100 . While the Democratic leaders claim the election of by a big majority in a district which ordinarily goes Republican by about 2.000 votes , and Republicans concede that if their candidate is elected at all it will be by a small majority , the result is greatly in doubt Henry A. , the Democratic candidate , said to a TIMBS correspondent at Niagara Falls to-day : " It looked pretty bad when I was first nominated , but the situation has improved from day to day . There is to-day no question but I will be elected . " Mr. Wallace , the Republican candidate , said " I think my election on Tuesday is assured . I do not credit the reports of treachery within the party which made me its candidate . " John A. Merritt , the Republican leader of Niagara County , also predicted the election of Wallace , but admitted that the vote throughout the district would be light George W. Batten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " , our cndidate , will be elected by a large majority . You can quote me as saying that the Governor in coming got himself ' in wrong all around . There is widespread resentment among the Republicans over his interference . The contest is beiing fought squarely en the race-track ssue , and the result here will mean the Governor 's finish "                     