@@677419

txt The Democratic politicians of this city think they have discovered a plot on the part of the present Republican State officers to strengthen their hold upon the patronage of the State Gov  --  ernment and to prevent the changes which their Democratic successors might wish to make . Their plan is said to be to place all their appointees , who have not been selected by competitive examination under the " protection " of the civil service rules . The Republican State officers could not do a better thing for the good of the service and the cleanliness of politics . There is a good deal of misconception in regard to the so-called protection of the civil service rules . These rules afford no protection whate  --  er agains : removal for any reasonable cause within the classified service , whether appointments have been made . by competitive examination or not , and the classified service practically embraces the entire service of the State . The only impOrtant exceptions are the elective officers and the upper appointees in the educational department . The classified service , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exempt , the competitive , non-compe.t4ive , and the labor classes . But the rules in regard to removal apply with equal force to all of them . These rules provide for removal by a superior officer on the simple condition that the appointer- ' shall have an opportunity of " making c.n explanation , " and the true grounds of the removal shall be entered upon the records of the department and a copy filed with the State Civil Service Commission . There are special exceptions with reference to veterans and former members of the Voluntary Fire Department , but these are a decreasing number , and have nothing to do with the general force . When the new State officers take office . therefore , and wish to make any changes in their departments required by the good of the service , they are at perfect liberty to make them , subject to the above simple conditions , and to one important provision of the law , namely , that " no appointment or selection to or removal from an office or employment within the scope of the rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions or affiliations . " It will be seen that the protection afforded by the civil service rules to persons in the employment of the State , or any of the civil divisions thereof , is simply protection against arbitrary removal for political reasons , which removal is no more or Iess illegal than an appointment for similar reasons would be That the present subordinates of the State officers under the Republican administration not selected by competitive examination have been selected without reference to their political affiliations is , of course , notoriously untrue . That is no reason why the Democratic successors of the State officers should in their turn violate the law . If , on the contrary , they set themselves to weeding out their force with the sole view of obtaining efficiency and fidelity , they are not in the least impeded by the provisions of the civil service law or the rules .                     