@@678274

txt Manufactures , the organ of the National Association of Manufacturers , in its November issue prints a group of articles of an extremely practical and pertinent sort . They are written : by manufacturers , and relate to the actual working of the present tariff , and to the essential principles that should guide in its revision . The authors are Mr. VAN CLEAVE , the President of the association ; Mr. Mitts , the Chairman of the Tariff Committee of the association ; Mr. Pamir of the Parry Manufacturing Company , and Mr. TomPItINS of the United States Industrial Commission . All these gentlemen agree that the protective principle should lae preserved and respected . All agree that in the present tariff that principle is perverted and misinterpreted , not necessarily with evil purpose , but because the law was made in a helter-skelter , bargain-counter fashion , by men who knew little of the subject , under the influence of men who were pursuing their private ends . Naturally they advocate a complete change in the mode of dealing with revision from that employed In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which there is very little hope . But if the National Association of Manufacturers can not secure this agency fOr the proper consideration of tariff legislation , it does not follow that they , must accept without resistance the old methods . There is undoubtedly a disposition on the part of the President-elect to listen to cane did and expert testimony on this matter . There is more disposition in the House and Senate in the same direction than in a long time . It is quite probable that a reasoned and reasonable explanation of the facts in regard to the chief industries affected by the tariff would be received-with attention , and possibly with respect . We suggest that it would be well for these manufa  --  turers to prepare such an explanation as to the lines in which they are most informed and as to which they can speak with the most authority . Mr. PARRY , for instance , lays down three propOsitions  --  that the , tariff is a tax , that it is levied to enable - our own people to establish trades they could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advantage that foreign competitors have in the lower labor cost of their prod- ucts . If the manufacturers who agree in these propositions should prepare a careful statement as to the degree in which their respective industries are now firmly established , and as to the real comparative labor cost at home and abroad , such a statement . each trade would compel consideration . There would naturally , be included an explanation as to the effect of the present tariff on the importation of neecMcl materials of manufacture . There might also be included a statement as to the extent and nature of combination in the various lines which tends to nullify the home competition that is one of the avowed aims of protective tariff rates . It is incredible that the evidence of well-informed business men , actually engaged in protected industries , believers in the principle of protection , and anxious only that that principle should not be abused and defeated , would not have weight . It would , of course , be opposed on the ground that It might produce delay , but as delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conservative . and helpful legislation , there would be little force in the plea . ' Indeed , it must . be acknowledged that haste could have but one object , and that not a worthy one . The experiment is well worth trying .                     