@@676283

txt A hard blow to the Addicks , or Union . Republicans of Delaware was dealt ? by the Judiciary Committee of the Senate to-day . By a decisive vote the committee recommended the ref " fit jection by the Senate of the nomination of William M. Byrne as United States District Attorney for the State . This action came 4. 1 as a sharp surprise , although the nomination had been pending for two months . It is known that the committee gave thorough consideration to the state of political affairs in Delaware several weeks ago . In order to relieve the Sei.ate from discussi ? n of the factional fight in the State or the character of - Addicks 's methods or candidates , a complete copy of the charges against Byrne that had been filed with the cummittee by the regular , or Du Pont , Reptillficans was sent to the President . The purpose in this course of action was to give the President opportunity to.anticipate the rejection of Byrne by withdrawing his name . This he did not do , and so the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learning the facts The charges traversed ground that has been more or less public during the last two or three years . It was alleged that Mr. Byrne was incompetent and negligent ae the performance of his duties as District Attorney when he held the office before , papers being drawn in a careless manner , so that they were unintelligible tO the court . Allusion was made to the fact that United States Circuit Judge Edward G. . Bradford had from the bench reprimanded the District Attorney tor his shortcomings . The consideration which had the most weight with members of the Judiciary Committee , however , was the fact that Byrne had formerly been a member of the Du Pont faction and as one of the members of the committee put it , " had seen new light " and gone over to the Addicks faction . The Du Pont people showed how they had secured Byrne his first appointment as District Attorney and laid their finger on She time and the circumstances surrounding the transfer of allegiance from . the Du Pont to the Addicks standard . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tor Byrne before the committee and conducted a stubborn fight . He showed how Byrne had been made the target for petty criticism as to the conduct of the business of his office after he had openly espoused the cause of Addicks in Delaware politics , and urged that such things should not have weight with the committee in condemning a man of his ability'and prom.inence . He related how Byrne had resigned his office to make the fight for Congress , in order to bring out the strength of the Union Republicans and convince the party at large that Addicksism was legitimately popular in DelaIyare and that the State had not been bought up like a " petty venial pocket borough . " The fact that he had received ** votes , to 8.000 , in round numbers , for Dr. Ball , he declared , was conclusive.that the friends of Addicks were strongest in the State and should be recognized . It was urged in Byrne 's behalf that he had not asked to be reappointed District Attorney , but that the President had followed the advice of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground . that he had resigned in order to do his party a service and was entitled to have the office again . It . is um= derstoOd.that Senator McComaa will transfer the fight for Byrne to the floor of the Senate unless the President should take the hint to withdraw his name . At the time the nomination was made It was announced by a member of the Cabinet that - the reappointment was a recognition of Addicks ; made because the Congressional elections showed in the vote for Byrne that the Addicks men had a large majority in the Republican Party in Delaware . Later the President made a statement in which he denied this inference , and rested his action on personal grounds . While there is a strong denial on the part of - some Senators that the action of the Judiciary Committee is in the nature of ft rebuke of Addicks , there are others who assert that this is exactly what it means . The Republican Senators of the Judiciary Committee , with the exception of McComas , Simon , and Depew , voted against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pettus also voted against him . Senator Hoar led the fight against the nomination , and had with him Platt of Connecticut , Clark of Wyoming . Fairbanks , Nelson , Bacon , Turner , Culberson , and Blackburn . It has been learned on good authority that the President will not insist on the appointment . and it is unlikely that he will withdraw the nomination . Senator McComas said to-night that he would take the matter into . the Senate , and hoped to have the nomination confirmed . There is , however , small prospect of his doing , this , as there is a Strong feeling in the Senate against the appointment . Senator Hanna , who has been in sympathy with the Addicks men , and has tried earnestly to compose the factional difficulties in Delaware , is opposed to the appointment of Byrne , and he is known to have influential Senators with him in this attitude .                     