@@677684

txt Seven boys were bitten by Bessie , the pet Dalmatian hound of the firemen of Engine Company No. 89. in East Sixty-seventh Street , yesterday morning shortly after 10 o'clock . They are : Erla Johnson , 13 years old , of 139 East Seventy-fourth Street . Richard Bradley , 12 years old , of 81 East Seventy-third Street . Mondozo . Pickett , 11 years old , of 1,158 Third Avenue . Harry Devlin , 12 years old , of 1,100 Third Avenue . Charles Terry , 11 years old . or 1.816 Second Avenue . Edward Downing , 28 years old , of 418 Third Avenue . Martin Kennedy . 12 years old , of 350 East Fifty-seventh Street . All of them were taken to the Presbyterian Hospital . where their wounds were cauterized to prevent hydrophobia . That the dog was not mad was asserted last night by Dr. W. F. Braisted of the Board of Health , who made an examination of the animal at the firehouse . According to both the police and the firemen , Bessie was guarding her puppies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , it is asserted that the Johnson boy . ras passing by the firehouse when Bessie rushed at him and bit him in the right wrist in three places . Then Bessie left the house and started on the run through Sixty-seventh Street to Park Avenue , and north to Sixty-eighth Street , where she came in contact with Richard Bradley , and bit him on the hand . She continued to Seventy-eighth Street . where the Pickett boy and the Devlin boy were standing . She is said to have jumped at young Devlin and seized him by the trousers , while Pickett ran . Seeing this , Bessie is said to have started after him , and , before he had gone very far , had buried her teeth in his thigh . Continuing up Second Avenue , Bessie is said to have sprung upon Downing , Terry , and Kennedy . each of whom she is said to have bitten . They , too , went to the hospital . SPEEDING AUTO DITCHED7 Driver Tried to Kidnap Hempstead Police Chief , Who Acted Quickly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general automobile driving there had not been any automobile arrests in Nassau County until yesterday . Floral suasion had been tried . The names of the owners of the cars most frequently seen exceeding the speed limit were learned . Letters were usually sent to the owner , calling his attention to the apparent violations , and he was asked to caution his chauffeur or other person driving his car to be more careful . On the last few Saturdays and Sundays . however , the roads in the county , especially the Jericho Turnpike. have been in a. wore state than on Vanderbilt race days . The cars have been rushing in both directions at their full speed , and there has not been at any time any effort to keep within legal speed . At Hempstead the Village Trustees directed the police to put a curb on the reckless drivers . As a result the police caught sixteen chauffeurs yesterday . and all , except two , admitted their guilt . They were fined S15 or S20 in most cases . One chauffeur stopped by Chief of Police Vanderwater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Dunbar , and said the machine belonged to L. A. Arnold of Garden City . It will cost some one a good deal to have the machine repaired . When the arrest was made Chief Vanderwater stepped onto the running board and directed that the car be driven to the Village Hall , Dunbar submitting sullenly , according to the Chief . When they reached the point where the road to Garden City branched from the one they were on . Dunbar , the Chief said , started to turn into this road and to put on speed , in an apparent attempt to kidrap the Chief . according to that official . Vanderwater seized the steering wheel and turned the machine sharply into the ditch . The result was a broken axle , a smashed bonnet and wind shield , and a good deal of damage to the engine .                     