@@781358

txt Eight persons narrowly escaped death this afternoon , when a forty-two-foot launch blew up In the Sound , between Davenport 's Neck and Fort Slocum , injuring three of the occupants . The injured are : HASSLOCHER . JOHN . owner of launch : cut about head and face ; went to his home. , RUSTIN , BENJAMIN , sailor , of 110 East Thirteenth Street , Manhattan ; left leg broken and badly cut about the face ; taken to the Fort Slocum Hospital . WALTER , FRED C. , engineer ; muscles of arms and legs , shattered , teeth knocked out , and lower lip torn away ; taken to the New Rochelle Hospital . Mr. Hasslocher , who is President of the New York and College Point Ferry Company , and brother-in-law of George Ehret , the brewer , started out this afternoon in his launch J. B. H. to take a party of friends from College Point to dinner at the New York Athletic Clubhouse at New Rochelle . On board with him were Mrs. Hasslocher , Mr. and . Mrs. Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politician , and Mrs. Deihl , sister of Mrs. Hasslocher . Fred C. Walter of College Point was in charge of the engine , and his assistant was Benjamin Rustin . The pleasure party was enjoying itself as the weather was delightful and the Sound calm , when suddenly the highpressure air tank in the forward part of the launch , which was used for blowing a big whistle , exploded with a loud report . A hol was torn through the side of the launch , while the cabin was blown to bits . Mr. Hasslocher and his friends were sitting aft or they would have been seriously injured , and possibly killed . Despite the agony he was suffering , Engineer Walter stuck to his post and tried to run the launch on a beach , but as there was a high tide he could not see several big rocks which were just beneath the waves , and the launch crashed against a shelf of rock and sank rapidly , the occupants being thrown into the water . The explosion was heard by persons on the shore as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupants of the craft struggling in the water. ; The explosion occurred not far from the home of Dr. Emil Reuel of New York ; who has a country estate on Davenport 's Neck . Sitting nntheveranda of the . house overlooking the Sound was Mrs. Heuel and her seventeen-year-old daugh-ter Elsie , who is an expert swimmer.1 They called their butler , Arthur Jeffries . He got a- rowboat , and , accompanied by Miss Reuel , went to the rescue of the ' , drowning persons . They picked up Mr. and Mrs. Hasslocher , Mr. and Mrs. Ross , Mrs. Scott , and Mrs. Deihl and took them to the Reuel home . In the meantime soldiers from Fort Slocum in a lifeboat had picked up the engineer and the sailor , who were found clinging to the cabin roof of the launch , and took them to Fort Slocum . Later Engineer Walter was taken to the New Rochelle Hospital , where it was stated that his condition was serious , So far as can be learned , the gasoline Itank on the launch did not explode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the engineer was able to run the engine at full speed after the explosion . The air tank had too much pressure on , and Walter was trying to reduce It when it exploded almost in his face . Capt . Walter is married , and his family live in Third Avenue , College Point . He is the head of the College Point Life Saving Corps . This evening Mr. Hasslocher , after he had recovered somewhat from his injuries , visited the New Rochelle Hospital , and gave directions to the hospital authorities to do everything they could for the comfort of his engineer . TIGER CUB TUMBLES AGAIN .. Lands from Balloon In a Tree , Dlsabling the Parachute . The tiger cub which fell from a balloon ' Wednesday when William Coby , the young aeronaut , dropped fifty feet at the RichMond County Fair Grounds , went up again last night with Cobra associate , Frank Robinson . The cub will probably not have to make another ascension , as he was hurt and may have to be killed , . The Police and Health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held yesterday afternoon , but , except for the ' injury to the cub , the ascension was a success and no arrest was made . I Robinson allowed the balloon to rise very high yesterday before he cut the cube loose . The animal sailed down . easily and seemed to be about to make a nice landing on the beach near New Dorp when he got caught in the-branches of a tree . That let the air out front under the parachute and the cub fell with ' a , thud , and when taken back to the Fair Grounds he limped badly . Robinson landed on the beach without a jar .                     