@@676445

txt Although the contract for printing money order blanks was awarded to Paul Herman of Rutherford . N. J. , two weeks ago , the contract has not been signed by Postmaster Payne , and before going away on his vacation for ten days he gave directions to Fourth Assistant Postmaster General Bristow to have certain matters connected with Mr. Herman 's bid again looked Into carefully . It is not charged that any misrepresentations have been made In regard to Herman 's responsibility , but there are questions as to the capital required for the performance of the contract which must be cleared up . There are also some complications as to the kind of paper to be used . The department has heretofore used " safety " paper , but when it was proposed to insert in the contract a clause providing that on thirty days ' notice the Government might substitute " bond " for " safety " paper , Mr. Herman readily agreed to the stipulation . The claim is made that Herman is backed by a paper manufacturer at Lambertville , N. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price at which this is figured represents the largest item of profit in the contract as Mr. Herman bid on it . Another item that is to be reported on is the matter of distribution of the blanks to Postmasters throughout the country . Mr. Metcalf. formerly the head of the Money Order Service , who was removed for trying to persuade Herman to withdraw his bid . claimed that when the department tried to distribute the blanks there was always great annoyance from the mistakes made , and that there had not been a single error by the present contractors during the last four years ' term of their service . The Government pays cents a book for distributing . which some officials in the department claim is too much . Mr. Payne wants an estimate as to what the department could send out the blanks for and to know why it Is that the Post Office authorities are liable to make so many errors in a matter of this kind . The postal service prides itself more or less on accuracy , and the Postmaster General feels that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall down on the distribution of the money order blanks . If upon examination of every detail , Assistant Bristow finds that the interests are properly safeguarded , the award to Herman will be confirmed and the contract signed , probably to-morrow .                     