@@677572

txt As a result of the developments in . the affairs of the Union Pacific Railroad over the last six months , or from the time of the August dividend decle-rations through to the Inter-State Commerce hearing , it is the opinion of influential and powerful banking interests both here and in Europe that a change must be made and is , in fact , near at hand in the administration of the property . This does not mean that Mr. Harriman will resign . Nor is there any evidence . that he is wholly out of sympathy with the general conviction that the system is now so vast and ramified , and so prominently fixed in the public eye , that it is desirable from every point of view that the responsibility for such of its acts as affect the people generally be divided among as many strong men as possible . This will be accomplished through strengthening the road 's Executive Committee . Up to the present time Mr. Harriman has been the dictator of the Union Pacific . His prominent associates in the Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason to ' seriously oppose the wishes of the man who in a few short years had lifted their road out of bankruptcy into the ranks of the foremost railways of the country . It was this marvelous success on the physical side of his administration of the road that little by little brought Mr. Harriman into - a-  position of-absolute 1 power known in no other railroad pArninistratioa . HIS associates were far wealthier and better . : knOien than himself , but the glamour of his swift successes brought from them ready acquiescence in his most ambitious plans , even when they felt dubious regarding the wisdom of those plans . The far-reaching programme for controlling great roads , east and west , even after the Northern Securities decision had instilled caution elsewhere in the railroad world , was Mr. Harriman 's own project . So in the case of the huge dividend declarations on Union Paeific and Southern Pacific stock in August last , the directors did little more than formally approve his decision , a fact which he practically admitted on the witness stand when he said it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what was coming , since he had intimated to them his plans . From the t of the declaration of these dividends on to the opening of the Inter-State Commerce hearing it began to be plain to Wall Street and Europe , and undoubtedly to the Union Pacific directors , including Mr. Harriman himself , that however great had been his success in conducting the Union Pacific as a railroad pure and simple , his policy had had a bad effect upon the minds of the people . There are two plans which commend themselves at the moment , and one or the other of these will unquestionably be put into effect very shortly . The Union Pacific 's Executive Corn=Mee consists of Mr. Harriman , Henry C. Frick , Marvin Hughitt , Robert S. Lovett , and James Stillman . This committee , which is presumed to rule , with Mr. Harriman , the - whole system , is no longer considered adequate . Mr. Ilughitt is the President of the Chicago &; Northwestern Railroad , with his office and work in Chicago , and Mr. Stillman has been compelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years in Europe . This reduces the working body to Mr. Harrison , Mr. Prick , and Judge Lovett . Judge Lovett is counsel to the road , and otherwise ' little known in the financial world , owing his position solely to Mr. Harriman . Mr. Frick is one of the best-known figures of finance to-day , but one man of this character , It Is contended , is not enough to make with Mr. Harriman , the Chairman , an acceptable Executive Committee . It is probable therefore that very shortly Mr. Harriman and his associates will announce the reorganization of the present committee , rearranging it to include men of the stamp of Henry H. Rogers , William G. Rockefeller , Mr. Frick , P. A. Valentine , or Mr. Stillman , if he recovers his health . Such a committee , the reorganizers believe , would recommend itself to investors the world over . If the present form of the committee is retained , that of five members , these ' strong - Men , representing great business interests , will undoubtedly take the place of cer-. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made is that the committee be enlarged to include the men desired . In - any event , , it . Is certain that steps Will soon be taken to allay the feeling , . Which . has become widespread and se rious in its influence upon . the ipablie . Standing . - of .. - therroad , that  - -  the ' Union pacific is - " one-man ; railroad , ' and                     