@@677129

txt Although the Anti-Suicide Commission has had hardly any opportunity to lay plans for its crusade as yet , Dr. Cooley ! ss assured that one v , toma.n has been sa . ed- from selfdestruction , while in sevt , t.1 other cases men and women who say y would have used the pistol or poison against themselves , now have pledged their word not to kill themselves until the commission shall have done v hat it can to make their lives seem worth living . Ccitilek - is answering-letters ; from men and women who plead for the commission 's helo . One wrote that she had given up all hope ; that lonely , almost penniless , and without a friend , ' she had bought the poison that was to bring her oblivion . " If you have no friends , we will try to find some for you , " Dr. Cooley answered . " If you are penniless , we will get you work that you can do . Try to forget yourself by living for the friends we will provide . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to have employment . Already site has found friends . She says she is cured of the suicidal impulse . TROLLEY SMASH HURTS MANY . The Brakes Did n't Work on a Flushing Car Filled with Passengers . Seven men - were injured and about seventy others bruised and shaken up by a trolley accident at the bridge over Flushing Creek , on the Jackson Avenue line of the New York and Queens County Electric Railroad , just outside of Flush , ing , last night . One of the men will die . The line of cars is carried across the meadows west of Flushing Creek on a causeway . A new bridge is being erected across Flushing Creek , and a temporary bridge is in use . To reach this from the causeway the cars have to make a sharp turn . As he approached he curve , the motorman attempted to apply the . brakes in order to slow down to turn the corner , but it is claimed the brake shoes did not hold , and the car lilt the curve at twenty-five miles an hour . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty feet . The injured were taken to the hospital at Flushing . The road was blocked for two hours . 3 HURT IN CAR COLLISION . One Man Seriously  --  Many Passengers Cut by Flying Glass . A trolley car loaded with ashes and run by Motorman Bernard Reilly crashed into a passenger car at the corner of Fulton Street and Ralph Avenue last night . The passenger car had stopped to let off passengers when the collision occurred . Reilly 's right arm was crushed . Albert Huber , 16 years old , of 86 Macdougal Street , Manhattan , was thrown from the rear platform of the passenger car and seriously injured . F. R. Kelly , motorman of the passenger car , was knocked over the . dashboard . Many of the passengers Inside the car were cut by broken glass from the windows . Two ambulances were called from St. Mary 's Hospital . where the two motormen and the injured boy were taken .                     