@@676559

txt One does not expect too close an adherence to logic or to laW from an assemblage of women . But now that the R. E. Lee Camp of United Confederate ( male ) Veterans in Texas have publicly congratulated the Daughters of the COnfederacy who lately met at Houston " upon . their " prompt and felicitous message to President Roosevelt " they bring the subject matter Of the message into legitimate discussion . As stated by the veterans , the message of the Daughters treated-the " strenuous haste of the President in the recognition of the Republic of Panama as a. vindication of the South . " But evidently this it by no means necessarily was . The question whether it was or was not depends upon the Constitution of the United States of Colombia , about which we do not suppose that the Daughters , or the Veterans , or the President at the time of his " strenuous haste " were particularly informed . It may be that the right of secession is expressly reserved in that instrument . It may be that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left open . It was left open by the Constitution of the United States . It is quite possible I that it was left open because to close it either way would have endangered the adoption of the Constitution . At any rate , as a matter of fact , it was left undecided whether a sovereign State , by adopting the Constitution , had parted with so much of its sovereignty as to have abdicated its right to resume its sovereignty and its independence . This question was endlessly debated for three-quarters of a century , but never settled until 1861 . It was closed in 1865 . It was settled in the most costly and terrible , and at the same time in the only effectual way . Nobody now disputes that the allegiance of an American citizen to the United States is paramount to his allegiance to his own State , and that what might purport to be the " secession " of a State from the Union would in fact be merely rebellion against the United States . Whether this is true or not of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not pretend to know , and we do not believe that the Daughters of the Confederacy or the United Confederate Veterans know any better . One thing we do know abOut Colombia , and that is that the State of Panama had less of autonomy than the other States of the Colombian Union , being , even as to its local concerns , governed from Bogota . Its secession , therefore , is rather like what the secession of the District of Columbia would have been , forty years ago , than like the secession of a " sovereign State . " On the face of it , however , the President 's precipitate recognition of Panama is no more : a " vindication " than it is a condemnation of the action of the South in 1861.                     