@@677247

txt The passage by a vote of 202 to 26 of the National Quarantine bill is a fit sequel to the Chattanooga . Quarantine Conference . The vote itself is the best answer to ? the protest of Mr. Hurray of Texas against taking away from Texas its right to have all the yellow fever it wants . If Texas would keep its yellow fever to itself nobody would object ; but sad experience has proved that yellow fever in any State is a menace to every State . The debate on the regulation of inter-State commerce , if not otherwise fruitful , might at least have taught even those ready to die in the last ditch for State rights that there may exist co-ordinate jurisdictions , and that the exercise of Federal jurisdiction is not necessarily antagonistic to the most jealous exercise of any State right whatever . Texas can quarantine all it desires within its boundaries and jurisdiction . All that Texas or any other ' State loses is the right to admit yellow fever , which it has neither right nor power to exclude , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inter-State commerce which the United States can exercise . But while the passage of the bill is a stitch in time which every prudent person  --  except some Texans  --  is glad to see taken , it is not above criticism . We might well have a general National quarantine , instead of a bill directed against merely yellow fever . The restriction to a sectional disease gives the bill a sectional aspect which it does not deserve , and which we would be glad to see remedied by the inclusion of all sections of the country and all epidemic diseases . And we should be be glad to see the bill further strengthened by the active formal cooperation of the States regarding inter-State commerce . Much might be done by the States which it is impracticable for Congress to do in deference to the sentiment expressed by the 26 nays . Such action by the States would be the best safeguard agninst Federal encroachments , if any were designed or attempted . It is agreeable to know that thirteen States dissented from the course of Texas in absenting itself from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference upon its bill preceding its passage . We can expect a policy of embargo and shotgun medicine in Texas alone . The New Orleans Picayune is critical of the bill , but The New Orleans Times-Democrat approves , and so also does The Chattanooga Times among many other representative Southern sheets . It is true last year 's experience proved that yellow fever 's sharpest tooth has been drawn , but that is no reason why it should be given the smallest chance to bite .                     