@@677293

txt The " Wadsworth substitute " for the Beveridge Meat Inspection amendment to the Agricultural Appropriation bill is gradually coming to light , some provisions having been made known among interested persons to-day . Members of the committee , however , were decidedly at variance to-day in their accounts of what had taken place with regard to the substitute : It was reported that the " sub-committee , " consisting of Representatives Wadsworth , Henry , and Lorimer , which had undertaken the drafting of the substitute , had completed the work , and that Lorimer had taken printed copies of it with him when he started for Chicago yesterday evening . The other members . of the committee declared that the substitute was not yet finished , and that no print of it had been made . There was general agreement on the statement that the most important particular in which the Wadsworth proposition differs from the Beveridge amendment is in its provision for an appeal from the decision of an Inspector to the Chief Inspector , from the Chief Inspector to the Secretary of Agriculture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is this court review , with its accompanying feature of the interlocutory Order restraining the action of the Inspectors until the courts have determined the fate of the meat in question , that the friends of the packers insist on most determinedly . Advocates of a strong Inspection bill are convinced that this is intended as a " joker " to emasculate the bill and prevent the establishment of an inspection service that will trouble the packers . Another provision of the Wadsworth substitute is that carcasses condemned by the inspectors may be converted into fertilizer instead of being destroyed as provided by the Beveridge amendment . It also changes the Beveridge amendment by providing that adulterants , preservatives , and other ingredients may be used in the preparation of meat products , provided that they are not employed in quantities deleterious to health . This is to permit the use of saltpetre , which is necessary to the preparation of certain meat-food products , and used in moderation is not deleterious to health the friends of the packers assert . The Beveridge amendment would prevent its use altogether . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several members of the Agricultural Committee , on the question of who shall meet the expense of the inspection , the Government or the packers . The majority of the Committee is decidedly in favor of baying the Government meet the bills . Friends of the packers say that they would be perfectly satisfied to stand the expense if they could be assured that the Inspectors would be taken from eligible lists furnished by the Civil Service Commission . They declare that under any other system " they would be certain to be pestered by incompetents whose only recommendation would be political influence . " It developed to-day that the Wadsworth substitute , as far as it had then progressed , did have the approval of the President for a time on Thursday , and it was then that the word went around the House that the President had receded from the Beveridge amendment . But soon after that the President had another conference with Secretary Wilson of the Department of Agriculture , and immediately switched back to his support of the Beveridge amendment , pure and unadulterated . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee that the Wads-1 worth substitute was drawn by an official of the Department of Agriculture . He added , however , that it did not meet with the approval of Secretary Wilson . Another member of the committee said : " The substitute was drawn after consultation with the Department of Agriculture . " He omitted to say whether it had the department 's approval or not . " It follows the lines of the Beveridge amendment in the main , " he added , " and but for the court review provision makes only a few minor changes . In general the inspection provisions are retained as the Senate passed them . " Speaker Cannon expressed himself today as not caring whether the Government or the packers meet the expenses of the inspection . He argued that it made no difference one way or the other , the cost would ultimately come out of the consumer . The Speaker is decidedly of the opinion that the Neill report should be published at once . There is more harm in what will be imagined as to the contents of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report published , he said . The announcement that the report will be sent to Congress by the President on Monday has led to the expression by several members of the House of the fear that it will have been so toned down as to have lost its real value . Many members of the House fell in today with the criticism of Speaker Cannon anti Mr. Wadsworth , that the Senate had passed the Beveridge amendment without consideration , and that it should be examined carefully by the House . They have been so in the habit of hearing the Senate criticism of House bills , of the haste with which they were drawn , and the lack of consideration with which they were passed that this opportunity to get back at the Senate on those very grounds is more than welcome . Especially grateful to the House members is the criticism that the Beveridge amendment is not written in such English as to be properly effective . President Roosevelt received this afternoon the completed report of Messrs . Neill and Reynolds . It makes about 13,000 words . Prof. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nearly an hour . Present at the conference also was George P. McCabe , solicitor for the Department of Agriculture . The text of the report was discussed thoroughly and was welded finally into the form in which it will be transmitted to Congress next Monday . The report will be accompanied by a. special message of the'President.                     