@@675503

txt French Discrimination Charged at the Present Exposition . Col. Lowe of Texas Says There Is Lack of Concentration  --  Interest in The New York Times Edition . Col. R. G. Lowe , Vice President of the Galveston and Dallas ( Texas ) News Publishing Company . is at the Hotel Imperial . " You have been abroad , I understand , " sa ; d a TIMES reporter to Col. Lowe yesterday . " Yes , " replied the Colonel . " I have just returned . I fished in Scotland , and serif the exposition in Paris . " " Well , what of the exhibition ? " " My main purpose in going there , " answered Col. Lowe , " was to Kee about the American exhibit . I gathered the idea from what I heard that it is indifferent . The fact is it is scattered at about sixty different points . " " Who is to blame for this ? " " The French , " the Colonel promptly answered . " I have no good word far them . The disposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best they can out of the exposition  --  which I presume Is perfectly natural  --  was carried out to the letter . The French were behind in their work , and did all they could to delay other nations . Strange as it may seem , this Was particularly the case with regard to the American exhibit , the French railroad companies being unable or unwilling to forward exhibits collected at Rouen . I should say that outside of the industrial and ed " - cational features the dollar stands pond , nent with all peoples , but the French , se far as I could observe , are past masters In that direction . However , the United States has no tea ? son to feel aggrieved at the exhibit which this country makes as is whole . True , the main building , being obscured largely by the Turkish structure , leaves an unfavoraale impression in that regard , but still the United States edifice is a beautiful structure and commands admiration very generally . " The American exhibit , had the French administration given it an equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater advantage . The exhibit is distributed over sixty sections , and while each section is creditable in itself , still the general effect is destroyed by lack of concentration . The managament of the American exhibit has done wonders to achieve results in the face of discrimination . " " What struck you as the most attractive feature of the exhibition ? " " W-611 , I should say , " replied Col. Lowe , " that the Publishers ' Building , with its record of visitors and the enterprise displayed by THE NEW Yonk . TIMES , in publishing a handsome edition daily , is the finest illus. tration of American enterprise , and it is the best educational work that I noted in the entire display . How THE TIMES can afford to go to the expense of getting out a regular daily edition filled with live mat .. ter and expensive telegraphic news is some .. thing THE TIDIES management can best answer . " The work of getting out a daily newspaper , including composition , stereotyping . presswork , and other features incidental to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Publishing Building , and more people were interested in observing the process than I saw in any other section . Certainly THU TIMES deserves great credit for the energy manifested in this enterprise , and its Paris issues are eagerly bought up by all Americans and English-speaking people . " " You were in Great Britain ? " " Yes . I spent some time in London , " said Col. Lowe , " and I may say that I had some opportunity of observing Paris during the celebration on July 14. the great fete day . Paris looked gay and delightful with Chinese lanterns and frivolity . I compared it with the solidity and strength of London , and I was not favorably impressed with the French . They seemed to regard this as the last opportunity they will have of securing money . The hotel keep . ers and cab drivers were especially notorious in this direction . " The French have no use for any one speaking the English language , and make no efforts to conceal their hatred of the tongue . While this does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French people do not understand the difference . Hence the American , speaking his native language , gets what is intended for the Englishman proper . The English , on the contrary , are especially friendly to the United States . The English are seek- ing a friend , and they know the ! fitted States is about the best they could possibly secure . This may be selfishness , but it is a selfishness that will assert itself in the final unification of the two peoples . " I observe that America has taken about one-half of the English war loan . The award was a wise action on the part of the English Government . There are millions of idle money in England anxious , for in- vestment in their own securities , and there was no occasion to come to America for a dollar . Yet those having the disposition of the loan have seen fit to have the ' United States interested in the stability and success of British institutions . " Everywhere in Great Britain you will find the warmest friendship for the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of making this country a friendly nation , which the disposition of its war loan demonstrates . " " What about the Chinese situation as it is viewed abroad ? " " Really , I paid no great attention to that , " remarked Col. Lowe . " I saw that England followed the lead of Secretary Hay in opposing the dismemberment of the Chinese Empire . The situation , however , furnishes a problem that the future alone can solve . No nation , or combination of nations , can govern China with its hundreds of millions of inhabitants , and I am satisfied that the powers recognize the lead taken by the United States to maintain the solidification of the empire under its native rulers . " Col. Lowe , who goes to Saranac Lake today , declined to discuss politics .                     