@@676553

txt Gov . Odell yesterday made the first move in. his plan to bring about the complete reorganization of the Republican Party in the State . He brought about the retirement of 2.1 : ' Linn Bruce , the Chairman of the Republican County Committee , his action being taken iia response to a challenge which was given him by the Platt men that he dare not openly declare tor Mr. Bruce 's removal . Odell 's friends assert that Plait men said : " There 's Bruce 's head ; the Governer do n't dare hit it . " And so , against his personal desires , but feeling that it was necessary to show that he had the power , the Governor struck out , and last night there were few who were aaserting that the Governor was not yet the real power in the Republican Party in the State . The Governor will give still other manifestations of his power within the next fortnight . While - he is determined to assert his control Of the party organization , he still insists that he has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have . A year ago he declared that the party was suffering from incompetent management and would meet defeat . His prediction has come . to pass . Mr : ' Platt now admits that the Governor was right in his view , and he is said to be willing that the Governor should take the active management of the party in the State in hand . The Governor has maintained right along that the men placed in the charge of the party machinery lacked organization , and he is now seeking the right men , and will retire the stumbling blocks . WARD TO ST:CCEED DUN N. A fact which did not leak out until yesterday was that Col. George W. Dunn promised both Gov Odell and Senator Platt* at the Washington conference with President . Roosevelt that he would resign as Chairman of the Republican State Committee . It was demonstrated to the satisfaction of all at the conference save Col. Dunn that as an organizer he has proved fathire -- The ' retirement of Col. Dunn will be followed . by the resignation of William Barnes , Jr. , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee . Mr. Barnes both Odell and Platt consider has the requisite abilities for Chairman of the State Committee , but Mr. Barnes does not care to take up the oner ous task with defeat next year in the State staring his party in the face Mr. Barnes is young and the older heads acquiesce in his plea to be allowed to retire for the present The leaders , having cast about for a good organizer have about settled upon ex-Congressman William L. Ward of Portchester , Westchester County , for Chairman of the Republican State Committee . He possesses . they feel , the requisite abilities . There was some talk of William C. Warren of Buffalo for Mr. Barnes 's place , but when Mr. Warren was in Albany on Monday it was tacitly agreed between him and Gov . Odell that he should go on the National Committee in ... place of George R. Sheldon It is known that Mr. Bruce will receive recognition at the hands of the Governor in such manner that he will not have opportunity to feel that the time he put in from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included the conducting of the Low campaign for the Republicans , has been wasted MR . BRUCE'S'STATEMENT . The determination of Mr. Bruce to retire was arrived at after consultation with ' Gov . Odell , Senator Plaft , and State Chairman George W. Dunn . It is believad he saw the three men - separately . President Bruce issued the following statement : " An effective administration of the ) ffice of President of the County Committee during the coming . year , in view cf the impending National and State elections , will require all the time of the President for a : least . ' eight months . I have had under consideration for some days whether or not I could accept a re-election . I find myself at the parting of the ways ; I must either practice law or practice politics ; I prefer the former . " I have spent many years building up a law business , and I can not abandon it I have , therefore , to-day informed Senator Platt and Gov . Odell that it would be impossible for me to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view any appointive position or designation are without foundation in fact " Apropos of the announcement of President Bruce , Gov . Odell made the following statement : " Following up the conference with Senator Platt and Chairman Dunn this morning , I have talked with Chairman Bruce in reference to his remaining Chairman of the County Committee . I have said that hiC work was satisfactory , and that , if he would continue , he would meet with my cordial co-operation and aid . For professional reasons , however , he has declined a re-election , to the regret of all those who have the interest of the Republican Party at heart . " Senator- Platt also had something to say with reference to the decision arrived at by . Mr. Bruce . He gave out the following statement : " The Governor , Col. Dunn , and myself conferred to-day regarding various matters of political interest . In reference to the Chairmanship of the New York County Committee we all agreed in pronouncin Mr. Bruce 's administration to have heft. most admirable , and we united OTHERS ON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied with this , his first signal move in his campaign for the regeneration of the New York County Republican organization . District leaders will feel his hand every day of - the year from now on . if he can carry out the plans he is now almost absolutely sure he can bring to accomplishment There are certain of the leaders on the list of the proscribed , and how to rid the County Committee of them is the problem Gov . Odea is working upon with the help of his lieutenants among the district leaders . Senator Platt will be expected to keep hands off . The simple , but weighty , reason why Gov. ; Odell came to New York Tuesday night and set himself to work yesterday was because every move he was making toward rehabilitating the County Committee and bettering conditions in the Assembly districts were being balked with considerable result in ? almost every district by friends of Senator Platt . The Governor was satisfied . that , however gcod may have been the intentions of Senate : Platt to live up to : be agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party management , there were many evidences that some of the more infinential friends of the Senator conferred with him and advised that he not yield anything to the Governor , but continue to maintain control of the New York County organization , without reference to the organization as it . exists north of the Bronx . And Senator Platt , loath to yield the major . percentage of the power which he has held so long , is firmly believed by the Governor to have determined to listen to his friends and interfere wherever there was reason to think that the Governor intended to introduce too rigorous measures . Gov . Odell came down Tuesday night to remind the Senator of his promise or agreement and to demand that further meddling by Platt district leaders cease . And it was while here that the Executive was dared to show what he could do . As a result of his exhibition of power , Senator Platt is apparently ready to give in to the Governor with respect to the County Committee reorganization , but not a single one of the Platt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concede that the Governor would have his own way in the State in the quest for National delegates , though all prefaced their observations or answers by hinting that nothing but harmony existed between Senator Platt aand Gov . Odell . There is much speculation as to who will succeed M. Linn Bruce . Those close to the Governor declare that he has not yet fixed upon a man capable of going through . c rigors of the National and State campaigns of next year as the head of-the most populous county of the sixty-one in the State . Rumor has busied itself with the name of Alexander T. Mason , leader of the Twenty-ninth ' . , District , but in an interview last night Mr. Mason declared that he had not bestowed any thought whatever upon the position . He declared he did not know who would be selected as Mr. Bruce 's successor . Mr.-Mason paid a tribute to the work of President Bruce , and declared his belief that he should be shown proper recognition for his effective work during his brief incumbency . When Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as feeling " perfectly satisfied " with the situation . He is confident that Senator Platt will not interfere with his plans for the reorganization of the Republican Party in New York County . anyway . Senator Edgar Truman Brackett happened into the Fifth Avenue Hotel yesterday . When told of what had transpired he uttered : " I think the events of the past few weeks show that our attitude of last session was justified . "                     