@@675879

txt Fully half a million dollars ' damage has been done in Utah by a series of earthquakes , beginning last night and lasting until this afternoon . Buildings were wrecked , and in one place a chasm was opened in the earth and a number of persons had narrow escapes from death . The - first shocks felt in Salt Lake City I were slight , and small attention was paid to them . During the early morning and forenoon the State was again shaken , and great damage is reported from the south and central parts of the State . In the town of Richfield alone the damage is estimated I at $100,000 . In Sevier County , of which Richfield is the county seat , twenty distinct shocks were felt , the first being at 9:30 o'clock last night and the last at 1:10 this afternoon . Buildings rocked back and forth , glass was broken , walls fell , and several structures were completely wrecked . The Mormon Tabernacle there was severely damaged , the front of the building collapsing . A majority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two children of 0 . K. Salisbury had a narrow escape . They were asleep in a bedroom when the side wall fell and the roof was brought down . Heavy timbers , brick , and plaster fell on all sides of them and their bed was covered , the children escaping unhurt . ? At Elsinore every brick , stone , or adobe house in town was more or less damaged . On the summits of Mounts Belnap and Baldy several miners ' cabins were wrecked . The shock there was unusually severe and an entire big crag was torn off and started down the mountain , causing a serious slide . At Monroe the large residence of Bishop Orson Bagley was ruined , as were several other buildings . There are several hot springs at this place . One of them ceased entirely to flow , while the flow from the others was increased . Choir practice was in progress at the meeting ' house , and a panic ensued . It was thought the building would collapse , and there was a break for doors and windows . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by leaping through windows . The Town Council broke up in disorder with a scene almost as bad . At Elsinore the principal hotel , the Jensen House , was partially wrecked and will have to be rebuilt . The guests escaped unhurt . The schools were in session when some of the worst ! shocks occurred In the . forenoon , and theme was another panic ? there . - The , children attempted- to-break for safety , but the teachers managed to prevent a serious stampede . At Joseph the same situRtion developed . None of the children was hurt : Mrs. Russell Kelly had a narrow escape from a falling rock . She was standing beside the stone house where she resides , when the building collapsed . The debris fell on all sides of her , and a rock knocked her bat off and grazed the ride of her face , falling at her side . At the Annie Laurie Mine on Gold Mountain , the miners felt the earth shake and heard rocks begin to fall in various portions of the mine . There were several minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any injuries . At Kimberly there was a landslide down the mountain , which wrecked some dwellings . The Clear Creek Road was blocked by another landslide . Still another came down over the Rio Grande Western tracks near Marysvale , broke rails , and stopped traffic . Telephone poles were broken and communication with the outside world was interrupted . In Beaver , the Court House , Mormon meeting house , Beaver Branch Academy , and scores of other buildings were either seriously damaged or completely wrecked . FiImore was badly shaken up , but no buildings were wrecked . People ran in the streets in the early morning without waiting to dress . Parowan . Cedar City , and numerous other towns over the State report more or less damage . Near Moab it is reported that a chasm opened in the earth . This was not close to any habitation and no great damage was done .                     