@@678679

txt Tom L. Johnson , for four terms Mayor of Cleveland . whose three-cent fare fight made him famous , was defeated to : day for a fifth term by Herman C. Baehr , Republican County Recorder . Unofficial returns from approximately half of the city indicated that Baehr 's plurality over Johnson is at least 4,000. and may run to 6,000 . At 10 o'clock Johnson conceded his defeat by 1,500 . With him probably went the bulk of the Democratic ticket , those Councilmen who have been conspicuous in their support of his street railway progremme suffering most . The districts now traversed by the three-cent fare lines instituted by Johnson went against him . Baehr , the first Republican to be elected Mayor of Cleveland in ten years , declared that his election was due to dissatisfaction of the people With the methods of handling city business . The Mayor , in conceding his defeat , announced that he will be a candidate for Mayor two years hence . Rumors that he would remove to New York were denied by his friends , bur Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is believed to mean a certain settlement of the long street railway war which Johnson began eight years ago when he demanded a 3-cent rate of fare . Baehr has pledged himself to a settlement on the basis of a 6 per cent . return on the stock of the Cleveland Railway Company , all earnings over that to go to the reduction of fare and the improvement of service . The company has accepted these terms and Mayor Johnson has tentatively done so , reserving the right to fight the settlement at a referendum election . Owing to the fact that five separate ballots had to be cast by each elector , Judges were slow in counting and official returns were much delayed . The City Council will be Republican , so that Baehr will have clear sailing to put into effect some of the reforms he has promised . Johnson 's defeat isdue to his *carrying on the street car war long after the penpie had decided that they wanted a settlement . Though he a few weeks ago agreed to a referendum election on the question , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of Cleveland , almost to a man , were against him because he had not begun several improvements long needed . Baehr showed himself to the tremendous crowds which had gathered on the downtown streets and was greeted with prolonged applause . The acceptance by the voters of the proposed seventy-five-year franchise for a subway system was indicated by the early returns . Johnson 's defeat to-day is his fifth in a year 's time at popular elections . He was defeated in the franchise referendum on Oct. 22 , 1908 , following his six months ' control of tile street car system ; then in his campaign for the election of county officers ; next in a referendum on the issue of bonds ; again on a street railway referendum , and now meets his own defeat for return to the Mayor 's office . In his campaign just closed Johnson abandoned the street railway issue altogether as material and returned to the question of taxes , on which he made his first political campaign twenty years ago as a candidate for Congress in the Cleveland district . Incomplete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ con trol of the City Council , have elected only seven Councilmen out of thirty-two . Returns from over the State show that the Democrats fared badly . This is re garded as a blow to the aspirations of Democratic leaders of Ohio to bring about the nomination of Gov . Harmon for the Presidency in 1912 . In Cincinnati Dr. Louis Schwab , the Cox candidate , will run possibly 8,000 ahead of John Wild Peck , the young man for whom Harmon and the State leaders were fighting for the Mayoralty . The Vice Mayor race there was closer , running about 4,000 in favor of the Republican candidate , present Mayor John Galvin , Brand Whitlock , author and political successor of the late " Golden Rule " Mayor , Samuel M. Jones , was elected Mayor of Toledo by about 4,500 for a third term . Virtually the entire independent ticket was elected with him , including the City Council . Marshall , Republican candidate for Mayor of Columbus , who as City Solicitor has fought the traction monopoly for two years , was elected by from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was backed by the street railway company . Canton went Democratic by a large majority . In Dayton , which is a strong Democratic city , the usual majority was great ? , reduced , Mayor Edward Bum : - hart being returned to office . Wallace D. Yaple was re-elected Democratic Mayor of Coshocton . Jonees , Republican , was elected in Youngstown over Craver , Democratic . Mansfield returned Huntington Brown , Republican , Mayor. , Springfield went Democratic again , electing Charles J. Bowlus Mayor .                     