@@676182

txt unequivocally to a 1,000-ton barge canaL That is what all friends of canal improvement demand . The Republican platform pledges the party to nothing , but talks in a vague and misty way of necessary improvements . So in his speech of acceptance Gov . ODELL says : " You do n't like our canal plank ? You want a 1,000-ton barge canal ? Easiest thing In the world ! I 'll straddle over intervening space and plant one foot on the Democratic plank . " The Governor has been a recognized enemy of all canal improvement , but now with smooth and winning facility he declares himself in favor of a 1,000-ton barge canal . And what are our public-spirited and industrious friends , the advocates of canal improvement , going to say to these fine promises of the agile Republican candidate for Governor ? We refrain from prophecy , but submit to the judgment of a candid world this resolution adopted at a large meeting of the friends of canal improvement held in the Produce Exchange on Monday : The Canal Association of Greater New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward its ideal of canal improvement as exemplified by the plank adopted by the recent Republican and Democratic Conventions held in Saratoga , tenders its thanks to the sub-committee attending those conventions , and hereby pledges its constant support and efforts necessary to the successful termination thereof . That is to say , you make a prodigious fuss about the wretched quality of bread the bakers are supplying to the community . After having carried on the bread-improvement propaganda for some years you go into the shop of Baker Smith and he sells you an honest loaf of the very best bread , just the kind of bread you have long and loudly demanded . Then you go into the shop of Baker Brown next door and he sells you a. paving stone , accurately dressed to dimensions , to be sure , and really a very fine stone , but still a stone . Thereupon you go into the street and adopt resolutions recognizing the marked advance made by Smith and Brown toward your ideal of bread improvement . We resolutely refrain from prophecy , as we said before , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A good many of the friends of canal improvement are Republicans . Gov . ODELL is a candidate satisfactory to his party . The nomination of Mr. COLER , although we think he would make quite as good a Governor as Mr. ODELL , has not been received with hilarious enthusiasm by all Democrats . We have a gloomy foreboding that on election day the Republican friends of canal improvement will cheat their good intentions by listening to ten thousand reasons , more or less , why they should not vote against their party . It is the hardest thing in the world for a Republican to vote against his party . So we fear they will vote the straight Odell ticket , although they know in their hearts that Gov . ODELL is the determined foe of canal improvement and notwithstanding their perfectly justified conviction that the Republican canal plank was drawn up with artful and wicked intent to break a promise kept only to the ear . So these good Republican friends of canal improvement will , we are afraid , cast their votes to make certain the destruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year hence or two years hence , they will resume the issue of canal improvement literature and will come around to the offices of newspapers like The World and THE Timrs that care very little for parties and machines , but are deeply interested in all sound measures to promote the public welfare , and will beg them to print powerful articles every day about the supreme need of improving the canals . Experience teaches that when party calls the public-spirited reformer often gets deaf on the other side .                     