@@676932

txt Fire involving the loss of millions of dollars worth of property and that strikes a serious , if temporary , blow at the immense export trade of New Orleans , swept the river front to-night and wiped out the vast freight terminals of the Illinois Central , known as the Stuyvesant Docks . Nearly a dozen blocks of modern Wharves and freight sheds , two magnificent grain elevators , hundreds of loaded ears , and vast quantities of freight , ineluding 20,000 bales of cotton were destroyed , together with a large number of small residences . The fire was still raging furiously at midnight , at which time it had almost reached the upper end of the Illinois Central property . It has not been determined whether there has been any loss of life . The ocean-going shipping seems tO havt ) escaped serious damage . A number of firemen and employes of the dock were injured . Accurate estimates of the losses are impossible to-night , though they may exceed $3,000,000 . The Stuyvesant Docks extend from Louisiana Avenue almost to Napoleon Avenue . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points were covered with miles of trackage , and steel and iron sheds ran the whole distance . The two grain elevators were of the most modern construction , the upper one having a capacity of a million bushels . Thousands of bales of cotton , several hundred thousand packages of sugar , great quantities of cottonseed oil and oil cake , lumber , and every conceivable variety of freight filled the warehouses and sheds . Practically all the export business handled by the Illinois Central wks put aboard ships at these docks . TO docks and improvements have been under construction for ten years , elaborate extensions and immense investments having been made after the Constitutional Convention of 1898 made it possible for the road-to invest perirdnently - at this point . The fire was discovered shortly after 7 o'clock . It was said to have resulted from a journal that had not been sufficiently oiled . In spite of gigantic water tanks and fire-extinguishing apparatus the blaze , small at the beginning , almost instantaneously got beyond control , communicating through the conveyors to the lower elevator and some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was prompt , but owing to the fact that the terminals were not readily accessible , because of fences and tracks , the engines found difficulty in reaching the flames . In half an hour the fire covered two blocks , the lower elevator was practically consumed , and the fire was sweeping with irresistible fury both up and down the river . As soon as it became known that the zone of the fire was the Stuyvesant Docks , harbor tugs hastened to the wharves , and vessels that were moored there were pulled out into the river . At the same time switch engines were rushed to the wharves , and hundreds of box cars , loaded with freight , were drawn to points above the upper end of the terminals before the fire reached them . Hundreds more . however , were consumed . The wind was blowing down the river as the blaze began , and the fire spread with greater speed in that direction . BY I ) o'clock the lower elevator and sheds and wharves from Amelia Street to Louisiana Avenue , a distance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is a very bread thoroughfare , and the further spread of the fire beyond that point , into a residence section . was checked . Between the points named , however , the flames swept to complete destruction many cottages of the poorer classes , the occupants in a great many instances losing all they possessed . The river boats , the employes of the road , and the Fire Department concentrated all their energies in an effort to save the upper elevator , between Austerlitz and Constantinople Streets , and to check the fire at that point . The fire , however , gradually worked past the point occupied by the elevator . Heroically the forces kept at work , but ultimately% they were beaten and the big steel structure , covered with corrugated iron , suddenly burst into flames at 10:30 , and in a half hour was a complete wreck . At midnight more than nine blocks of the terminals had been completely destroyed , and it seemed unlikely that the fire would be checked until it reached Napoleon- Avenue , which also is a very broad street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blaze was of indescribable fury , carrying brands to great distances , driving back the crowds of sightseers . Immense pieces of corrugated iron , torn from the sides of the upper elevator , were carried through the air as if they were feathers and dropping in every direction , constantly endangering the lives of firemen and spectators . , , The weather was bright and warm , and , probably 60,000 people visited the scene during the progress of the fire . I Aside from the tremendous loss involved in the destruction of property , the fire is a calamity to New Orleans in the temporary abatement of the immense export business of the Illinois Central , - par= ticularly in the matter of grain ship- I ments.                     