@@781302

txt A conference , the object of which was Dot revealed , was held to-day at Rosemount , the home of Judge Parker . Those who conferred with the Judge were August Belmont , Representative Bourke Cockran , State Senator McCarren , and W. S. Rodie , member of the State Democratic Committee . Senator McCarren was expected here to-day , but the coming of the others was M the nature of a surprise to Esopus . The unexpected visitors said they came at the invitation of Judge Parker , and did not know what the subject of the conference was to be . Messrs . Belmont , Cochran , and Rodie were the first to arrive , coming on the 12:17 train They were met at the station by Private Secretary McCausland in Judge Parker 's carriage . The three were driven to Rosemount , where Judge Parker warmly greeted them , and all sat chatting with him awaiting the arrival of Senator McCarren , who was accompanied by William Hudson , ex-member of the Railroad Commission . The entire party then lunched with Judge Parker , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the afternoon was held . Messrs . Belmont and Cochran were the first to leave , taking the 4:45 train for New York . Senator aleCarren remained an hour longer . He sat on the veranda With Judge Parker , the two engaging in an earnest conversation until Senator McCarren left to catch the 5:45 train . All of the visitors Were uncommunicative respecting the nature of the conference . Froth what was said after the conference , however , there is a Strong impression here that Mr. Sheehan is no longer to be thought of in connection with the Democratic National Chairmanship , and also that those in the position of leadership do not regard the National Committee as in any way bound to Thomas Taggart of Indiana . It may be said with authority that the situation in New York ' City was not discussed in any of to-day 's conferences , and ' that if any one has been selected for the National Chairmanship there is no reliable clue otainable here to-night as to who he is . It was the belief of one of the visitors that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cochran was asked to-day ' whether he would take the stump for Judge Parker . z , " Is it necessary to ask that ? " he replied .. He added that he . would support the ticket ' with his whole heart in any way that appeared likely to help toward victory . lie said he was ready to make more speeches for Judge Parker than he made in the campaign of 15e0 Mr. Belmont would say nothing except that he was heartily for Judge Parker . He said he had not seen ex-Gov . Hill since the I convention . When Senator aleCarren was questioned . regarding the conference he denied that the visit bad been anything but of a social nature . He would be quoted only as say-ing : " This will not be a campaign in which great funds will be needed . It be greatly a labor oe love for Judge Parker . The sordid money element will not be to the front , it will be a campaigntin which the , splendid qualifications of our candidate Will be urged . I have known Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the office . In regard to his message to the convention ? Well , In regard to that he acted precisely as I would have acted . " The minute I saw the gold dispatch , and I was with Gov . Sheehan when be received it , I said it was the right thing to do under the circumstances . " Asked about the Bryan utterances , Senator McCarren said that Bryan had pledged himself on the platform in the convention to support the ticket , and that he believed Mr. Bryan would do so . Senator McCarren said that he had had no knowledge of the coining of Messrs . Cochran , Belmont . and Rodie . " All is harmony now . you know , " he added . Senator McCarren said he had no knowledue of the date of the National Committee meeting or of the notification of Judge Parker . and he would not talk about the National Chairmanship . He said he had not seen Mr. Sheehan In New York , nor had he seep Mr. Hill since his return to Albany . Before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some day next week . He was complaisant and happy , laughed at the suggestion that he had come in the interest of harmony , and facetiously asked when the question of a certain unpleasantness between him and Charles F. Murphy was broached , What unpleasantness ? " It is said here . to-night that D. B. Hill ' will go to Normandie-by-the-Sea in a few days . The belier here has been that he would come to Esopus as soon as he got rested after his return from St. Louis . up to the present , however , he has not visited here . August Belmont and Congressman W. Rourke Cockran returned from Esopus last evening and dined together at Delmonico 's . Mr. Belmont was absolutely uncommunicative , especially concerning the National Chairmanship , but Mr. Cockran. talked freely of his trip . " Judge Parker and I lunched together very pleasantly , " said Mr. Cockran. " a result of the conversation , I intend to place myself at the disposal of the Democratic National Committee in this campaign , and shall speak wherever I shall be wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled in that respect . " Both Judge Parker and I talked over the probable issues of the campaign , and to my mind the leading issue is Turn the rascals out ' Nothing has been settled as yet concerning the National Chairmanship , but there are no differences on that score and the matter will be settled very soon . I firmly believe that Judge Parker will be elected and that New York State will be found in the Democratic column . Certainly Tammany Hall will work to its utmost to accomplish this end , and I believe ' that the State ; will go Democratic , also that New Jersey . Connecticut , - Maryland . West Vir . inia . Indiana , Illinois , and Wisconsin will follow suit . "                     