@@677541

txt Pittsburg never had such a flood as that which is upon her to-night . All river points in Western Pennslyvania , West Virginia , and Eastern Ohio are suffering also . At 4 o'clock this afternoon the thirty-mile ice gorge at Parker , Penn. , broke and is moving toward Pittsburg . The immense gorge in the Clarion River also has started down stream . Summarized briefly , the following conditions prevail in this vicinity at midnight : Seven lives lost to-day and six yesterday , property loss of $10,000,000 , about 300,000 workmen thrown out of employment , a daily loss of about $730,000 in wages , Allegheny cut off from Pittsburg , except for one railroad , which is still operating trains ; 10.000. tamilies homeless , many in actual want ; the City of almost completely inundated , half of the schools a Pittsburg and Allegheny dismissed , city water supply crippled so that a water famine is threatened , telephone service suspended , and all of the lower streets of Pittsburg so deeply filled with water that rowboats have been brought Into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The rise is unprecedented , At night the river was still rising . Several nesIspapers bad to appeal to their contemporaries for aid in printing their editions , as their press rooms were flooded , The whole downtown district Is in darkness to-night . Business men have lighted their show windows with candles . The situation at is critical . The Monongahela and Youghiogheny Rivers meet at that point , and at noon to-day one vast sheet of water stretched between the shores of both streams . llhe waters completely covered the great plant of the National Tube Works , and by 3 o'clock they had reached Third Avenue , In the business district . This stretch of water rendered homeless fully a quarter of the population of the city . Women and children were taken out of houses from the second-story windows . Five foreigners and two Americans , ail men , were drowned while trying to rescue relatives . Their names are not known . Conditions almost similar to those of exist in Allegheny . The entire lower portion of the city is under water . Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lower part of the city . A hundred skiffs are being toed to take people out of their houses . All of the lower part of Allegheny is without drinking water , electric light , gas , street cars , or telephone service . Business Suspended ' in Pittsburg . In Pittsburg proper business is practically suspended . At 10 o'clock to-night the flood reached the electric light conduits in the business section . From Penn Avenue . to the Allegheny River and from Seventh Street to the Point all is under water . This includes the Lincoln , Colonial , Anderson , Annex , and other large downtown hotels ; the Alvin . Bela.sco , Gayety , and Bijou Theatres ; the Wabash Station and scores of big office buildings . The four theatres arranged to give performances this evening In spite of the tact that water was in the auditorium . They had planned to take the patrons to the doors of the theatres in boats , but the police ordered that the houses close , as they feared that , after getting audiences in them , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hundreds of people are marooned in this city . Restaurants have been besieged all evening by persons unable to reach their homes . To-night every room in the hotels and boarding houses has been engaged , and there are not sufficient accommodalions to take care of the people compelled to remain here . Trolley service between Pittsburg and Allegheny was suspended early to-day , and great placards announcing the inauguration of a special train service to Allegheny are displayed all through town . At the Union Station of the Pennsylvania Railroad are thousands of people shouting and pushing in their efforts to board these trains for Allegheny or the suburbs . Patrolmen in large numbers are endeavoring to bring some kind of order out of the situation , but with little success . The trains are being run regardless of schedule and are packed to the platform steps . In the suburbs of Aspinwall , ' Sharpsburg , Etna and Millvale ever five hundred fardilies are living in the second story of their homes . Whole . : amilles were compelled to crowd into upstairs rooms , where in many cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distributed later by men In skiffs . Many homes in these suburbs have been Undermined and the foundations weakened and are in danger of collapsing . The eTeater portion of Monongahela , Penn. , is under water . All traffic has been suspended and people are moving to higher ground . Many Industries Damaged , At Connellsville , Penn. , the damage to the coke region is estimated to-night at $2,000,000 . The Westinghouse interests at East Pittsburg alone will lose $1,000,000. so suddenly did the waters rise that the 17 , - 500 employes at the electrical plant found themselves hemmed in shortly before noon . They were all taken out in trains . The waters flooded the rooms of the draughtsmen before the em loges had time to place their valuable blueprints in the steel vaults , and thousands of dollars ' worth of them were lost .                     