@@676685

txt Gov . Odell has signed the Smith bill prohibiting New York City from taking water from the Wappinger and Fishkill Creeks , in Dutchess County . In a statement which the Governor issued to-night , giving hip reasons for signing the measure , he says he is willing to call an extra session of the Legislature to meet the water situation for New York City . The Governor first recites the provisions under which New York City is authorized to condemn land and water/rights in the ' various counties of the State . He shows that the effect in Dutchess County of such proceedings would be to destroy manufacturing establishments in Wappinger 's Falls and Fishkill , which support directly and indirectly a population of about 14,000 inhabitants . He says that figures presented to him indicate that the homes in these villages are owned largely by the operatives of these mills , and that mortgages to the extent of about $3,000 upon real estate there are held by savings banks in the villages of Wappinger 's Falls and Fishkill ; that the effect of the condemnation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York would , in addition to destroying the manufacturing interests on these streams , result in a tremendous depreciation of property values , without the City of New York being able to make adequate compensation . The Governor refers to the-policy pursued in Massachusetts , where water is taken for municipal pursposes , of impounding ' the streams to preserve the water supply so as to permit the operation of manufacturing plants dependent upon the Streams , and states that he is sure such provision , if guaranteed by legislative enactment , would be entirely satisfactory to the people of Dutchess county . The Smith bill was opposed by the city authorities of New York , and a large delegation representative of all of the leading civic organizations in the city went to Albany to protest against it at the hearing given by Gov . Odell . It was contended at the hearing before the Governor , and in the brief filed by the Corporation . Counsel , that Fishkill Wappinger Creeks were about the only available sources of water supply left to New . York City , with the exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Ramapo Water Company . The assertion , Ivas , made that if the bill were signed the city would in a few years be compelled to make a contract with the Ramapo ** Company or subject the city to the risk of a water famine . This being the case , it was openly charged that the bill was in the interest of the Ramapo Company . Although this was denied by the promoters of the bill , the attention of the Governor was called to the fact that - 'the passage ofthe measure through the Legislature ad sent Ramapo Water stock soaring . Fishkill and Wappinger Creeks are said to discharge 500,000 gallons of water an hour that now goes to waste , and the claim was made by the representatives of the city that the industries which border these creeks could in no way be injured by the city , taking the surplus water of the two stretfins .. With the bill a law , the city 's only alternatives for an additional , supply will be to take water from the Hudson above Poughkeepsie or enter into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a careful examination of the Hudson River supply have reported that it is unsanitary . YOUNG NURSE A ? SUICIDE . Girl Employed by Brooklyn Family Shoots Herself in Street . Letitia O'Neill. seventeen years old . employed as a nurse for the last two years by William A. Smylie , a wealthy licorice manufacturer , living at 21 ' 8 New York Avenue , Brooklyn . committed suicide about 10 o'clock last evening by shooting herself with a revolver in the street near her home . No cause is known for the . act . The girl was well liked by the family . She asked permission to go to the store . and was away only a few moments when a watchman employed on some new buildings at New , York and Union Avenues ran to the Smylie I house and told what had happened .                     