@@678443

txt Real Purchaser Undisclosed , but Sale Is Said to Have Been Forced by Charges Made by M I nority Holders . Following the charges of collusion between the Platt management of the United States Express Company and its rivals , the American and the Adams Express Companies , whose Presidents are members of the United States Express Directorate , made by representatives of the majority shareholders before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Wednesday , it became known in Wall Street yesterday that the 10,000 shares of United States Express Company stock owned by the American Express Company , and it Is believed the 10.000 shares owned by the Adams Company also , have been purchased by Frank H. Platt . The sale of the shares owned by the American Express Company was made at Par , and President Fargo has already reinvested the proceeds , which came in the form of a check for approximately $1,000,000 drawn by Frank H. Platt . Mr. Fargo has resigned from the United States Express Directorate and has been succeeded by Albert B. Boardman of the law firm of O'Brien , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Platt is also a member . Mr. Boardman said yesterday that lie went Into the board on the strength of 500 shares of UnitedStates Express stock . which he ha.lilong owned , and disclaimed all knowledge of the transactions between his partner and the Presidents of the American and Adams Companies . Neither Frank H. Platt , who is a Director of the United States Express Company , nor his brother , Edward T. Platt , who as Treasurer is really the chief executive , would discuss yesterday the sudden withdrawal of the company 's rivals from its affairs , nor say for whom Frank H. Platt is acting . It was not generally supposed that Mr. Platt was in a position to take over $2,000,000 of securities on his own behalf . Sherman Law Violation Charged . President Fargo of the American Express Company admitted yesterday that he had resigned from the United States board and had sold ' his- company 's holdings of the stock at par . President Weir of the Adams Express Company was not at his office , and his subordinates would neither deny nor confirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 , which was before the hearing at Albany , but it was learned yesterday that shareholders of the company who have been fighting for two years for a voice in the management as majority shareholders , had some time ago petitioned the Attorney General of the United States to take up the participation of the American and Adams Companies in the affairs of their rival as a violation of the Sherman anti-trust law , and it is thought that this fact in addition to the charges of collusion which were first put forward over a year ago had some influence on the sale of their shares . The funds received by the American Express Company have been put into stocks of the Northern Pacific , Union Pacific , and Great Northern Railroad Companies , and it is generally believed that the sale has no " string to it . " Eugene Kremer , who as counsel of the Hatt and Banister Committee of United States Express shareholders , has for two years been conducting the fight for reform in the company and appeared at Albany on Wednesday to argue before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would give the participants in joint stocks associations like the United States Express Company the same privileges as corporate stockholders , said Yesterday that he regarded the withdrawal of the American and Adams Companies from the affairs of the United States Express as a justification of the contentions of the majority shareholders . It is not known Into whose hands the 20,000 shares have fallen , but if It should develop that the United States Express Company treasury is the purchaser It is expected that efforts will be made to have ' the stock canceled , and In that event the Hatt and Banister Committee will have a clear two-thirds majority , which under the company 's charter is necessary to call ' a meeting . Plan to Oust the Platte . Although representing a majority of the shares of the company , while President Thomas C. Platt holds only 100 shares , or one-tenth of 1 per cent. , the Hatt and Banister Committee have been unable to obtain satisfaction from the Platt management , which they have frequently charged with ruining the express bust-. ness of the company while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joint Stock Association bill , now in the hands of the Senate Judiciary Committee , the majority shareholders of tile United States Express , Company will be able to call a meeting , the first one in over forty years , at which it is a foregone conclusion the Platt management would be ousted . Tkke 20,000 shares disposed of by the Adams and American Companies were part of an issue put out about ten years ago , when the shares of the company were increased from 8,000 to 100,000 for the purpose of taking over from its rivals an advantageous contract with the Baltimore &; Ohio Railroad , which still has some years to run , and is the chief source of , profit to the United States Company from Ito express business .                     