@@675484

txt I PHILADELPHIA , June ** to arrive of the woman Republican workers of the country is Mrs. J. Ellen Foster of Washington , President of the National Woman 's Republican Association . who took rooms at the Walton this evening . . More than fifty coworkers of MI 'S . ' Foster will arrive during the week . They will have . no trouble getting good seats at the convention hall , for their campaign labors have - been recognized as of great value , and they are constantly increasing their machinery for promoting the success of the Republican Party . They will take a 1 lively interest in the proceedings of the convention , will confer with delegates and leaders from every part of the country , and before they separate will make preliminary plans for their campaign . " We are not all yonug in experience in politics , " said Mrs. Foster to-day . " Most of us have been students of politics for many years , and have individually taken part in one way or other in campaign work . We organized in 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Chicago was the first we attended . Since then we have attended the party conventions , have been consulted by the leaders , and have done an immense amount of labor , principally in the distribution of literature . " Within a day or two headquarters for the association will be opened at the Walton . Entertainments for the visiting women are being arranged by the New Century and other woman 's clubs of the city . and there will be for them no lack of social as well as political enjoyment . Among notable members of the association who wilt be here are the Secretary , Mrs. Chase , of Rhode Island ; Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood of Washington , editor of The Magazine of the Daughters of the American Revolution , who is a fine orator and speaks upon the campaign stump ; Mrs. Helen Varick Boswell . a well-known writer of New York ; Miss E. F. Pierce of Boston , Mrs. Sarah Dean of Washington , Mrs. Fannie Gresham of Texas , Mrs. Farrar of Minnesota , and Miss Mary Yostwood of Washington . FATAL TENEMENT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fatally Injured . Six persons perished and five were injured probably fatally in a. fire which started in a five-story brick tenement at 34 Jackson Street at 2:45 o'clock this morning . The fire started on an upper floor in the rear of the building , and burned with incredible rapidity . It was seen from the street by Policeman Nelson Selleck , who immediately turned in an alarm . The fireandmen who responed saw that it was serious , and turned in a second and a third alarm . Within a few minutes after the flames were first noticed the house was in a blaze , and the residents all along the block were in a wild panic . ? So quickly did the flames spread that the escape of those on the upper floor of the house were cut off and one man was killed by jumping from a fourth story window . A woman was carried in a dying condition from the fourth story by Policeman Selleck , who also carried out three children . They , too , had been badly burned . Father Harrington of St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all of the injured , who were taken to Gouverneur Hospital . Deputy Chief Ahearn was in charge of the fire . The building is owned by Alderman ' Tarries Smith , who keeps a saloon on the first floor , and the four upper stories are occupied , as tenements . Two of the upper stories were gutted by the fire . Two bodies were taken out of the building as soon as the flames were subdued and a quarter past three four more bodies were discovered , making ' six victims . None of the dead or injured were identified owing to the excitement that prevailed .                     