@@676051

txt The visit of Ralph M. Easley , Secretary of the National Civic Federation , to strike headquarters and his conference with President Mitchell of the United Mine Workers late last night were the only incidents of any importance that Claimed the attention to-day of the labor leaders and others around the Valley Hotel . As neither Mr. Easley nor Mr. Mitchell would say anything regarding their meeting , there was much speculation as to the object of the visit of the Secretary of the Civic Federation . Mr. Easley laughed at the stir which his arrival caused , and said there was not the slightest significance attached to his trip here . He reiterated that he come here merely to look over the ground and to keep himself informed of the general situation . He denied ' that he brought a plan for the settlement of the strike or a message from Senator Hanna or any other member of the Civic Federation . Mr. Easley also said he carried no message back with him from Mr. Mitchell . He would not discuss his visit to Mr. Hanna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' National lead , er last night lasted two hours . Re again saw Mr. Mitchell ter a few minutes this morning and left for New York at 10 A. M. Despite the denials of the labor leaders , the members of the Civic Federation , and the coal operators , ail of whom have thus far rigidly adhered to the policy of a solutely refusing to anticipate any move in connection with the strike , it is believed here that the Federation is quietly preparing to receive any proposition that might possibly be offered by either side . This belief is strengthened by the fact that only twenty-four hours had elapsed from the time the Conference was held at Washington between Senator Hanna , President Gompers of the American Federation of Labor , who is also a member of the Civic Federation , and Mrs .. Easley , and the latter 's arrival here . Absolute quiet reigned at headquarters and throughout the Lehigh Valley . Although this was Sunday there was little rest for President Mitchell and his two secretaries . Excepting Mr. Easley , he had no visitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ batch of mail pertaining to the strike in the anthracite field and to miners ' business in ; bituminous localities . Clergymen of nearly all denominations in their sermons to-day touched moye or less on the strike . The great struggle was generally deplored , and the hope was - held out that . though the strike may cause much suffering for a time , it may in the end result in great good for both capital anti labor . There was an impressive scene at each of the masses at St. Gabriel 's Roman Catholic Church , in this town . This is the church of which the Rev. E. S. Phillips , the miners ' champion in the strike of 1000 , was the rector . Following out President Mitchell 's request that all mine workers abstain from visiting saloons , the Rev. James V. Hussie asked all the members of the parish to take an oath to abstain from the use of intoxicating liquors during the period of the strike . Extremely few refused . At the principal service at 10:30 A. M. every person in the church . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At vespers the oath was administered to those who were not present at the morning services . Father Hussie delivered a strong sermon to the mine workers . He told them that now that they have struck they must stand together for the cause . The strike now enters upon its second week . The week just ended was the first , it is said , in the history of the hard coal trade that no coal was mined in any part of the region . No disturbance of any consequence has been reported anywhere . President Mitchell will establish headquarters at the Hotel Hart at Wilkesbarre to-morrow afternoon or evening , where he will probably remain until the strike is ended . In about a week President Mitchell will pay a brief visit to his home in Spring Valley , Ill. , and will stop at National headquarters at Indianapolis on his return to the anthracite region . President Mitchell said to-day that he could not yet say when the special National Convention , to be called for the purpose of considering the advisability of involving the bituminous ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has not yet received the consent of the two districts still needed to make up the five that are necessary under the rules to call a special convention . All the local trades unions in this region met to-day and decided to stand by the miners in their struggle .                     