@@678732

txt War was formally declared on the United States Steel Corporation by leaders of organized labor throughout the United States and Canada at the close of a two days ' conference to-day . The decision to battle , long and hard , against the stand taken by the Steel Corporation In its policy of " open shop " was reachad by the labor conferees only after hours of debate , At the conference which passed the battle decree Samuel Gompers , President of the American Federation of Labor , presided , and through him the measure was put upon the record books of the Executive Council of the Federation . The grievances of organized labor against the Steel Corporation as set forth in the resolution have been forwarded to President Taft and the United States Senate and House of Representatives . The Governors of the States in which the United States Steel Corporation owns plants or has interests will also receive a copy of the resolution . The resolution deals principally with the wages paid the men In the employ of the Steel Corporation , which are declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general conditions asserted to be oppressive . The resolution says in part : " A crisis in the affairs of labor has arisen . The gigantic trust , the United States Steel Corporation , is using its great wealth and power in an effort to rob the toilers of their right of American manhood and of the opportunity to resist its further encroachments . " Grown rich by the consent of the people of our country , this corporation in Its mad greed for still greater riches , sweeps aside , makes and unmakes law , its enactors and executors , and is now engaged in effort to destroy the only factor , the organizations of its employes , standing between it and unlimited &; unchecked , and unbridled industrial , poll al , social , and Moral carnage . " If there exists any virile power in our time and life to check the absolute autocratic domination of civic , industrial , and political life of our people and our Republic , it must be found in - the indomitable will and mission of the much misunderstood and misrepresented organizations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war on ' labor . In its secret councils this corporation has decreed that the only obstacle to its complete sway , organized labor , shall be crushed . The labor organizations consist of its employes , the workers , ( their wives and little ones , ) human flesh and blood . It is by their labor that they live ; they have no purpose other than safeguarding their lives , their character , their future , the safety of the Republic , and humanity . " These factors now confront each other . By their purposes , attitude , and actions must they be judged . " On June 1 , 1909 , the United States Steel Corporation proclaimed its decree of hostility toward labor . The right of the workers to associate for their common protection was no longer to be recognized or tolerated . " Accompanying that decree was a notice of a further reduction in the already scant- wages of the workers . The decree went into effect July 1 , Ha " We therefore urge that an earnest effort be made to thoroughly organize all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry and subsidiary co-related trades . " Owing to the immediate pressing necessity caused by the present strike and the indefensible hostile attitude of the United States Steel Corporation we earnestly call upon all National and international unions of America to send at least one organizer to assist in this work . We further urge and recommend that in all places where mills are located the central labor organizations appoint special committees with instructions to co-operate in this work . For educational purposes we recommend that this manifesto be made a special order in all central la-Tor organizations . at the first meeting in January , 1910 . " We recommend that the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor issue a circular to all unions of America an appeal for financial contributions to aid the striking iron , steel , and tin plate workers . We further recommend that the amount of such contribution should not be less than 10 cents per member . In view of the great wrongs perpetrated by the United States Steel Corporation , not only against the workers , but the public generally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wait upon the President of the United States , the President of the United States Senate , the Speaker of the House of Representatives , and such members of either house of Congress as may be deemed advisable for the purpose of laying lbaebfoorr es suffers tahte ger i nanndese so f f rto corporation . " At the instance of the United States Steel Corporation , officers of local , municipal , and State Governments have unwarrantably tyrannized over citizens , invading the constitutionally guaranteed right of free sssernblage and free speech . " We recommend that committees be appointed by this conference to wait upon the Governors of States and such other official representatives of counties and municipalities as are in control where the United States Steel Corporation has plants located , for the purpose of presenting to these officials the great wrongs inflicted upon the people of these communities , and that the committees demand an investigation . and where charges made are substantlated by evidence , the officers re , sponsible therefor be removed and the wrongs immediately righted . " We appeal to all liberty-loving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The resolution was signed in order by James O'Connell , T. L. Lewis , W. D. Mahon , George W. Perkins , J. W. Hays , Frank M. Ryan , ' r , Healy , Samuel Gompers , P. 3 . MeArdle , and Charles E. Lawler . At the conclusion of to-day 's conference the men responsible for the resolution said they had said all there was to be said when they had adopted the measure . President Gompers of the federation left to-night for Washington , D. C. The other labor leaders will have gone by to-morrow . The conference which called these labor leaders together at Pittsburg was made possible through a resolution adopted at the Toronto ( Canada ) International Labor Conference , held during November , when the convention decided by resolution to meet in Pittsburg and make a determined stand against the labor attitude of the United States Steel Cop . poration.                     