@@676804

txt The Mayor of Turin has telegraphed to Signor Giolitti , President of the Council and Minister of the Interior , in the name of the Socialist Aldermen of Turin , expressing the desire of the workingmen that intervention of troops 3n peaceful conflicts between capital and labor be - avoided . Signor Giolitti immediately replied by telegraph that for three years , as Minister Of the Interior , he had constantly supported the principle of absolute liberty of workingmen to strike and that it was not the duty of the Government to intervene , adding that he intended to follow the same principles while he remains in power . The Minister continued : " The painful facts are to be regretted by all that in one case soldiers used their arms in self-defense after being attacked and wounded , and in another instance acted I without orders from their superiors . Therefore these soldiers have , been put at the disposal of the judicial authorities'while an inquiry is going Ofito'ascertain the responsibility for the occurrences . " Signor Giolitti 's dispatch ended as fol-. lows : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , but shall perform my duty and make the law respected by all . I therefore hope the Socialists will recommend calm behavior and avoid deplorable violence , compromising the cause of liberty . " In time of peace the Italian Army is composed of twelve corps each , composed of two divisions , with the exception of the Ninth Corps , whose headquarters are at Rome , and which is made up of three divisions . It is the reserves of this , the strongest , corps that apparently have been called out . Each division of a corps comprises two brigades of infantry of two regiments each , and in general one regiment of cavalry and one regiment of artillery , plus the skeletons of two mobile militia regiments of infantry and one section of artillery . The regular troops of the Ninth Corps number about 20,000 . Liability to service , which is universal , commences at the completion of the twentieth year and continues up to the completion of the thirty-ninth year . The men are i enrolled by lot in three classes . Those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve five years with the colors and four with " unlimited leave " ; if to the cavalry , four years and five years , re ; spectively , and all ten Years in the Territorial Militia , with " unlimited leave . " If drafted to other corps the service is two or three years with the colors and six with " unlimited leave , " four or five years in the mobile militia , and seven years in the territorial militia . The men of the second class are enrolled for eight years in the standing army with " unlimited leave " and four and seven years in the militias . Those of the third class serve their nineteen years wholly in the Territorial Militia . POLICE SCARE AUTO RACERS . None Dares to Chug-Chug Faster Than a Steam Roller in Brooklyn . The automobilists who have been blithely fracturing and splintering the speed law on the Brooklyn boulevards of late and making merry at the futile efforts of bicycle and mounted policemen to overhaul them found the laugh neatly turned on them yesterday when they started out to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found the police prepared to cope with them on equal terms , and there was none among them who dared . chug-chug along at a gait much faster than that of a steam roller . On Saturday Deputy Police Commissioner Farrell hired a racing automobile which he was assured could hold its own with the speediest thing it might meet on the road . /t was manned by John Carlson , an expert operator , and two bicycle policemen , selected because of their experlenpe in judging the speed of automobiles . With the operator and the two policemen aboard the " scorcher " catching machine left the Prospect Park Police Station at 2 o'clock yesterday afternoon and proceeded down the Ocean Parkway , where it picked up Deputy Commissioner Farrell . The Commissioner took a turn or two up and down the speedway in the machine , keeping a sharp lookout for speed law violators . The motorists who have been having a great time " burning up " the road , however , had heeded the warning they had received and jogged along very meekly and gently . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried several times to get up a brush with racy looking cars , but to no purpose , The automobiles took the policemen 's dust or mud and gritted their teeth , but took no chances . The police have hired the " devil wagon " for a week . They will be out to-day looking for sports who streak It down the road to the race track in " Pink Phantoms , " " Red Rockets , " and the like . Commissioner Farrell declared last night that his automobile patrol had been a pronounced success .                     