@@678281

txt Will , Mr : WOODRUFF , take him at his best , compares as a gaudy waistcoat to a Roman toga .. No definite expression of wish or ' intention has been made by Mr. WoonRUFF himself . His sarcastic remark that he no longer " lives to please " may , indeed , be taken to mean that he has no desire to comply with the general preference that he will not make a " fight " for the Senate . But we trust that this is not the true interpretation of his Delphic words . And if it be , we shall not surrender the hope that he will reconsider his purpose . He really has " pleased " in his past political career largely by his willingness not to push his personal ambition beyond modest limits . CLASNSS . " The Republican members-elect of the Legislature from Kings County who met last week to " indorse the candidacy of Trmorar L. WOODRUFF for the United States Senate , " did not make a , very brave showing of their favorite 's qualifications . Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chairmanship of the State Committee of his party , success in business affairs , and a vague reference to " leadership and statesmanship , " these fill up the scant list . And even these svill hardly repay analysis . The only substantial count is " leadership , " and on this the best that can he said is that Mr. WOODRUFF has had the sagacity to yield gracefully when the better sentiment of the party showed fight against the policy and methods of himself and his friends . Mr. WOODRUFF would undoubtedly be a better Senator than Mr. PLATT is now . He would be very much the same sort of Senator that Mr. PLATT was when he entered the Senate , probably weaker , but of much the same type , with like aims , standards , ways . Nothing in his career shows any conclusive evidence - that he would be any worthier representative of the great State of New York , or that he would contribute any more to its wholesome and proper influence in the Nation , one-tenth of whose population dwell within its borders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. WOODRUFF himself look on a seat in the Senate primarily as a matter of party politics , in which he has had a good deal of practice2 But surely the Republican Party in New York can not be content with such a representative in the Senate Chamber . It has contributed great men to the Senate , SEWARD , FISH , EVA RTS , CONKLING , and others capable of making Le voice of the State heard in the policies of the Nation and in the international matters with which they have bad to deal . To these men , and to the . =git wilt= the party Can select , if it                     