@@677297

txt It is not creditable to the Democratic Party , we think , that all the dissentients from the prevailing opinion of the Senate Committee on Privileges and Elections should have been Republicans . Here is a curious reversal of the ancient dogmas of the two parties , according to which the " Federalists " aimed to diminish , and the " Democrats " to magnify , the rights of the States . At the same time , no Federalist , Whig , or Republican has ever gone so far as to deny that a State had the right to be represented in the Federal councils by its own chosen representatives , if these were not themselves malefactors , and It is not charged by anybody that SztooT is himself a malefactor . ' But three Republicans and five Democrats on the committee have in fact gone to this length in the ease of Senator SMOOT . They have decided that he is " not entitled to a seat as a Senatoi ? of the United States " precisely for the reason that he does represent the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in truth , the issue . It is an issue on which it is difficult to see how any man trained in the American principles of civil liberty could take the side that a State is not entitled to choose its own representatives . The explanation which will commend itself to those who consider what queer things Congress is capable of doing when sentimental considerations are allowed to outweigh legal and rational considerations is that the legislation recommended by the two Republicans and five Democrats who compose the majority of the committee is an example of what has been called " henpecked legislation . " There is no doubt , we think , that the recommendation of the majority of the committee is tantamount to a recommendation that the majority of the people of Utah should not be allowed to choose their own representatives in the Congress of the United States . We must in propriety await the report of the majority before making that conclusion final . But pretty clearly , on the question involved , the minority of the committee outweighs the outnumbering majority , and the opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes of the majority . The debate in the Senate itself should be of high interest and illumination . It is , of course , constitutionally true that the Senate Is the final and only judge of the election , qualification , and returns of its own members , and that it can either expel SMOOT or exclude hint without being legally questioned . But it looks perfectly clear that if it excludes or expels him , it will do so upon 11 the ground that a Mormon State has no claim to be represented by a Mormon . That proposition is not likely to be accepted by the full Senate without severe scrutiny . The Senate knew , when it admitted Utah , that Utah was liable to show a Mormon majority and return a Mormon Senator . That probability , or possibility , deprecated and minimized as it was by the very Gentiles who are now advocating the exclusion or expulsion of SMOOT , may well have constituted a reason for opposing the admission of Utah to Statehood . But it seems to be no reason at all why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its equal suffrage in the Senate without its consent . " This consent has not been had , and is not likely to be had . The only decent way in which REED SMOOT , or any other Mormon , having once been duly elected to the Senate from Utah , can be put out of the Senate would be such a growth of anti-Mormon sentiment and such an increase of anti-Mormon votes in Utah itself as would return a Gentile in his place . The very fact that the decision of the Senate In this matter can not be questioned should make the Senate all the more unalterably opposed to announcing a decision which impartial Arneriesaras would have to say                     