@@676596

txt IInea.ainess is felt by President Roosevelt 's friends , it is said , over the unprecedented delay of Senator Hanna in issuing the call for the National Republican Convention . A rumor gained currency at the Capitol to-day that the object of the delay was to change the call so that it would be possible to choose delegates to the National Convention en bloc and unpledged at the State conventions , and without providing for their election by districts or by the delegates in the State convention acting for the district . The purpose attributed to this alleged intention of the Executive Committee of the National Committee was to make it possible to have a solid delegation from Ohio for Senator Hanna , and undo the work of about half the districts in the State which have now taken action to insure Roosevelt delegates . It was also said that the purpose was to make it cheaper and more expeditious to gain solid delegations from the Southern States for the Hanna movement . It is said that the desire of the Hanna men is to bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that at the right time they may be able to arouse a stampede to their candidate . This construction is put upon the delay , it Is said , by men high up in Administration circles . This view of the matter gains credence from the fact that five weeks have elapsed since the meeting of the National Committee and the call has not been issued yet This Is an interval of delay without-precedent , and by active politicians is regarded as highly significant . It is said that many Senators and prominent politicians have been telegraphing diligently to Senator Hanna within the last law days to learn the cause of his delay . Mr. Hanna 's friends are vigorous in their denial of the reported significance of the delay . They say his ill-health- and the activities incident to his re-election to the Senate have made it impossible for him to attend to the convention call . They ask why Mr. Hanna should be so foolish as to try to win advantage in politics by an act that would at once be heralded far and wide as perfidious . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a candidate , and that be is keeping silence as to his candidacy in ' order to add his own personal strength to that of the National ticket in order to make assurance doubly sure in the next ' election . Postmaster General Payne , who is Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee , said to-night : " Hanna 's only concern just now is a great Republican victory in President Roosevelt 's election . " Air . Payne denied any knowledge of Mr. Hanna 's alleged move ; and continuing said : " And as 2. matter of fact , I do not see how the Executive Committee can do anything in the way of laying down a rule as to the choice of delegates . The fact iathat at a recent meeting of the National Committee it was decided by resolution that the call for the next convention should be framed on the same lines of that for the last convention which was held in Philadelphia . The Executive Committee can not change the call on a matter of such radical importance . " Whatever the cause of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Penrose . Chairman of the Pennsylvania Republican State Committee , and 001 . Andrews . the Secretary of that committee , for instance , desired to call the Pennsylvania convention to meet April 5 , but should first know whether the call for the National Convention is to lay down a new rule as to the choice of delegates in order to incorporate the same rule- in the State Convention call as a safeguard against irregularity of choice of delegates by districts to the National Convention . Great care is always observed in the technicalities of convention calls for the purpose of avoiding contests between delegations . Senator Penrose has not yet decided when to issue the call for the Pennsylvania convention . He left here to-night for Philadelphia , and said before going that he might telegraph Secretary Andrews to issue the call to-morrow or Saturday . He is inclined now to go ahead and issue the call without regard to the call for the National Convention . The incident is being generally discussed to-night as a remarkable instance of the doubt felt generally as to the clear field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Policeman Closes Ferryhouse Gate in Front of Frightened Team . A runaway team , attached to a heavy truck , dashed down East Forty-second Street last evening , and would have run into a crowd at the ferryhouse had not Patrolman Charles F. Morrison of the East Thirty-fifth Street Station closed the heavy swinging door in front of them . A ferryboat was entering the slip at the moment , and if the way had been clear the horses might have dashed into it . There was great excitement among the people in the Terryhouse . The runaway was caused by the collision of a Second Avenue car with the truck , which frightened the horses . Walter . Irving of 4G Gansevoort Street , the driver . was thrown from his seat and bruised . One of the horses was so badly injured when itran against the closed gate that it may have to be shot .                     