@@677042

txt Ames Edward Foye , private secretary of Charles G. Gates , the broker , ran up to Policeman Burns at Sixth Avenue and Thirty-third Street yesterday afternoon , , and pointing to a gray-haired woman who was standing near , asked excitedly that she be arrested . She was his widowed mother , Mrs. Florence Foye . Her son said she had been following him and threatening to shoot him unless he gave her .5.100 . Burns arrested Mrs. Foye , and the three went to the Jefferson Market Court . When Mrs. Foye was taken before , Magistrate Wahle the complaining son began : " This woman --  " Stop ! " angrily commanded Magistrate Wahle . " I have heard policemen of the Tenderloin refer to women of the street I as ' that woman . ' But you be decent if you can in court , and speak of her as your mother . " " Well , " said Foye , " my mother has I twice threatened to shoot me unless gave her 500 . One threat was made in Broad Street " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing anything more , " pass that woman out . She is discharged . " " If I 'm shot who will be responsible ? " asked the son . " Get out of here at once ! " was the order . Young Foye asked the policeman at the gate the name of the Magistrate . The policeman suggested that Mr. Wahle would introduce himself on request . But Foye did not ask for the introduction . Young Foye has charge of the Gates brokerage office in the Waldorf-Astoriapart of the year . He will go to Saratoga within 8. week to take charge or another Gates branch there for a while . He said that he lived in the Waldorf-Astoria , but that was denied last night by the clerks . there . A reporter found Mrs. Foye last night at 953 Park Avenue , where she has a tiny room . She was so ashamed of ner room that she borrowed a neighbor 's to receive the reporter . She told a long story about herself and her troubles . " I come from ' the old English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educated in France . My father was elected Mayor of London , but was prevented trom taking his seat by an accident Having been educated in France . and having been much abroad , I decided that i must see your Centennial over here in 1876 . While here I met in the Grand Union Hotel the man I married . He died last year . " We had two sons  --  James Edward and Charles Edward . I do n't know where the younger son is . " I did not threaten James Edward this afternoon . Some time ago I lost my work as attendant atthe piers , and I must have something to live on . I told James Edward if he would give me 8300 and a ticket to California . I would go away and never worry him any more . This is the first time I have been able to see him in a long time . He always hid trom me when I called at the Waldorf office . I do n't know what I can do now . I was entitled ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounted to about $200,000 , but that has long been used up . " I do n't know what 's ahead for me . " TUNNEL WORK STOPPED AGAIN This Time Apartment House Proprietor Will Appeal to Court . Work on the tunnel which is to connect the Pennsylvania Railroad terminal with Long Island City , across Manhattan Island , was again stopped last night because the clatter of the drills matte sleep in the neighborhood impossible . The stoppage this time was due to the proprietor of the St. Louis apartment house , at - 34 East Thirty-second Street4 who telephoned to Police Captain Cottrell that the noise was so great that his tenants could not rest It required five minutes of shouting down the shaft to drown the din . Finally the foreman appeared above ground . A policeman offered to make an arrest if the proprietor of the apartment house wished , but this he was disinclined to do if work could be stopped . This was ordered , and the guests of the St. Louis retired to their interrupted slumbers . Mr. Felt of the St. Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to secure a permanent injunction against night drilling there . HARRIMAN OUT OF RIO GRANDE He Resigned from the Gould Railroad Late in May . It became known yesterday that E. H. Harriman resigned late in May from the Board of Directors of the Denver and Rto Grande Railroad , one of the Gould roads . The withdrawal of Mr. Harriman took place about the same time that George J. Gould resigned from the Board of Directors of Mr. Harriman 's Union Pacific Railroad . Winslow H. Pierce , Mr. Gould 's counsel . also withdrew from the Union Pacific . The Western Pacific , a new Gould line yet to be built , will compete with the Harriman transcontinental line . It was for this reason that Mr. Gould left the Union Pacific . The arrangement for financing the Western Pacific was completed in May , and immediately Mr. Gould separated himself from the Harriman property . Edwin Gould also resigned from the Denver and Rio Grande Directorate in May . but will resume his place when he returns from an extended European trip . The new Directors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joel F. Vaile , and W. H. Taylor .. Mr. Taylor is Vice Pfesident of the Bowling Green Trust Company . BOY KILLED ON ELEVATED . Climbed a I- ii ! er and Touched the Third Rail  --  Run Over Twice . Eight-year-old Peter of 336 East Thirty-fourth Street was shocked by the third rail and run over twice by the same train on the Thirty-fourth Street ' , branch of the Third Avenue elevated road last night The boy had climbed a pillar up to the ties when the shuttle train of two cars I approached , going west . He . tried to ilower himself again , and in doing so his arm touched the third rail . By this time the train was close to him , and both cars passed over him , severing both legs . The motorman knew nothing of the accident , I and on the trip back to the ferry again ran over the body .                     