@@677300

txt Have the meal packers no memories , or do they think that others have none ? In their reply they declare that the disclosures strike " not at the packers , but at every farmer who raises a hog , or a sheep , or a steer for the market . Without the market created sic by the packing industry the American livestock growers ' business would be absolutely stripped of profit . The up-to-date live stock growers know this . " Gen. Mrt.rs throws a searchlight through this pretense of friendliness to the chief sufferers by the trust methods . Says the General : My sympathies are with the farmers and stock raisers , also with the millions of our people . The first are compelled to sell their products at the lowest price and the latter to nay the highest price for their meat food . the rates and conditions being fixed by the-Beef Trust . ? This surely accords with the admitted practice of the trust before the disclosures . Their cozening of the farmer was a fair complement to their extortion from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but ruined . It is even more singular that they are supported in this singular attitude by the National Livestock Association , whose President impugns Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S motives , and alleges that the President , " over the heads of the packers , has hit a hard blow at the livestock industry . " It may be so . Things are seldom what they seem in these days of sophistication , but it is possible that President HAGENBARTH has some claim to speak honestly in the name of the interest which he claims to represent . But his views are so singular that it also may be that he is some sort of tender to the trust . As it seems to us , the trust merely supplies the market which it claims to create . The reduction of the demand for the trust 's product does not signify a permanent loss of appe- ; tite for meat . The human appetite creates the market which the trust allee-es would not exist but for its effort . If the trust can sell meat fit to eat it need not fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decrease of demand for the tru.it'g goods creates a market for a better substitute . The farmers can only benefit by the substitution cf many buyers for one , and consumers will also benefit by encouragement of trade under their own observation of its methods . The trust is big enough , and rich enough , to take its dose without pleading the baby act and hiding behind those whom it has wronged . And were there no discount from the trust 's plea it would remain true that the interests of the multitude must prevail over those of the monopoly .                     