@@677936

txt ALBANY , Feb. ** no formal announcement has been made by Gov . Hughes , all doubt has been removed as to the course he would pursue with reference to the report of Matthew C. Fleming , following his investigation of the official conduct of State Superintendent of Insurance Otto Kelsey . No date has been fixed whent the ' Governor will communicate with the Senate on the subject , but it is certain that action of some sort , with a view to effecting a reorganization of the Insurance Department , will be recommended within a few dv-s . With this certain there wds a decided revival here to-day of the activity on the part of Kelsey 's friends , which was so much in evidence during the stormy period of the last session , when the question of his removal was a topic over ' which the supporters of Gov . Hughes and the friends of Kelsey in the Senate were contending . They say he would have five more votes in the Senate against his removal this year than he had at the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been one of the most valuable political assets of the Wadsworth machine in Western New York , and it may be taken for granted that Speaker Wadsworth will exert all his influence with the Senate in behalf of his political retainer , There was a rumor here to-day that the so-called Roosevelt element In the Senate would line up solidly behind Kelsey in return for any support the Wads-worths might be able to give them in the fight for Control of the State organization . There is no tahgibie ground for this , rumor , and every indication at present points to a situation where all Kelsey can count upon is the support of the minority and his . personal friends and political associates on the Republican side of the Senate . While if was by the support of these elements that Kelsey carried off the victory at the last ? session , ' there are Indications of a break In the ranks of his Republican supporters this yen ? . There has been much bitter criticism among the friends who voted to retain him last year on account of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate . ? ' Few of the Senators who voted for Kelsey have forgotten the deluge of totters they received from the people of their districts censuring their action . To-day at least one of these Senators called on Mr. Kelsey and asked him to send his resignation to the Governor , but failed to elicit a satisfactory rely . Most of Kelsey 's friends were desirous that the Governor should send the Fleming report without any comment . but there is nothing to justify such hope . It was rumored here to-night that Gov . Hughes , when he communicates with the Senate on the subject , will send with his recommendation a review of the whitewashing testimony presented to the Senate Judiciary Committee on Kelsey 's 122-half a year ago and pointing out its many flaws .                     