@@677576

txt After nearly three days of almost continuous dancing , Theresa Horn , a *domestic employed by John Kelly , a rich resident of Ardraore , was placed today under opiates at Norris . town hospital to save her from dancing her life away . Even under the influence of the antesthetic her feet kept twitching . When brought to the hospital the girl begged piteously to be delivered from the strange mania that has possessed her since Thursday night . Her face , which had been well rounded , had lost all Its curves and was like that of an old woman . Her eyes were like those of a man finishing a six days ' bicycle race . Her heart actien was tremendously excited at times and at times almost imperceptible . When she awakens from the stupor caused by drugs , allentsts will examine her for her sanity . They admit that they are now absolutely at a loss to account for her symptoms , the like of which never has come before them . Like Case of Tarantula Madness . The only parallels , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dancing mania caused by tarantula 's bite and the weird phenomenon which formed , one of the foundations of the horrible crusade against the witches in New England . Miss Horn , who is 21 yearn old , and had been exceptionally pretty , was seized with her dancing mania late Thursday afternoon while at work at her regular duties in the Kelly home . She suddenly threw her arms over her head and began , to dance . " I do n't know what 's the matter with me , " she gasped as Mrs. Kelly entered . " I ca n't stop dancing . " Both Mr. and Mrs. Kelly tried to hold her . but could not . Then they tried to hold her feet , but It was impossible . After she had danced for more than an hour Drs . Cloud and were called In . By this time the girl could not speak . Policemen Ca n't Stop Her . Amer working with her for some time the physicians had her sent to the matron 's room in Ardmore police station . Policemen held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would release their hold she would begin dancing again . Injections of morphine had only a temporary effect and soon wore off . With only occasional respites from drugs the girl 's movements continued all day Friday . At times she would whirl about the room in waltz and two-step methods , and at times the dance movements resembled no particular mode , but were always rhythmic and graceful . On Saturday afternoon she was taken to Norristown for examination by alienista there . Beyond apparent loss of speech and an uncontrollable desire to dance there were no signs of insanity . " Her dancing is not spasmodic as such , " said Dr. today , " but whit the disturbing cause is we have not yet learned . The strange thing about it is that the dancing is always rhythmic . Perhaps when the effect of this opiate has passed she may be normal again and we can learn . "                     