@@675798

txt " Book-Madness , " the title of Mr. Leon H. Vincent 's very suggestive essay in the recently issued " Arnold Record of American First Editions , " is a fascinating subject . Old as is the collecting habit , and numerous and ardent as are and have been its devotees , there has been surprisingly little written on the subject worthy of preservation . Bearing in mind Irelend 's Euchiridion , " The Solace and Companionship of Books , " an inexhaustible treasure house of prose and verse on the subject , and the two editions of " Ballads of Books , " somewhat different as to contents , issued here and in England by Brander Matthews and Andrew Lang , yet as compared with the vast mass of other literature , the contents of those volumes , and a few scattering essays , paragraphs , and poems written since these compilations were made , is so small that book lovers will welcome Mr. Vincent 's present paper , the title of which Is evidently borrowed from Dobson 's always delightful -- Books , books again , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some miscall Mere madness , setting little store By copies either short or tall ; But you , O slaves of shelf and stall ! We rather write for you that hold Patched folios dear , and prize the small Rare volume , black with tarnished gold . Book madness is the most desirable of all diseases , Mr. Vincent declares , and all the more desirable because so seldom cured ; possssing , too , many virtues quite Its own . and making its victims " radiantly , if feverishly , happy through the acute stage , serene and complacent during the long period of convalescence , and heartily to be congratulated in case of a relapse , " the happy middle period above all being capable of being so indefinitely extended as to cover the greater portion of a man 's life . Mr. Vincent says there is a practical and unregenerate public who may care indeed as much as or more than the saving remnant for the inside of books , but who insist emphatically that books were made to read rather than gloat over , that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added pleasure a collector feels in his ownership of a first edition or other rare volume , possessing a charm " entirely apart from grace of style and rich intellectual content . " This is a charm entirely evident to the few , but difficult to impart to men " who get the same pleasure out of Horace whether they read him in the plain text of B. Trubner , ad usum scholarum , or in the lovely little edition made by John Baskerville of Birmingham in the year 1763 . Such readers are not barbarians , but through their indifference do they most assuredly deprive themselves of a legitimate and a great pleasure . " It would probably be hard to put into cold words the pure pleasure a bibliophile is able to extract from an understanding of title pages and editions and the attendant fascinations of catalogues and bibliography . And yet to one thoroughly bitten with the disease it is not the possession merely of such treasures , the ownership of a book not to be found on every collector 's shelves ? although there is little doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfect zest . There is an indefinable charm for the well bitten in a book in the condition in which it first left its author 's hands . It is essentially his edition , and so brings us nearer to the man behind the book . On the success of such a book , and especially ' if it happens to be included among an author 's first or early volumes , may depend his future , and though the edition may be shabby and mean as to paper and print , the book lover possessed of the true sacred fire enters , through the ownership of such a volume , into a sympathy with the hopes and . fears of its author never to be experienced in the reading of later or collected editions , essentially the publisher 's edition . Mr. Vincent discourses upon the various ways in which collectors bring together their books , Mr. Arnold 's having been gathered largely through a study of catalogues . The former would not care to see the entire world bitten with this disease of book-madness , but he " could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this humanizing passion ; that not a few were adepts , and that there were some three or four in each generation , who , to sustain the noble traditions of their craft , squandered time and money in Richard Heber 's most royal manner . "                     