@@678028

txt The death knell of the Bryan Presidential boom , so far as New York is concerned , was sounded In the Democratic . State Convention yesterday after the del. egates had applauded to the echo a speech - by Thomas F. Carmody , its ternporez7 .. Chairman , In which he pleaded for a re . turn to the old and tried doctrines which have carried the Democratic Party-tp victory at the polls In years past . t - When the convention meets for Its fjzial session to-day the Committee on Resolutions and Platform will bring in a resolution providing for a " free and untrammeled " delegation from this State to the Democratic National Convention at Den-. ver . , This course was decided upon in the committee late last night by a. vote a 23 to 4 after the tut/est opportunity-for discussion had been afforded to the friends of Mr. Bryan and a substitute resolution urging a delegation instructed for the Ne. braskan had been defeated by a slimier vote . Democratic National Committeeman Norman E. Mack , the chief advocate of Mr. Bryan 's nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would prevent a rei ? nority report at the session of the cea. vention to-day . The friends of the Nebraskan seemedanxious above all things to have their say in open convention . They deeded upon this action in the face of represen. tations of their opponents , who urged that it would only tend to discredit their ' candidate before the Nation . Only 48 Votes for Him : If the minority vote Is presented It will be defeated by an overwhelming majority , ' The full strength of Mr , Bryan in the convention is 48 votes out of 488 . Here is a full list of his following as represented by delegations instructed for him : The friends of Mr. Bryan made an ineffectual attempt to bring the fight for their candidate out into the open on the Beef of the convention at the opening session yesterday by springing the resolution which was later defeated in the Committee on Resolutions . While the attempt was frustrated the convention was in a turmoil , which was checked only , by a snap motion to adjourn , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening . session of the convention , at which temporary organization was effected , was called to order yesterday afternoon at Carnegie , I.joil after Justice Crane , sitting in Special Term In the Supreme Court of Brooklyn , had modified the omnibus injunction he had granted to Senator Patrick H. McCarren of Brooklyn to prevent Democratic State Chairman William J. Conners and Tammany Leader Charles F. Murphy from throwing- him and his following bodily out of the convention without a hearing . The absolute control of the convention and all its machinery by Conners and Murphy was even more clearly established yesterday than during the preliminaries of the day before . On the Committee On Credentials and Contested Seats only their friends had places . No Show for 3IcOarren . This committee will sit In judgment on all contests , including that against the delegates of Senator McCarren and Patrick E. McCabe , the Democratic boss of Albany , whom Conners is anxious to oust from power . At midnight the committed was still In session , and it was the general opinion among those who witnessed the proceedings that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night there was a report that five of McCarren 's leaders had decided to desert the Brooklyn statesman and join the opposition engineered by Tammany Leader Murphy in return for having their delegations seated . This would give thee opposition a clear majority In the Executive Committee of McCarren 's own organization and mean his political downfall .. When asked about this report McCarreit said : " I have heard nothing about it : you must ask them . They can answer for themselves . " The report could not be confirmed , through the leaders mentioned as having deserted MeCarren . Friends of Mr. Con. ners , however , declared at least three ' of the leaders would have their delegations seated . 1 The convention will meet at noon to-day . to finish its work by naming the four delegates at large and Presidential EleCtors and ratifying the choice of delegates to the Democratic National Convention from the various Senate districts in the . State . Thomas F. Carmody , the Tein .. porary Chairman , Is slated for Permanent chairman of the convention . Prior to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is scheduled for 10 o'clock this meriting . ' While the personnel of the delegation at large had not been finally decided upon . at midnight , it was said that the list of . men whose names were mentioned in THE TimEs yesterday probably would-be selected . They were William . J. Conners : . Charles F. Murphy , Lewis Nixon , and John B. Stanchfield . At a. ca.ucus7of delegates from ' the lror , - ty-second- Senatorial ** 1ast. might , ** of LYOnS , who at ' the last meeting of the-Dan:icemen ta tiia itai pritn ' Ban resolu4 titan Was defeated for re-eleotion . In his ? place was named Charles H. Ford a Clyde . BRYAN MEN ALL OAOGED . They Are Speedily Shut - Off When They Trot Out Their Resolution . The opening session of the convention was late in getting under way . It was scheduled for noon , but it was nearly 2 o'clock before it was called to order . The long delay was due to complications which followed in the wake of the McCarren injunction restraining the State Committee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except those of his delegates on the ' temporary roll as representing Kings County . While Daniel F. Cohalan , Chairman of the Tammany Hall Law Committee , and Isaac M. Kapper , counsel for the Kings County Democratic organization , were making their arguments , resulting in the partial lifting of the restraining order , before Justice Crane in the Brooklyn Supreme Court , the convention was held up . At the noon hour , when the convention was scheduled to meet , Carnegie Hall was deserted save for a few newspaper men and clerks of the temporary organization . A band in the gallery was playing ? patriotie airs and other music without any one to applaud its efforts . The stint of decorations in the hall when the Republican Convention met there last Saturday was much commented on then . Yet the display of bunting on that occasion was lavish compared with that afforded for the Democratic gathering yesterday . One solitary American flag of comparatively scant dimensions hung flimsily festooned on the background of the stage . That was all . The air before the delegates had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war over the much-heralded plan of the few Bryan enthusiasts to raise a rumpus on the floor of the convention as a result of the cold treatment accorded the Nebraskan by State Chairman Conners and Tammany Leader Murphy , the dominant factors in the gathering , as well as over their attempt to unseat the McCarren delegates from Kings . Pollee Looked for Trouble . In preparation for any trouble , 150 policemen had been sent to Carnegie Hall . Only a very few of these were in evidence . The rest were held in reserve in a large room in the basement , State Chairman Conners was greeted - with scant applause as he appeared on the stage at 1:30 . When Senator McCarren , at the head of his injunction , protected delegates from Kings , entered the hall and strode down the main aisle to his seat near the rostrum the applause was much greeter . Tammany Leader Murphy , accompanied by J. Sergeant Cram , reached his seat unobserved by the , delegates and with no demonstration to greet him . The lack of enthusiasm among the delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening session . It was 1:55 when Chairman Conners called the convention to order and announced that he hail been authorized by the State Committee to name Thomas F. Carmody of Penn Tan as temporary Chairman . Mr. Conners appointed Edward E. Coatesworth of Erie , an enthusiastic Bryan man ; William J. Rafferty of Onondaga , and James Norton of Nassau a committee to escort Mr. Carmody to the platform . Mr .. Carmody 's speech occupied the greater part of the opening session . lender the spell of his oratory the delegates finally warmed up , and the salient parts of his address were applauded to the echo . He laid the blame for the industrial depression and the recent money stress at the doors of the Republican Party , declared that no real reform could be expected from the hands of the Republicans , and predicted victory for the Demodratic Party if its leaders would stop quarreling over doctrines regarding which there might be a difference of opinion within tho party ranks and unite on the old and tried party doctrines of weade they all approved . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " In the wreck of our industrial preee perky , in the corruption of official hied in the invasion of home rule , in the unbalancing of the co-ordinate branches of government , in the transgression of the principle of equality before the law , in the ignoring of the doctrine of equal justice to all men , is found the primal cause of the great evils of our public life ; is found the indictment of the Republican Party . It has been a party of expedients and not of principles . " No attempt is made , openly at to defend the present tariff schedules . AV. honest and intelligent men in both parties concede the necessity of tariff revision , and that it has been too long delayed . It has been justly called the mother of trusts . Its iniquitous schedules , permitting abnormal profits and bringing about consequent burdens upon producer and consumer alike , are one of the great contributing causes of the Industrial depression of the present time . " That the Republican Party is totally Incapable of righting this wrong is too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to special interests , special privileges , subsidies , tariff robberies , and industrial crookedness . They are woven all into the very fibre of the party . They control its voting strength . They control its legislative strength . e No matter what President that party may elect . these influences will be the power behind him . For election purposes Republicans may preach and promise reform . Should that party succeed again , no matter under what candidate , you will see the same greedy parasites at the crib . The Business Depression . " It is not alone to unjust tariff schedules and to the dishonest and unequal application of industrial methods that business depression is due and that the discouraged and heartless feeling of the industrial world may be attributed . " The party seems incapable of comprehending the doctrine of equal and exact justice to all men . It seems incapable of understanding the application of the elementary principles of free government . Instead of correcting existing wrongs , the attempt to do so has but aggravated the erten . Ire attempting : tO Icorrect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - of ' coporato mismarieeemente theY have destroyed legitimate values and discouraged honest enterprise . ? In attempting to destroy crime , they punish innocence . In trying to prevent fraud , they have ' closed up the avenues of industrial development . ' Nothing on earth can defeat the Democratic Party in ' this State and Nation in the coming campaign but false and faltering ' Democrats . State Chairman Conners has never forgiven McCarren for knifing - Hearst in Kings County in the last Gubernatorial campaign . Conners used the speech of the temporary Chairman to pay off a Brooklyn statesman . grudge against the little part of his gra " We have a great many , " said the speaker , but who profess some of our principles , ut who vote against our candidates . We have any number who profess to act with us at conventions who vote against us in elections . What we want is not January Democrats , but December Democrats . ' At this there was applause and howls from the delegates . Chairman Conners looked daggers at McCarren from the rostrum and grinned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ever . Applause for McCarren . After Mr. Carmody had finished speaking he took up the routine of the open session , beginning with a roll call of the 450 delegates . There was great applause when McCarren 's name was reached , and it seemed to come from all parts of the hall , except the section where the TamI many braves were seated with their leadler . The latter got applause , but it was not so general . Ex-Borough President Cassidy of Queens offered a resolution providing for the adoption of the rules of the Assembly for the convention . This was passed . Then W. H. Farley , a delegate from Broome County , presented one providing that all resolutions except such as referred to the routine of the convention be referred/ without preliminary discussion to the Committee on Resolutions . Chairman Carmody put this through in a hurry . Once passed , it prevented the Bryan enthusiasts from making a fight for their candidate on the floor of the convention , as they had expected . ' Augustus Thomas , playwright and President of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight was to have been led by former District Attorney Edward E. Coatesworth of Erie County , who is a delThe Bryanites had been caught napping . The moment they realized what had happened they bobbed up in all parts of the hall and clamored for recognition , but Chairman Carmody had already entertained a resolution offered by Charles N. Bulger of Oswego and ordered the Secretary to read it . Mr. Buig-er 's resolution provided for a Committee on Credentials and Contested Seats , with one member from each Senatorial district to be selected by . the dele-1 gates from such district . The resolutions provided that no member of the committee should have a right to vote on questions in any way affecting his title to a seat In the convention . This will make it impossible cor McCarren and McCabe , their delegates , and others involved in contests to do any good for themselves by the use of their own votes Senator Thomas F. Grady offered the resolution creating the Committee on Resolutions and Platform . Several other resolutions relating to routine and procedure were put through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started an attempt to break the gag rule . Bryan Men Suppressed . Mr. Coatesworth began the fight by sending to the rostrum a resolution indorsing Mr. Bryan and calling for a delegation to the National Convention instructed for him . The Bryan resolution follows : Whereas , It is the universal sentiment that , the Hon. William Jennings Bryan be the choice of the Democratic Party as its nominee for President of the United States , and Whereas , Several counties in this State have instructed delegates elected to this convention to vote for resolutions indorsing him as the party 's standard bearer , therefore , be it Resolved . That the delegates elected at this convention to represent the State at the National Convention to be held at Denver , Col. , July 7 , 190S , be and they are hereby instructed to vote for the Hon. William Jennings Bryan as the Democratic nominee for President of the ' United States . et Referred to the Committee on Resolutieat " said Chairman Carmody . " Ir . Chairman , " shouted Mr. Coates " rth and a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition . By that time , however , Secretary Thomas P. Smith of Tammany Hall had walked down the aisle and handed up to the Chairman a set of slips containing the Tammany selections for the various committees . Chairman Carmody ordered Secretary Mason of the convention to read off the names , and pounded the desk with his gavel in an attempt to restore quiet . At . this point the convention was in a turmoil . Policemen attracted by the din poked- their heads through every doorway . James Pierce , an elderly delegate from Monroe , who several times had sought to get recognition , ran down the aisle shaking his fist at Conners , ' Carmody et al . on the platform , with clouds demands that he be heard , and that ' the Bryan resolution be discussed in open convention . It was all to no purpose . A delegate jumped up and put a motion to adjourn . Chairman Carmody put the question at once . There was a chorus of " Ayes , " and the final gavel fell with the angry protests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The convention was adjourned until noon to-day . McCARREN ACCUSED OF FRAUD . His Foes Charge His Lieutenants with Stuffing Ballot Boxes . Wholesale frauds at the recent primary elections in Brooklyn were charged against the McCarreialtes last night when the Committee on Contested Seats of the Democratic State Convention began the consideration of the contests filed in Kings County . The McCarren Inspectors were charged with having stuffed ballot boxes and using every- device known to politics to carry the elections in the various districts . Each of the charges was backed up by affidavits . A big sheaf of them was put in in connection with the contest in each of the sixteen Assembly districts . McCarren contended before the meeting that he did not know what the complaints seu  --  rneasitedd when Knee : f1aopupnii:iead hC **28;549;TOOLONG the statements of wrongdoing on the part of his lieutenants were . Having effected organization at a brief session held early in the - afternoon the committee got down to business in the Hotel Victoria about 6 o'clock , with every prospect of a long , hard fight ahead of it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in substituting his lawyer and two trusted lieutenants for three men not considered as available for the purpose in hand . The substitutions were : Isaac M. Kapper for Conrad Hasenflug , John J. Fitzgerald for John B. Connelly , and P. H. , Quinn for Arthur Somers . Charles M. Bulger , the Chairman , and John T. Maher , the Secretary . were opposed to the substitutions . The Secretary asserted that the substitution papers pcoreuplderiny eighotbeeda.ccepted as they were not eleCarren on the Alert . Who do you want to sign them ? " asked McCarren . " I 'll sign it . I 'm Chairman of the Executive Committee over there . " Mr. Bulger and Mr. Maher still hes1-1 tated , but Daniel F. Cohalan , Murphy 's lieutenant , moved that the substitutions be accepted . This was done , and the Committee adjourned until o:30 . The whist clubroom on the second floor 1 of the hotel was jammed to suffocation ' at 5 : 80 . State Chairman Conners passed ' about seeing that the fences were In good condition , Chairman Bulger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commit teemen . Meanwhile McCarren , whose political career was supposed to ' be trembling in the balance , sat in a corner reade ing et paper and looking sleepy . At the outset in was moved and carried that the contests be taken up by counties and in alphabetical order . This made It evident that the McCarren contests would be taken up last . There were nine contests to be considered ahead of Kings ? three in Albany , one in Chautauqua , one in Erie , one in Herkimer , two in Jefferson , and one in Queens . McCarren made the suggestion that a limit of half an hour for each side of each contest be set . This meant that if each seated delegation and contestant took the limit of time it would be nine hours later , or 3 o'clock in the morning , before the McCarren contests were reached , and sixteen hours later , or 7 heard . to-night , before all those were The Albany contests were first taken up . Appearing for the contestants in the First Assembly District , Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faction had suffered at the hands of the McCabe faction in the last primaries . Ho charged that the McCabe men , working in conjunction with the Republican administration , had first failed to send out notices to include the Democratic electors in the outlying sections , and that then the returns had been changed to show the McCabe faction a winner , when the reverse was the case . William V. Cooke , the man who nominated Hearst at Buffalo , presented the case for the McCabe faction . He belittled the convention the contestants had held , and talked of the " lady-like " behavior of the Ten Eyck men . At one point Mr. Ten Eyck exclaimed : " That statement is absolutely false . " " I expected the gentleman would lose control of himself . That 's his usual condition , " retorted Mr. Cooke . The contests in Erie and Jefferson were postponed , and the fight in the First Chautauqua District was taken up . Deputy Attorney General P. H. Mott was the contestant against the faction which has the backing of James C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was slated by Conners represented the faction of which Frank F. Sherman is the leader . The trouble originated in an alleged " snap " caucus at Watertown . The War in Kings . The contests in Herkimer and Jefferson were postponed , and at 9 o'clock the first contest in Kings County was taken up . George V. S. Williams , Chairman of the Kings County Democratic Party , the anti-McCarren faction , made a statement in opening the case . He charged wholesale ballot box stuffing and the voting of entire enrollment . These things , he said , would be proved , and it would be established , too , that the names of men long since dead had been voted on , and in some cases criminals had been placed in charge of the ballot boxes . After a brief wrangle the contest in the Second District was taken up . Mr. Williams stated that in several districts the number of votes recorded exceeded the number on the enrollment list . In the Third Election District , for instance , there were 318 votes though only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Fourth , Eighth , and Twelfth Election Districts , and Mr. Williams Put in affidavits in support of his ' statements . Mr. Williams put in evidence an affidavit of one Henry Heckman , an inspector at the primaries , who swore that voters had frequently handed him several ballots at once . He presented a bundle of affidavits In which watchers and voters testified to wrongdoing at the polling places , which consisted of stuffing the boxes , wrong counting of votes , mismarking the enrollment books , and about everything else known to primary politics . There was a wrangle lasting two and a half hours over the contests in the Second Assembly District . Mr. Williams then delved into the alleged , frauds in the First District . It became evident before midnight that there was no possibility of hearing all the contests , even if the committee sat all night . As no vote on any contest would be taken until all the evidence was in it was apparent that it would not be known until late this morning whether McCarren 's delegates were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be , howMcCARREN WRIT DISMISSED . Court Vacates Blanket Injunction Against Murphy and Conners . On the application of Daniel F. Cohalan , Chairman of the Tammany Law Committee , Justice Crane of the Supreme Court In Brooklyn yesterday vacated the blanket injunction obtained by Senator Patrick H. McCarren with a view of preventing the Murphy-Conners combination from ousting McCarren 's delegates from the convention , excepting the clause which demands that the names of the McCarren delegates shall be placed on the temporary roll . , This , dondithire-had-alreadY been complied - with by the ; State . Come =Mee at its meeting on Menden evening . Mr. Cohalan in arguing the case before Justice Crane , gravely ' questioned the right of any court to issue such a sweeping injunction . " If the court has this right , " said Mr. Cohalan , " it might even go ahead and direct which names shall go on the roll . In the meantime we are prevented from holding our convention , and many of our delegates will return home unless we get this business over with in a hurry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kings County Democratic organization , declared that Murphy and Conners had been sitting In judgment on McCarren 's case in advance . The hostile forces of the convention can not and will not do justice to these plaintiffs , " said Mr , Kemper . Justice Crane said that inasmuch as the names ofdhe McCarren delegates had been put on the temporary roll , he would vacate his order . He said if the delegates were disqualified without a fair hearing recourse could be had to the courts again . Bryan Shut-Out Complete . After having been denied their say on the floor of the convention the advocates of Mr. Bryan 's nomination and on an instructed delegation took their case before the Committee on Resolutions , of which Senator Thomas F. Grady was made Chairman . Before the committee the Bryan boom in this State received its ' death blow . After organizing the committee appointed a sub-committee of seven to consider the Bryan resolution handed in by Edward E. Coatesworth , head of the Erie1 ? County delegation . The sub-committee was composed of Senator Grady . John F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. A. Reeves of SuffolkeW111-tam Townsend of Oneida , Controller Metz , I and Bryan 's stanch friend , Norman E. Mack of Buffalo . The ' committee stood 28 to 4 against the 1Bryan resolution and for the resolution providing for an uninstructed delegation .                     