@@676926

txt The prediction of an unprecedented " boom " in building operations in 1:105 on the strength of plans filed with the Building Department depends for its fulfillment upon several things besides the desire of owners of land to make important improvements . The filing during the months of December and II January of plans for buildings to cost 11 some two hundred and fifty millions in Manhattan , Brooklyn , and the Bronx is very interesting and extremely significant . It shows what possibilities of development await a satisfactory settlement of the questions upon which not only cost but time of construction depend ; but it is quite safe to predict that while the relation of the unions to the local asso31s.tion of employers remains what It now is , and especially until artificial restrictions are removed and freedom of competition for labor ' and materials is substituted , no tmportant building operations which can possibly be postponed will be undertaken . The risk incurred by capital is greater than it is warranted in assuming . This is especially true of office buildings and high-class structures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the erection , of flats an tenements of the kind described in vhe trade as " thrown together , " largely in the vacant areas of Brooklyn and the Bronx , and of these by far the larger part are likely to be secured by contractors outside the Alliance and depending upon such of its locked-nut or striking mechanics as can be picked up . This is far from a satisfactory situation . It is to be regretted that the unions have not yet produced a leader with the intelligence to see that a policy which faits to protect the owner is destructive of the prosperity of their industry . It should not be difficult to arrange a plan by which costly interruptions and delays might be avoided and buildings begun under mutually satisfactory contracts finished on schedule time . The demand of the owner Is not at all for cheap labor . It is for honest labor , for a fair day 's work for liberal wages , for responsibility of labor in all contractual relations , and for a reasonable consideiration on the part of labor for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily and almost hourly ecntentions between employers and workmen . These things hurt the employer very little . He is protected by strike clauses . The owner pays for it all , and that he is tired of it is not surprising .                     