@@675842

txt The cleaning of a storage tank at the Essex and Hudson Gas Company 's works led to an explosion here about 1:40 this afternoon which resulted in the death of six men , injuries more or less serious to seven others , and a fire fraught with unusual dangers . The shock of the explosion shattered the windows of buildings for blocks away . The accident was caused by carelessness . THE DEAD . KIRSCH . LAWRENCE , of Norfolk Street and Central Avenue . MAYER , WILLIAM , of East NiSwaric . MILLER . NICHOLAS , lived on Front Street , near the works . NEUMANN , OTTO , of 75 Clay Street , foreman . MILLER , HENRY , of 325 Elm Street . SNYDER . ALFRED , of 343 Fourth Street , Jersey City , The injured were Thomas Bunker , Superintendent of distribution department , of 68 Park Place ; taken to St. Michael 's Hospital , suffering from cuts on head , and burned hands . Henry Ludwig , hodcarrier , of 31 . Lock Street ; taken to St. Michael 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Edmund Miller , of My , Bridge Street ; taken to City Hospital , suffering from bruises about the face and body . Salvatore Noccitra , laborer , of 8 Adams Street ; taken to St. Michael 's Hospital suffering from burns and cuts on the head . Edward Renderer , mason , of 13 Front Street ; taken to St. Michael 's Hospital , badly burned about the head . A. H. Stryker , engineer , of 235 Mount Pleasant Avenue ; taken home in a cab . Arthur Vincent , 219 Cleveland Avenue ; taken to City Hospital suffering from burns about the face and body . The tank which was to be cleaned , and which exploded , is one of three of its kind which are grouped together . It was twenty feet high and about fifteen in diameter . It contained crude oil when in use , the vapor of which was led by pipes into near-by gasometers . All the oil had been drawn out of it on Wednesday , and only some of the vapor remained in it yesterday morning . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that before any one descends into a tank it shall have been opened no less than two weeks . The tank which exploded yesterday was opened by means of a manhole at the top yesterday morning . For some reason the workmen began to clean out the tank soon after it was opened . The first man descended into it soon after noon . He was William Mayer . The second man is said to have been Lawrence Kirsch . Soon after he went down , Otto Neumann , the foreman , looked down into the tank and saw that the two men had become unconscious . It is also a rule of the company that men who descend into the tank shall be tied around the waist with a rope held by men on the outside at the- top . Neumann , in his.anxiety to rescue the unconscious men , forgot this . He rushed . down the . ladder and also was overcome . Some one saw the three men in the tank and called out : " Help ! three men are out below ! " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the top of the tank was covered with workmen . The list of , dead and injured exclusive of those who had gone into the tank , tells who they were . It was seen that to send a man down was useless , as he would be overcome , so when a workman suggested : " Let 's chop a hole in the top , " the suggestion was acted on promptly . For a few minutes after that there was a great noise as axes and hammers rained down on the top of the huge iron tank . A large jagged hqle had already been torn into the top of the tank when suddenly there was a terrific explosion and a tongue of flame leaped into the air . Those who were within the gas company 's yard , and those who were on the outside of it saw great clouds of smoke following the flames , and the bodies of men were hurled through the air . The men were thrown in several instances as far as 200 feet away from the shattered tank . One of thet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed  --  was thrown clear outside of the company 's yard between two huge gas tanks and into a small park known as Lombardy Place . He was dead when reached . Another one of those killed was thrown upon a pile of lumber very close to the Passaic River , which runs near the works . His flight led to the belief that somebody had fallen into the river , and for hours the police searched for a body . The other men killed or injured were found in various snots about the yard . None of the killed or injured was mangled or maimed . The explosion was followed by the calling out of the Fire Department . for the flames from the exploded tank , had started flames at half a dozen places . The firemen found the yard a dangerous place , as it is crowded with gas tanks , some of them being filled to the top with gas and gasoline . But , regardless of this danger , they worked heroically , and succeeded in extinguishing the flames . The news of the accident quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them were women who had husbands or relatives working , inside . They beCtMe hysterical and were hard to manage . When the excitement had partly subsided . James P. Dusenberry , the . Secretary and Treasurer of the gas company , gave out a formal statement , in which he said that the men who had - descended into the tank were themselves to blame for what had happened , because they had violated a strict rule of the company . Dr. Washington , the County Physician , said he thought no inquest would be held in the case ; that the Newark authorities did not as a rule believe in inquests . Nobody knows precisely what caused the explosion , but the theory is that a spark of fire struck by hammer or chisel by the men on top of the tank ignited the vapor.                     