@@675945

txt Fire destroyed several buildings in the business section of this place early this morning . Other buildings were damaged by water . It is believed that the building 's were set on fire . The loss will be between $00,000 and $100,000 , which is about evenly divided between the buildings and the stocks and fittings they contained . The insurance , it is said , will cover two-thirds or three-quarters of the loss . The fire started in the dry goods store of William M. Glover near the corner of Bloomfield and South Fullerton Avenues . There was no wind at the time . The flames when first seen were burning fiercely . It was then about 5:30 o'clock . and few persons were about , so the fire had a good start . The flames spread rapidly , and soon the adjoining houses were ablaze . The entire Fire Department was called out , and after several hours of hard work the fire was gotten under control , after having destroyed the building in which it started and those occupied by F. Piaget &; Co. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the office of the Essex and Hudson Gas Company , and the big hardware store of I. Seymour Crane . On the floors above the stores were the offices of the Board of Health , the Montclair Building and Loan Association , the rooms of the Montclair Camera Club , the exchange of the Montclair and Bloomfield Telephone Company , several lodge rooms , and rooms of various lawyers , architects , and other business men . Little was saved from any of the buildings . Ellis Jones , the night operator of the local telephone company 's office was hemmed in by flames and tried to escape from a window . The smoke pouring out around him overcame him , and he was carried down unconscious by the firemen . He has recovered . The telephone wires were a source of great danger . They concentrated in a box on a pole beside the building and then entered it by cable . When the fire reached the box it was burned and the wires melted and dropped . They fell across the feed wires of the trolley company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends of the telephone wires were all highly charged . The electrical display was beautiful , as the power larlilreers.w " ' Severales rpte-circuited but no one was shocked seriously . Later an employe of the'irolley company cut the feed wire of the railror.d both above and below the fire . When the fire attacked Wrensch 's store the spectators were treated to a display of fireworks . Rockets and candles shot into the air , and the balls flew in all directions . For a , time it was feared that these would carry the fire to other buildings , but the Owners and occupants of these were on the watch , and while there were a dozen incipient fires reported , no damage was done . At the same time there was a continual rattle of bombs and crackers in the store , and the firemen had to retire before the I danger . In the cellar of Crane 's store it is said there was a stock of gunpowder . There was also in the cellar a big stock of paints and oils of all kinds . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown into the building and surrounding ones flowed into and filled the cellar . Besides the buildings named a storehouse belonging to C. M. Decker &; Brother and the barber 's shop of Philip Keller were damaged by falling walls . When the fire was at its height some one sent to Bloomfield for aid , and the firemen of that town responded and went to work . something that was deeply resented by the local firemen , who thought the Bloomfield men were too willing . The Montclair men seemed to think it was a reflection on their ability . Both departments are volunteer . Mr. Glover , In whose place the flames started , some months ago received a letter . which he turned over to the police , threatening his life and the destruction of his property . This leads to the belief that the fire may have been started purposely .                     