@@675910

txt Senator Platt , who , according to the political schedule , was not to reach town until to-morrow , arrived early yesterday afternoon and hurried to his quarters at the Fifth Avenue Hotel . It was understood last night that he had received many requests from his lieutenants in the Republican County organization since Mr. Low announced his appointments on Monday to come to New York as soon as possible to use his influence with Mr. Low to secure substantial recognition for the organization in the distribution of the important places yet to be filled . Senator Platt , it is said . informed those who called on him last night that he cared little how well or ill the organization fared as to the city patronage . Chairman Robert C. Morris of the County Committee , who called on Mr. Platt late yesterday afternoon , was able to inform him that the organization will receive recognition from Mr. Low in making his remaining appointments . It may be stated on authority that the following appointments have been decided . on by Mr. Low and will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. STURGES , organization Republican . Dock Commissioner  --  MACDOUGALL HAWKES . crganization Republican . Park Commissioners  --  CHARLES REED , the Bronx , organization Republican ; RICHARD J. YOUNGS , Brooklyn . organization Republican . President of the Tax Board  --  JAMES L. WELLS , organization Republican . Tax Commissioner  --  JOHN C. COLEMAN , organization Republican . James R. Sheffield , who has been Mr. Low:s first choice for Fire Commissioner , returned from Washington last night . He persists in his declination . Mr. Sheffield 's friends say that he feels that his duty to his family forbids him from sacrificing a large and steadily growing law practice to accept , the post of Fire Commissioner . Mr. Sheffield has been among those who have recommended Mr. Sturges for the place . It may also be stated on authority that George Haven Putnam , who has been regarded as most likely to be named as . President of the Park Board , has not seen hiss way clear to accept the appointment . To this , place an - independent Democrat will be named . It ith said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been mentioned for any place , and whose appointment will come as a surprise except to a few of the men who are closest to the new Mayor . Charles J. Henry , independent Democrat of Brooklyn , is regarded as certain to be named Commissioner of Corrections . Other independent Democrats who are said to be sure of appointment are Rufus Scott of ? Brooklyn , Tax Commissioner , and William Hepburn Russell , Commissioner of Accounts . The early announcement of the appointment of Dr. E. R. I .. Gould as City Chamberlain is also regarded as one of the certainties . UNCONSCIOUS . IN WOODLAWN . A Man Who Said He Was John Hall Watson of 671 - Fifth Avenue . Found and Revived . A man who said he was John Hall ' Watson of 1171 Fifth - Avenue was found lying Unconscious beside the grave of John Watson : n Woodlawn Cemetery late yesterday afternoon . An ambulance was called from the Fordham Hospital , and Mr. Watson was taken there , where he regained consciousness after a short time . He left the hospital a couple of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his residerce , according to hospital reports . According to the private police of Woodlawn Cemetery . Mr. Watson went into the cemetery about 3 o'clock in the afternoon . He went straight to the site of the grave of his tazher . John Watson . which is in a l'ather remote and unfrequented part of the cemetery . That was the last seen of him for about an hour . Then a grave digger returning from work shortly after 4 o'clock , almost stumbled across the unconscious form of Mr. Watson , lying prone on the sward beside a grave . The laborer at once notified Capt . Slott of the Woodlawn police , who hurried to the scene . From papers found in the man 's possession the police established his identity . Later at the hospital , when he had regained consciousness , he gave his age as forty years . and admitted his identity . He is a member of the Union League Club . At ( 171 Fifth Avenue no answer was made to the bell when it was rung by a reporter . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let , furnished . The watchman said that he did n't know who lived there . A call on the telephone to the house , however , brought a woman to the receiver . She was asked the condition of Mr. Watson . and appeared to be surprised . She said Mr. Watson was home and asleep . and that he had not been overcome or had not fainted at any place . She was told of the man who had given the name of Watson and the Fifth Avenue address , being found unconscious in the cemetery and being taken to the hospital , but merely said : " That 's funny , " and refused to talk further .                     