@@676432

txt The Afro-American Council to-day elected officers , with T. Thomas Fortune as President . The election was not accomplished until after a stormy debate for more than an hour . There was lively objection also to placing the picture of Booker T. Washington on the stage , but the delegates were pacified by the bringing out of a large painting of J. C. Price , a Southern educator , now dead , and placing it beside the Washington canvas . The differences arose over a factional fight between the industrial , the higher education . and the political divisions in the gathering . but the industrial element won . The first sign of dissension came when Fannie Williams of Chicago read the report of the Literary Bureau , in which she treated principally of Booker Washington and his work . Just as she finished and Mr. Washington himself was seen to enter the hall a man stepped from the wings and placed a large oil painting of Booker Washington on the stage . This aroused the New England delegates , W. H. Ferris of Boston asking permission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hour for adjournment had arrived . lie permitted a white delegate , however , to advise the colored people to request President Roosevelt to ask Congress to cut d .. iwn Southern representation in Congress , and the meeting adjourned for the morning . At the afternoon session Delegate Ferris wanted to know why the picture of Washington was on the platform with a picture of Tuskegee Institute , while there were no pictures of colleges es tablished by other educators and champions of political rights . He objected in a fiery speech . President Fortune explained that the presence of the picture was merely an incident , - it having been painted by a negro Woman of Louisville , and he characterized the- dissension as unseemly and uniortunate . In a few minutes the picture of J. C. Price , founder of Livingston College , North Carolina , was brought out and placed beside-the painting of Washington . Much of the hostility shown toward Washington in the Council is due to the charge that he is creating sentiment against the higher education of the negro . The greatest excitement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nominating committee was heard . There were two reports , the minority naming I. B. Scott of Louisiana for President and bars . A B. Carey of New Jersey for airgWaiiiluThe majority report was objectse the name Of Mr. Hayes of ' Virginia Was not on it .. The motion to adopt the ' majority report , naming T. T .. Fortune as President ; and was . th , en.put and the report was adopted-Alm/II-Cries of foul play .. 13efarwarrimznense Audience Mr. WashingtOn ' to-night delivered an address . He said that recent regrettable events in connection with the race question went to show that lynch law is not confined to any one section of the country . These events , he said , tend to simplyfy the race problem by making it National He appealed to the negro to- be calm and exercise self-control . " In the present season of anxiety and almost despair which possesses an element of the race , there are two things I wish to say as strongly as I may : " First  --  Let no man of the race become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North and South . men who mean to see that justice is meted out to the race . Such a man is Judge Jones of Alabama . to whom more credit should be given for blotting out the infamous system of peonage than to any other man . Second  --  Let us keep before us the fact that , almost without exception , every race or nation that has ever got upon its feet has done so through struggle and trial and persecution . ' No one should seek to close his eyes to the fact that the race is passing through a very serious and trying period of its development , a period that calls for the use of our ripest thought and sober judgment . " Let nothing lead us into extremes of utterance or action . It is. in the long run , the race or individual that exercises the most patience , forbearance , and self-control in the midst of trying conditions that wins its cause . Let nothing induce us to descend to the level of the mob . In advocating this policy I am not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not cowards . The part we have played in defending the flag of our country is sufficient evidence of our courage . " The " recent outbreaks of the mob emphasized two lessons , one for our race and one for the other citizens of our country , South and North , for it is to be noted that the work of the lyncher is not confined to one section of the country . The lesson for us is that we should see to it that . so far as the influence of parent . school . or pulpit is concerned , no effort be spared to impress on our own people that Idleness and crime should cease . We Should let the world know On all proper Occasions that we consider no legal punishment too severe for the wretch of any race who attempts to outrage a woman . ? The lesson for the other portion of the Nation to learn Is that both in the making and in the execution the same law should be made to apply to the negro as to the white man . There should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white man . Whenever the Nation forgets . or is tempted to forget its basic principle , the whole fabric of government for both the white and the black man is threatened with destruction . This is true whether it relates to conditions in Texas . Indiana , or Delaware . It is with a nation ns with an individual  --  whatever we sow that shall we also rear . If we sow crime we shall reap lawlessness. "                     