@@677987

txt The crowds in Riverside Park , who had turned out to enjoy the bracing air yesterday , were startled about 5 o'clock in the afternoon by cries from the river shore at Eighty-ninth Street . There was a rush to the place whence the cries came , and it was found that a large section of ice upon which some boys were playing tag had been broken away from the main body by a floating spar and was drifting down the stream carrying with it three boys , who had been unable to escape when their companions , warned by the crackling of the ice , ran ashore . The river was comparatively free from ice at this point , and the floe drifted rapidly down stream , gaining speed as it neared the middle of the river , where the current was swifter than inshore . the men in the crowd that lined the shore shouted directions to the boys , but they did not seem to realize their danger , and jumped about on the ice , waving their hats to the anxious wet hers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention they were attracting . As they floated down the stream attempts were made to get out lifeboats to save the lads . These were frustrated by the congestion of the ice about the boathouses . At Eighty-seventh Street a passing tug caused a swell that made the floe seesaw dangerously , and it looked as if all three would be thrown into the river . Still they were seemingly unafraid , waving their caps to the crowd on shore . Those on the tugboat evidently did not see the stranded trio . At this point the floe parted , leaving two boys on one piece and one on another . Many attempts were being made to reach the youths in rowboats and launches , and tugs sounded warnings on their whistles for approaching craft to slacken speed . The trend of the tide brought the boys in closer to the shore near Eighty-first Street , and after many unsuccessful attempts a rope was thrown across the floe on which the two boys were . They seized it and were pulled to the shore . Then the rope was thrown to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pier in the same way . The pier to which the boys were drawn is some feet above the water . Policeman John A. Coleman lay down , and with Edward Hagin of 172 West Eighty-second Street and George Girey of 172 West Eighty-second Street holding his legs , leaned over and one by one hauled the youths to the top . In the excitement one of the boys got away without giving his name to the policeman , but the other two said they were John McCarthy . 14 years old , of 200 West Ninety-ninth Street , and Rodney Bowen , 11 years old , of 129 West Ninetieth Street . They were not at all worried by their experience . When a TIMES reporter called at the McCarthy boy 's home last night , John at first denied the experience . His parents were out , but his sister , a girl of 16 , took up the investigation . and her brother finally admitted his part in the escapade . He had not said anything about it at home ' Oh . wo n't his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then , turning to John , " The carpet cleatfer handle for yours . " " I do n't care , " said John . " I had a bully good ride and we should have made the dock alright . No , I was n't afraid . " this deprecatingly . " He Is n't afraid of anything , " his sister said . " Fancy , and with little Francis here just getting over the measles . J Do n't you know you might have been drowned ? " I can swim . " the boy replied . Then his sister sent him to bed , with the promise that his father would complete his adventure when he heard about it . John said the other boy , who get away without giving his name , was Bennar Hughes of 623 Amsterdam Avenue . Inquiries at the other houses showed that both boys were in bed and that neither had told their parents anything of their exciting experience . BOMB IN A FISH STORE . Windows Blown Out and Tenants in a Panic  --  Work of Business Rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street , which is a little two-story extension of the housej on First Avenue , rushed into the street at 10:30 o'clock last night when a bomb exploded and blew out the front window I of a fish store in the extension kept by Frank Romazzo . The panic was soon over , as the bomb did no other damage . Policeman Brook saw a man walking away just before the explosion , and caught him and took him to the East Fifth Street Station , where he said he was John Kolar of 184 Avenue A. He convinced the Lieutenant that he had not ' thrown the bomb and was set free . Romazzo believes that the explosion was I the work of business rivals . lie says he has never received any Black Hand let- J ters.                     