@@676075

txt swer is very simple and dbviOus : Since the anthracite strike began and bituroinous coal came into general use in steam generation , the aspect of the heavens has so changed that the average New Yorker does not know for sure whether it is clear or threatening . His weather wisdom , inerrant it may be under the conditions normal to his local environment , has become weather foolishness by reason of the necessity under which he labors of observing the clouds " through the thick sacrificial haze " which . Mrs. WHARTON tells us interposes between Olympus and the earth . He looks out of his window in the morning , and what he sees his lifelong experience warrants him as recognizing as presaging imminent precipitation . So he starts down town with his umbrella , carries it all day , takes it home with him at night , and probably repeats the mistake the following day . He acts according to his light , which at the moment is less than normally luminous . If the conditions which have converted the crystalline atmosphere of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue , we shall need a new meteorological folk-lore expressed in halting couplets for the greater ease of memorization . For example : When carbon flakes like snow descend Dry weather they for sure portend . This would have reference , of course , to the familiar phenomenon that when the barometric pressure is very light what our English friends call ? " the blacks " descend more quickly than when the atmosphere is more dense , and while this condition prevails no rain need be expected . Or this : When nothing of the sky is seen . It presently will rain . I ween . This would refer to the fact that a general diffusion of coal smoke , covering the city with a dome of translucent gray , through which nothing indicative of cloud formations can be distinguished , shows the presence of a good deal of moisture in the air to engage and hold suspended the particles of unconsumed carbon , and that with such a condition of atmospheric saturation more or less precipitation may be expected . It might be well for some industrious compiler of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather proverbs which have been current for generations in localities where the conditions from which we are temporarily suffering are normal . Since what passes for experience is at best misleading when one 's environment changes , and we must begin all over again to learn the signs of the weather or find ourselves tied to our umbrellas and overshoes in perpetuam , it wilt be impossible for those who essay to instruct us to be too elementary . A NEW LOCAL METEOROLOGY . The observant wayfarer has probably noticed that a very much larger proportion of the people of New York are now carrying umbrellas than eves before . This is a differentiation of habit due to a modification of environment which should not escape the attention of the professional evolutionists , who are not content with the law as formulated by li Danwrz.T , but are forever seeking for evidences of its current operation in nature . The average New Yorker does not carry an umbrella more than formerly because he likes it any better than he used to . It is somewhat less a nuisance than it used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a stick three-quarters of an inch in diameter and ribs of substantial whalebone which tended to become bowlegged and make the rolled umbrella resemble the war club of a Fiji chief ; but it is still a nuisance , and lends itself to nothing except the purposes Mr which it is intended . It is wholly without decorative value as an article of personal adornment , and it is a cafe assumption that nobody carries an umbrella unless he thinks he will need it before he is again where he can get it . Why , then , this confluent eruption of the umbrella-carrying habit ? The an- ,                     