@@675534

txt The significance of the action taken yesterday by the Army Fortifications Board in regard to disappearing guns is that it practically i puts an end to the future of this weapon I throughout the whole world . It is one of I1 the most far-reaching decisions ever given in military matters , and . practically exi plodes a bubble which has been blown up I1 for many years by all the nations of the world . The strongest advocates of disappearing guns have admitted that if the American invention proved useless the hope of finding an effective disappearing ? gun would I have to be abandoned . Incidentally , the decision is a triumph for Gen. Miles , who has been subjected to violent attacks because he claimed to have discovered that the American invention was as impractical ble as those of Europe . It is not generally known that Europe Ihas already abandoned disappearing guns , and acknowledged that the money spent I on this expensive invention was lost . The United States is the last Nation to give up the disappearing gun , but its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up was a good one . It was believed that while all the European inventions had I proved to be failures , the American- gun i was free from the defects which . had caused Europe to abandon the idea . HISTORY OF THE CRAZE . The history of the disappearing gun craze is interesting . The idea firmly pos ' sessed the armies of the world at one time that a gun carriage could be invented t which would enable the gun to sink from sight after being fired . Nation after na ? tion sank large sums of money in experimenting with inventions , which were to revolutionize coast defense . The idea final : ly reached the United States , and a joint committee of the House and the Senate was . created to consider the subject . At that time the ' disappearing gun craze had reached such a height that it was firmly believed that the invention was absolutely necessary for coast defense , and that without them it would be impossible to resist the fire of , machine guns . Before any disappearing gun system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had already become evident that the scheme was not working as well in Europe as had been anticipated . Europe had become convinced that the problem Wes ' solved , and immense . sums had been spent in equipping the European coast defenses with the disappearing - guns . ' It Vas. reported ' that the thing was not working out well in practice , however , and American officers were sent to investigate the subject . Their report was that the chief difficulty - 1Vith ? =4he : European . carridge-was-the-recolla Nothing . had ever been discovered . in Europe which would prevent the machinery from breaking when tile gun began to disappear . To this problem the American officers ad ' dressed their skill , and the ' result was a carriage invented by Col. Buffington , now a General and Chief of the Army Ordnance iBureau . Gen. Buffington 's gun carriage triumphed over the difficulty which had baffled the skill of the European inventors , and the Congressional committee reported so enthusiastically in support of his machine that it was adopted , and the Government ever since has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GEN . MILES 'S BOMBSHELL . Some time ago Gen. Miles began to investigate the subject . He found that Europe had come to regard the money investI ed in disappearing guns as a total loss and was taking the costly carriages down as i fast as possible . He made an attack on the . disappearing gun , which instantly aroused the Ordnance Bureau , of which Gen. Buffington was the head . Gen. Buffington and his friends pointed out that the European abandonment was caused by the recoil problem , and that that difficulty had been entirely surmounted by the Buffington invention . Gen. Miles 's reply was a bombshell for Wwaadsin advocates teef 1 , e cot **34;149;TOOLONG : I riage might have surmounted the recoil difficulty , but that in attempting to cope with that problem the inventor had overlooked others . His gun carriage might not break in recoiling , but in attempting to avoid this danger Gen. Buffington had made the machinery of his carriage so complicated that It could not be manipulated except by geniuses . Gen. Miles also claimed that owing to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made to work rapidly . In short , an enemy could blow the gun , the carriage , and the fortification full of holes while the officer in charge was trying to make his disappearing gun disappear . ACRIMONIOUS CONTROVERSY . Gen. Miles 's reasons have not yet been published , but there is good authority for stating that this outline of them is correct , The attack on Gen. Buffington 's invention led to an acrimonious controversy . It culminated some months ago , when Gen. Buffington was quoted as saying that he would in his annual report make personal charges against Gen. Miles . Gen. Buffington hastened to deny the accuracy of this statement , and even went to Secretary Root to assure him that he had been misquoted . He , however , sent officers to Europe to investigat  --  there , and Gen. Miles , ' to see that his side would have a fair show , sent Capt . Lewis , the Secretary of the . Fortification Board . Requests were sent to military officers along the coast to report their personal observations on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed that a few of the carriages were still left ; but that no confidence was felt in them . The officers ' reports showed that the carriages Would only work well on low sites , - and some of these officers claimed that it would not work well even then . The matter was finally referred to a final test at Sandy Hook , which was held on Oct. 1 . This test clinched the matter , and the Fortifications Board has now reported that no more disappearing gun carriages shall be used .                     