@@781423

txt Declaring the most intense bitterness at having the nominations of Grout and Fornes forced down their throats the night before at the Democratic City Convention , leaders of the Willoughby Street organization in Brooklyn were in conference much of yesterday with Republican leaders in ' the county . The trend of all this was to establish an understanding between the two rival organizations by which they would join hands in such a manner that Hugh McLaughlin and his followers might continue their warfare of retaliation against Charles F. Murphy and Tammany Hall . On the Republican , side of the deal , the negotiations were in the hands of Patrick H. Flynn , the old-time leader of the Red Hook district , and a warm personal friend of Senator Platt , and Charles F. Devoy , leader in the Twelfth Assembly District of Kings , in which district Mr. Woodruff is a resident . Mr. Flynn was in close conversation with Mr. McLaughlin during the afternoon at the Willoughby Street auction room for nearly two hours . James Shevlin also had - a long talk with Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal friends and had business interests in common . Mr. Devoy later attended a meeting of the majority of the Brooklyn membership of the Democratic City Committee , held in the Jefferson Building . There he met James Shevlin , John L. Shea , and Bernard J. York , and went over the ground with them , talking frequently over the telephone to Mr. Woodruff , who , with several of his followers and Michael J. Dady , were at the Brooklyn Club , near at hand . From time to title other district leaders of the Republicans were called to the Democratic head-quarters and went over the situation with the leaders of the McLaughlin organization . Late at night it was learned that the negotiations were not closed . The Republicans endeavored to have the Democratic leaders consent to the naming of an independent Democratic ticket with Seth Low for Mayor ; Julian D. Fairchild for Controller , and either Herman A. Metz of Brooklyn or an Irish-American Manhattan Democrat for President of the Board of - Aldermen , with the understanding that the Fusionists would place Mr. Fairchild and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Fornes when the latter have been forced off the ballots . The Democrats strenuously objected to indorsing Law , saying that they never would take up a Republican , but that they were willing to name Fairchild and the third man , have a ticket placed on the ballot by petition , and support those men at the polls while standing for McClellan for Mayor . This , they held , would preserve their regularity , for they would be able to stand by their pledge to support McClellan , while they could knife Grout and Fornes . It was over this point alone that the organizations divided . When the meetings broke up for the night it was with the understanding that negotiations would he continued to-day , with the likelihood that some sort of an understanding would be reached . Especial significance was attached to the presence of Mr. Flynn in the negotiations in view of the fact that he was with the Democratic leaders on Monday before their Executive Committee meeting , and , it was said from a competent source , that he had informed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Julian D. Fairchild there was a strong probability that he would be substituted on the Fusion ballots for Grout . it is said that it was on the assurances from Flynn that McLaughlin and Shevlin made Fairchild their candidate before the City Convention . Another leader , who was present at the Democratic meeting and conference , was Daniel Moynahan of the Brooklyn Demo- - cratic Club , the Edward M. Shepard organization . Mr. Moynahan headed the committee named to visit Mr. Murphy on Thursday at Tammany Hall and protest , in the name of the Shepard organization , against Grout 's nomination . After his interview yesterday with Messrs . Shevlin , Shea , and York , he said that his organization had taken no action on the nominations of the City Convention , but that action would be taken early in the coming week . Ex-Lieut . Gov . Woodruff said last night that he had not been a party to any conference between Brooklyn Republican and Democratic leaders to agree upon a city ticket , and that if such a-conference had taken place ' it was absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders I saw , " said Mr. Woodruff , " were Messrs . Shea and York- . I saw them at the Brooklyn Club at lunch and merely - exchanged a word with them as I passed their table . There was no discussion whatever between us about getting together on a ticket . I believe that if we nominate two Democrats in place of Messrs . Grout- and Fornes who will commend themselves to the Brooklyn Democrats generally , we will receive almost the entire Democratic support of Brooklyn for the Fusion ticket. , But so far as negotiations to that end between the two organizations are concerned there is no good foundation for any such story . " " When you say that you expect to get almost the entire Democratic vote of Brooklyn for the Fusion ticket , do you mean that it will be cast for Mr. Low as well as for the other nominees ? " was asked . Certainly , " he replied , " unless things are messed by the circulation of silly reports about secret negotiations to that end between the two organizations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meeting of* the City Committee members yesterday , and  - -  the leaders of Willoughby Street were free - in their declarations that Senator McCarren and his former associates in the councils of the organization had reached the parting of the ways in view of McCarren'sdistinctly pro-Tammany sentiments . deleted 3 paragraphs This statement was generally taken to mean that all talk of naming.Lewis Nixon or any other independent Democrat as a third candidate for the Mayoralty , - with Kings County Democratic support , would be passed over without serious consideration , while the Willoughby Street organization will de everything in its power-to accomplish the defeat of Grout and Forncs . It became known last night , . however , that in the desire to get the Brooklyn men in line for McClellan. whose election is desired by Murphy above all other things , Murphy and McClellan will personally go to McLaughlin some day next week and together will tell the Brooklyn leader that if he will support McClellan and , see that he gets Tropor treatment election day , neither Murphy nor McClellan will take any further steps to disorganize . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     