@@677545

txt Commissioner Bingham 's bill providing for the abolition of the Detective Bureau , and changing the position of . Inspector from a grade to a special detail at the Commissioner 's pleasure , will come up for a public hearing before the Cities Committee of the Senate to-morrow . Senator Page , who is a member , of the committee , is planning a motion to report the bill out without amendment in the executive session which will immediately follow the hearing . The general opinion here to-night is that the not only be reported out , but that it will pass the Senate . Tammany Leader Murphy sent an order to the Capitol to-night to all the Tammany Senators to fight to the last ditch against the passage of the bill . It is likely that with the exception of Senator Fuller , all the Democratic Senators from Brooklyn who are controlled by McCarron , will follow the same course . McCarren himself is bitterly opposed to the bill . Commissioner Bingham came to Albany this evening , prepared to appear before the Senate committee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Henry De Forest Baldwin of the Committee of Fifty , who aided the Cenunissioner in paving the way for the police legislation , will be here to-morrow , in time to appear at the hearing . It is likely also that Charles W. Young , President of the Republican Club , in New York , who has been retained as counsel by the friends of the Bingham bill . will make an argument before the committee , There is a plan on foot among the Tammany Senators , who have been greatly wrought up over the reports of a corruption fund to beat the bill. , to take the Commissioner to task when he appears . It is known , however , that the Commissioner has a store of new ammunition , and that should the occasion arise he is prepared to spring a sensation that will take the Senators off their feet . It is not unlikely that the loans made by many Inspectors and Captains to Executive Clerk Mock at Police Headquarters will come in for an airing before the committee to-morrow . The Commissioner . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven In - sp ec t ors , to make should it be necessary . It is the knowledge on the part of the men involved which is accountable for the fart that the Inspectors , although the Commissioner held out an offer to them to appear before the committee tomorrow , have decided to a man to stay away . Commissioner Bingham and Secretary Slattery left here for Albany last night . Before they got away from headquarters it was known that none of the opposing Inspectors and Detective Sergeants had made application for leave to go to Albany and appear against the bill , though they will be represented by coupe ' . To-night a mass meeting will be held in Cooper Union whose theme will be " The Police Question . " Charles Sprague Smith will preside . The speakers will be the Rev. Thomas R. Slicer and J. Aspinwall Hodge . FOR THE POLICE BILL The Republican Club Indorses It and Hughes 's Policy Generally . At its regular monthly meeting last night the Republican Club of this city came out in support of the Bingham police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hughes 's policy generally . A special committee appointed late last night by Vice President Dutton of the club will appear before the Senate committee in Albany today to argue in favor of the Bingham bill . The club also discussed the new primary pltws , but took no action , laying the matter on the table until the next meeting . WOULD HITCH UP BINGHAM . Policeman Under Charges Said to Have Expressed Such an Ambition . Thomas Gill , a policeman attached to the boiler squad as an Inspector , was on trial before Deputy Commissioner Hanson at Police Headquarters yesterday for the alleged offense of using the department 's horses in the Pensacola Stables , a livery business , at 841 East Eleventh Street . Edward S. Teeven , who said he had been employed as a foreman in the stables , testified that Gill had given orders to him about the care of horses and hiring them out to patrons of the stable . He testified that on Aug. 10 , 1006 , Gill had hired out a police horse . Teeven declared that he had warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if . were discovered that he was using police horses for livery purposes , and that Gill replied : " I would hitch up the Commissioner to a rig if he were here . " Decision was reserved .                     