@@675699

txt Official announcement of the promulgation of a manifesto by Aguinaldo urging the Filipino insurgents to follow his example by acknowledging American authority in the Phil ! . ippines was received tonight by the Secretary of War in a cablegram from . General . General also advised the War department of the text of the manifesto . Aguinaldo 's action in issuing such an address to the Filipinos is not a surprise to the President and Secretary of War . Almost immediately after his capture by General Funston , General informed the Secretary of War that Aguinaldo would probably issue a manifesto to his countrymen . At no time since that report was received have the War department officials had any reason to doubt that Aguinaldo would take such action . Several times after subscribing to the oath of allegiance he expressed a desire to urge his followers to.do likewise , and , assisted by Chief Justice Arellane , Aguinaldo began the preparation of his manifesto several weeks ago . War Department Approves . As soon as It was completed it was submitted to General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War , with a request for instructions . General was advised to consult with the Philippine commission before promulgating the address . It was at first thought advisable to wait the return of the Philippine commission to Manila , but , acting upon instructions from the War department , General communicated with the Philippine commission by wire , informing them fully as to tho contents of Aguinaldo 's manifesto . The commision , after carefully considering the paper , approved of its issuance , and so notified General , who immediately authorized its promulgation . The report from Manila that General intended to signalize the issuance of Agulnaldo 's address by releasing 1,04 ) 0 insurgent prisoners is in line with instructions already sent to him by the Secretary of War . Good Results Expected . There is no doubt in the minds of the officials here that Aguinaldo 's address will have considerable influence with the insurgents who have up to this time refused to recognize American authority and accept the terms of the amnesty proclamation , which expires on May 1 . This proclamation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon representations made by prominent insurgent officials to General it was extended thirty days longer . This leaves but ten days more in which the opposing insurgents have to present themselves to the American officials for the purpose of being included In the terms of the amnesty . Those who fail to do so within the time remaining will be considered ineligible for any office In the government of the Philippines , and will be deprived of all the privileges and rights of citizenship until such disability is removed . There are few officers of any prominence connected with the Philippine insurrection who have not already surrendered and thus taken the oath of allegiance . General Alejandrino and General Tries are among the most prominent who continue in opposition , and the War department officials hope that Aguinaldo 's address will induce them to surrender within a short time . Should they do so and take the oath of allegiance there is little doubt that their followers will do likewise , thus putting an end to all organized opposition to American authority in the Philippine archipelago . Peace Proclamation Soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end , this government will then proclaim peace and make immediate preparations for the institution of a central civil government under the direction of the Philippine commission . This is expected to take place not later than the 1st of July . By that time the military government will probably cease to exist and will be replaced by the civil government under a civil Governor . Plans for this government have already been discussed by the Philippine commission , and it . has practically been decided by the President that Judge Taft will be the first civil Governor . General will not be succeeded by General Chaffee in command of the military forces until the new government has been instituted , but General Chaffee will soon go to Manila and there arrange for an inspection of the island for the purpose of determining what military force in his opinion will be needed . It is said that he will leave China before the close of the present month and that he will occupy nearly two months In his inspection of the islands and in the preparation of a plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               