@@781044

txt As a result of conferences between memof the Board of Estimate , held 2. - sterday on board Mayor bow 's yacht Surprise , the semi-official announcement was made that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company soon would obtain its franchise for its tunnel and for terminal rights in New York . It is stated that Mayor Low 's policy of compromise with the Aldermen has been successful , and at next Tuesday 's conference a representative of the railroad will appear and explain in full what changes the company is willing to make in the rejected franchise proposition . The first franchise , which received the approval of the Board of Estimate and the Rapid Transit Commissioners , provided for a tunnel under the East River , through the Borough of Manhattan and under the North River , with the main terminal at Thirtysecond and Thirty-third Streets . and Seventh Avenue . under the two blocks of property purchased by the railroad company . President Cantor assailed the franchise when it was being considered before by the Aldermen on the ground that it was a perpetual grant anti because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for . the rights acquired . Fifty-six members of the Board of Aldermen agreed with him , and only ten favored the grant . Mr. Low said that a compromise would be made , and since the hostile action of the Board of Aldermen he has been laboring to bring all the officials together on a compromise plan , so that the franchise could be put through . He came down from Rye on his yacht early yesterday morning and went to his office in the City Hall . The officials of the Board of Estimate had been invited to take a pleasure sail " off the Battery . " At first the guests denied-that any conference was to be held , and said that it was merely a farewell party in honor of Controller Grout , who sails for Europe Tuesday or . a vacation of about a month . Secretary Blake , speaking for President Cantor , said there wouldebe no discussion of the Pennsylvania tunnel plan ' on the trip . Controller Grout , President Fornes of the Board of Aldermen , President Haffen of trieprolit , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They : ' , Cilifsed " off the Battery . " had luncheon on board , and then returned to the landing at Pier A , North River . Mayor Low gave out a - statement in which he said : " The object of my conference this morning was to inform Messrs . Fornes , Cantor , ? and Haffen of the status of my negouaions with the New York Central Railroad in regard to the changes desired by the city and the public on that railroad , and I am proposing to give the public the benefit of this information in my talk next Thursday . It seemed to be becoming to acquaint the officers of the city at large and the Presidents of the two boroughs just what were the facts of the Rana lion . " Incidentally , we discussed many subjects , including the Pennsylvania Railroad tunnel question , but our discussion on this subject was in an entirely informal way . In this connection it may be well for me to say that I have invited to the conference on Tuesday six members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this matter , the Presidents of the two boroughs affected . the Chairman of the Railroad Committee , Alderman Goodman , kwhose name led the signatures on the minority report. ) and the Aldermen through whose districts the proposed tunnel runs . " The conference on Tuesday will be in a great measure an informal one , but my earnest hope is that some mutually acceptable ground for common action may be , discovered and determined upon . " The Mayor declined to make any statement that an agreement had been reached with President Cantor as to the Pennsyl-.anta tunnel plan . He said he was sanguine , however , that all the members of the Board of Aldermen would be satisfied with the franchise changes which the Pennsylvania officials were ready to make , and that , in a short time the franchise would be adopted . When asked whether the Pennsylvania Gompany would receive tunnel rights , he said with a laugh : Sure ! Amicable arrangements will be made between all th , e officials concerned . " He would not tell whether President Cantor.p.ad been converted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corn1issioners or whether it was agreed to make certain changes to placate the Board of Aldermen . Controller Grout said after the conference that he was confident the Pennsylvania tunnel franchise would be approved by thBoard of Aldermen in a short time : He refused to discuss the changes which would be made . It was said at the City Hall that Vice President Green of the railroad company woult attend the conference on Tuesday .                     