@@677439

txt The promoters of the Subsidy bill have shifted their ground , as they would scarcely have done if so sure of their , position as they have professed . To meet the objection that the subsidy as proposed would have benefited the Atlantic service , which is already excellent , and would have swollen the receipts of a trust against the sentiment of the times , they have proposed to exclude the Atlantic and African lines . The subsidies would therefore be confined to the Asiatic and South American lines . As it happens , the Asiatic or transpacific service is already doing very well under the assistance , unsubsidized , of those convicted conspirators in restraint of trade , the transcontinental railways . It would profit them nothing to carry freight to the edge of the ocean if it had to be dumped there . Consignors demand that It shall be carried to consumers , and the largest steamships under the American flag , almost the largest under any flag , have been added recently to the transpacific route . And as regards the South American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city show no lack of accommodation for freight . During eleven months there have been 170 sailings to Bra-ziiian and River Plate ports , say one every other day , by steamships averaging 4,500 tons , and running up to 10,000 . This does not include sailings to the East Coast of South America from ports other than New York . If there is any trade offering which is not accommodated , its complaint is not audible . There would seem to be an inference , conclusive according to the disposition of the drawer of the inference , that the true task before those who seek to stimulate trade is to create the trade , rather than to supply steamships before the trade is born . The antagonism already remarked between the proposals to spend the Treasury 's cash upon ships or upon harbors is developing interestingly . It was surely backhanded assistance which the President gave the subsidy boomers when he referred to their scheme as " unobjectionable " as any . Much more sympathetic and encouraging was his reception of the gentlemen who want to have $50,000,000 spent upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President the special attraction that it would tend to provide competitive regulation for the business of the railways . Upon the other hand , reinforcements for the subsidy men have appeared in the support of the Secretary of Commerce , and of the New York Chamber of Commerce Committee upon Foreign Trade . Mr. METCAL ? ' S support is thoroughgoing , but the Chamber of Commerce Committee 's position is qualified by the finding that " there is no lack at present in regular opportunities for the transportation of freight between the United States and the countries of South America " at rates which competition has reduced " to a very low level . " This leaves the Chamber 's support confined to high-class facilities for passengers and mails . This is something different from a proposition to stimulate trade by provision of freight facilities . These are influential factors in formation of public opinion , but old parliamentary hands want to ? know , not what the arguments are , but what are the chances of the bill reaching a vote . It is almost a demonstration that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it if the sentiment of the committee had been favorable , and it hardly appears that the change is of a sort to alter anybody 's opinion , in or out of the committee . The present prospect Is that it will be as hard to get the - bill to a vote as to get a majority of yeas if ever the House is allowed to come to a division upon so contentious a subject , when so many matters are pressing for attention . If the Subsidy bill were ever allowed to come before the House it would absorb , if not waste , time sufficing to enact many . rival measures . Thus the Subsidy bill is an Ishmael against whom so many hands are raised that a simple . balancing of pros and cons upon the merits alone will hardly be allowed to determine the fate of the bill . The pressure to pass less contentious measures is as                     