@@675469

txt Justice William J. Gaynor of the Supreme Court delivered an address last evening on " Trusts , Economically and Legally Considered , " in the Department of Law course of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences in the Art Building , 174 Montague Street . He was introduced by Frederick W. Hinrichs , President of the institute . Trusts , Justice Gaynor said , formed a topic much discussed at the present time throughout the land , and it would be much more discussed during the next political campaign . It was not a subject for epithet or pessimistic declamation . Where epithet and declamation begin argument ceases . Money , the question discussed in the last National campaign , was the subject for epithet . Passionate declamation in a spirit of folly and lack of due consideration might influence legislation , but in the long run they would not prevail . In the past fifteen years this country had been going through one of the transition stages which have occurred periodically in all times . The laws of commerce and of trade went on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man . From the earliest time every attempt at change had been met by opposition . If somebody suggested anything new to-day a great many persons would bring forward the direst prophecies from dark places , forgetting that all that this world has got has come from orderly and well-considered change . " Every man who thinks , " Justice Gaynor continued , " ought to know that the world is growing better from flux and change . Nobody who has a just conception of the past can feel morose or despondent over present conditions . We are only on the edge . Future generations will see things which we in all our wisdom have not dreamed of . Every little person seeking office is discussing this question , and the less he knows the more voluble he becomes . His volubility , however , is nothing but epithet and denunciation . " The speaker then told how the invention of machinery was opposed when it first was introduced . " The prime object of government , " he went on to say , " is distributive justice to all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That would not be justice . But distribution according to the usefulness , &c.,; of each . He who does the least . should in justice get the least , and he who by honest means  --  mark , I say honest  --  does the most should get the most .. " I have never known any opposition to wealth honestly acquired . From my boyhood up I have seen the successful honest man the subject of his neighbors ' emulation . That Government which through ignorance or blunder or by corruption Pane to conserve distributive justice fails in the first purpose and essential of government . Prosperity is fullest where there is a fair distribution of the total product among those who produce that product .. " Free competition is a great leveller . In the main every one finds a place to which he is best adapted . If production , however , is not fairly distributed , you have the worst form of social government imaginable . He who produces nothing is entitled to nothing . Competition at times grows so fierce that it may become injurious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , I may say , in the short run . There would be greater evil from no competition at all . " Taking England as an example , Justice Gaynor then pointed out how her statutes and laws had vainly tried for many years to interfere with the natural course of commerce , and how at last in this century Richard Cobden , " one of the world 's greatest men , " had brought about the repeal of all these laws , plucking up by the roots the heresy that these laws could regulate . " To these pitfalls of the past , " he said , " we may look back for warning . " There is a cry against too great aggregation of capital as a menace to the community . We are confronted with the problem where to place the limit of capitalization . In the friction of the world can you place it at all ? These combinations accelerate competition . " One of the evils of the trusts is overcapitalization , the issuing of shares for a nominal capital much greater than the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no corporation should be capitalized or have paper shares above its actual tangible assets . " Another evil attributed to the trust is that it destroys manhood by reducing persons from independence to service . But it is said that the great department stores give employment to more people and pay them more than they made when in business for themselves . " We now come to those combinations that hold public franchises . The railroads are just as much public highways of this country as the toll roads and free roads which they superseded . The rate of tolls was the same for everybody . When the railroads were constructed the Government thought best to turn them over to corporations despite the fact that from the beginning the carrying of freight and passengers was deemed a governmental matter . Can you conceive of a more demoralizing or more criminal act than that one man may have his freight carried for onehalf less than another man ? Such discrimination destroys competition . Yet such is the history of railroad corporations in this country . " The Standard Oil may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were no better at digging oil wells than those who were on the oil fields , but when it could get its freight carried for 60 cents a barrel and its competitors were charged $1.60 to $2 a barrel , it meant that its competitors could do nothing else than turn their business over to it . If all these people were on the same level the big fish would not be able to eat the little fish . " While I do not say that the United States Government should take over the railroads , I do say it ought to appoint every freight agent in the United States . The penalty of death might be visited upon every one who would take freight from one man at a lower rate than he would from another . "                     