@@677229

txt We regret that Judge PARKER should have marred his admirable address on " Democracy , " at the capital of Minissippi , by an attempt to make a party point which , in or judgment , is not well taken , and which , even if it had been well taken , would tend to defeat the speaker 's object . " Too much government " is the essence of Judge PARKER 'S complaint , as it was that of the complaint of the founder of the Democratic Party . Specifically , Judge PARKER'b complaint is " the abuse , " which is also the excess , " of the taxing power of the Government . " But. , in the interview with which he favored this journal , on the same day with the delivery of this address , he pointed , with what may be called paternal pride , to the decision of the Supreme Court , denying immunity to officers of corporations when summoned as witnesses . From this decision he drew the fairly I deducible morals that there was law 1 enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not with the law ; that there was no need of more law ; that the law , as it stands in decissons not less than in statutes , suffices to correct such abuses , so only it be wisely adjudicated and honestly executed . Al this is admirable and sound . A corollary is that there is too much Making of statutes to re-enact the common law . The judicial application of the common law " to every stage of our National existence " is one of the accompaniments of our National expansion . We have heretofore , and many times , expressed our regret that the Court of Appeals of the State of New York , in a case In which its opinion happened to be delivered by Judge PARKER himself , should not have seized ? the occasion " to make the bounds of freedom wider yet " by deciding that the right to privacy was a substantial right of human society , entitled to judicial protection , instead of deciding that there was no such thing . That incident offered an occasion , which the Court of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And the Court of Appeals so neglected its opportunity that there had to be put upon the statute book a law correcting that decision . But , as we began by saying , Judge Panama 's address missed part of its main point when he allowed himself to appear as a partisan rather than as a publicist , and when he pointed with pride to the fact that the Republican Party had more powerful and unscrupulous " State Bosses " than the Democratic Party . We do not dispute the assertion of fact . We are inclined to subscribe to it . But it is absolutely irreaelant and accidental . What makes a boss is a great political majority on the side which he professes , and a majority which is not to be moved from its party allegiance by considerations of the good of the community , whether the community be a municipality or a State . Boss TWEED 'S " you sto " was exactly the same as Boss DLTRHA.2,1( 'S , or as Boss PLATT 'S , or as Boss QUAY 'S . It was an appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an appeal which would make them vote for a bad Democrat rather than for a good Republican , or vice versa . It is the abuse of party spirit against which WASHINGTON warned his countrymen that is the ultimate reliance of bossism and machine politics . That a man like Judge PARKER , in the course of an appeal against exactly the results of this spirit , should go to taking credit for one party as against the other , this is a melancholy exemplification at once of the needfulness and of the futility of WASIIINGToN 's teaching .                     