@@781427

txt Fully three-quarters of the thriving little Canadian town of Essex , about twenty miles from here , was wrecked by an explosion of half a carload of nitio4glycerine and dynamite on the Michigan Central tracks within 200 feet of the passenger station . Although the destructiveness of the explosion was . terrific , but two persons were killed outright , Joseph McNary and Leo Conlin , both brakemen on the " plug " train that was to have hauled the car deleted 6 lines Literally scores of residents of the little town were cut by flying glass or injured by falling walls , but none of them , so far as is known , is seriously hurt Practically every building within a radius of a mile of the station was more or less damaged , and glass was blown out of houses four miles distant . Many of the business places are badly wrecked , and it is likely that a number of them will have to be torn down , as the walls and roofs ars blown out and the safety of the foundations will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss will exceed $200,000 . Among the buildings wrecked were the Methodist Church , a brick structure two blocks southeast of the station : the Grand Central and Aberdeen Hotels , and the E4rx Manufacturing Building . All the stores along the main street were damaged , the flying glass injuring the stocks of goods , and in a number of instances the walls of the buildings being weakened by the explosion . It is almost inconceivable that the clamage 6D surrounding property should have ben so great and the loss of Iffe so fortunately small . The explosion occurred at 9:47 A. M. , according to a dozen clocks , which were stopped by the concussion . An excursion train , carrying 700 people from Brantford to Detroit , was due at Essex Centre two minutes before the explosion occurred , hut fortunately it was fifteen minutes late . It was a very hot day and the car of dynamite stood in the blazing sun , 400 feet from the passenger station . About an hour and a half before train time the crew of the " plug " began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the car of dynamite and some time was spent switching up and down . Several hours after t4eexplosion a way bill was found for 1,000 pounds of cartridges , and It was said that the cartridges were in the car behind the dynamite . The railroad officials denied this , and professed they were unable to find way bills for the cars that made up the train . Brakeman an McNary discovered that the nitro-glycerine was leaking in the car . He began to open it to stop the leak , and without warning the explosion occurred . With a shock that was felt for twenty miles the explosives let go , tearing the new stone railway station to pieces , destroying the freight sheds and nearby cottages , leveling Green 's elevator beside the tracks , and smashing Laing &; Ritchie 's mill into kindling wood . The engine and tender *and the other cars were reduced to scrap iron , and where they stood there was a hole 20 feet deep and 50 feet across . Panic reigned in the little town as glass cracked and houses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely . McNary 's mangled body was found in a field 200 feet away from the tracks , and Brakeman Conlon was dug out from under a coal car , dead . Fireman ana " ran lay near the ruins of his engine , and the other two members of the train crew were burled in the ruins of the station . Physicians from nearby fawns hurried to Essex and helped to dress the wounds of the injured The town of Essex is to-rtlght under police restrictions resembling martial law . Fifty guards gathered from surrounding towns are patroling the streets to protect the property exposed by the destruction of buildings . All saloons in the neighborhood have been closed until Monday morning :                     