@@677356

txt The charter of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company is in no danger of forfeiture . The public peace of the Borough of Brooklyn and the reputation of that borough and of the city for the orderly determination , administration , and enforcement of law have been in some measure imperiled . Attempts have been made , and are persisted in , to set up the impulses of I demagogues and the passions of the crowd as ultimate arbiters in a dispute already adjudicated by the courts , and which , if it now arises in a new form , can be justly and lawfully settled only by the courts . Acting Mayor correctly describes President COLEa as " a great poser " and as a man who " is inciting riot . " The course pursued by Sheriff FLAHERTY is entirely consistent with the policy adopted by the President of the Borough . With much propriety Judge GAYNOR 'S remarks upon the double fare to Coney Island , delivered as an unnecessary addendum to a decision discharging a prisoner , have been criticised as untimely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precipitated disgraceful and continued public disorder because of his failure , whether by intention or oversight , to say what he should have said , that the opinions he expressed were merely individual views and not an authoritative declaration of the law binding upon the company . He issued no order , the company was not concerned in the matter , and hence was powerless to appeal . No course was open to it but to continue the collection of its lawful fares , and to eject from its cars as disorderly persons those who refused to pay . Under the leadership of a President of the Borough , with so much encouragement In high places , and continually excited to violence by the Incendiary appeals of the reckless portion of the press , it is not strange that the passengers of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company refused to pay the lawful fare and even resorted to the cars of the company , not in pursuance of their lawful concerns , but merely for the sake of making a row . From refusing to pay fare to a public service corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern , or a merchant , is not so very long a step . The spirit is very much the same . If the demagogues continue to get a hearing , if men already in high office but seeking a higher continue to employ their power and authority to stir up the mob spirit , it may not be long before the line of distinction between trolley-car fares and butchers ' meat and dry goods will be effaced . The easiest and cheapest way to get a thing is to take it  --  but not so in the long run .                     