@@676256

txt First among the practical results of the recent agitation in favor of more adequate street railroad accommodations in this city was an order issued by the State Board of Railroad Commissioners last night , specifically directing the Manhattan Elevated Railroad Company to make certain improvements in its service . Most important of the directions which are to have immediate effect is that one ordering the railroad to run throughout the day as many trains and cars as are at present operated during the rush hours . That arrangement must be effected at once , and a return of the schedules fixed must be made to the Railroad Commission on or before Jan. 12 . The order does not leave to the discretion of the railroad company the question of how many cars the " comfort and convenience of the public may require " during non-rush hours . Alfred Sltitt , Vice President of the Manhattan Railroad , in his letter to the Mayor , published Christmas Day , said that the service of the road in non-rush hours very soon would be " adequate . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month of January 100 extra cars , and to secure an equal number in February , and again in March . The commission intimates th , at but , for physical impediments to carrying out such an order the number of cars directed to be purchased would be even larger . These cars are to be used for the rush-hour traffic , and will add 14,000 seating capacity to the rolling stock of the company by April 1 . To make it possible to run more express trains and to prevent delays at the downtown stations , the commission further orders that the elevated railroad company shall take immediate steps to build a third track on the Ninth Avenue line from Cortlandt to Fourteenth Street , on Third Avenue from Ninth to Fifty-ninth Street , and on Second Avenue from Canal Street to One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Street . The carrying out of these directions will make it possible to run express trains on the Second Avenue line , thereby greatly relieving the congestion on the Third Avenue line during the rush hours . It will make it possible , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get . under ' full speed immediately after leaving the Ninth Street station , thereby reducing the time between down town and the Bron.x . by several minutes . At present Third Avenue express trains are " compelled to creep behind local trains until Fifty-ninth Street is reached . A third I rack  --  on= - the " Ninth Avenue lint from Fourteenth to Cortlandt Street will enable express trains to leave the outside tracks after they are full , and not be subjected to the-delays which usually occur during the rush hours at Desbrosses . Houston , and Christopher Streete . Col. Ashley W. Cole announced last night that the Railroad Commission would remain in this city until next Wednesday considering the street railroad problem . The question of improving the service of the Metropolitan system is still being considered . ' When a plan of improvement is found to be feasible , it - is the expressed intention of the Commissioners to order that plan to be put into effect , regardless of its cost . CALLED PLAN IMPRACTICABLE . Col. Cole came clown from Albany yesterday morning , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The time was spent , it was said , in figuring out the possibilities of improving the Manhattan Elevated service . The Commissioners had suggested a plan of improvement to the railroad , but this plan had been pronounced impracticable . The Railroad Commissioners then took it upon themselves to do some figuring as to the supposed impracticability of this scheme . They examined the maps and schedules submitted by the Manhattan company , and then drew up the order . That order was given out late in the afternoon . It was dated at Albany . and signed by Commissioners Cole , Baker and Dunn . It was stated by one of the Railroad Commissioners that the order would have the force of law . If it was not obeyed literally it would become the duty of the Commissioners to bring the facts to the attention of the Attorney General for further action . The law under which these directions of the Commission are issued Is in chapter 39 , article 6 of the General Laws of New York , and is in part as follows : if In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear ? ? ? that any addition to the rolling stock , or that additional terminal facilities shall be afforded , or that any change of the rates of fare for transporting freight or passengers . or In the mode of operating the road or conducting its business . is reasonable and experient In order to promote the security , convenience , and accommodation of the public , the board shall give notice and information in writing to the corporation of the improvements and changes which they deem to be proper . ? ? ? and if the corporation refuses or neglects to make such repairs , improvements , and changes within a reasonable time " ? ? the board shall fix the time within which the same shall be made . ? ? ? It shall he the duty of the corporation ? ? ? owning or operating the railroad to comply with such decisions and recommendations of the board as are just and reasonable . The law continues , saying that the Supreme Court may compel obedience to the recommendations of the board by mandamus. although such order shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Board of Railroad Commissioners also has the right to make a special report to the Legislature setting forth the failure of a corporation to obey its mandates . DEMAND FOR PUBLICITY . It had been understood that a committee from the Merchants ' Association would confer with the Railroad Commissioners yesterday , but William F. King , Chairman of the Committee on Franchises and Transportation of the association and his associates , failed to appear . Instead . Mr. King sent another letter protesting against the secret sessions of the commission . Among other things Mr. King said : ' e respectfully submit that the matters 110W under consideration by your commission in connection with our transportation facilities are matters which primarily affect the individual citizens . In view of the failure on the part of the transportation companies to have themselves furnished the remedy for the existing evils , it is only fair and just to the citizens of the city that the hearings in reference to these matters should be public instead of private : that the public interests do require such publicity , and that the powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect . The character of the information concerning the conditions under investigation is such that no possible harm could be done to the corporations by having the meetings at which this information is obtained made public , ? for the welfare and prosperity of the railroad corporations would not he injuriously affected thereby . Therefore the reason for making use of the discretion vested in you , as stated in Section 103 of the Railroad law , does not in our opinion , apply to this situation . The Railroad Commissioners also sent a letter to Mr. King yesterday , telling him that at the hearing at the City Hall on Dec. 30 , the Commissioners had offered to place the control of the hearing on , behalf of the people in the hands of the Merchants ' . Association , but that Mr. King and his committee had refused to take the responsibility . Since the association took that step . " to the surprise and ' regret of the board , the board , desiring to give the public the earliest relief practicable , took a course prescribed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have this day formulated and issued to the Manhattan Railway our directions , which will be supplemented by such others as may he necessary , " The Merchants ' Association yesterday Sent out several thousand copies of a cir ? cular , calling attention to the fact that the Railroad Commission had stated that it was fully responsible for and capable of controlling the street railroad situation . Taxpayers and commercial and civic bodies are adjured to send their complaints at once to the Board of Commissioners or to the Merchants ' Association . Continuing , the circular says : Should it become evident that the Railroad Commission or the city author ities lack necessary Power to enfore the desired reforms , it is of the utmost importance that the conditions be fully shown , that the subject may be speedily carried to the State Legislature and proper laws secured . ' Public spirit : s at last properly aroused . It is now the duty of every citizen and every organization to see that it Is kept active , until the authorities compel the railway officials to furnish proper public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reorganization of our transporation service .                     