@@678064

txt CARNEGIE OFF TO SCOTLANO.1 Andrew Carnegie and his wife and daughter sailed yesterday on the White Star liner Baltic on their yearly trip to Scotland . Mr. Carnegie announced with a broad smile that he would return in time to cast a vote for " the nominee of the Republican Party " for President . Having started the talk along political lines , Mr. Carnegie declared that all the party candidates for the nomination appeared to him to be made of very sound political timber , but he said he was not a seer , and therefor4 would not predict who would win at the convention . He had a few good words to say for Gov . Johnson . " There will be a general uplift to bustness , " he said , " as soon as the election is over . When the question of administration is settled business will pick up rapidly and normal conditions return . There is no use in attempting to get around the fact that there is a bit more financial depression and business stagnation than we can afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said that the industries of the country have held up well . They have held up in a way to show that the swing will be in the direction of complete prosperity when we reach that beneficial period which follows a Presidential contest . " The Baltic carried away Lady Francis Cook , the former Miss Tennessee Claflin , who for her health 's sake has been obliged to give up active philanthropic work and seek rest and quiet in Continental health resorts . Lady Cook had announced the foundation here of a School of Fatherhood and Motherhood , an institution for increasing a knowledge of self among children who have reached ' the age of understanding . She had purchased a site for the school at Wheatley Hills , L. I. , and the plans for a building are under way . Because of her failing health the project has been temporarily abandoned . She expects to return to America in the . Fall If the state of her health will permit . NAVAL STATION AT JAMESTOWN . Let Sanitarians Investigate This Proposal Before It Is Adopted . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to purchase the site of the Jamestown Exposition for a naval training station , but it would be wise before taking action to find out whether young boys can live in health in a place which had always been considered uninhabitable in Summer . The soldiers in Camp Captain John Smith managed to get through the Summer of last year with only a few cases of typhoid fever and malaria , but it was at the expense of much suffering and Under restrictions which were tool severe for a permanent thing . It is low ground in which proper sewerage is difficult or Impossible , and it is surrounded by swamps which will require a perpetual crusade agaist mosquitos . On one side it Is hemmed in by railroad yards , and on another by the notorious Pine Beach district , which of itself would be a menace to health and morality , for it has been denounced by both the clergy and the medical profession . The midsummer heat was so excessive that no exercises were allowed between 9 A. M. and 4 P. M .. and it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly as the Summer season is the main reliance for drills . As deep water is fully a mile from shore , and the mud flats are exposed at low tide , it is not understood why nasal men favor it ? if they really do . The price asked is $950,000 in addition to the $900.000 or so owed by the company to the United States  --  nearly $2,000,000 for land which eold the company a few thousand , and some buildings of doubtful value and needing rebuilding for naval purposes . This is a case in which it will be wise to let eanitarlans Investigate and be guided by them , as It would develop a serious scandal If after building a training station it were discovered that the young sailors could not be kept in health nor properly trained in the Summer months .                     