@@780993

txt Ex-President Cleveland and his entire party , consisting of Dr. Van Dyke of Princeton , Messrs . Jones and Gettings of Baltimore , and President Seelinger of the Back Bay Gunning Club , on the grounds of which the party is hunting , may be arrested by the game warden of Princess Anne County on a charge of violating the new game law of Virginia. * The punishment for violating the law is heavy . The law requires each non-resident to procure a $10 license before . - he can I shoot game in the lake . None . of the Cleveland party secured a license . An officer went to the club looking for Mr. Cleveland . but he was out . BAYONNE LIQUOR MEN GAMBLE ON MEN 'S LIVES . Death After Saloon Brawl Calls Attention to Custom of Insuring Barroom Patrons . An inquest into the circumstances surrounding the death of Richard Galvin , a young man who died Sunday before last Ifrom injuries received in a fight during the previous . night with James McCarthy . in front of " Bat " McSweeney 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. J. , was held by Coroner Brackner in the City Hall at Bayonne last night and McCarthy was held without bail on a charge of . murder . deleted 2 paragraphs Coupled with this there is the knowledge of nearly a score of deaths of these insured persons during the past year , and while in no case has there been proof that there was foul play , the facts that alcoholism was in some instances the main or con-tributing cause of death ; and that the largest number of policies was held by saloonkeepers , have caused the County Prosecutor to determine to go to the bottom of the matter . Young Galvin 's life was insured by Richard Doyle , a saloon keeper at Fifth Street and Hobert Avenue , for $350 . Like nearly all of the policies held in Bayrum , it was one of those policies on which a few cents was paid each week . It has developed that Galvin knew nothing of the policy when . it was drawn , and when he learned of its existence a few weeks ago he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , but - failed . Doyle refused last night to make " any statement concerning the deal . There is another policy for about the same amount held by Galvin 's sister . There is no question that the young man authorized its issuance , There was nothing very peculiar about the circumstances of Galvin 's death . He hung around saloons a good deal , and on the fatal Saturday , while in " Bat " McSweeney 's place , he got into an argument with McCarthy , another habitue , about some question of Democratic politics , and they mutually agreed to step outside and settle it with their fists . Witnesses testified that McCarthy struck his opponent once , - and that Galvin fell heavily to the street . McCarthy returned to the saloon ' and boasted ' of his achievement of knocking Galvin out with one blow . Later . Galvin was ' helped inside , . where he sat at a table , sleeping or unconscious until Sunday afternoon . He was removed to his boarding house and then to the hospital , and died Sunday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the laboring people , and proprietors and frequenters of saloons in Bayonne for a long time that the trafficking in life insurance policies was brisk and exceedingly interesting . : The names of certain saloon keepers who held the policies on the lives or certain men who have died and the amount of the insurance were learned yesterday , and-it is understood that the trial of McCarthy , will bring out a great deal about this condition . It is stated ' that about six months ago the keeper of a small Avenue E saloon that was patronized only by the poorest workingmen and by loafers died , leaving five handsome houses in the best section of Bayonne , as well as considerable money . It was known that he had collected the insuranee on many lives , and it is said that it ' would ' have ben impossible for him to have accumulated a fortune of that size from his small saloon business . ... The business has been carried on so generally that when one person of this class hears of the death of another the question that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ? " - Coroner Brackner said last night the authorities had known of the custom for a long time , but there had been no specific case on which they could act . Chief of Police Magner said he thought the local agents of certain insurance companies were to blame . They hung around the low saloons and induced the keepers to speculate in the insurance of their patrons , - and caused transfers of regularly issued policies to-be made to saloon men . Dr. Leslie D. Ward , First Vice President of the Prudential Insurance Company , when seen in Newark yesterday , said that over a year ago the company had complaints from Bayonne about saloon keepers speculating in policies . A thorough investigation was made , with the result that some of the company 's agents were discharged . deleted 8 lines                     