@@675667

txt Pension Commissioner Evans does not contemplate leaving the Pension Office while the pension claims attorneys are hounding him with the idea of getting a man more willing to humor their greed . By and by , when it is seen that the President has stood by him in the fight waged against him , and that he does not approve of the assaults upon him from any quarter , Commissioner Evans may ask for release from a position that has been retained at pecuniary loss and at the cost of all popularity with the pension " sharks . " The President would not let him go now for the sake of both . He does not shaFe the hostility of some of the Protessional soldiers against Mr. Evans . and he has no sympathy with that anxiety to get a second Tanner in the place that inspires some of the attacks upon Mr. Evans . Gen. Palmer 's chances have not been brightened by the publication here of his pension record , a record quite forgotten by Washington people . It is doubtful whether the President will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under his notice , and he will be sure before under his notice since inauguration , and he will he sure before appointing any one that the new man will be as lawabiding a Commissioner as Mr. Evans . FUNERAL PARTY FACES DEATH . Train Strikes a Carriage Filled with Women and Children  --  The Only Serious Injury a Broken Jaw . Three women and two children were hurled twenty feet in a carriage which was hit by a Long Island Railroad train yesterday afternoon . The most serious injury sustained by any member of the party was a broken jawbone . The children escaped without so much as a scratch . The horses were killed . The persons in the coach were : The Misses Mary and Maggie Ward of 2,778 Eighth Avenue ; Mrs. Nellie Kreher of the same address , and Nellie and Irene KreI her , daughters of Mrs. Kreher . The Misses , Ward and Mrs. Kreher are sisters . Miss Mary Ward is the one most severely hurt . The party left their home yesterday afternoon to attend the funeral of an aunt , Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifty-first Street . The funeral was bound for Calvary Cemetery . The carriage belonged to an undertaker named Norton , of Fifty-third Street . It was driven by Thomas Dougherty . The funeral crossed the East River by was ' of the Thirty-fourth Street Ferry , and proceeded but on Borden Avenue . At the crossing of the North Shore Division tracks a train from Oyster Bay was coming in . The first carriages and the hearse crossed safely , but before the carriage in which the nieces , of Mrs. Rogers were could get over the gateman began to lower the gates . The horses became restive and the reins broke . The horses plunged toward the crossing , and Dougherty leaped from the box . He escaped injury . The horses dashed against the gates and broke through them just as the engi  --  te reached the same spot . The pilot hit the carriage just forward of the front wheels . This caused the horses to be thrown in one direction and the carriage to roll over and land with its wheels upward twenty feet down the track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car lengths , and the passengers and train crew rushed out to offer aid . As the rescuers approached thsy heard the women screaming . All were soon pulled out . Dr. Brennan of St. John 's Hospital was on hand in a few minutes ? and as the women were all hysterical , hurried them to the hospital . There it was found that Miss Mary Ward 's jaw was broken , and that her sister had suffered slight cuts and bruises . Later in the day they all went home except Miss Mary Ward .                     