@@678248

txt Storm-battered but magnificent , the American battleship fleet lies in the harbor , the entire assemblage making a display unprecedented in the history of Yokohama . Shortly after the ships came to anchor the mist which had shut out their coming cleared and a light breeze carried away the smoke from the saluting guns , revealing from the shore front the lines of white American ships of war backed by the gray of the Japanese . Scores of small craft chartered by Individuals and associations darted in and out among the battleships , the American Asiatic Association being among those to give the heartiest welcome , while 2,000 school children sang the American National Anthem , the sound of the singing reaching far over the waters . The ships show the effect of battering by the waves , which is described by old officers as the worst they have ever encountered . The Kearsarge , which got separated from the fleet , only picked up the others early this morning , and is still undergoing repairs . Rear Admiral Sperry said immediately after anchoring that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evidences of a sincere welcome , the arrangements for which appeared to be perfect . Commander John A. Dougherty , the American Naval Attach ? at Tokio , who came here to take part in the welcome to the fleet , boarded the Connecticut this morning and discusSed the programme with the Admiral . The moment the fleet dropped anchor the Admirals , in formal dress , hastened from the flagships of the various divisions to the flagship of the fleet , the Connecticut. , which also was-hoarded by Japanese subordinate officers who came to arrange details . Shortly the Commander in Chief and the other admirals , . accompanied by their staffs , entered a motorboat and proceeded to the flagship Mikasa of the Japanese fleet to pay an official call upon Vice Admiral Sir Gero Ljum . The Japanese Admirals immediately returned the call , and Vice Admiral Djuin , resplendent with gold lace and magnificent decorations , was:given a hearty welcome by Admiral Sperry on board the Connecticut . After a brief visit the Japanese Officers departed , and as they went down the side the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saluted . A short time later Francis B. Loomis ; formerly the First Assistant Secretary of State and now the United States Commissioner to the Tokio Exposition , accompanied by Mrs. Loomis , John Callan O'Laughlin and Mrs. O'Laughlin , and Acting Consul General Babbitt , called upon Rear Admiral Sperry and paid his respects . They were given fifteen guns as they left the ship . Iri the meantime visits were exchanged between the Captains of all the vessels . The Mayor and Governor also called upon the Admiral , and later the Reception Committee , the spokesman of which was M. Mato , boarded the Connecticut and bade the Admiral and his men welcome in behalf of the entire nation . He thanked the Americans for their evidences of friendship and regard , and Admiral Sperry responded in a similar vein . In the afternoon the garden party given by the Mayor of Yokohama was attended by many officers and great crowds of civilians , but the weather was unfavorable and somewhat interfered with the success of the function . Everywhere about the streets the American officers and men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the police and Japanese soldiers . Crowds continued to swarm in the streets about the water front an day , and at nightfall magnificent illuminations lit up the entire city . Electric lights and lanterns were swinging everywhere , and at a prominent point a huge design , in which the word " Welcome " was spelled with brilliant lights , was surrounded by hundreds of American and Japanese flags . The lantern parade , in which there were many flower floats , made an inspiring spectacle , as thousands upon thousands of the little Japanese , in. quaint costumes and bright colors , took part . All of the Japanese ships were outlined to-night in electric lights , and each carried an American flag at its mainmast . Several dinners were given this evening in honor of the American officers , at one of which the Mayor was host and Admiral Sperry the chief guest of honor . This was followed by a grand ball given by Gov . Sufu of Kanagawa. at which 1,500 people were present . During the course of his speech at the dinner Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of the fleet for peaceful purposes . He believed that nothing was ever likely to occur to break the traditional friendship of America and Japan . It is understood that Capt . W. B. Potter of the Vermont will take command of the second division at Hongkong . Gives a Bracelet to Bail Chauffeur . Mrs. Roberta Mengis - Corwin - Hill , daughter of M. C. Mengis , the race track man , with her husband , Capt . Arthur Hill , and a party of friends was held up yesterday afternoon at Court and Clinton Streets , Brooklyn . on the grqund that her chauffeur was running the machine too fast . At the Bergen Street Station Capt . Hill borrowed a diamond bracelet from his wife , which was accepted as bail .                     