@@676321

txt William H. Maxwell , City Superintendent of School. , said yesterday of the reply in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Thomas Hunter , President of the Normal College , to his ( Dr. Maxwell 's ) remarks in his annual report in regard to the Normal College : " have read with great interest President Hunter 's ' defense ' of the Normal College against the criticisms I felt constrained to make upon the work of that institution in my last annual report . His defense may be divided into four parts : " First , personal abuse of myself ; second , a dental of my right to make any criticism on the Normal College ; third , an exposition of his theory regarding the professional training of teachers , and , fourth . an admission that he has been compelled already to institute some of the reforms which I have advocated . As to President Hunter 's abuse  --  his impugning of my motives ? I consider it beneath my notice . As to my right to criticise the Normal College , I have , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen has to criticise any institution supperted at the public expense , and I have , in the second place , an official right , given by Section 1,089 of the charter , which confers upon the City Superintendent the authority to approve or disapprove for the purposes of city licenses any institution which is recognized by the Regents as a college and which claims to provide professional training for teachers . As to President Hunter 's theory regarding the professional training of teachers , I shall not take the time to discuss it , as ' it is not now held by any educator of prominence . It passed from the domain of practical educational discussion about a qearter of a century ago . As to President Hunter 's admission that he has been compelled to commence some of the reforms which I have advocated . 1 am reminded of what I'resident Eliot said on a notable occasion a few years ago with regard to educational reforms in general . There are two stages , ' said the President of Harvard , ' in every educational reform : in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it always existed . ' in the first stage the reform is bitterly opposed ; in the second . when those who are responsible for its necessity wake up to find that they must accept the inevitable , they endeavor to cloak their shortcoming by trying to show that they have anticipated the reformers . " Such is President Hunter 's position . It makes no difference , however , how the reform comes , if it only comes , because , as I said in my annual report , ' the condition and prosperity of the Normal College are a matter of vital interest and importance to the whole school system . ' " John D. Lindsay , on Behalf of Society , Objects to Proposed Law to Affect Children of the Streets . Special to The New York Times . ALBANY , March O. ? Assemblyman Bostwick received to-day from John D , Lindsay of the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children a strong protest against the passage of the Child Labor bill upon which a hearing was given before the Senate Judiciary Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troduced by Mr. Agnew in the Assembly , provides for the licensing of newsboys and newsgirls , limits the hours in which they shall be allowed to be on the streets engaged in their occupations , and makes attendance at school a. requisite for securing a permit . " The evils of vicious and depraved as ? sociation and the tendency to moral degeneracy to which street children are subjected are certainly no greater in the case of newsboys than in that of those unfortunate urchins who have no occupation to engage even a part of their time . " says Mr. Lindsay . " There is nothing wrong or injurious in the mere selling of newspapers , and the average newsboy , who does not make the selling of newspapers the pretext for begging , is not as likely to get into trouble as the boy who has no occupation . The bill requires the issuance of licenses to girls between ten and fourteen years of age , as well as to boys , to peddle , black boots , or sell newspapers in the streets . Girls between fourteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they may act as peddlers , bootblacks , or newsgirls without any license . - Nothing could be more unfortunate to the child-saving cause than the enactment of a statutory permission of this character . The suggestion of allowing girls under sixteen years of age to sell newspapers in the streets is shocking when it is recollected that the grossest cases of immorality are traceable directly to the employment of young girls in street occupations . " Girls are to be allowed to peddle in the struts until 0 o'clock at night . Licenses roust be issued on application . No discretion is vested in the school authorities . No orphan child for whom no guardian has been appointed or who has no custodian , and no child who has been deserted by its parents or guardian , can obtain a , permit under the bill . This class of unfortunate children . who have greater need for employment than any other class , is absolutely denied the privilege of the law . " A recommendation of the Local School Board of the Fourth District to the Board of Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Fifty-fifth Street and Sixth Avenue , while the largest part of the school population is centred below Fourteenth Street , so that hardship and expense is entailed on poor parents who have to procure permits for children Old Canvases and Modern Paintings at the Fifth Avenue Galleries . Sales of pictures follow each other so rapidly that only the experienced collector can keep track of them . What with estates selling off the accumulation of more or less lucky amateurs in the art of buying , and dealers getting rid of stock which will not sell in any other way , there is a continuous performance going on in one part of the city or another , with auctioneers as the stage managers . So far they have not made a trust and reduced all the auctions to a dead level . There are unconsciously comic performers as well as more serious . The " valuable ancient and modern paintings " now at the Fifth Avenue Galleries , 366 Fifth Avenue , which are to be sold at the Waldorf-Astoria on Thursday night , come under the head of miscellany -- -they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canvas , like No. 151 , portraits of Madame Bonaparte and the young Napoleon , bearing the name of J. L. David , but beside it may hang a Madonna ascribed to Rubens over which one would like to draw a veil . The Oriental beauties may have been painted by Leon Comerre , for such are the pictures he produced , and whether he himself perpetrated them or hired some one else with about the same quantity of taste and skill to help him makes no kind of difference . But is it not hard to assign to Rembrandt the " Head of an Old Man " here shown ? And , despite his natural limitations , is it quite fair for the owners of the " Admiral van Tromp " ( No. 163 ) to scorn all expertise and insist upon the name of Franz Hats as its maker ? Like the young lady in the ballad , the face of the alleged Admiral is all that Hats can show in the way of posthumous fortune . and if it be painted so foully it amounts to robbing him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the idiosyncrasies of collectors , but it would be interesting to know why Mr. Arthur Furber thinks that Sir Godfrey Kneller painted No. 114 , " Portrait of a Lady . " or Raphael Mengs the likeness of Maria Louisa of Spain , ( No. 110 , ) or Rigaud that of Louis XIV , ( No. 112 . ) Agreed that Monchablon painted the bright little landscape . " La Vallee de Chatillon , " and the Bohemian painter Brozik the smooth female called " Meditation . " and Frederic Ede of Canada the five landscapes in the style of Fritz Thaulow : still . we can not see anything of the robust Van de Heist of Haarlem in the girl 's head under No. 46 , nor Old Crome in the landscape . No. 47 , nor Sir Henry Raeburn in the pale " Portrait of a Lady , " ( No. 45 . ) Could Adrlaen van Ostade have painted so vilely as we see the " Interior " under No. 38 , or Gabriel Metsu as in that catalogued No. 40 ? If they did . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to christen them with the title of some forgotten artist and let them go at that . This collection is certainly the most helter-skelter in the way of attributions we have had to review for some time past . It is as if the names of pictures and names of artists had been drawn from two separate hats . It is amusing enough , but it is hardly fair to the public . Of course , the auctioneers must take the names given them , and naturally they decline all warranty . Buyers must be their own experts , as indeed they always are , and purchase for what they see in the canvas on which they bid , not for the often fantastical attribution in the catalogue . PHYSICIANS AS WITNESSES . Their Privileges in Court Proceeding 's Discussed by Lawyer Bullowa . Members of the Society of Medical Jurisprudence last night met at the Academy of Medicine . in West Forty-third Street , and listened to a paper by Alfred L. M. Bullowa of the New York bar on " The Medical Secret : or , the Privilege of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to every one who practices physics or surgery , " said Mr. Bullowa , " the right to decline to answer any question or to give any testimony concerning any person who has consulted him professionally , if that answer will in any way reveal any secret , condition , or fact that has come to the physician or surgeon by reason of his professional duties or as an aid in prescribing for the patient . " In this country the law forbidding physicians to testify to facts and knowledge acquired professionally operates , first in importance , in insurance cases , where fraud may be known through misinformation given by the applicant as to his physical condition and the physical condition of his parents . This law is especially objectionable to the life insurance companies . " Next in importance comes its operation in inheritance cases , where insanity on the part of the testator may be alleged . In these cases it often cuts off the only means of securing facts as to the actual condition of the testator . It also may be interesting to physicians to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions , no call can be legally made on them for their books of accounts if those books contain any Information from patients that may be of a privileged character . or , in other words , if those books will in any way reveal information concerning patients and secured through professional duties . " At the society 's regular meeting , resolutions were adopted favoring the passage of the Elsberg-Bostwick bill in the Legislature to prevent the sale of adulterated drugs . A. committee seas ordered named to attend the hearing of the bill at Albany on March 24.                     