@@677660

txt President Woodrow Wilson of Princeton university gave out his plan for the social reorganization of the university today in the last itsue of the Alumni Weekly for the year . Ills suggestions , Which have been adopted by the board of trustees , will abolish the factions now rife among students and will give more class spirit . They will also , in time , abolish the clubs which have taken , the place of fraternities here . President Wilson 's report and the remedy offered follow In part : " Under the present social organization there is a constant and ever increasing disconnection between the life and work of the university . Between its championships and Sts duties there is almost complete disconnection regarding its . hours of play . and those of work . Club and School as Rivals . " It has become common for sophomores to ask their Instructors during the last few years whether they shall choose the life of the student or that of the clubman . This is not because the clubs try to exclude study , but because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to take its chance in competition with these pleasures . " Group rivalries break the solidarity of the class . The younger classes at no point are made conscious of the interests of the university : their whole time is concentrated upon Individual ambitions , upon means of preference , upon combinations to obtain individual ends , and the welfare of the university is Ignored . " Unique Remedy Offered . To stop these combinations and cliques , President Wilson otters a. unique plan . It is believed to be something absolutely unprecedented in educational history . ' While the students probably will object at first , in the end the plan of the president , it Is believed , will meet with much favor . In fact , he suggests : " My plan Is to draw the undergraduates together into residential squads , in which , they shall eat as well as lodge together , and In which they shall , under the direction of a member of the faculty , regulate their own corporate life by some simple method of self-government . For this purpose It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those already erected as to tim-rn geographical units and erect In connection with each group a. kitchen , dining and serving rooms , and a handsome common room for social purposes . What Re Seeks to Attain . " Every undergraduate will be required to actually live in his squad , and the residents will he made up as nearly as possible of members of every class . The objects of this arrangement will be to bring the faculty into close connection with the students ; to bring the members of the four classes together , and give the university the common consciousness which apparently comes from the closer sorts of social contact and rid the university of combinations , cliques , and separate dams social organisations . "                     