@@677479

txt The streets of this city are now picketed with American guards , Admiral Evans at the request of the British authorities having landed a number of marines from the battleships Missouri and Indiana . Six hundred bodies have been recovered , and more are being constantly found . Dynamite is being employed to clear away the debris of shattered buildings . The United States warships Indiana and Missouri arrived yea this morning from Guantanamo bringing large quantities of medicine and foods . The torpedo destroyer ' Whipple arrived during the night with a boat load of medicine which was sent ashore in charge of Surgeon . The cruiser Yankton is expected to arrive here soon . Many of the Americans who were in Kngston at the time of the disaster have been taken aboard the warships . They intended to take passage for the United States on board the HamburgAmerican steamer Prinz Eitel Frederich , but that vessel ran ashore near the wreckage of the steamer Prinzssin Luise last night . The Plum Point Lighthouse was smashed by the earthquake , and vessels arriving at night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Waldemar also is hard ashore . The wrecker Premier has gone to the aid of the stranded vessel . Several slight shocks of earthquake were felt last night . Four hundred and twenty dead were buried up to last night . The remaining bodies are being cremated . The work of clearing the streets of debris is being pushed . The people here greatly appreciate the action of the American government in sending warships and supplies . The water supply has been improved but food is very scarce and prices exorbitant . A remarkable incident of the earthquake has just come to light . An English clerk In a store was buried under falling walls following the earthquake of Monday and over this for many hours great fire ? swept . Wednesday the clerk was dug out alive . His injuries are not severe . Five hundred persons are still under treatment in the hospitals . No Americans lost their lives in the disaster . The work of , rescuing the entombed people was continued Tuesday and Wednesday , and fully 400 corpses were recovered , but many more were burned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by the rabble , but the military guards stationed at the.zzinReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . principal corners succeeded in restoring order . Efforts , as this dispatch is filed , are being made by the Government to clear the debris from the streets , but the laborers are afraid of the ruins and of further shocks , and , consequently , slow progress is being made . On Monday night fifteen distinct shocks were felt , but they did no damage . On Tuesday there were twenty shocks , and on Wednesday there were ten . The Wrecked Buildings . Among the buildings utterly destroyed are the Supreme Court , Colonial Bank , Nova Scotia Bank , the Merehants ' Exchange , the City Council Office , the parish church . St .. George 's Church , the Roman Catholic Cathedral , the Savings Bank , the Myrtle Bank Hotel , the Constant Springs Hotel , the Jamaica Club , the Masonic Temple . Training College , Hope College , therailway terminus , Customs Buildings , Cable Company offices , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is severely damaged but escaped the fire ; the Salvation AlLuy Temple , and the offices of the Presbyterian , Methodist , Baptist , and Congregational churches and schools . In brief , not a sound building remains in the entire area of Kingston , and less than a dozen houses can be occupied . and the entire business section is wiped out . The loss can not fall short of $5,000,000. and probably will total double that amount . Among the killed , some-of whom were previously reported , are Major Hardyman , of the West India Regiment ; Lieut . Lamont of the same regiment , Nathan , one of Jamaica 's merchant princes ; Solicitor Bradley Verley , and Messrs . J. W. Middleton , Ainsley Mordecai , ? Thwaites , D. L Motta , Edgar De Cordova , and Charles Sherlock , all merchants of Kingston ; the Cuban Consul , Gen. Perez , and Dr. R. C. Gibb , veterinary surgeon , of Kingston . The whole of Jamaica felt the shock , but no serious damage was done beyond a radius of twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Town , the fortifications at Port Royal were abandoned by the artillerymen and engineers , the western part of the town is partly submerged , sixteen 9.2-inch guns are displaced , and the barracks are in a dangerous and shaky condition . Up-Park Camp , north of Kingston , is also destroyed , and about forty sick soldiers were burned to death before they could be removed from the hospital . The King 's House , the residence of the Governor , is badly injured , and all its former occupants are now living under tents in Trafalgar Park . The residence of Gen. Marshall is totally demolished .                     