@@677145

txt Stxteen perpersons were killed , twenty-five were badly injured , and probably a score of others received minor hurts in a railroad wreck Which occurred at S:15 o'clock to-night at Baker 's Bridge Station , a mile and a half west of Lincoln , on the main line of the Fitchburg Division of the Boston and Maine Railroad . The regular Sunday night express which left Boston at 7 : - I3 o'clock for Montreal . by way of the Rutland system , crashed into the rear of an accommodation train bound for points on the Marlboro branch line , and which started from Boston at 7:15 o'clock . Of the dead a dozen were passengers in the two rear cars of the Marlboro train . The other two were Engineer Barnard of the Montreal express and his fireman . No passenger on the express was injured . Of those who lost their lives a number were apparently killed instantly in the collision , while others were either burned to death by the fire which ensued , or died froth suffocation . A partial list of the dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Three-year-old child of Mr. Barris . EUGENE BARNARD , engineer of the Montreal train . LYONS , fireman of the Montreal train . ANNA RILLBRIDGE , aged 5 years , Acton ; died in Pullman car of the express shortly after being taken from wreckage . DANIEL WEATHERBE , Acton . MAY CAMPBELL . Maynard . MAY COLLINS , Concord Junction . NELLIE SWEENEY , Concord . ? MAGANO , Concord . Seven unidentified bodies . On account of the heavy traffic the local train was delayed , and it was about six minutes behind time when it stopped at the little station . It was known that the Montreal express was due , and persons who were at the station say that a trainman was sent back to set a torpedo and a red light . The night was unusually dark , partly owing to a dense mist which came up the Sudbury River . According to those at the station at the time , the light had not been . set -neoregesiza.n.a. , .... tainute before the roar of a heavy train around the curve a short distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the headlight of an on-rushing locomotive penetrated the mist and the two poo , derous engines of the express train traveling at an estimated speed of 33 miles an hour , with nine cars behind them , crashed into the local train . The impact was so terrific that it was heard by persons living a mile distant . The leading locomotive telescoped the rear car of the Marlboro train and the second engine forced the demolished mass against the third car of the local and completely wrecked it . In those two cars all but two of the fatalities occurred and practically all of the injuries The forward locomotive of the Montreal train was destroyed . The engine following , although considerably damaged , did not leave ' the rails . One of the cars of the express was thrown from the track , but the collision apparently had little effect upon the passengers . They stated afterward that the shock was comparatively slight . Within two minutes following the col- . Baton the firebox of the battered engine communicated flames to the wreckage of the passenger coaches and several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by fragments of woodwork , perished . Some of the passengers had been killed instantly , but just how many escaped death from the flames in this ' way could not be told to-night . The second car of the local train remained standing on the irons and was not greatly damaged . The engine of this train escaped the wreck . Passengers from both trains , railroad employes , and villagers rushed to the wrecked cars and assisted many persons to escape . The flames made it difficult to reach some who were alive , but who evidently had been unable to free themselves from the mass . For a time it was necessary to lay injured persons side by side with bodies of the dead , until every effort possible had been made to rescue Other victims . After some delay messages were sent to Boston , Waltham , and Concord for doctors , nurses , surgical appliances , and Wrecking trains . Several Of the bodies were badly disfigured . Thirteen of the dead were sent to Boston on the special train , together with fourteen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that three would die within a short time . The majority of those injured were women . During the evening a large number of inquiries were received by the railroad officials from friends of persons who were supposed to have been on the Marlboro Branch train . Large crowds visited the scene of the wreck , and altwas apparent that many of those at the station were looking for friends or relatives The officials of the Boston and Maine nallritad will make an immediate inquiry into . the cause of the collision . Whether the proper signals were sent at a safe distance or whether they could be seen in time by the engineer of the Montreal train can not be told at this time . The District Court will also hold an in-Vestigation An the sixteen bodies have been taken from the wreck . Three of the sixteen Were alive when taken out , but death *. n'suecl ? soon afterwards Three of the                     