@@675501

txt The " yellow peril " in the East and the " black peril " in the South are very mildly perilous in the estimation of that Ohio student who is about to patent a means of protection against a domestic danger that menaces everybody who prefers to ride in electric conveyances rather than to walk or stick to steam cars , horse cars , or the infrequent and almost obsolete stage . The Toledo professor who is to offer protection to the human race against vagrant electricity seems to have found out some very distressing thing 's . He became convinced by observation and personal experiment that continuous riding on electric street cars had a horribly depleting effect upon his physical system . Several hours of persistent riding sent him home with a back that ached and with aggravated heart action . Having remembered that he had felt the same distresses after a hard day 's work in his laboratory , struggling with an electric experiment , he reached a conclusion . Like a true scientist , this investigator proceeded to a careful but unpleasant demonstration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a miniature trolley railway . In the car which ran over this line he placed a full-grown tiger cat and compelled it to ride fort hours at a time . When this compulsory riding began the cat was perfectly healthy and sound . After the riding had L been endured by the helpless cat for months , the cat was a hopeless wreck . Other animals were similarly wrecked . A post-mortem examination satisfied the professor who ran the road that the complete derangement of the nervous system of the cat , its enlarged heart , the disorderly condition of the muscles of the legs and loins , were due to vagrant electric currents picked up in the prolonged trolley ride . The Ohio professor does not pretend that he has discovered an improved method of disposing of superfluous cats . He has not recommended that riding objectionable dogs in electric cars for months at a stretch would be a more economical or humane way of ridding us of them than smothering or drowning , but he fancies that he has found a way to protect the human species from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours at a time in electric cars saturated with vagrant electricity . If the Patent Office agrees with the alleged discoverer , we may soon hear of elaborate but convenient devices to ward off the dangers said to threaten us daily and hourly . Clothing having the power of consuming and rendering harmless the vagrant currents of electricity is to be provided . Boots , hose , trousers , waistcoats , hats , that shall protect the wearer very much as a house is now protected from lightning by a conductor , are to guard the electric car passenger from attacks of " electromosis . " It occurs to us that perhaps in New York there will not be the demand for this protective clothing that the professor has observed in Ohio . If there are any persons in this city who are addicted to riding for hours or months at a time in electric street cars or other electrically propelled conveyances , we are sure the number is inconsiderable , and that it would be useless to appeal to such persons with any expectation of a reasonable response . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conductors . They do ride for such long periods as the professor 's experimental cats and dogs , and they may need the " consumers . " Very few of them appear to suffer from any lack of nerve . If the " Consumers " can be so contrived as to constrain the wearers to be a little more gentle in manner there may be a demand that the transportation companies supply outfits of the garments to all their employes                     