@@677076

txt President Cutting of the Citizens ' Linton sent word yesterday from his country home at Tuxedo that to-day he will issue a statement " defining the position which the Union will assume at the adjourned fusion conference at the Republican Club next Thursday night , " now that District Attorney Jerome has made It plain that he wo n't be forced into running for Mayor . Mr. Jerome 's formal declination to be a candidate for Mayor has thrown the members or the Citizens ' Union into confusion . President Cutting and Frederic W. Hinrichs . in urging the fusion conference to select Mr. Jerome as the Mayorality candidate declared their complete confidence that Mr. Jerome would accept the nomination if it were tendered ? to him . They made that declaration despite Mr. Jerome 's formal statement that he wished to be re-elected District Attorney and did not desire to run for Mayor . However Mr. Cutting may now regard the situation , the Republican leaders certainly consider that in view of the refusal of the Citizens ' Union favorite to stand as a Mayoralty candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to name the head of the ticket , provided , of s course , the man they select snail not be open to reasonable objection from the Independent element . There is a sort of boom among the Re-Publican leaders for James R. Sheffield . Mr. Sheffield has always been known as an independent Republican . He Is a close friend of President Roosevelt . He served as Fire Commissioner in the Strong re , form administration . He was nominated I recently by Coy . Higgins to be Chairman of the new State Gas Commission but de ' clined the appointment . In ' the discussion of Mr. Jerome 's refusal to recant on his announcement that he would run for District Attorney and for no other office , some of the politicians were declaring that one of the reasons which actuated the District Attorney in declining to become a Mayoralty candidate against Mr. McClellan is his fits-sire to run for Governor on the Democratic ticket a year from now This supposed ambition of Mr. Jerome may in-t fluence the position which Tammany will Jake toward his independent candidacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion as to the probable outcome of an election is valuable who do not now believe that if Jerome were Indorsed by Tammany for District Attorney the campaign practically would be over With McClellan and Jerome running on the same ticket , they say , the Independent vote , almost in Its entirety , would be recorded in the Democratic column . Therefore , If Tammany could determine the result of the election in advance by the indorsement of Mr Jerome . It would seem to be good politics for the Tammany leaders to bring Mr. Jerome 's indorsement about . The obstacle in the way Is Mr. Jerome 's suspected ambition to become the Democratic candidate for Governor . If there appears to be a fair chance of electing a Democratic Governor a year from now , Charles F. Murphy , it is understood . would like to have the nomination go to Mr. McClellan . There are some of the Tammany leaders who do not believe that the Democratic nomination for Governor a year hence ought to be a consideration in the make-up of the Democratic city ticket . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the indorsement of Mr. Jerome he ought to be indorsed . There is too much at stake in the coming election , they say . for Tammany to take any chance it does not have to take . They argue . moreover . that there is just as much danger to Mr. McClellan 's Gubernatorial ambitions in the rejection of Mr. Jerome by Tammany as there would be in his indorsement . If Jerome were elected District Attorney without Tammany 's indorsement , up-State Democrats , it is said , might take him up as the man to defeat McClellan for the Gubernatorial nomination .                     