@@677245

txt Judge EDWARD F. DUNNE was elected by a plurality of 24,000 and received the largest recorded vote for Mayor of Chicago . As a direct result the city was last year officially committed to the quickest possible cessation of private franchises for public utilities . Immediate municipal ownership operation of the street car lines been the platform of the successful candidate , and this policy had been determined on a separate ballot by 90,000 majority . Difficulties arose with which the public is sufficiently familiar . The Mayor 's plans worked smoothly on paper . But the City Council was again forced to negotiate ? with the companies , and meanwhile Mayor DUNNE had wisely cabled for , and obtained , the leading expert on municipally owned street railways in the world , Mr. JAMES DALFalIPLE of Glasgow . Mayor DUNNE suppressed Mr. DALEYmmx 's report . It Came out , nevertheless , last month . and imbedded in its ungrateful framework the people of Chicago discovered this paragraph of caution : Presuming that you are able , at a satisfactory figure , to purchase the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in your city attempting to operate what would be the largest ptreet railway undertaking in the world without making a very radical change in the methods usually employed in carrying on municipal work by the cities of the United States . As a pledge of the Chicago Council necessitated a referendum , the people voted on April 3 , 1906 ? just a year after the triumphal entry of DUNNEseparately on the questions of municipal ownership and operation . DUNNE 'S plurality had been 24,000 . The vote for municipal operation on Tuesday lacked 17,791 of the requisite three-fifths for adoption , and the majority declaration in favor of municipal ownership and the issuance of certificates of purchase was 3,339 , as against a majority of 90,000 for that policy a year ago . The Glasgow expert had also stated : If the city insists on taking over all the lines at once , $75,000,000 would be only a starter . Enormous sums would have to be spent to bring the lines up to a state of efficiency . Mayor DUNNE is now free , asA he predicted the other day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceed to acquire the lines " : As soon as the Mueller certificate ordinance becomes a law we shall proceed at once to advertise and issue Mueller laW certificates . Then we shall have a test case carried to the Supreme Court to determine whether the certificates are valid . But there will be no sale of the $76 , - 000,000 of certificates until their validity is established , which requires two years ' litigation . Then their security will be the street railway property itself , which , Mr. DALRYMPLE states in his report , is " worn out . " The companies must be allowed to say on what terms they will sell to the city , according to the statement made by Mayor DUNNE after the election . We wonder just how much he supposes the Mueller certificates will be worth when placed/upon the market ?                     