@@675521

txt Some college professors have suddenly discovered that many , if , indeed , not most , of the young men who go up for examinations can not write down the answers to the questions in simple English . These young men , say the professors , appear to be unacquainted with a sufficient number of English words to enable them to write what they desire to say . These professors are Inclined to lay the blame on the primary schools and to accuse them of neglecting to teach English as it ought to be taught . The blame should be laid primarily on the colleges themselves . That young people , as a rule , have no vocabulary and no knowledge of the proper methods of forming sentences is something which can not escape the general observer , and the inference that they are not properly taught at school is natural , and not erroneous . But the requirements for admission to all the colleges are such that , instead of devoting time to the study of diction and prose composition , the schools are compelled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is altogether too much reading of Dryden 's " Palamon and Aricite , " Milton 's " L'Allegro , " and Burke on " Conciliation , " and not half enough instruction in the use and abuse of words . In earlier days pupils had purity , propriety , and . precision hammered into them till they were forced to choose their words when they wrote and formed a habit of doing so when they talked . In the , se same days there was a custom of making pupils study spelling and definition . The knowledge of words thus gained can not be replaced . And the exercise of writing compositions , followed by careful criticism of each pupil 's work , is of inestimable value . There awe schools ranking in the first class which have entirely dropped this part of the training of pupils . If the colleges would lay more stress In their requirements for entrance examinations in English on knowledge of the language and the use of it than on acquaintance with its literature , there would he less complaint about the inability of candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And parents can do something . They can forbid peremptorily the employment of slang in the house . Compel the children to talk decent English at home , and they will widen their vocabulary at a rapid rate . Allow them to fall into the slovenly and debased habits of speech now regarded as smart in society and they will not be able to express themselves at any time in clean , pure English . And the chances are , too , that they will have nothing to express , for loose thought is a boon companion of loose speech .                     