@@677124

txt It is singular that the visit to Premier BALFOUR of the women relatives of the London unemployed was preceded by an industrious working up of the subject by Mr. CHAMBERLAIN 'S organ . According to this authority the proportions of this problem in England are Portentous . There Is authentic testimony that the unemployed range between 1,000,000 and 2,000,000 , each on the average with three dependents . The trades unionists are the aristocracy of labor , and of them 4.6 per cent . are unemployed on an average all the year round . The British wage Is meagre , 1 but the British workers have each to pay L4 annually for the support of the unemployed . As these facts were elaborately exploited before the delegation visited the Premier it is possible to think that there is a political as well as charitable problem involved , and in this there is a hint- of more than merely sympathetic American interest . The deserted farms of old England bear a strong likeness to the deserted farms of New England . Both were depopulated by the cheap breadstuffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheaply that they could not afford to produce them . Our New Englanders , when undersold , simply moved to the prairies and there renewed their fortunes . This safety valve was not practicable to the British unemployed of the farming class , nor is it feasible for the unemployed of the British cities to relieve their distress by returning to the soil . So they drift to the cities and there produce a problem which is always present in every congested population , but which is exceptionally acute in England . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN proposes to remedy It by taxation , that is , by protection . He proposes to revive the landed industry by making the nation 's food dearer , just as our protectionists say they have given us prosperity by making American manufactures dear . Without discussing this point it is apropos to suggest some measure of the prosperity here which is a remote cause of the suffering in England . Between 1880 and 1900 the increase in the value of land in seven representative Western States has been $3,704,000,000 , and in 1905 is probably $5,000,000,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but there is a handsome credit balance , and much of it accrued to the New England emigrants . Old England , not having this recourse , has suffered corresponding although smaller reverses through- out an entire and large part of its population . How far making food dear will go to remedy this condition of things is England 's political problem ; I which lies below the Visit of the delega- tion to Mr. BAT-MEER . It does not seem as though Mr. Chamberlain could put a duty upon American breadstuffe , or discriminate in favor of British-grown grain and meat . His campaign , however , involves this , and gives to Americans an interest in the British food and labor questions which is neither altruistic nor humanitarian solely nor even chiefly .                     