@@676092

txt GENERAL DETAILS-Of COMING TIANOEUVRES ' Those Scheduled for August Will Be Purely Naval . Second Set to Consist of Coast Attack by Supposed Hostile Fleet , with Army 's Defense . WASHINGTON , July D. ? Beyond a general idea of the character of the army and naval manoeuvres which will take place on the Atlantic Coast this Summer , nothing bearing official authentication is obtainable in either the Navy or War Departments . Nor is it likely that any specific details of the manoeuvres will be given to the public . But from a high official source a general sketch of the exercises has been obtained . There are to be two distinct sets of manoeuvres . The first will be purely naval and will consume probably the first three weeks of . August . Two , or perhaps three . of the vessels belonging to the North Atlantic Statioa will represent an enemy 's fleet and I.vill attempt to elude a defensive squadron commanded by Rear Admiral Higginson , and accomplish a landing at some point on the New England coast Inside of limits not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be to send out scouts to locate the " enemy 's vessels before they can reach the coast . The vessels participating in these manoeuvres will include the battleships Kearsarge . Alabama . Massachusetts , and Olympia . comprising the North Atlantic Squadron , as well as the Montgomery , Scorpion . Marblehead , Hist. and such other vessels as can be spared at the time . At these naval manoeuvres the officials hope to experiment with wireless telegraphy . It is said there also will be experiments in coaling ship , transporting supplies , and other minor features of naval warfare . Capt . William Swift is now engaged in consultation with Rear Admiral Higginson , Commander in Chief of the North Atlantic Station , concerning other points of detail . The second and more important set of Summer manoeuvers will consist in a naval attack on a point on the North Atlantic coast by a supposed hostile fleet , which attack is to be met by a joint defense by the army and militia , assisted by a small number of naval vessels detached for the purpose from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army for its part in the coming manoeuvers . The defense will be under the general direction of the commanding officer of the Department of the East , though the actual work devolves on the Coast Artillery , whose officers , in the districts which are to be attacked , will be in active command . The attack will be made between New Bedford , Mass. , on the east and the eastern defenses of Long Island Sound . This will include the Artillery District of Narragansett , commanded by Col. Henry C. Hasbrouck , and the district of New London , commanded by Lieut . Col. J. M. K. Davis . The Narragansett district includes Forts Adams , Wetherill and Greble , Rhode Island , and Rodman , Mass . The New London district Is composed of Forts Trumbull , Conn. , Mansfield , R. I. ; H. G. Wright , Michie and Terry , New York . The New York forts are situated at the entrance of Long Island Sound and are located for the purpose of defending all the cities of the Sound as well as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers available have been ordered to these districts and are directing the preparation of such portion of the defense as would come under their charge . Ordnance officers have been directed to give attention to the inspection of guns . and ammunition with blank charges has been sent to the various forts . The defense will also be a test of the appliances . such as range finders , telegraphic facilities , signal operations , etc . Within the radius of the operations the . army will have no notice of where and when the attack will be made . The signal corps will be utilized for this purpose . Owing to the secrecy to be maintained by the Navy the troops in the different forts will be kept in a state of readiness .                     