@@678368

txt The lower house of the Nevada Legislature this afternoon adopted the anti-Japanese resolution directed . to the California Legislature after it had been so amended that all reference to President Roosevelt had been eliminated . The resolution will go to the Senate to-morrow . Speaker Giffen. who introduced the resolution , has also introduced a bill designed to prevent aliens from holding lands in the State . The first section reads : Any non-resident aliens , except subjects of the Japanese and Chinese Empires , may take , bold , and enjoy any real property or interest in lands in Nevada . and upon the same terms and conditions as any other . perton . This measure is in the hands of the Judiciary Committee . Assemblyman Dodge introduced a resolution to-day asking that a fleet of warships be maintained in Pacific waters , as " citizens of Asiatic countries with whom we can not mingle on terms conducive to our interests are rapidly becoming a ' menace to our peace and prosperity , mainly from want of proper naval protection . " Speaker Gil fen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whole yesterday , and before it was amended today , was as follows : Whereas , the people of the State of Nevada view with alarming apprehension the gradual encroachments on and increase of population in the territory of the United States , particularly of the Western States , by the Japanese ; and Whereas , it seems to be the definite and settled policy of the Japanese to acquire lands in this country and particularly in the Western States ; and Whereas . Nevada is the fourth largest State , territorially , in the Union , with more vacant land for tilling and agricultural benefits than any State in the Union , and it is so situated that its lands appeal to these classes ; and Whereas , agents of the Japanese Government are acquiring wheat and grain lands of which Nevada is so bounteously supplied ; and Whereas The people of our sister State of this Japanese peril , are attempting'through their Legislature to exert the State right of protecting themselves against any class or race which is detrimental to its happiness and prosperity ; and Whereas . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exclude these parasites of the world from acquiring a foothold in this country ; and Whereas , We of Nevada are interested in seeing this Japanese invasion ) stopped . and believing California to be justified in Its action In attempting to exclude these people , and believing It to be the best interest of our Nation and State that immediate action should be taken to stop the encroachment of the Japanese ; and Whereas . Tie President of the United States , not duly realizing the serious conditions which eats ! ha the West , and the menace which the Japanese are to our country . has seen fit to take advantage of his high office to the extent of attempting to coerce and intimidate legislation In California upon this subject ; and Whereas , We view with alarm this attempted encroachment of the Government on States ' rights ; therefore , be it Resolved . That we , the people of the State of Nevada . represented in Senate and . Assembly , do hereby recommend to the State of California to pay no attention whatever to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead and enact such stringent measures as will absolutely stop forthwith the encroachment of the Japanese . and the fu Cher acquiring of a foothold in this Nation ; and Whereas . We believe there is no danger of war with the Japanese . as is advanced - by those who oppose our views , but we believe that if we must have war with the Japanese Empire sooner or later , now is a better time than ever to lay down the terms to that empire and teach those arrogant people - that our rights can not be encroached on . and that they can not , nor ever will be allowed or given an opportunity to acqeme a foothold 1n this country or to assimilate with our race . We further censure Theodore Roosevelt . the President of the United States , for his uncalled for interference in attempting to deprive the citizens of the great Commonwealth of California by threats and coercion from exercising their lawful rights of ) . rotecting themselves from this Japanese horde ; " and . be it further Resolved , That a copy of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to use their influence in enacting an exclusion act against the Japanese and Chinese which will perpetually exclude them from coming into this ? country . It is understood that Gov . Dickerson opposed the measure in its original form . While he was credited with favoring the exclusion portion of the measure , he did ; , et approve of the strong language of the resolution .                     