@@676175

txt Evelyn B. Baldwin , the arctic explorer , who / was in command of the expedition fitted out by William Ziegler , arrived from England yesterday on the White Star liner Germanic . He was apparently in good health and good spirits . He was not inclined to discuss the criticisms that have been made concerning his management of the expedition by the artist J. Knowles Hare and other ? members who have returned to this country . " They were young men , " said the explorer , " and on their first arctic trip . The charge that there were not sufficient ( supplies is ridiculous , and it is an outrage to so reflect on Mr. Ziegler 's generosity . " I admit , " he continued , " that our quarters on the America were somewhat crowded , but everybody knew that before we started . The number we took was perhaps too many for the quarters on the ship , but the reason for taking so many was to insure a strong force for the sledges . " The row between Sailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originally was between the ice pilot , Arensen , and the sailing master , and I took the ice pilot 's part . It was a conflict as to authority , and the ice pilot , who had twenty-nine years ' experience in the arctic seas against Johansen 's total inexperience in those regions , was the superior officer . At any rate , the trouble was settled before the American Consul at Bergen , and my view was upheld . " Speaking of the results of the expedition , Mr. Baldwin said that the most important result lay in the fact that they had established an excellent basie for an expedition next year . Such an expedition had been contemplated , and already some plans have been made , he said , but no definite information would be forthcoming until he had seen Mr. Ziegler . " The meteorological and other observations , " continued Mr. Baldwin , " I expect will prove valuable . Four stations were established , the most northerly of which was on Rudolf Land , in sight of the headquarters which were occupied by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left 5,000 pounds of condensed food . The most southerly station is on Alger Island . " On my journey to Cape Norway I found Dr. Nansen 's hut , partly gnawed by bears and foxes . Dr. Nansen 's record , written in pencil on a half sheet of note paper , and dated May 19 , 1896 , I found intact in a brass cylinder . I have the record with me and , left my own in its place . We also released fifteen balloons containing more than 300 messages addressed to the " Nearest American Consul . " They were driven northward and may furnish data on air and sea currents . " The only time , . the ship and party were in real danger was on the run home . It was necessary to . Vast " the heavy drifts with dynamite and saw a channel through the ice . Once the America , was caught in a violent ice field , her screw and rudder were twisted and the propeller frame broken . The America , however , behaved splendidly , and I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adapted for polar exploration . " The sledge parties had some exciting times . Two members or the party , who were out on a pony sledge , were attacked by big polar bears . The pony bolted , and the men saved themselves only by clambering over an ice hummock . The dog teams and walruses also engaged in numerous conflicts . " Answering the charge that he could havegone further north had he so desired , Mr. Baldwin said that the conditions would not permit his piecing his camp any further north than where he did on Rudolf Land . It was charged also that he might have tried the British Channel , which , Mr. Baldwin said yesterday , was eighty miles west of Camp Ziegler , and impassable on account of the ice . " I agree with Peary , " said Mr. Baldwin , " that the only practical way of reaching the pole is by sledging from the northernmost point of land , which we know extends as far north as b2 north latitude . The old idea of an open polar sea is baseless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoffman House . where he had a talk with Dr. Frederick A. Cook of Brooklyn , who also has some arctic achievements to his credit . Mr. Baldwin said last night that he had not as yet seen Mr. Ziegler , who is at his country place near Stamford . Conn. , but expects to meet him and report to-day or Saturday . Mr. Baldwin said he was not in a position to discuss his future plans until after his meeting with Mr. Ziegler . When asked whether another expedition would be started in the near future under his leadership , for the purpose of making the dash for the pole , he replied that he had heard nothing which would make him believe anything to the contrary .                     