@@676798

txt Judge Parker departed from here for New York at G:11 P. M. on board John B. 's yacht Sapphire . Secretary Arthur McCausland and Smith M. Weed accompanied him . The Clinton leader , however . went only as far as Poughkeepsie , taking train there . Mr. and his guests expect to arrive in Manhattan waters about midnight , anchoring off the station of the New York Yacht Club , at the foot of West Eighty-sixth Street . A landing will be effected about 8 o'clock to-morrow morning . The candidate will be driven direct to the Hotel Astor , ? Tithes Square , and so far as now ? known will remain there for the ' holding of all conferences . In fact , when he left here there was nothing to indicate that he would go to the National Committee headquarters or anywhere but the Hotel Astor until he is ready to return to Rosemount . While the time of his stay in the metropolis can only be conjectured at this time , yet the best information points to a return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solve a score of problems before he again sees Rosemount . He expects to meet great numbers of leaders . But just how extensive and just how important his first visit to New York since the convention will be no one can estimate , accurately . There is some belief that the fruits of the conferences with the Presidential candidate will not appear until some days have passed . Senator Gorman , ex-Senator Davis , William P. Sheehan , and the entire Democratic galaxy Will no doubt meet the candidate during to-morrow and Friday morning . Expressions have been heard about Rosemount to the effect that to-night , the third anniversary of the death of William marks , by the departure of theDemocratic candidate , the real beginning of the campaign by the party- now out of power . It was conceded that , save for the , rest he will get on board the Sapphire , Judge Parkek obtain none practically until he is again under the roof of Rosemount . The craft which was to bear him away was sighted to the southward at 5:11 P. M. It steamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Landing and Esopus Island , with a heavy haze almost shutting its white outlines from view . Rain was pouring in torrents , in fact , the heaviest rainstorm since Judge Parker became the nominee was in progress when the Sapphire anchored fifty yards out in the stream . Mr. came ashore .. fn the tender and was met on the dock by Frederick Parker with a carriage . Hardly more than a half hour passed before the candidates party was in readiness . Time for dinner Was not taken . Smith M. Weed with George A. Hall of St. Lawrence had arrived less than an hour before . Mr. Weed had no time to discuss politics . if he was to accept the invitation to go boating in the wind and rain to Poughkeepsie . With a suit case the candidate entered the cabriolet and was driven down the hill to the dock . His departure was marked by a great display of natural pyrotechnics . The lightning flashed and the thunder crashed , and with a heavy haze/settling down like a huge canopy , shuttingiroff all view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swift drive down the rocky hill road through the rain , disciples of the strenuous life would have been quite well satisfied with the stage set for the Judge 's entry into active work . At 3:30 o'clock this morning the Sapphire , bearing Judge Parker , had not been sighted off the yachting anchorage at the foot of - West Eighty-sixth Street , where the yacht had been expected to arrive about midnight . At that hour a fierce gale was blowing over the Hudson River . Some speculation was excited here among local politicians over the departure of National Chairman Taggart for the West on the eve of Judge Parker 's visit to th4 city .                     