@@676954

txt President ' William Frederick Potter of the Long Island Railroad died yesterday at the Hotel Marie Antoinette of cerebrospinal meningitis . He had been ill since March 3 . Mr. Potter became President of the road on Jan. 13 , when he was elected to succeed William H. Baldwin , Jr. , who died on Jan. 3 . Mr. Potter was fifty years old . Although from time to time since he became ill on March 3 favorable reports of his condition appeared , Mr. Potter had sunk steadily in strength , and in all that period had only three short intervals of lucidity , when the fever abated slightly . Before the beginning of his illness rates of fare- on ' the Long Island Railroad were advanced and this caused a storm of criticism . If this affected Mr. Potter 's health he gave little indication of it , going along in his even way trying to bring about a number of improvements in the road and its-management , confident that in the end he would satisfy every one . Nearly all the members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was at 2:30 yesterday afternoon . Among them were Mr. Potter 's wife , his father , H. C. Potter of Saginaw , Mich. ; H. S. Potter and William F. Potter , his sons ; Sarah F. Potter , his daughter , and his brother , H. C. Potter , Jr .. a banker of Detroit . On the day be was taken ill Mr. Potter attended a meeting of the Directors ' of the road in Philadelphia . He did not feel well at the meeting , and became considerably worse on the trip to this city . His own idea of his ailment was i that he had caught a cold . For several years Mr. Potter had found ! relief for small ailments through osteopathy , and . had been treated successfully 1 by Dr. Clark F. Fletcher on Sixty-ninth , Street . As soon as he reached Jersey ' City he telephoned to Dr. Fletcher , making an appointment to call at his office . 1 He reached there a little after G o'clock . While in the osteopathist 's office Mr. Potter was seized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home was in Flushing , L. I. , but nearly all the members of his family had gone to Washington to attend the inauguration . Dr. Fletcher said yesterday that he had had a ' suspicion that Mr. Potter was developing cerebro-spjnil meningitis , but as he was not certain he did not tell his patient . He . however , advised Mr. Pot . ter not to undertake the trip to Flushing , but to go to some near-by hotel . Mr. Potter acquiesced and went to the Marie Antoinette . Dr. Fletcher called in an associate practitioner also an osteopathist , and the two remained with the sick man most of the night . The following morning Mr. Potter said he felt considerably better , and insisted upon going to Long Island City . Dr. Fletcher went with him . That day was Saturday , and business ended at noon . Mr. Potter went back to the hotel . By the time he arrived his fever had risen to such a height that the two osteopathists felt it their duty to notify some of his aSsOciate Directors , Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. Janeway . Dr. Janeway diagnosed the case as one of cerebra-spinal meningitis and suggested that Dr. John S. Thatcher , a visiting physician to the Presbyterian Hospital , and Dr. Charles Henry Smith be sent for . The two physicians were in almost constant attendance upon Mr. Potter from that time until the day of his death . Mr. Patter was born on Oct. 26 , 1855 , at Utica , N. Y. He was educated at Highland Military Academy . Worcester , Mass , On Oct. 1 , 1875. he entered the employeof. the Flint and Pere Marquette Railroad as a clerk in the Auditor 's office ; from Oct. , 31 , 1876 , to September , 1877 , lie was a clerk in the Treasurer 's ' office of the road . From September , 1877 , to Nov. 1 . 1879 , he was a conductor on a passenger train of the road . He was then promoted to station master at East Saginaw , Mich. , - which post he held to June , 1881 : From that time on to July 5 , 1884 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then he was promoted to Assistant General Superintendent , which place he held until Aug. 10 , 1891 , when he became General Superintendent . On Jan. 1 , 1897 , Mr. Potter became General Superintendent of the Long Island Railroad . He was soon promoted to Vice President , and at the death of Mr. Bald- ' win he became President of the road . One of President Potter 's latest projects was the improvement of ferry service between Manhattan and Long Island City . This he hoped to accomplish before Summer . In 1880 Mr. Potter married Miss Jeannie V. Stetson , a daughter of a prominent merchant of Hartford , Conn . His body will be taken from the hotel to his home in Flushing to-day . Simple services will be held , and the ' body will then he cremated at Fresh Pond .                     