@@677985

txt The Italian Zust car passed through here shortly after 6 o'clock to-night in hot pursuit of the Thomas car , which Is leading the New York to Paris race . The Italians were elated over the excellent progress they have been able to make in the last ' two days , and declared that they - will i overhaul the leader in another week . The ear was runnin , s in fine shape , and with the roads good had cut down the Thomas lead materially . The Thomas passed here on its third day out from Omaha , and went on to Sidney the same night . The Zust ear was here on its sec/nd day from . Omaha , and the crew expected to make Julesburg before stopping to-night . This would mean , if they succeed in their purpose , that they would gain a whole day on the leader , except for the forty-two miles intervening between Julesburg and Sidney . The delays of the American car at Cheyenne and Laramie have aided the Italians , so that they may now be regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plowing through Wyoming snows on the road to Ogden . The Italians spent last night at Grand Island . contrary to their expectation . When they reached that point at 11:35 o'clock they found that they had not a sufficient amount of gasoline to carry them on beyond to Kearney , as they had planned . It was impossible to get a fresh supply without too great delay , so they decided to spend tino night there and be away by 7 o'clock in the morning . Their day 's run showed 184 miles . They were not able to get started until an hour later than anticipated , but ' when they were under way they made splendid progress . They reached Kearney at 11 o'clock , covering the forty-two miles in less than three hours and making the best time they have accomplished since leaving Chicago . They made no atop at Kearney. ' but ran on to Lexington , where the Thomas spent the night on its second night from Omaha . They passed Lexington at 2:34 o'clock in the afternoon , and still gave no indication of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock . making sixty miles it had covered in the four hours . Still it continued and arrived in North Platte at 8:30 o'clock with thirty-five miles more to Its credit . It took Just fifteen minutes for the four men to hurry through a pretense of a meal , and they were all ready to push west once more . Between bites of a sandwich A. L. Ruland , the American representative of the makers of the car , found time to say that the people in the West were treating them splendidly , and had quite wiped out the bad impression which the Ill-treatment in Indiana had created . He said every one was eager to keep on the road and determined that the leader should be overtaken before San Francisco was reached . " You can say for me , " he declared . " that the Zust car will prove the winner of the race . It Is going better than at any time in the race , and we are all confident that we can overhaul the Thomas before we reach the coast . The real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will then show what our car is capable of doing . We have had our share of hard luck in our breakdown , which retarded us until we reached Omaha . Then in the shops of the Union Pacific we had a chance to make the trouble right , and since then we have shown our speed . I think we will be in front in another week . " Hardly were the four men in the car before Sirtori threw in the clutch and Sent the machine hurtling up the road and it was lost to sight on its way to Julesburg , The Colorado town is eighty-one miles west of this place . but the Italian said he would cover the distance in five hours in the darkness . If they reach there the car will have covered 218 miles to-day .                     