@@678485

txt It might be thought at there was no point of view from which the attack of Missouri 's Congressmen upon Federal Judges could be welcomed , but it is almost worth while in view of the prompt repudiation of the superserviceable friends of the people by the newspapers of Missouri . The St. Louis Republic remarks that if . Gov . Hamm ' Is at all adequately informed regarding public sentiment in Missouri , " he must certainly realize by this time that.there is widespread condemnation of the re. ? mark-able methods recently resorted to in , the effort to make a political issue out of the controversy . " The Republic rejects the Governor 's repudiation of responsibility for raising a scandal " for which there is absolutely no justification . " The Republic regards it as altogether improbable that Congress will pay the least attention to the demand for impekchment , but regrets ' the harm that will nevertheless result through the attempt to substitute popular clamor for judicial processes . , The St. Louis Times , although critical of the railways , and pressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two of the most distinguithed jurists of the Middle West " would make decisions influenced by their personal acquaintance with railway men is " puerile " and too ridiculous to have a place in the Record . The Kansas City Journal says : Disrespect for constituted law and authority has been growing in this country for seveeal years , but thiS last move of shamelees demagogisin seems to be the crowning enormity of that offense . This , incident emphasizes the warning the country received by the demonstration that the anti-railway campaign inspired from Washington , had acquired an impetus in the States which the Federal authorities could not control . Now the movement in the States has got beyond the control of the State authorities . Gov . HALEY himself says : " I want to say , in justice to Judge , that he has at all times treated the repre-sentatives of the State with courtesy and consideralion . " Yet this testimony comes after the Governor 's colleagues in the attack - won the judiciary have got , out of hand . It takes no sharpness of hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by our Chief Executive . There is not the slightest objection to Missouri 's appealing from Judge MCPHERSON 'S decision , and having it reversed if wrong . The reversal would be sastained by public opinion with the same submission to authority as marked the acceptance of the original opinion . Meanwhile Missouri newspapers of all shades of politics and railway opinion are entitled to thanks for the energy and unanimity with which they repudiate Gov . HADLEY 'S new policy even after he has repudiated his too energetic assistants . Unless the country desires a spread of the prairie fire , and a renewal of the anti-railway crusade , it should let the Missouri newspapers know that they are supported in their defense of the judiciary , apart from the merits of the railway Questions .                     