@@676787

txt Of the several gatherings of men . eminent in applied science which will be held in New York during the next few weeks , none will possess a larger mealure of interest for the intelligent public than that assembled at the annual meeting of the Society of Chemical Industry . The papers and discussions of such a meeting are likely to be a little beyond the popular comprehension , but the net results are assimilated with avidity . Probably no subject has been as eagerly studied from its popular as well as its scientific points of view as that of radio-activity and the astonishing phenomena , as yet imperfectly understood , which are characteristic of the newly segregated radioactive substances . Chemistry is nearer the basis of the arts and sciences than any other branch of knowledge . The physicist starts With its discoveries of the composition of matter and builds thereon his hypotheses of the relations of matter and force ; the mechanic is dependent upon it in every operation for his knowledge of the materials he einploys ; the electrician must consult the chemist at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the laboratory he would quickly reach the limitations of his art ; the civil engineer finds himself more and more dependent upon the light which analysis throws upon the materials available for his creations ; the metallurgist would find himself groping in the dark , confronted at every turn with mystery , if the laboratory did not solve his problems from day to day , and almost from hour to hour . Even in the industries which call for what appears to be a purely mechanical treatment of the materials used , the work of the chemist is essential in establishing standards and in determining the effects of manipulation at the temperatures or under the conditions of practical working . The chemist stands between the manufacturer and a thousand errors of judgment which , if permitted to shape his policy , would be likely to lead him far astray . Subjected to the test of the experimentum crucis , truth is established and error refuted . Experience has shown , however , that not every man who knows the formulae of the books and is familiar with the manipulations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the service which is the high function of the chemist . His value depends in great degree upon his imagination . Every fact he ' chances upon in his exploration among the secrets of nature has its place in the orderly development of civilization and is a contribution to knowledge which is of much or little immediate use according to the capacity of the discoverer to trace its actual or possible relation to other facts . Chemical research along the lines of original investigation seems to be well calculated to stimulate the imagination , and many of those who I have attained a front rank in this fascinating field of work are entitled to recognition as the poets of science . All the absurd class distinctions which once separated the student of abstract science from the man who applied his knowledge to useful ends have been abandoned , and that the most advanced and imaginative of original investigators find themselves at home and in an appropriate environment in the company of those with whom chemistry is avowedly a gainful industry , applied to the most practical of ends , shows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in science , and that the best employment which can be made of any knowledge is to melee it tributary to the uses of mankind in the largest and most commercial way possible .                     