@@781360

txt Following day of conferences and consultations , Senator Hale late this afternoon introduced a bill which is expected to remove the constitutional barrier between Senator Knox and the Secretaryship of State in the Taft Cabinet . The measure precipitated some debate , but was eventually referred . to the Committee on Judiciary . That committee will consider it at a special meeting , at 11 o'clock to-morrow morning , and a report is expected some time during the day . The Hale bill is simple , merely repealing that section of the Legislative , Executive , and Judicial Appropriation , act of 1907 dealing with the increase in salary for the Secretary of State . It was because this increase was passed during Mr. Knox 's term that the Senator was rendered ineligible under the Constitution for appointment . In view of this resolution , Assistant Attorney General Russell , to whom the question was referred informally for an opinion , held that if Congress restores the salary to what it was before Mr. Knox entered the Senate , " the case falls outside the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Knox 's colleagues joked him un-* mercifully about the predicament he had blindly walked into . The Senator from Pennsylvania is regarded as one of the greatest constitutional authorities in the country , and that he , of all men , should have failed to foresee the present situation afforded the Senate much merriment . Mr. Knox was Calm . Senator Knox did not reach the Capitol until nearly 1 o'clock . When he did arrive be did not seem ill , least perturbed , and at once went to the Senate Chamber . He was asked if he had anything to say as to what his programme would be , but he only smiled . " I have nothing at all to say , " he declared to a group of newspaper correspondents . " I have been a lawyer too long to attempt to try my own case . " Although the matter was treated humorously , there were a number of earnest **26;171;TOOLONG . Senator Hale took charge of the situation and began a careful canvass . He found practically all the Senators agreed that , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selection of Mr. Knox for Secretary of State , the spirit was not . During the session Senator Rayner of Maryland , one of the leading lawyers of the Senate , crossed over to the Republican side of the Chamber and held a long conference with Mr. Knox . Senator Bacon also conferred with him , as did Senators Culberson and Bailey . Following his talk with Mr. Knox and some of his Democratic colleagues , Senator Rayner said : " The status at the time the appointment is made governs the case , and if at that time , under the law , there is no increase in salary , but the salary stands as it did before it was increased , there can be no opposition to the appointment " There is one question on which the Constitutional authorities of the Senate are divided . Several contend that the reduction of salary can be maintained until March 4 , 1911 , when it can be restored to the $12,000 figure drawn by the heads of the other Executive departments . They declare this is altogether logical for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then by limitation . There are as many , however , who insist that the reduction must rule throughout the entire term of Mr. Knox as Secretary of State , which would carry him into 1913 . This contention is based on the theory that a member of Congress , appointed under the same conditions as Mr. Knox but within a month or so of the end of his term , might , by arrangement , serve the few weeks at reduced salary , knowing that at the expiration of this lean season would come a season of fat In this way , the objectors contend , the spirit of the Constitution would be violated . The tinder Secretary 's Salary . Another interesting problem has presented itself in connection with the entire case . That is , if Mr. Knox is to draw only $8,000 a year as Secretary of State , can the Under Secretary and the Assistant Secretaries keep the increased salaries voted to them ? It is manifestly absurd . certain Senators are pointing out , to give the Under Secretary , which is a new office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year . or $2,000 more than the head of the State Department is entitled to draw . If the salary of the Under Secretary is reduced , then the salary of the First Assistant Secretary might have to pared and reductions all along the line , own to the new Fourth Assistant , would ate in arder. gircA dangerous feature of the situation found in the possibly questionable eaahi status of the new Secretary of State . has been questioned whether , even alter the repeal of the greater salary , Fatnaor Knox can be named , for the reason that the Constitution distinctly prohibits the appointment to office of a member of Congress who has been connected officially with either House during the term in which an increase for that office has been voted . It is further pointed out that there Ls nothing , either direct or indirect , conveying any intimation of a change in the ruling of the Constitution in case of a subsequent reduction of that increase . No Federal statute goes into effect until it has been formally " published " by the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a criminal law passed under the Taft Administration and " published " by Secretary of State Knox would result in an indictment of some person for its violation . The attorney for the defendant would probably immediately demur to the indictment on the ground that the.law was not effective , not having been legally " published , " Knox not being lawfully Secretary of State . Such a cite would probably go to the Supreme Court , a process involving- considerable time , and meanwhile every act of the Secretary of State would be subject to the same question . Or take the case og a fugitive from justice in Canada . or Mexico , or any other foreign country . Arrested on extradition papers signed by Secretary Knox , the first act of his counsel Would be to apply deleted 3 lines                     