@@677822

txt The elated Press sent out to-night the foly. lowing dispatch : " It Was learned here to-day from undoubted sources that President Room- , velt is now being urged to call an ex .. tra session of Congress to deal with the financial situation . The request comes from and represents the Judge went of the conservative leaders in the financial world , who have represented . the present situation as one compelling action of a character which will affirmatively eradicate all ground . " .. for suspicion of American industrial- , methods . " The President has been assured from most reliable sources that there ? will be no opposition on the part otl the great industries of the country to. ; the enactment of the necessary laws tocarry out his ideas of Federal control . to the extent to which he has exp. pounded them in his recent public utterances . These assurances are made at this time to avert what has been represented as the most dangerous situation which has confronted the country during an extended period  --  that Ls4 the seeming growing lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irt business methods in some quarters ; and no sure and speedy means of sepa. rating the good from the unsound . " To this end it is suggested that the President set Congress to the task first of making such amendments to the financial laws as will result in the maximum of flexibility with the minimum of basic change in our system . Next , and perhaps most important , that the President embody his suggestions on corporation control into succinct recommendations for enactment intq law . " In this connection the President 's attention has been directed to what he said at Provincetown , Mass. , Aug. 20 last : " ? I believe in a national incorporation law for corporations engaged in inter-State business . I believe , turthermore , that the need for action is most pressing as regards those corporations , which , because they were common carriers , exercised a quasipublic function , and which can be completely controlled , in all respects by the Federal Government , by the exercise of the power conferred under the inter-State commerce clause , and , if necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ? ? The National Government should exercise over them a similar supervision and control to that which it exercises over National banks . We can do this only by proceeding further along the lines marked out by the recent National legislation . Almost every big business concern is engaged ' n inter-State commerce , and such a concern must not be allowed by a dexterous shifting of position , as has been too often the case in the past , to escape thereby all responsibility , either to State or to Nation . ' " To meet his views , the President then suggested amendments to the Sherman Anti-Trust law , and the addition of a criminal clause to that and the inter-State commerce regulations . The benefit of having Federal legal machinery to detect and eradicate unwholesome business methods at this time was said to be the desirable end to be accomplished . This would mean , it is pointed out , a practical wiping off of the slate and a starting afresh under business conditions which would have and could bear the closest public scrutiny . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful Consideration is indicated by those who have been asked to lend their advice in the matter . That the information as to existing conditions is not alarming has been the continuing assurance which has come from the Government 's careful observations . With this in view , the President has been told that the call for an extra session of Co61-gress might have the reverse effect from that desired by those who are urging such action ; that it would tend to emphasize in the public mind an apprehension of unfavorable conditions which do not exist . Failing in obtaining an extra session , those who have made the appeal for It have presented an alternative , or an additional , request that the President make a public statement of the assurance he feels in the sound condition of public credit . This , too , has met with a measure of opposition from the Administration 's advisors . Both suggestions are still ' matters of consideration , although nq ' information whatever is obtainable rem garding either directly from the Whit " HOute. "      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      