@@677877

txt The proposed rider to the resolution which it is the intention of the friends of Gov . Hughes to introduce at the meeting of the Republican County Committee to-night , indorsing him for the Presidentist nomination , has thrown into the path of the Hughes boomers an obstacle ' which the friends of the Governor admit may precipitate a hot battle , with the chances of victory almost even . The rider to the Hughes resolution would couple the name of President Roosevelt with tiult of the Governor , and involving , as it does , a combination indorsement of Gov . Hughes and the policies of President Roosevelt , the Governor 's friends believe that it would go a. long way toward neutralizing the effect throughout the country which victory of the Hughes resolution otherwise would not have . That the friends of the Administration , who are also the friends of County Chairman Parsons , had bit upon an adroit move when they projected the Roosevelt " rider " into the present situation , even the opponents of Mr. Parsons admit . Last night they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method of checkmating it . According to a statement emanating ' from the Hughes camp at midnight the Governor 's friends have determined to fight any attempt to group the indorsements of Goy . Hughes for the Presidency and the Administration of President Roosevelt . They will not object to an indorsement of the Roosevelt Administration , should such a resolution ' be insisted upon by Congressman Parsons and his followers , who are largely bound to the Administration through the potent ties of patronage . But they will insist that the Hughes resolution framed by Senator Saxe shall pass witnout amendment After this has been done they will be quite willing to vote for the Roosevelt resolution , even though they , believe that it is being proposed by Lie friends of Mr. Parsons merely for the purpose of muddling the already troubled situation . " This rider is a subterfuge and nothing else , " said Senator Martin Saxe , who will introduce the Hughes resolution at the meeting to-night " It show that Mr. Parsons and his followers realize that any opposition to a resolution expressing the sentiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Gov . Hughes would mean political suicide , and that they ? are trying to minimize the effect of the proposed Hughes resolution by saddling on it a rider of this character . ? " Of course , I am utterly opposed to it . I am not expressing my opinion on the President and his policies , because no such action is called for at this time . President Roosfyelt has declared himself out of the running . Let them try to pass this indorsement of President Roosevelt , but let them make it a separaate resolution . There should be no attempt at combining them , and we will fight any such attempt . " Mr. Parsons is expected In this city from Washington early to-day . He has sent word to a number of the Republican district leaders to call on him at county headquarters . Mr. Parsons ; it was said last night by one of his friends , is determined to put up a fight to have the two indorsements combined , now that he has realized that it would be futile for him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That the plans of the Governor 's enemies will tend to make the fight at the meeting to-night very close , is admitted even by some of the Hughes supporters . The tacking on of the rider to the Hughes resolution , which under the rules would be voted On prior to the vote on the main resolution , will furnish the Parsons leaders and the recipients of Federal patronage with an excuse for lining up with Mr. Parsons . without which they would not have dared to come out in opposition to the Governor 's friends for fear of antagonizing sentiment among the people in their own districts . Here Is a tentative line-up of the Executive Committee of the County Com-mittee : For Hughes : Huseh , Levenson . March , Newstead . Halpin , Windolph , Hahn , Mack , GruErr . Gunner , , Wilson . Raymond , Bowers , Andrh.ws , Ten Eyck . Healy . Total , 17 . Against Hughes : Hackett , Erdmann , Levy , Woodward , Wanmaker , Henkel , Shea , NedLex.fw . Bennet , Neal , Prentice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wells . Koenig , Krulewitch , Adler . Total , 4 . Next Saturday evening the Hugh Republican Club of Brooklyn will hind a meeting for permanent organization in the headquarters in the Johnston Building at Nevins and Fulton Streets . Darwin R. James is the President and Organizer . In , an interview last evening he said that the membership already exceeded 3,000.1 Branch organizations will be established I in every assembly district throughout the borough . Timothy L. Woodruff has not yet joinedl the club but Mr. James asserts that ' his presence in the fold Is not essential . " Goy . Hughes is not a boss-made Governor , and he will not be a boss-made candidate , " said Mr. James . " The people of this State want him to succeed Roosevelt and Mr. Woodruff will have no voice in the matter . "                     