@@677045

txt The strike of telegraphers on the Northern Pacific and Great Northern has assumed a serious aspect . Freight traffic is almost suspended on both the systems . No freight trains are moving to-night . Trainmen are willing to run them during daylight , but not at night , and orders were issued this afternoon for all freights to sidetrack and wait until morning before moving . It Is doubtful if more than a dozen of the 2,000 will move to-morrow . Of the 1,900 operators on the two systems . 1.475 men are out to-night , many train dispatchers among them . At Minot , N. D. , the most Important point between St. Paul and the Pacific Coast , 100 operators quit work , leaving half a hundred non-union men to care for the business . Only three operators are at their posts between St. Paul and Bismarck , on the Northern Pacific , a distance of 600 miles . Not more than a dozen station agents , who were not also the operators , are at their posts , and passengers have been obliged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Advices by telephone and letter and by telegraph from a few points show that the situation can not be improved at once . It has been reported that the railroads have imported several hundred telegraphers from the East and South , but none have thus far arrived . The action of the Great Northern in running a special train over its line in Minnesota Monday and making operators a prepared schedule or be discharged precipitated the strike . It is estimated that the loss of business to the two roads to-day more than equals the amount of increase demanded by the operators for one year . Fruit , vegetables , eggs , poultry , fish , perishable shipments of all sorts destined for towns between St. Paul and the State of Washington were refused to-day with a few exceptions by the two roads and by the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Express Companies . The Northern Pacific refused perishable freight In any quantity regardless of destination . The Great Northern would accept such shipments for a few large stations , including Duluth . It was reported here to-night that 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York to keep . one . of , the roads open .. - and as there Is less irryotrest , w/tirrtiib - grea , t Northern telegraphers ' than with the Northern Pacific it is assumed that It will have the preference . General Superintendent Slade of the Great Northern Railway to-day said : " Trains due at the Union Station this morning were on time with the exception of one , which was but fifteen minutes late , and which was detained by causes having no connection with the strike . Our fast freights are on time , and other freight trains are moving without difficulty . Arrangements are being made to supply the places of the men who have gone out . " General Manager H. T. Horn of the Northern Pacific to-day said : " Passenger trains over the entire line are running this morning very close to their schedules . The strike has interfered to some degree with the movement of freight over the system , but in such proportions as to produce blockades or serious congestion . " The movement of freight to-day is , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt methods of handling traffic somewhat different from those generally utilized , but freight trains are moving and the delivery of freight at destrnation is not seriously interfered with . " Trains have been interfered with to some extent by the action of the striking telegraphers , under President Perham 's orders , in turning the signal boards to danger position and tampering with the company 's wires . President Perham said : " All our men are out , and our advices are that the tieup is complete . The roads are not running any freight trains . They may be running passenger trains on time , and I hope they will do so . " MISHAPS TO MINNEAPOLIS . Steamer in Late After a Collision Which Broke Her Propeller . A collision in the English Channel with a fishing smack and the snapping of one of the propeller blades caused delay in the arrival of the Atlantic transport liner Minneapolis . which got in yesterday morning from London . The first accident occurred July 22 In a fog . The breaking of the propeller was two days later . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to her commander , Capt . Gates , was pocketed between ocean liner , a tramp steamship. and the fisherman . He added that he had no choice but to strike one of the vessels , and he hit the one that would mimimize the possible damage . Fortunately , the fishing smack was only slightly injured . The propeller blade was broken , it is thought , by the Minneapolis striking a submerged wreck . The passengers were asleep when the second accident occurred and knew nothing of it until several hours later .                     