@@678520

txt THEODORE MYERS when he was Con- ' troller sold New York City 21/2 per cents at about the same price that its 4 per cents now bring , 101 or better . He has favored The Wall Street Journal with his opinion that there are no better bonds in the world than those of New York , and he finds ? it difficult to explain why they are ' selling now so much below their fit price , deduced from comparison with that of other bonds in the same market . Mr. MrEns thinks that ? they should sell at a 3.50 yield , whereas each of several cities which he names is able to sell at so much better advantage that the lowest I of them commands a price So high that it makes an income basis of 1/2 per cent . below that of New York . Why is this ? The Baltimore Sun gives a reason : " Just the other day a was ordered that the cost of celebrating a bridge opening should be paid for by bonds . " The Sun thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be impossible in - Baltimore because its credit is defended by the necessity of a popular vote as the climax of a series of preliminary formalities , including an act of the Legislature , and an Aldermanic ordinance . Baltimore is to be congratulated that its issues are so safeguarded that matters of current expense are not defrayed by long-term bonds , whose interest amounts to double the principal . And it is especially to be congratulated that its electorate is a source of strength rather than weakness . Is the difference betiveen the electorates of Baltimore and New York as great as that between the credits of the two cities , respectively ? The election this Fall will show whether this question does the New York electorate injustice . It is assumed on all hands that there will be practically no opposition to the weakening of restrictions upon the issues of city obligations . It is proposed to remove from the 10. per cent . limitation of indebtedness bonds issued in aid of money-. making enterprises . It is assumed that because private capital has made money in such speculations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in the face of facts more serious than the issue of bonds for music and sandwiches . The bridge whose opening is so timely as a deterrent example cost enough more than the estimates to embarrass private speculators who should come no nearer to their calculations . Worse than that  --  the city 's plans are defective . in almost every particular . The bridge was designed to carry four elevated tracks , although there are no elevated railways ' to be accommodated . The strength of the bridge is unequal to the burden of carrying more than two of these useless elevated tracks . The trolley tracks stand idle , and promdse to stand idle indefinitely , or until the conclusion of litigation to determine the precise jurisdiction of jealous corn-missions . There were other like cases before this one , and there are others which will follow it . These conditions are so satisfactory to the electorate , it ' seems , that the prophets declare that the votes this Fall will confirm and extend the power of those responsible for this state of things . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to play with , and the limitations upon their activities are to be reduced . If it were desired to reduce Baltimore 's credit to the level of New York 's it would suffice to -. reproduce these conditions in Baltimore . Contrariwise , if it were desired to raise New York 's credit to that of Baltimore it would suffice to reproduce here the conditions upon which Baltimore is congratulating itself . - A good beginning would be made by defeating the Constitutional amendment , and by creating a state of popular sentiment which would compel the warring commissions so to adjust their differences that the $20,000,000 which the city has in this one bridge might be set to work at its proper task , of accommodating homeseekers , and thus raise tax valuations .                     