@@678202

txt That the fight of Charles F. Murphy on Senator Patrick McCarren of Kings may develop a row that will upset the harmony . scheme of State Chairman William J. Conners became evident after the meeting of the Democratic State Committee to-night , held for the purpose of making up the temporary roll of the convention . McCarren delegates were unseated in two districts , and the entire Kings delegation threatens to bolt the convention . This action was taken in spite of the recent protestations of Conners that as long as McCarren had won in the primaries he would see that the Brooklyn ' Senator got full justice in the convention . Murphy , too , for several days has been breathing out harmony . The developments at the State Committee meeting have seriously interfered with a situation which only a couple of hours before the committee met seemed to Point toward harmony with Lewis S. Chanler as the nominee for Governor . Even late to-night Mr. Chanler seems to be the strongest candidate . The lobbies of the hotels are crowded with upState delegates wearing Chanler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Boisterous demonstrations in his favor are waking the echoes of the hotel corridors , and even a good many Tammany men of influence are declaring that in their opinion he is the strongest candidate that could be named . But the Murphy-McCarren fight that seems inevitable may upset things altogether by a. number of different combinations of circumstances and mar Chanler 's chances of success . Anti-McCarren Contests . After the meeting of the State Committee to-night the announcement was made that the organization placed in the field to oppose Senator McCarren in Brooklyn , which susVainea an overwhelming defeat in the primaries where Senator McCarren carried eighteen out of the twenty-three Assembly districts in his bailiwick , would file with the Committee on Credentials contests in six districts in addition to the Sixth and Ninth , where contests had been filed prior to the meeting of the State Committee . The new districts where McCarren 's delegates will be contested are the Third , the Seventh , the Eighth , the Thirteenth , the Fourteenth , and the Fifteenth . The Fourteenth Assembly District is the home of Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the Sixth and Ninth Assembly Districts , where Leaders Doyle and , two of the most influential antiMcCarren men , were in charge of the fight on the Brooklyn Senator at the primaries , and where it was announced that contests would be filed immediately after the returns were in , the anti-McCarren delegates were all put on the temporary roll of the convention by the State Committee to-night . This was an anti-McCarren move which was sanctioned by the committee by a vote of 46 to 5 , with the Brooklyn leader contesting every.inch of the ground . Senator McCarren called a caucus of the Kings County delegation , following the meeting of the State Committee to-night , at which it was unanimously decided to vote in the convention under the unit rule , and in the event of the unseating of any of the delegation by the Committee on Credentials to leave the convention in a body . Cassidy Drops Contests . In the Borough of Queens Joseph Cassidy , the former Borough President , who made his fight on Lawrence Gresser , the victorious leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to bring contests in two Assembly Districts . Mr. Cassidy , however , announced at the meeting of the State Committee that he would call his contests off in the interest of harmony . " That looks like harmony , " exclaimed Chairman Conners , who presided . " Joe , you are a. big man , " shouted a member of the State Committee . At this - there was considerable applause . McCarren attended the meeting on a proxy furnished by his erstwhile lieutenant , Senator Conrad Hasenflug of Brooklyn . When Kings was reached on the calling of the temporary roll , William R , the leader of the Sixth Assembly District , moved that his delegates De placed on the temporary roll , and William A. Doyle of the Ninth , who also is a member of the State Committee , followed with a similar motion in reference to his own delegates . Senator McCarren straightened up out of his chair and objected . " It has always been the custom , " said Chairman Conners , " to follow the suggestion of the State Committeemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't care a snap about custom in a matter of this importance , " said the Brooklyn Senator . " I object to having any delegates put on the temporary roll except those who come here with the certificate of the Board of Elections in their inside pocket . I demand a roll call on this question . I would like to see how many members of this committee are in favor of overruling the court decision handed down at the time Of the Snring convention , where my contention was 117. ' ld to be right , and the plain mandate of the primary lacs- . " Cohn Fan Plays Sharp Gazne . Dana.1 F. Cohalan , Chairman of the Tammany Hall Law Committee and trusted lieutenant of Murphy , at once arose . Glaring angrily at McCarren , he moved , as.he said , to get a test vote on the question that the delegates of Thomas B. Ilerfernan , the Conners leader in the First Chautauqua District , be placed on the temporary roll . Mr. Cohalan knew that every follower of Conners in this committee would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that , no matter how these same members of the committee might feel in McCarren 's case or how Conners would stand , the vote pn Chautauqua would furnish a precennt which the committee could not well go back on in any later vote . It was a shrewd move , but MeCarren blocked it by declaring that there was ' no Board of . Elections in the rural county of Chautauqua , and that : for this reason the delegates could have no certificates from any such board . Consequently the Chautauqua case furnished no parallel to Kings . The vote was then taken on the question of placing the delegates in the Sixth of Kings on the temporary roll . It stood 45 to 6 against it . These members voted with Senator McCarren : James F. Fleming , " who held the proxy of Francis J. Molloy , former Mayor ofTroy , who is a home ruler ; George E. Vankenna of Ogdensburg , William B. Harper of Seneca . Falls , Daniel Sheehan of Elmira. and Louis P. ** Buffalo : After this test vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roll in the case of the Doyle - delegates , who were put on the temporary roll forthwith . In all the up-State districts where contests have been filed the Home Rule Democrats were kept off the temporary roll . These contests involve the Counties of Oneida with three Assembly districts where the anti-Conners forces won a decisive victory in the primaries ; Herkimer County and the First Assembly District in Chautauqua County . Ex-Judge Morgan J. O'Brien , as had already been predicted , was selected as temporary Chairman of the convention , which will be called to order lat noon tomorrow . Chanler Sure , Says Conners . State Chairman Conners , after the meeting of the State Committee , was asked if the developments there would interfere with the chances of Lieut . Gov . Chanler receiving the nomination for Governor . " There is nothing to it . Chanler will be the candidate . A majority of the dale- , gates favor his nomination , " Conners replied . " Does Mr. Murphy favor Chanler ? Mr. Conners was asked . " Mr. Murphy has no candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nominated for Lieutenant Governor ? " " Thomas B. Heffernan of Dunkirk has been the most prominently mentioned . " Mr. Conners said that no decision had been reached in regard to the State Secretaryship and the nominations for Controller and State Treasurer . It is , stated on good authority , however , that Julius Hauser will be renominated as State Treasurer . Strong representations have been made to the State Chairman that the turning down of Hauser would result in the alienation of the German-American vote . After the meeting of the State Committee Chairman Conners had a two hours ' session with the chairmen of the different county committees in which they discussed plans and methods . for the coming campaign . The early part of the meeting was taken up in speeches by several of the more prominent men present , in which . they told of the progress of Bryan sentiment and the chances for the local tickets in their districts . After this a scheme for the taking of a complete canvass throughout the State Is drawn up . Then at the proposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable , them to work together more easily without some of them going to a distant city was perfected . A committee , of which John A. Dix of Washington County , is Chairman , was appointed to draw up - the details .                     