@@677730

txt President Roosevelt will not concern himself personally with the telegraphers ' strike according to the best information obtainable here to-night . Appeals to the President to take some action looking to a settlement of the strike were received at the Executive office here to-day from Boards of Trade and commercial bodies in many cities . The applications were similar in character to those formulated yesterday by the Chicago Board of Trade . Each emphasized the importance of the direct action by the President . These communications have been referred to Commissioner of Labor Charles P. Neill . It is understood that no instructions or recommendations have been forwarded to Mr. Neill . From the first he has been actively endeavoring to effect a settlement of the trouble . It is stated here that he has yet-made no report to the President , nor has he received any messages from Mr. Roosevelt touching the mater in hand . Mr. Neill 's movements , however , have been closely followed , and while the direct statement is not made , the impression is given that in Mr. Neill 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority in the matter is being exercised . Strikera Are Disappointed . This plain intimation from Oyster Bay that President Roosevelt would make no attempt to interefere in the strike was received with much chagrin at the headquarters of the local union of telegraphers last night . Since the strike began the telegraphers have been hoping for Governmental interference to bring about at least arbitration between the union and the companies . None of the union officers would comment on the Oyster Bay dispatch , except to say that in spite of it their hopes for . success were getting stronger every hour . President Clowry of the Western Union had already made his position plain when he said in the afternoon that there was no question of arbitration and no ground for Federal interference , the company having filled the places of the men who had quit its service . The same position was taken by the Postal Company , and both companies asserted that they had all the men they needed . Last night the West Union Company withdrew its advertisement for men to take the places of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike was practically broken . On the other hand , officials of the union were still loudly asserting that the : menwere winning . The facts seemed to be that at the main offices of the two companies messages wore being received and transmitted with less delay than at any period in the strike . The Associated Press wires were said to be in good shape , with all the men needed to operate them . There were no disturbances . Twentyfive detectives from Police Headquarters were . sent to the Postal Office last night at the request of the officials to protect the women operators who had remained firm , but there was nothing for the detectives to do . The only disturbances that have occurred were caused by some striking messenger boys yesterday , and these were very slight . Railroads Dodge Complications . The hopes of the strikers centred largely yesterday on the possibility of making trouble between the two commercial companies and the railroads which would bring out the railroad telegraphers . The indications ' were/ however , that the railroads would not allow themselves to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they would not insist on their operators handling commercial business . They said that their operators were too busy handling railroad business to touch the commercial business , even should they want to , and that they would not be asked to do so . Representatives of the New York Central , Erie , and other railroads all took this stand . The Pennsylvania has a contract with the Postal , but the contract does not require the road to handle commercial business and its operators ' will not do so , although it was declared by officials of the Western Union yesterday that the company had a con- ' tract with various railroads for the handling of commercial business and would insist upon the contracts being observed . Companies Say All 's Clear . Absolute , confidence in their ability to conduct the business of both the Western Union and Postal Companies was ' expressed by officials of both organizations Asterday . They said , they had operators a-plenty in this city to handle all business presented with a minimum of delay . They did not expect Federal interference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any settlement of the difficulelea between the strikers and the companies . When the question of such interfer- e ante wds put to President Clorvry of the Western Union yesterday he , replied : " So far as I can see now , the ' k is no reason why the Government should take action . There is nothing for it to do . This company is handling Its business all ' right . " The strikers still asserted that there were few operators working , nevertheless both companies received business yesterday with the assurance there would be little if any delay , and around the main offices conditions seemed normal . " We are doing well with all our wires all over the country.except in the South , " said Supt. Brooks . ' Down there a little trouble exists , but this is not because the wires are not manned , but because of a storm . Out of 230 branch offices in finis city , only thirty are closed . We have all of the operators we need at our main office . " Vice President Nally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running smoothly , and messages are being cleared up in good shape. , We are not in need of more operators , and are satisfied with the situation . " There was little ' or no ' change in the situation among the operators who work in brokers ; offices . It was announced that twenty-six brokers had signed the new schedule providing for a minimum ' Wage of 02 a week . Moat of the men ' ger . already getting that sum and more . . No1 fear is now entertained of a general , strike of these operators . In fact , there is , great dissatisfaction among some of the brokers ' operators at being medelled ' with , " as they say they had no griev-1 awes . Strike Fonds Are Low . About five hundred of the striking operators , about one-fourth of whom were women , assembled in Everett Hall , in East Fourth Street , at noon yesterday to 1- , , inr over the situation and decide as to the future conduct of the strike . Their - principal cause for worry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a long fight . Officers of the local union ad=Med that they did not have in their Treasury funds enough to last a long time after the payment of strike benefits begins . It came out at the meeting also that no direct offer of definite sums to help the strike along had been received . The officers had been assured unofficially by other unions that financial help will be forthcoming at the proper time . It was reiterated , however , that President Gompers of the American Federation of Labor and Grand Master Workman Perham of the Order of Railway Telegraphers had promised financial aid . It was decided to begin at once a campaign for funds to aid in carrying on the strike . Committees will be appointed for this purpose by President Ahearn of the local union . It was agreed that the members of the . union should give entertainments to raise money . The Leaders Sn-y They 're Winning . For more than three hours the operators listened to speeches by Miss Murot . Secretary of the Trades Union . Alliance ; Daniel F. Russell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union ; Percy Thomas , Deputy National President of the union ; J. J. Murphy , President of Typographical Union No. tit John Mitchell , a member of the Advisory Board , and President Ahearn . Each of the speakers spoke in glowing terms of the success being met by the strikers , and urged them to stand firm . It was said that the companies were badly crippled , and were only making a bluff in saying that they had all the operators they wanted . An effort was made to introduce a resolution calling out all of the brokers ' operators , even in offices where the new schedule had been signed , but the diplomacy of Daniel . F. Russell sidetracked that , and the brokers ' telegraphers will be allowed to go on working under the agreement reached at their meeting of Monday afternoon . No plans have yet been made by the officers for distributing the strike fund already in the treasury , but it is underetood to be the tentative arrangement , as made in the other strikes , that single men shall get $6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as long as the fund lasts . It was said that many of the operators who are on strike will not call on the union for assistance . At the close of the meeting a dance was started , and until late last night all hands were dancing , apparently without a care as to how long the strike may last . At the headquarters of the union , 56 Pine Street , It was said again that there were enough men out to insure the winning of the strike without serioustrouble . " It 's only a question of days , " said the Union leaders . Number of the Strikers . Secretary at the headquarters of the local union estimated last night that one hundred cities are now affected , and that there are 22,000 telegraphers out in the United States and Canada . Of these he put 5,000 in this city . From other sources it was learned that not mare than 3,600 operators are employed by both companies in this city . Mr. ItcInerny thought there were about 375 operators out in Boston . 1.800 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 250 in New Orleans , 126 in Cleveland , 225 in Washington , 450 in St. Louis , 60 In Norfolk , Va. , 35 in Columbus , 175 in Pittsburg. 25 in Harrisburg , and 250 in New England towns , the rest scattered . Deputy Labor Commissioner John J. 3 ? - ealln estimates that there are 1,500 Western Union operators on strike in New York City , and he thinks that about 1,150 Postal operators are out . On this latter basis there are about 35 per cent . Western Union and 25 per cent . Postal operators on strike , which is considered a small percentage of the whole .                     