@@678162

txt The towns of Southern Germany , and especially of Alsace-Lorraine , are making a Systematic effort to encourage and at the same time to raise the standard of trades unions among their workmen . This effort has taken two forms , one more direct than the other . The more direct is the plan of city insurance against unemployment adopted by the municipality of Strasburg. this plan the city offers to add 50 per cent . to the relief sums paid by the unions , on compliance by the beneficiaries with certain conditions intended to bar the vicious or the needlessly idle . Twenty unions , with a membership of about one-fourth of the workingmen of the town , have applied for the privileges of co-operation with the city . The director of the system reports that it is steadily advancing in favor , that it is stimulating the formation of unions , and that the conditions assumed by the unions have an increasing influence in inducing efforts to improviit the efficiency of members and to educate them . The other plan , which prevails in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment maintained by the municipalities . These enforce a certain standard of efficiency , according to the work applied for , provide en , gagements where possible for all corn-plying with the standard , and work in connection with public and private charities , so that applicants for relief can obtain it only on a certificate that there is no employment available or that they are incapacitated . The officials undertake to keep in close communication with employers on the one hand and with the trades unions on the other , and in many cases are enabled to make agreements that employment shall be sought or obtained only through the town agencies . It will be seen that one distinct advantage of this system is that the facts as to demand and supply are regularly and accurately known , or can be ascertained , by both the employ7 ers and the employed , a condition that tends naturally to the avoidance of needless and fruitless disputes . Obviously , the beneficial operation of such a system depends immediately on the character , intelligence , and skill of the officials intrusted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities would be utterly inconsistent with success in such a task .                     