@@676261

txt Prof. D. A. SUTHERLAND has lately made a series of analyses of the air of the London " tubes " which give results so surprising , and even startling , as to challenge attention and prompt the suggestion that the capable and conscientious engineers of the New York Rapid Transit Commission and of other underground improvements should give serious thought to the problem of subway ventilation . If they are relying in any sense upon London experience it would appear that the results in that city are not good enough to be satisfactory for New York . The fact was established by test that the air of the street outside the tube stations of the Central London Railway contains normally an average of 2.83 parts of carbon dioxide in 10,000 . Tests made inside the stations and in cars under various conditions gave the following mean average results : During hours of limited traffic . Carbonic acid in 10,000 volumes of air . In cars , 6 to 6:45 P. M. , from city 15.54 In cars , 6:10 P. M. , from city 20.46 The carbonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of December . The range of outside temperature was between 37 and 50 F. The range of temperatures on the platforms was between 56 and 76 F. and in the cars between 66 and 70 F. The barometric pressure throughout the period of the experiment was very constant , ranging between 30.1 inches and 30.2 inches . Read-lugs with the anemometer showed an air movement due to forced draught and train movement of from one mile to five miles per hour . Some of the tests were made with the Chattaway and Wharton apparatus , and some by the Pettenkofer method . One method was employed to check the other , and the mean average result was 10.02 volumes of carbon dioxide in 10.000 volumes of air . A bacteriological analysis of the air gave results as instructive , though somewhat incomplete . In one litre of air taken from the platform of Tottenham Court Road Station at 7 P. M. , as a train was entering , over a hundred liquefying organisms were found . A litre of air taken from a car moving between the British Museum and Tottenham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the British Museum and the Post Office each ? showed the presence of fifty colonies of micro-organisms . In dealing with facts like these it is easy to exaggerate them and equally so to undervalue them . Six parts of carbonic acid in 10,000 is regarded by authorities as practically marking the danger line . Ten parts will in many instances affect the heart action , and in the case of a tired and relaxed person returning home from a day 's work very much less vitiation than that found in the air of the London tubes will sensibly lower the vitality and produce physical lassitude and mental torpor . The general effect upon the public health can not fail to be unfavorable . The problem of subway ventilation in New York is somewhat simpler than in the case of the deeper London tubes . It will , however , be found attended with difficulties in practice wholly disproportionate to those which are discovered on the drawing board . Much depends upon the capacity of the subway to handle the multitude which will want to use it . Experience has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open air and with a brisk wind blowing , is impossible . Any one may determine this for himself if he will allow himself to be absorbed into a dense street crowd when some public function of general interest is in progress . The ventilation of a crowded car is even more hopeless a problem . The London figures have especial interest for the engineers of the Pennsylvania terminal and for those who will have professional responsibility for the Hudson River trolley tunnel now building .                     