@@678366

txt Administration officials hardly knew to-day whether to regard seriously or with amusement the action of the Nevada Legislature in passing its flamboyant anti-Japanese resolution to-day . So far as the Japanese people and the Government are concerned , especially the people , the Nevada outburst is calculated to have a serious effect , and therefore to make more trouble for the Government . But so far as the people of this country are concerned , there is very little doubt that the Nevada pronuneiamento will serve to make the whole anti-Japanese movement ridiculous , and therefore to check what might otherwise have developed into a critical situation . Zt needs only a speech in the Senate ti Jeff ? Davis now to put the finishing touch on the matter , " Was the way it was expressed this afternoon by a man here who has followed the affair - closely from the start . The cable dispatches - from Tokio this afternoon reporting the speech of Baron Komura , Minister tor Foreign Affairs , in the Diet , afforded a great deal of satisfaction to Administration officials . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Tokio , which showed We calm manner in which the Japanese Government bad taken the newest otftbjeak . A very . high Administration official , commenting on the speech , contrasted strongly the " good manners " with which - the Z'apanese Government handled the matter and the " boorishness " of the Nevada Legislature . Strikes the Administration as peculiarly incomprehensible-about the action of California and Nevada is that the people out " there do not seem to see or care - that what they are doing tends inevitably to defeat what they profess to desire most of all  --  the restriction of Japanese immigration into the United States . The policy of the Roosevelt Administration has been and Rs to secure such a restriction of Japanese immigration with a maximum of efficiency and a minimum of offense , and in securing , such a restriction the Administration aims at keep : ing out of the United States not ' only Japanese coolie laborers , but those small traders and other classes who have proved so objectionable to the people of , the Pacific Coast States . In other  - -  words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country to the classes which correspond to the classes of Americans-who go to Japan  --  travelers , tourists , substantial merchants , large business men , students , artists , writers , and the like . Bills Mar Prove Boomerangs . In view of the Administration the action of the California and Nevada Legislatures tends only to- increase the irritation of the Japanese and their determination to enter in numbers and from the objectionable classes ; so that the legislation they propose tends really toward a maximum of insult with a minimum of actual restriction of immigration . The affair was already sufficiently difficult for the Administration to handle , even with the clearly evidenced determination of the Japanese Government not to become excited about it , but  --  the action of the Nevada Legislature has now rendered it even more difficult for this Government to keep out . the Japanese who are not desired and at the same time to maintain friendly relations with the Japanese Government . The Administration is trying to act toward the Japanese Government with the same courte , sy and good manners which that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hampered in doing ei when the Legislature of one of the States acts toward Japan with what is described as . " such boorishness . " As far as the so-called " land laW " pending in the California Legislature 45 concerned , intended toi prevent Japanese from holding real estate in that State , the Administration is quite In harmony with the Californians , provided the law is made to cover all aliens , and not to ' discriminate against the Japanese , and provided also that it includes the provision suggested by Secretary Root , " not inconsistent with treaty rights , " so that it shall not contravene the treaty between the United States and Japan . That treaty confers upon the Japanese the right to hold land for " commercial and residence purposes . " It does not cover agricultural lands , however , and it is especially the purchase of agricultural lands by Japanese that has so stirred up the Californians . It is greatly to be desired , however , that the California legislation should not take a form which would render necessary a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty rights of the Japanese . Some curious information has come to the Administration 5 ? eigarding the manner in which the agitation for the anti-Japanese laws has been fostered in California , . It ls apparent that some of the steamship comnapies which have been most severely affected by ' the decided cutting down of Japanese travel have been active ip fomenting ' the agitation , being actuated apparently by antagonism to the Administration for thus reducing their returns from the coolie-carrying business which used to be so extensive . The attitude of the genuine labor leaders of the coast States , however , has been a pleasant surprise to the Administration . Severe the most prominent and important of these men are acting in thorough accord with the Administration 's policy . They understand clearly that the Administration is actually securing the , thing which they really desire in reducing the number of Japanese coming-to the coast , and they are not joining in the " campaign of reprisal , " as it is termed in Administration circles , which some of the political agitators are waging . Would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter with some of his callers , the President has laid stress upon the fact tit one natural and almost certain effect of - this agitation will be to increase the number of Japanese arriving , through increasing the difficulties of keefing them out , and in that way the defeat of the very purpose in the name of which the agitation is ostensibly conducted . The labor leaders , in not lending themselves to the agitation , are , therefore , aiming effectively at the real purpose and helping the Administration to obtain it . But Nevada is really funny , so far as this country is concerned . One high Administration official , who talked about the situation this afternoon , recalled the remark made by the late . Judge Pettigrew of South Carolina , who was often pointed out as the only Union man in that State who resisted he demand of the secessionists that he join them . When word was brought to Judge- Pettigrew that the State had seceded , he replied : " South Carolina is too small for a nation and too big for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon that it is only a year since Nevada . through both Governor and Legislature , was begging President Roosevelt , almost with tears , to send Federal troops out there to preserve order in a threatened strike by a few hundred miners in the gold camps . At that.time Gov . Sparks telek-rapTh  --  ed to President Roosevelt that the State has no enrolled militia , and if it had I doubt very much whether it would be effective in maintaining law and order . " President Roosevelt and Secretary Root both pointed out to Gov . Sparks and the members of the Nevada delegation in Congress , who vigorously supported the Governor 's request for troops , that it was at least straining the - Constitution , if not actually violating it , to grant the request . But Nevada begged so piteously that the troops were sent , and then the President had to threaten their immediate withdrazwal in order to force ' the Governor to call the Legislature in special session to organize a State police . But , now the very same Legislature which then was begging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an action clearly within his province and accusing . him of executive usurpation . As an Administration official put it this lafternoon , " Nevada could not protect herself against a few hundred disorderly persons of her own citizenship . but she Is quite ready to fight Japan . But , then , Japan is several thousand miles away across the Pacific Ocean . " The Administration is hopeful , however , that the Japanese people and Government will understand the relative unimportance of the Nevada action , so far as United States sentiment is concerned , and is convinced that if that results all real Cause for antriety will have disappeared .                     