@@678104

txt William H. Welsh of the Johns Hopkins announced to-night that Henry Phipps of Pittsburg and New York , just prior  --  to sailing ? for Europe yesterday , arranged for a large gift to the Johns Hopkins Hospital and University for the founding of a Psychiatric Clinic on the lines of well-known similar institutions in Europe . It will be the first of its kind with adequate equipment and support in connection with a large hospital and university in this country . The funds provide for the construction of a four-story hospital building on the Hopkins Hospital grounds to accommodate sixty patients , together with rootrftti ' private patients , modern apparatus aula in the treatment of patients , and laboratories for the scientific investigation of mental abnormalities by pathological , chemical , and psychological methods . In addition , Mr. Phipps will provide for the maintenance of a medical and nursing staff of a high order , including salaries for a Professor of Psychiatry and assistants and other expenses for a period of ten years . The total amount of the gift is withheld in accordance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood that it will considerably exceed half a million dollars . Mr. Phipps makes the gift upon his own initiative . Mr. Phipps 's letter to Dr. William H. Welch of the Hopkins . making known his decision to make the gift , f ? Bowe : New York , June 12 , 1908 . Dear Dr. Welch : I understand that there Is urgent need in this country in connection with university medical schools and their hospitals , for institutions similar to those known as psychiatric clinics to provide for the better care of patients suffering from mental diseases , especially in its earlier and often curable stages , under conditions similar to those of a general hospital . Since patients may enter such an Institution without the formality of commitment . and without the stigma which is popularly thought to pertain to admission to an asylum for the insane , experience has demonstrated that many may be rescued from permanent insanity by early treatment in an institution of this character . A psychiatric clMio , as thus understood , should also afford much needed opportunities for the instruction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and should be equipped with laboratories for the scientific Investigation or the nature , cure , and prevention of mental diseases . It gives me pleasure to offer to the Johns Hopkins Hospital the funds necessary for the erection and equipment of a psychiatric clinic on its grounds , to be administered as part of that hospital , in accordance to plane and estimates alma you nave submitted , the institution to provide for about sixty patents and to contain the necessary laboratories and other facilities ; and , furthermore . to offer to the Johns Hopkins University additional funds for the establishment of a professorship of psychiatry and the assistantships thereto . the professor to be also the Director of the psychiatric hospital . I have arranged to provide for the maintenance of the hospital and of the professorship for a period of ten years from the time of the opening of the hospital . It is my desire that in the admission of patients to the hospital , preference should be given to applicants from Baltimore and from those cities with which my life and work have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York . It is my hope and expectation that the ? psychiatric clinic thus founded may serve as an example of what such institutions should be , and prove to be a stimulus to the establishment of similar hospitals and professorships eleewhere . Yours sincerely , HENRY PHIPPS . About a year ago Mr. Phipps gave $30 , - 000 to Johns Hopkins for a tuberculosis hospital . The last big gift to Johns Hopkins was $500,000 received from John D. Rockefeller a few years ago .                     