@@675836

txt THE PEARY EXPEDITION . The news of PEARY 'S success in reaching latitude 83 degrees 50 minutes . a point further north than any attained by other arctic explorers on this side of the globe , will not fail to command wide comment . Since the futile search for the northwest passage and the open polar sea was abandoned , and arctic exploration was reduced to a purely scientific basis , less of romance but more of substantial interest has surrounded it . That the pole will be reached some day does not now seem an idle dream , but whether it is or not , every step that penetrates further into the frozen deeps of the mysterious north serves to add to the sum of human knowledge and to verify the certainty of scientific methods of induction . The geographic value of PEARY ' s achievement is by no means small . It is true that he has not gone so far toward the pole as NANSEN did . The latter reached latitude 86 degrees 14 minutes north at a point almost due north of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The longitude was beyond 90 degrees east , while that of the Peary expedition was more than 50 degrees west . The two men were operating on opposite sides of the globe . PEARY 'S latitude was higher than that reached by LOCRWOOD , but the geographic value of his work lies less in this fact than in his exploration of the northern coast of Greenland . For a long time it was thought that Greenland extended almost if not quite to the pole , but as little by little the secrets of the far north were revealed , scientific judgment began to lean toward the conclusion that Greenland was smaller than it was originally believed to be and that the north coast would soon be found . This coast PEARY has opened up to us , and it seems certain that not a long period will pass before the entire extent of the coast of this remarkable island ' will be explored and mapped . That this make a valuable and instructive addition to our knowledge of the geography of our globe is not to be denied . Meanwhile we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the accomplishment of an undertaking requiring the highest qualities of bravery , fortitude , and judgment . When PEARY returns to his own country he should receive the honor due to one who has added to the lustre of its record in scientific adventure .                     