@@675491

txt In a speech here tonight , responding to the toast President William , Andrew . D. White , the United States Ambassador to Germany , defended and-justified the President 's course since he was inaugurated in 1897 . He be- - gan with condemning . the prevailing habit of abusing public men , and quoted President Cleveland 's address at Prince ten . Continuing , he said : " Two years ago , in speaking in . this place and in response to the same sentiment , I dwelt mainly upon the subject of the Presidency . To-day I shall confine myself more closely to the toast proposed , and speak . mainly of ' President William Kinley . ' " Mr. White contended that the President had now made his record , and added , " Pursuing , ? then , the American custom of demanding from him at the close of his first term an account of his stewardship , we , ask first regarding his promises and pledges . Of ' these there were distinctly - three . " . ? . Of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first referred to the subject of placing the currency of the country on what he called a sound basis . He said : " For several years our Government had labored under a. financial system which was a menace to our prosperity and , a disgrace to our civilization . " Mr. White next reviewed the experience which France had with assignata , and which the United States had with Continental currency , also the financial difficulties of the West Indies and South America , " where so-called republics were wallowing in the mire of unlimited paper money or depreciated silver , and our financial policy was classed with theirs . President after President had sought in vain to get our country out . of this welter of folly . Finally , came Mr. . Counseling with thinking men of both parties and calling to his aid as Secretary of the Treasury a man of great practical experience , he began a work which continued until our country stands once more among the civilized nations of the earth free from any taint of financial dishonor . " Concerning the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pros- perity , Mr. ' White describes the general depression at the beginning of the Administration , and quoted a maxim by Prof. Roscher of Leipsic. to the effect that what may be a wise policy at a later period of national growth may not be a wise policy at an earlier period . Mr. White added : " This great truth the Administration preceding that of Mr. had entirely lost sight of , and the consequendes were upon us . Mr. took the Presidential office and all was rapidly changedConfidence was restored , and capital was poured forth like the beneficent tide of the Nile , fertilizing agriculture , stimu'lath g the manufacturers , and everywhere furnishing employment to labor . From that day to this our prosperity has been greater than at any previous period in our history and is still increasing . Thus was the second great promise redeemed  --  indeed beyond the hopes of the most sanguine . ' The ' speaker then referred to the third promise of Mr. , that he would exert himself to maintain peace with all the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to embroil the country on all sides with Spain , Great Britain , Turkey , and , at various times , with Germany . Regarding this the Ambassador added : " Put , as to this latter point , the truth of history compels me to state that to say the least there was quite as muoh hostility against the United States shown in ' the German press as there was against Germany shown in the American press . The noisy sensation mongers of both countries were very busy . " Mr. White then outlined a number of proofs indicating President 's desire to maintain friendly relations with Germany . From first to last , " continued the Ambassador , " my instructions from the present Administration have tended to - keep down every germ of ill-feeling and develop every germ of peace . It was felt in Washington , and justly felt , that whatever diversities of opinion might arise between the United States and Germany right would be done in due time , and that the most important thing was to keep these two great nations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formation of our Government . " The speaker next proceeded to show what a conciliatory course toward Germany President had pursued regarding the Samoan troubie , a fact which has been acknowledged again and again by the German Government . " Among other illuitrations Mr. White reminded his hearers that President had joined heartily in the jubilee of the King of Saxony . " Hostility to the Germans ! " he exclaimed . " In the long annals of partisan calumny I do not know that I have ever seen a case of grosser injustice in politics than such a charge . " The Ambassador then rehearsed the aid which President had rendered The Hague Peace Conference and showed that in spite of the President 's long and strenuous efforts to prevent it , war with Spain broke out . He showed that once embarked therein . Mr. proved himself equal to the emergency , quietly , manfully . energetically , both on land and sea . " My belief , " said the speaker , is that this achievement which the President led is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . " Next Mr. White refuted the chargeof " imperialism . " claiming that the new territories in Cuba , the Philippines , and Porto Rico came into the Nation 's hands in a manner forbidding the throwing off of the burden . " I know of no acts or utterances of the President which stand in the way of freedom to their populations whenever they shall make anything like a proper beginning . " said the Ambassador . Regarding trusts , Mr. White claimed that the subject deserved a thorough study , to be followed by fitting legislation . The Ambassador concluded with a strong appeal to his hearers , consisting mostly of American students , not to fall into the error of criticising lightly public men at home , as , from many personal experiences , both past and present , he knew that the European press eagerly gathered such abuse for the purpose of influencing therewith public opinion unfavorable to the United States .                     