@@677603

txt Mayor McClellan has vetoed the Teachers ' Salaries bill , which aimed to give women teachers in the schools equal salaries with the men teachers in the same grades , The Mayor found four objections to the measure which he considered unanswerable , although he admitted yesterday in a statement accompanying his announcement of the veto that there might well be a difference of opinion on many points . The Mayor 's four objections are that the bill is mandatory and places an enormous expense on the taxpayers ; that the local authorities already have the powers the bill Is supposed to aim to give them ; that it is class legislation favoring certain grades of women teachers , and that It would destroy the elasticity of the present school system . The statement given out by the Mayor , after citing these tour objection ? , goes on : " Taking up the mandatory features of the bill , it is conceded by even the proponents of the measure that it is mandatory in ' many respects . It is no answer to these objections to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed amendments must necessarily be of the same nature . While it is true that the present law is objectionable in many re . spects , this is no reason why the city should continue to accept mandatory legislation of this sort in the future . " Neither do I recognize the force of the argument that this new law will confer greater opportunities for home i rule . in that it abolishes the minimum re- ; quirements in respect to the annual In- I crements now imposed by law ; for , although it abolishes the minimum require- ' ments , it also provides for an annual equal increment in each schedule , and thus leaves the matter in more or less confusion . This provision can hardly be considered an improvement on the old law . Means Greatly Added Expense . " As to the question of the additional expense which will be forced upon the city by this measure , there is considerable difference , of opinion . The Board of Education claims that it will require an iarease of more than ' ; 49,000,000 In its annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly more . according to the final construction placed upon the provisions of the bill by the courts . The proponents argue that it will not require so large an Increase . But in any event it is certain that the mandatory increase in the annual taxation of one mill on every dollar of assessable property will call for the appropriation of almost $7,000,000 additional in the annual Ludget , and that even then this sum may be found insufficient to comply with all the provisions of the bill . " My second objection to the bill is founded upon the fact that the Board of Education has already ample power under the existing law to raise salaries and to fix its schedules according to the best Interests of the service , In fact , it has ' the power to perform the very acts which this bill seeks to force upon it . " My third objection appears to me to be conclusive . The bill purports to put all women teachers on an equal basis ' with the men in regard to salaries . In reality it appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class legislation pure and simple , favoring women in certain grades and not in others . " In those schedules where men are employed the salaries of all women teachers are automatically raised to the same . /n the sixteen grades of public school teachers from IA to 8B , inclusive , there are . in rough numbers , 12.1100 women teachers and about 1,000 men , Of the women , about 6,500 are serving in the first eight grades , that is , from IA to 4B , inclusive . According to the provisions of this law the salaries of the 5,000 women teachers in the first eight grades will remain unchanged , inasmuch as there are no men serving in those schedules . On the other hand , the salaries of those 5,000 women teachers in the four grades from 5A to GB are to be largely increased simply because they are lucky enough to be assigned to a grade in which a few men are also serving . " My last objection to the bill is founded upon the fact that . ts enactment would destroy , In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and thus seriously impair the efficiency of the service . At present , as there is no difference In salary between the various grades up to 7A , it is possible to assign the various teachers to thoss grades below 7A fur which they are best fitted . It must be remembered that it requires just as much , if not greater , ability to teach children in the first grade as those further advanced . Let the City Have Power . - " If the Legislature believes that the present law is unjust , and I confess there is much force in this contention , let it pass an act giving to the city full power to regulate all salaries In the Department of Education , and let it do away with the mandatory provisions of the present law without imposing more objectionable conditions in return . If this is done I think the local authorities can be trusted to meet the demands of ail its employes in a fair spirit , and to fix all salaries upon a just and equitable basis . " For these reasons I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York . " Miss Grace C. Strachan has asked for and received all the telegrams sent to the Mayor urging that he sign the bill . It is expected that these will be made up into a petition and that - the teachers will endeavor to have the Legislature pass the bill ever the Mayor 's veto . The Mayor also vetoed yesterday Coroner Harburger 's bill relative to the removal of hospital patients , a bill for the ' relief from assessments of property owners near Prospect Park , Brooklyn , and a bill annulling certain assessments against at . Pinirs German Evangelical Reformed                     