@@675958

txt A story published to-day to the effect that Prince Henry of Prussia has sent a letter of apology to Admiral Dewey is generally discredited here . The apology alleged to have been made was for the acts of Admiral von Diederichs at ' Manila when Dewey . ammanded the American squadron there . Prince Henry had nothing to do with that affair , but there is said to have been friction between him and Admiral Dewey at Hongkong . The story of the alleged apology purports to come from Washington , but no one here who is in a position to know has heard anything about it . Lieut . J. W. Crawford . Admiral Dewey 's secretary . who receives the Admiral 's mail , has seen no such letter . At the State Depart , - meat the story is received with the strongest incredulity . The story of how Admiral Dewey left the table at a dinner given by Prince Henry in Hongkong . just before the outbreak of the Spanish war , because he thought the Prince had slighted the United States in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations were restored . but the two officers were still disposed to stand up for their respective countries when they met . Some days after the dinner incident , Admiral Dewey was talking with Prince Henry about the approaching war between the United States and Spain . The Prince said : " When the war breaks out you will undoubtedly be sent to Manila to attack the Spanish squadron there . " ' Very likely , " replied Dewey . " No doubt , " said the Prince . in a jesting way , " there will be ships of nationalities . there to witness the tacle . " " If there are . " replied Dewey . " I would advise them to keep out of my line of fire . " ? At the time of this conversation Dewey evidently thought the Prince would be at Manila himself . Subsequently Admiral von Dlederichs appeared there , and during the ! period of strained relations between Dewey 1 and von Diederichs , when Dewey was obliged to repeat his warning in earnest instead of jest , the conversation was.often recalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Hongkong . Prince Henry is said to have apologized at the time of the dinner incident , and to have disclaimed any intention of affronting the United States . It is not considered likely that he would now apologize , at this distance of time , for actions of Admiral lioa Diederichs                     