@@676978

txt Andrew D. White , formerly Ambassador to Germany , I spoke before the students of Cornell University this evening on the diplomatic service of the United States . He proposed a general reform of the service . The greatest defect , he declared , was in the matter of housing our representatives abroad . " Our Ministers sometimes have to live In garrets and sometimes in cellars , " said Dr. White , " and if they find lodgings at all in keeping with their office , as is necessary in all the larger capitals , they must spend more than their total salaries for rent . This means that only rich men can accept the higher posts . In this respect our Republic maintains the most bureaucratic and aristocratic diplomatic service in the whole world . " He urged that the salaries of all the higher representatives be increased 50 per cent . " It should not be permitted , " said Mr. White , " for an American Ambassador to impoverish his family in order to maintain his office abroad . I would propose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the embassies . " Mr. White outlined a system of appointment upon examination of young Men to the posts of minor importance , from which they should be promoted on showing fitness . " All the improvements which I am proposing could be carried out to their fullest extent , " he said , " at a cost of less than one-half of one cent a year for each person In our country . A good diplomatic service is easily a nation 's cheapest defense , for a good diplomatic service can avert all kinds of troubles up to and including war , which costs in a few hours what the whole diplomatic service would cost for a year . " We should have , as Thomas Jefferson said , a decent respect for the opinions of mankind , and maintain a diplomatic service which would command respect the world over . It must be admitted that in many quarters it does not command that respect now . " 5,000 HONOR SCHILLER . Celebration at Columbia in Which Many Take Part . While the Schiller centenary was being celebrated throughout all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Columbia University here for a celebration under the auspices of the Germanic department of the university . The senior Professor of German , Dr. William H. Carpenter , delivered the principal address of the occasion . Carl Schurz presided at the meeting . After Rossini 's overture to " Wilhelm Tell " had been given by the Columbia Philharmonic Society , Mr. Schurz addressed the audience in a short eulogy of Schiller . Presdent Nicholas Murray Butler delivered the address of welcome . Prof. Carpenter 's speech followed . Herr Udo Brachoogel then read an original poem on Schiller , composed for the occasion . Heinrich Conried , impresario of the Metropolitan Opera Company , recited Schiller 's " Kraniche des lbykus , " one of Schiller 's longer narrative poems . The German Liederkranz sang the " Horseman Song " from " Wallensteins Lager " and the " Fisherman 's Song " from " Wilhelm Tell . " The Arlon Society also sang .                     