@@676160

txt While Chicago bankers generally commend Secretary of the Treasury Shaw 's plan to protect the country against a shortage of currency . they believe the demand for money will fall short of the mark estimated by Eastern financiers . They say that the rain and cold will retard the shipment of crops and that the call for money will extend over October and November , instead of coming all at once this month . If there should be a sudden demand for money , the bankers say , that about the only relief that could come from Secretary Shaw 's plan would be through the advance payment of the October interest on Government bonds . . Few free bonds are owned in the West , and it has been found practically impossible to borrow bonds in the East . The purchase of bonds outright would not relieve any possible stringency. bankers - say . " There is not the slightest danger of a financial crisis if the people will keep their heads , " said Vice President David R. Forgan of the First National Bank . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crops . if an attempt were made to move them all ' at once then there would be danger . It is a time of extraordinary prosperity when the Treasury is getting too full of cash . " Secretary Shaw 's plan is a good one and we are all in accord with it . The trouble , however , is that we ca n't find the people with the free bonds . The trust companies which hold them either do not want to loan them out or have done so already . It would do no good to buy the bonds , because this would not accomplish what the Seegetary desires . There is more money in the West at the present time apparently than in the East , as the rates for money Indicate . " John C. Black , President of the Continental National Bank , said the present market is " close " for prosperous times , but expressed belief that there was no occasion for apprehension . " It simply shows that prosperity has overtaken and outrun the currency supply , " said Mr. Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always have stood in the way of great expansion . This condition can not be remedied by the borrowing of bonds , because there are no free bonds in the West , and the banks can not afford to enter the market for bonds selling at 110IA . The West is making no unusual demand for money . The rain and cold weather is keeping back the crops , and there will be little corn to move in September or October . The farmers are borrowing some money , but not an unusual amount . There is no occasion ' for worry . " Ex-Controller of the Currency E. S. Lacey , President of the Bankers ' National Bank , agreed with Mr. Black in the statement that the Sub-Treasury system is at fault. - He spoke favorably of conditions Prevailing in Chicago , and said he thought the West would be able to take care:of itself . " I am of the opinion that the moving of crops will extend over a long period because of the cold weather , and should'this be true , there will . be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the Western banks are drawing on their accounts for sums deposited there during the Summer to take advantage of the interest rates . - The Fall is a time when speculation reaches its maximum , thereby causing a greater demand for currency . The country is in a better condition because of the good feeling prevailing between London and New York . I expect to see money coming this way to take advantage of the high rate of interest . "                     