@@677837

txt Under the caption " Mr. Bryan 's Position " Mr. Bryan will say in his Commoner to-morrow : A year ago last Summer , while in Europe , Mr. Bryan in an interview stated that ii was too early to discuss the campaign of 1008 from a personal standpoint . although during that Summer the Democratic Conventions in something like half i Of the States of the Union had passed resolutions complimentary to him and mentioned his name in connection with the Democratic nomination for President . He has from time to time refused to discuss the availability either of himself or other candidates . believing that the party should have all the llght possible before attempting a selection . A Presidential candidate should fit the platform adopted by his party , and platforms are made to fit the conditions existing when the platform is made . No one can see very far 1 ahead or speak with certainty as to the issues er as to the relative Importance of issues in Ow campaign . Sometimes a day will change the situation , and a few months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important bearing upon the availability of a candidate . For this reason Iirran has refused to make any announcement as to his own position , although he has from time to time discussed issues old and new . Now that the election of 1907 is past and plans are being made for next year 's campaign lie feels that a statement is due to the public . Those who prefer another candidate are entitled to know his position . and those who favor his nomination have a right to demand an answer to the question so often put  --  Will you accept a nomination ? His refusal to answer the question has led to the cireulation of ' Many false reports , and unfriendly newspapers have taken advantage of Isis silence to misrepresent his at-titude Voters In Decide Ms LivnflsbIltt7. " rl-yin will not ask f  --  ir or seek a and he 7.1.1 not a eqiene to decide the question of his availability . He has been so amply recompensed by his party for what he has done and for What he has endeavored to do that he can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambition be considered . for he has had honors enough from his party to satisfy any reasonable ambition . The only question that ought to weigh with the party is whether the party can be strengthened and aided more by his nomination than by the nomination of some one else . " If he can serve the party by being its candidate he will accept the commission and make the best fight he can . If . however , the choice falls upon another . he will not be disappointed or disgruntled . His availability is a question to be decided not by him , not by a few leaders , not even by the leading newspapers that call themselves Democratic , but by the voters of the party , and to them he intrusts the decision of the question  --  they are the supreme court in all matters concerning candidates , as they are in all matters concerning the platform . " He assumes that they will not select him unless they desire to make an aggressive fight for the application of Democratic principles to present conditions , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party will be in heranony with the platform , and will he composed of men whose political records will invite confidence and give assurance that a victory , if won , will not be a barren victory . Democrats Must Depend Upon Merits " It has been asserted that Mr. Bryan was waiting to see who the Republican nominee would be . This is untrue . He has never felt that his position should be dependent upon the action taken by the Republican Party . The Republicans must nominate either a reformer , a standpatter , or one whose position on public questions is unknown , and the course of the Democratic Party should be the same no matter which element controls the Republican Convention . The Democratic Party must make its fight for what it believes . While It may take advantage of Republican mistakes , it must depend upon its merits for . success and not upon the errors of its opponents . " If the Republicans nominate a standpatter , the Democrats can take advantage of the educational work that has been ; done by Republican reformers ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be favorable to reform , such a nomination will strengthen Democratic doctrines , because Republican reformers advocate the reforms that the Democrats have advocated before them , and the Democrats can not afford to surrender their position because the Republicans give a partial indorsement to a few Dem- ; ocratic doctrines . " If the Republicans nominate one who straddles the issues and attempts to take sides , it is none the less necessary for the Democratic Party to make an aggressive fight The action of the Republican Convention may have its influence in the determining of the relative availability of Democratic candidates , but it ought not to have any influence in determining the question whether the one chosen by the Democrats should accept the nomination . if the rank and file of the Democratic Party desire Mr. Bryan to make the race , ho will make it no matter who may be the Republican nominee . " It has also been charged that Mr. Bryan was waiting to ascertain the chances of victory , ready to run if the outlook seemed bright or to refuse to run if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is without foundation . No one can estimate the chances of the party in the next campaign with sufficient accuracy to make his candidacy dependent upon the outlook . While Democrats have reason to be encouraged by // the fact that Democratic principles have grown in popularity ' and that Democratic policies are now praised by many who denounced them a few years ago , and while further encouragement is to be derived from the fact that the Democratic Party is " more united than it has been for many , years , and the Republican Party more divided , still tile action of the Democratic , Party . can not be made dependent upon the prospect of success . " The prospects now seem excellent , but a Democratic National Convention will be . held , a platform adopted , and candidates nominated whether the prospects are bright or gloomy , and the party must make the best fight it can whether it enters the campaign with fear or with confidence . Democrats believe that Democratic principles arc sound and that Democratic policies are necessary ; they should . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then select as their candidates those who , In their judgment , will give the party the greatest assurance  --  of success In the campaign and the country the greatest assurance of benefit in case of victory . " co man can ask for a nomination as a compliment if his nomination will not benefit the party . and no Democrat would I be justified in refusing a nomination If his party demanded his services , and if the members of the party believe that Mr. Bryan 's nomination will help the party , its principles and its policies , he will accept the nomination whether the Indications point to defeat or victory . A defeat can bring no disgrace where the cause is a just one , but cowardice would be disgraceful . especially in one who Is as deeply indebted to his party as ffir . Bryan is . " Just a word more . The next campaign will be an appeal to the public conscience . : The investigation 's have shown nut only the corrupt use of large campaign funds , but the only source from which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek . to convert the Government into a business asset . The Democratic Party stands for , the doctrine of equal rights to all and special privileges to none . and therefore can not promise favors to favorseeking corporations . If it made such promises to the corporations it would be guilty of duplicity , for it would have to betray the voters , as the Republican Party has done . in order to reward these corporations . as the Republican Party has rewarded them . " The Democratic campaign must be carried on by volunteers who will work because ii . y desire the triumph of Democratic ideas . We can not trope to appeal to tie- sordid or to buy the purchasable , even if such a course would contribute toward Democratic success . No one should favor Mr. Bryan 's nomination unle .. s the party is willing to open Its books and show where its contributions come from and for what the money is expended . " The Republican Party ought to be challenged to conduct its campaign in this open and honest way , and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can well afford to leave th .. issue With the public . An appeal , to conscience is politically expedient as well as morally right , for the conscience is the most potent force with which man deals . The National conscience hail already been aroused , and a  --  large majority of the voters have been educated to the necessity for real reform  --  a reform that will make this Government again a Government of the people , by the people , and for the people . It only remains for the Democratic Party to convince the voters that it can be intrusted with the work of reform . and nothing will do more to convince the . public than a refusal to negotiate with predatory wealth and an honest appeal by honest methods . to the honest sentiment of the country . "                     