@@676414

txt Severe censure for Gov . Yates and Acting Gov . Northcott for their failure to arrest and punish members of the mob which lynched David S. Wyatt , colored , at Belleville was administered by Chicago negroes yesterday . The action was taken by a massmeeting " held in the afternoon at Institutional church , 3835 Dearborn street , and the reading of the resolutions was greeted by an outburst of applause . It was followed by the appointment of a committee to visit the state officers and demand the punishment of the offenders . Inaction by Gov . Yates was charged as being directly responsible for the lynching . This statement was made by the Rev. C. H. Thomas , pastor of a church at Belleville . " When the shooting which led to Wyatt 's arrest occurred , " said Pastor Thomas , " I went to the mayor and the sheriff and urged that extra precautions be taken to protect Wyatt , as I knew the public mind was inflamed . They told me they would not shoot Into a mob and kill white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cared nothing for colored people , and would take no steps to protect them . " I then wrote to Gov . Yates , but he declined to act , saying that in his opinion the local authorities were able to protect life and property . If Gov . Yates had done his duty when I asked him to there would have been no lynching at Belleville . Lieut . Gov . Northcott was appealed to , but he did nothing . " The resolutions adopted , after reciting the incidents leading up to the lynching , continued as follows : Resolved , That by the organized calm and silence of Belleville 's ' ? best " citizens on this outrage , we are compelled to denounce them as accessories after the fact , and held them responsible for permitting this horrible crime to go unrebuked . Resolved , That we urge in behalf of all law-abiding citizens of Illinois that the governor and attorney general of the state use all means and authority at their command to bring to the bar of justice those persona who unlawfully took the life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose will be held in Quinn chapel . Dr. V. D. Crum , the colored man whom President Roosevelt appointed collector of the port at Charleston , S. C. , will be the guest of the colored people of Chicago on June 20 and 30 , and arrangements are being made for his reception .                     