@@676407

txt The first response  --  accidental but significant  --  to Mr. CHAMBERLAIN 'S startling plan of imperial protective customs is the movement in the Canadian Dominion for an advance in import taxes on iron and steel and their products . The present Government of the Dominion is in favor of relatively low taxes on imports . Compared with our own its policy is very liberal and much nearer to free trade than that bogy of the protectionists , the Wilson bill . Probably Mr. LAURIER is the most intelligent advocate of the general scheme of Mr. CHAMBERLAIN that has appeared in any of the colonies . He would Eke practical free trade with the mother country , with a moderate tax on food products that compete with Canada in English markets . And he is in favor of a liberal reciprocity with the United States . Chamberlainism , as he wishes it , would be likely to do as little harm to commerce as any restrictive policy . At home he regards any advance in the burden of import taxes with intelligent aversion . But the latest reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands of the iron masters for the very simple and characteristic reason that so many members of Parliament are interested in the iron and steel business , either as owners of mills or in more or less speculative deals in the stocks and securities . This , it will be perceived , is the same situation that the lamented Mr. WILSON encountered with the Senators from liavemeyer in Washington , who compelled him to accept taxes that he denounced in a bill which the President refused to sign . Mr. CHAMBERLAIN would do well to study this initial chapter in his attempt to introduce the protectionist idea into British legislation . He ought to be able to see in it the exact nature of the confusing , demoralizing , and corrupting forces he is seeking to admit to the British Parliament . If Great Britain once begins to legislate in fiscal matters for the pecuniary benefit of colonies or special classes , it will find its Legislature more and more made up not merely of the representatives of the special interests , but of men whose votes affect their own bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament is now wholly free from individual selfishness in its members . There are sad signs to the contrary . But the opportunity to vote money into their own pockets which the protective system will give will not lessen the number of this class or render them less greedy and unscrupulous . That may be something to which Mr. CHAMBERLAIN is not particularly sensitive , but we should say that it would give Mr. BALFOUR pause .                     