@@677672

txt CONSTANCE SMEDLEY , an English novelist , begins an article on the social side of the American colony in London in The Bookman with an astonishing statement . She says that an American bartender has been imported " as a permanent institution into the august recesses of Buckingham Palace . " This is one of the proofs she offers that " London is one of America 's most important colonial possessions . " She goes on to say that " the triumph of the cocktail is only the triumph of America in little . " Now , at the risk of a damaged reputation among the abstinent , we must Insist that the American cocktail has not triumphed in England . What the English call an American cocktail is a thing of naught , at one-and-sixpence , served with a straw . They think we take all our alcoholic stimulant through straws . We do not blame Miss SMEDLEY , however . She could not be expected to know much about the liquor ; habit . But if there is really an American bartender in Buckingham Palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Has he a bar , or only a sideboard ? Is the lid off on Sunday ? There was Miss SMEDLEY 'S chance . , Really , she has nothing new to tell us about the social life of Americana in London . She makes the accustomed rernariti , happily , and she tells - some stories of ; the. : , differences between American and - English : men of affairs which do not convince one : Somebody has been fooling her  --  and the stories . sound like . English stories , too , of the-brand they like to flatter Americans with . She knows all about the differences , in dress and deportment and temperament , between English ' and American women , , and she has . plenty of facts about the American women who have married English noblemen , and are leaders of society , and the wealthy Americans who have successfully stormed or are still storming the British social citadel , down to the latest newcomer . But this is all society gossip , polite and authentic enough , but having very little to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the permanent American ' colony in London , and the other 100,000 who spend a few weeks there each Summer . In fact , we fancy that the pith of Miss SMEDLEY 'S article lies in this state-1 ment : " The Americans in London are rather driven on themselves by our extraordinary lack of knowledge of American affairs . "                     