@@676913

txt As regards precision , the musket was sighted to hit point-blank at 150 yards , but so inaccurate was It that Col. Charles Hay , who was appointed Commandant of Hythe when the school of Musketry was first established there in 1853 , made the following remark in his report of the 17th of May . 1850. at the time that the musket was being replaced by a rifle : " Should there exist any one who retains any lingering affection for the musket pattern 1842 , the ' Brown Bess , ' I would point to a trial where the best shot of this establishment , firing with that musket from a rest , could not at 100 yards hit an 18-feet soitare target once in twenty shots , taking aini at a mark in its centre , and that at 200 yards the shooting was hardly more effective . " The change from the musket to the rifle came on very gradually . At an early date in the Iasi century , the Rifle Brigade , and three years later the First Battalion Sixtieth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 12-bore , sighted by means of a folding sight to 300 yards , and was used by the rifle regiments employed in the Kaffir war of 1801-3 , In 1854 all rifle regiments were armed with the mime rifle , and during the Crimean war the Enfield rifle was issued to certain other regiments . In 1857 the long Enfield was issued to the army generally , and ten years later it was converted into the Snider pattern breechloader , In 1873 the issue of the Martini-Henry commenced , In 1889 the Lee-Metford was introduced , and at the present time a new pattern of that rifle is being issued , which experience has proved to he advisable . Except that it is five inches shorter and one pound four ounces lighter , ( which makes it handler for the cavalry soldier , ) and has the clip-loading attachment , it Is the same as the original Lee-Metford rifle . Fp to the time that breech-loading weapons were introduced , battles were fought as they had been fought from time immemorial , at close quarters and in compact formation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regimental officers had complete control over their men throughout an action , while the men th6selves had mutual moral and physical support . Secondly , the officer in supreme command was kept fully and quickly informed while an engagement was being fought of everything that was taking place from end to end of the field . But the greater accuracy and increased range of breech-loaders necessitated a considerable change in tactics ; these advantages disappeared , and it is difficult to overestimate how greatly regimental officers are now handicapped by not having complete control over their men , and how great is the loss to the men in not being able to feel the support of their comrades alongside of them once the fire zone is entered .                     