@@676840

txt The rapid transit subway , for which the contract was signed four years and seven months agq , is ready for the formal opening from the City Hall to One Hundred and Forty-fifth Street . While to-day will be a gala occasion throughout the city , the opening exercises will be very simple . The programme is as follows : The ceremonies in the Aldermanic Chamber at City Hall will begin at 1 o'clock . The Mayor , introduced by President Fornes of the Board of Aldermen , will preside . Brief speeches will be made by Mayor McClellan , Chief Engineer William Barclay Parsons , Rapid Transit Commissioners A. E. Orr and John H. Starin , Contractor John B. and August Belmont , President of the Interborouch Rapid Transit Company . The invited guests will take the first train from City Hall Station as soon as the exercises are ended , making a return trip to One Hundred and Forty-fifth Street and Broadway . Until G o'clock holders of complimentary passes will be admitted to the subway . At 7 o'clock the sale of five-cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken his final inspection trip yesterday afternoon he said that he had superintended the completion of the last link in the arrangements  --  the wiring of a small portion of the lighting systetn hitherto unfinished . The stations where construction work was over had been swept clean , cleared of ail building materials , and equipped with ticket-chopping machines . " I Waft ' want the public to pass judgment on the road for the first two days , " said Mr. Hadley . " It would not be exactly fair to us . After that , however , we are willing to submit ourselves to the ' most critical tests . " It must be remembered that never before in the history of railroading has a big system been opened in this manner on the tick of the clock At first , of course , the patrons of the road must be a little indulgent . We expect slight delays . It would be unreasonable not to look for some hitches , in view . of the newness of the men and the devices . There will be no serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours the subway will have come as near to perfection as any railroad can . " The beginning of operation is not a question of schedules . We are ready to throw our tentative time tables to - the winds if it becomes necessary , or if -- the convenience , of the public demands . At first the three-minute headway for local trains and the four or five minute headway for rush-hour express trains will furnish a basis for the schedule , but we shall be ready on short notice to increase the number of trains if the number of passengers warrants it . We can , run them one minute apart if necessary . " Admission to the ceremonies in the City Hall this afternoon will be strictly by ticket , and it was announced last night that the police guard in the City Hall Park , under Capt . O'Brien and Inspector Titus , would form a solid line around the plaza in front of the building , keeping it entirely clear until after the starting of the first train . After the speechmaking the procession to the loop station will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their chief engineer , the Interborough Company 's chief officials and their staff , and the special guests . Secretary of State John Hay , it is expected , will represent the Federal Government . The first train probably will consist of at least two sections . as one section will not hold all the guests . The start up town be made when Mayor McClellan turns on the current in the first section with a silver key . The train will make a return trip to One Hundred and Forty-fifth Street . When the last section reaches Forty-second Street holders of complimentary passes will be admitted to the subway . Then the trains will begin to move from the . sidetracks or main line points where they have been standing . Though passes for more than 13.000 persons have been issued , the police expect their hardest work after 7 o'clock when the public has its turn . Not an entrance nor a station platform will he left unguardell . Commissioner says every policeman in the city will be on duty all day and far into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unabated yesterday , and scores of demands had to be refused , with the result that the applicants went away declaring they had been slighted . The Directors of the Interborough Company will give a dinner to August Belmont at Sherry 's this evening . The number of guests is limited to sixty , and although the names of the speakers are not announced , , it is said ' that there will be a dozen of them , representative of the financial world , ; the engineering profession , and the City and National Governments . Mr. Loeb , President Roosevelt 's secre- 1 tary , sent to the Rapid Transit Commission yesterday the following note : " The President regrets his inability to accept the courteous invitation of the Mayor , President of the Board of Aldermen , Rapid Transit Commission , John B. , and August Belmont to be present at the ceremonies attendant upon the opening of the Rapid Transit Railroad on Oct. 27. i 1904 , at 1 o'clock . " Police Commissioner announced 1 last night that he had refused applications for all-night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Subway Tavern . FOR NEW BUILDING UNION . Sheet Metal Workers : Issue Call to i Other Bodies . Still another central body of unions in the building trades is now contemplated . The Building Trades Alliance still exists , but is reduced to a merely nominal body . The new proposition comes from the Amalgamated Sheet Metal Workers , which Is not in the alliance . The sheet metal men issued a circular yesterday to all of the unions hi the building trades , asking each union to appoint a committee of five for the purpose of forming the new body . The date and place of the meeting is to be designated later .                     