@@781361

txt deleted 2 paragraphs The man who was in a buggy had a dark complexion , dark hair , and a stubby mustache . He was stockily built . He spoke excellent Erignsh end was evidently American born . When Sloss appeared with the boy the stranger smiled and helped Lim up to the sent beside him . He then drove off in the direction of Mr. Whitla 's office . Several persons to-night say a confederate joined the kidnapper before he left the town . Little was thought of the incident and there was no belief a crime had been committed until the lad failed to appear for his noonday meal . Becoming worried , Mrs. Whitla began a search . At the school she learned of what had occurred three hours before . ' . ' errified , she conferred with J. A MoLaughreY , a friend , 1 the family . The latter telephoned to Mr , Whitla , who had gone to New Wiltilingten on business . Mr. Whitla gave hasty directions as to what steps should be taken in an effort to recover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Letter front the Kidnappers . A letter directed to the mother was delivered at the house by a mail carrier at 1 o'clock . Mrs. Whitla at once recognized the handwriting , on the envelope as- that of her son . Opening it , she found : the following communication written in a strange hand : We have your boy and will return him for 810 , n00 . Will see your advertisement in tile papers . Insert in Indianapolis News , Cleveland Press . Pittsburg Dispatch , Youngstown Vindicator . " A. A. ? Will do as re- . quested . J. P. W. " Dead boys are not desirable . The penmanship and spelling of the note indicate it had been Written by a man of fair education . Mr. Whitla decided to comply with the conditions of the letter and sent for publication to each of the newspapers specified the note it directed him to insert . " They may have the money . I want my son , " he said . He turned the whole matter over to his law partner . Fred P. Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy 's return . The parents were too much overcome to act in the matter . As soon as the case was reported to them the police of Sharon started an energetic search for the kidnappers , who had about three hours ' start . Hundreds of telegrams and telephone messages were sent to the police of various cities asking their assistance in the search . Bnggs and Boy 's Hat Found . The first fruit of the inquiries came tonight when Chief of Police Crain of this city received word that the rig in which he lad was taken away had been recovered at Warren , Ohio , with the child 's hat on the buggy seat . All the zeal of police and detectives is now being centred it the region lying about Warren , and those in charge of the chase think that the kidnapper has but a slender chance . Mr. Buhl , who was especially fond of the boy , and Mr. Whitla late to-night announced to some friends that unless the child were found by daybreak they intended asking the aid of the State Militia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the different Black Hand camps en or near the borders or the two States . They are of the opinion that the boy has been taken to some of these strongholds in which so many murders have been committed in the last few years . The Black Hand colony near New Castle , Penn. , is specially feared . Mr. Buhl some weeks since received a Black Hand letter , in which harm was threatened to some one " very dear hint " in case he did not at once leave a certain large sum of money at a place designated . He had received many such letters and paid no attention to this further than to send it to the police , but when his favorite nephew was stolen he recalled it . There is a rumor to-night that Mr. Buhl has offered a reward of S10.000 for the return of the child and g.20.000 for each of the two kidnappers , dead or alive .                     