@@676532

txt One reading , or , after a long interval , rereading STEVENSON 'S weird tale , " The Strange Story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde , " with the results of Tuesday 's election before him , would need no unusual elasticity of imagination to fancy that it is an allegory , and that it was intended to illustrate the proneness of communities made up of diverse and somewhat heterogeneous elements to oscillate between virtue and vice , between eagerness for reform and equal eagerness to relapse into a condition which quickly becomes intolerable , for the reason that vice , after all , is really the most unsatisfactory of human experiences . It can not be denied , however , that it has its allurements . Two years ago New York went wild with apparent delight over the downfall of Tammany and the promise of a clean and honest government . Our streets took on the aspect of an impromptu carnival , and the stranger within our gates would have been warranted in thinking that in the triumph of civic virtue over the organized forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejoicing as they might in the news of a great victory over a public enemy . What would he have thought on Tuesday night , when another impromptu carnival heralded the return of Tammany to power and the upbuilding work of the past two years was brushed aside as if it was merely a structure wrought in sand at low tide by children playing on the shore ? Perhaps he would have thought that the celebration was of a very different kind from that of two years ago ; that the right-minded , virtuous citizens had retired to their homes to mourn , and that the underworld had belched forth its multitude of the lawless and debased to celebrate the inauguration of another saturnalia . But in this he would have been mistaken . The celebration of 1901 was very little different from that of 1903 . Much the same thoughtless crowds filled the sidewalks and evoked pandemonium with horns , megaphones , and horse fiddles . Those who rejoiced in the promise of reform in local government seemed ready to rejoice just as noisily and enthusiastically over its downfall . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tension of a local canvass was over ; those who liked the result were elated ; those who did not , forgot their fears in the excitement of the moment and tooted their horns as loudly as the others . Obviously , as in 1901 , the result reached was What a majority of those who care enough for their civic responsibilities to vote wanted and were prepared to celebrate . Probably we must accept the unwelcome fact that in a community like that of New York we have the dual character of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde . It wants reform when the conditions have become intolerable , but wearies of it quickly and reverts to vice as a relaxation . Fortunately there always remains a contingent of good citizens who do not forget and are not misled . To them Dr. Jekyll turns when wearied of the incubus of Mr. Hyde . Their work is not ended .                     