@@677527

txt Of all the incidents that marked the end of the Congressional session those upon which the contemplative mind will dwell with deepest satisfaction , it seems to us , are the waving of the flag of our rnfon by all the members of the Rouse just before adjournment and the remarks of Senator GALLINGER of New Hampshire , who declared with lionhearted fortitude that so long as he remd.ined in public life he should continue to offer and to work for subsidy bills . There you have it  --  the old flag and an appropriation . Patriotism that plants itself upon these unshakable foundations can with entire security appeal to the country and evoke applause . The Subsidy bill was got through the House by a trick of which the less said the better . Why four or five Democrats should have chosen to leave the Chamber at a moment when the reconsideration of the vote that defeated the bill was before the House is a subject only for curious but profitless inquiry ; and any criticism of the legislative morality that permits of the saving of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be answered with a grin . Senator GALLINCER is not daunted , and his perseverance may in time be rewarded . Both Houses have now committed themselves to the principle of subsidygiving , though the bill that passed the Senate was shorn of many of its grants before it was smuggled through the House . The-sections that were retained provided in effect that the Government should pay subsidies in the guise of compensation for carrying mails to gentlemen who will undertake to convey to the South Americans goods which they can buy in Europe at prices rather below ours , and which they would prefer to buy there because Europe would accept their own goods in payment , while to us they must pay money . Dingleyism and the subsidy policy can never be reconciled . They are incompatible , since one restricts the foreign trade which the other is ostensibly designed to build up . But theories of foreign trade do not give birth to subsidy bills . They originate in the minds of the thrifty and stirring gentlemen who are after the Government bounty . A subsidy bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general without regard to any private interest , has never been heard of in Washington . Of such a measure the champions would be few and languid , and even Senator GALLINGER , we fear , would abate something of the energy he has devoted to the support of the measure he was compelled reluctantly to withdraw yesterday after Senator CARMACIC had with much feeling , we suppose , expressed his regret that " the bill would still lead to extended debate . "                     