@@678063

txt Praised the Show 's Standard , Director Adds , Before He Rapped It for Its Up-to-Date Sensationalism . John W. Beatty , Director of the Carnegie Institute , Pittsburg , Penn. , had something to say last night at the Holland House about the dispatch in yesterday 's pai. , ers , quoting Charles H. Caffin. the New lurk art critic , as saying in a lecture at Pittsburg that the International exhibition at the institute this year is " the latest up-to-date sensationalism , hung by a committee of sensationalists and awarded by a jury of the same sins . " Mr. Beatty nad come to town to see Mr. Carnegie off on his trip to Europe . He read the statements attriouted to mr . Caffin , and since he had talked to the critic about the exhibition in Pittsburg , and since he considered that as the head of the institute , he ought to know something about the exhibition he felt that Ile should make a statement setting forth certain facts . This is the twelfth annual international exhibition held at the institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tieway , and not sinipry roe snowing of a society or of a section or one country . About u per cent . of an the pictures snown come from Europe . He told how the jury of ten is selected . All the painters two nave ever exhibited at the institute are put down on a list of electors , and every year these are asked to send in their votes for tile members of the , r:ry. he men who get the largest number of votes are thereby chosen ine , nbets of the jury . Since the electors are from all civiiized countries , declared Air . Beatty , and represent all sorts or schools and tendencies , the jury is not packed with members representing one idea in art . The only restriction on the voting is that Europe shall never have more than two of the ten jurymen , and that no city shall have more than tour . " Very many of the able painters of Europe and America are represented at the . Pittsburg exhibition , " went on /dr . Beatty . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibition that it is one of the . strongest ever held at the institute . " The jury of this year was one of the ablest we have ever had . They were elected by the painters of Europe and America . They were John W. Alexander , Kenyon Cox , William M. Chase , Irving B. Wiles , W. L. Lathrop , Charles H. Davis , Elmer W. Schofield , Robert Henri , and Albert Neuhvijis . The last comes from Holland . The other foreign member was George H. Brenner , also of Holland , who was prevented from coining this year by illness . " I do not think Mr. Caffin said , or at least he did not intend to say , what he was quoted as having said . He expressed to me warm words of commendation. saying that he thought the standard of the exhibition this year very high , and higher than that of last year . ' He may have taken a rap at one or two of the painters represented in the exhibition but the lecturer on art is prone to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer on art and the painter , as old as art itself ; and probably Mr. Caffin has not escaped this conflict . It is always possible to pick out one or two . or even a score of paintings in an exhibition , and make pertinent remarks about them , but Mr. Caffin , I am sure , did not miss the broader and more significant fact , namely , that a very large percentage of the able painters of America and Europe are represented in the present exhibition , and that the collection as a whole represents with reasonable fullness modern art in America and Europe . " This is the real significance of the exhibition . "                     