@@677476

txt District Attorney Jerome is here with four bills directed against pool selling at the - race tracks which he had hoped to have introduced at this evening 's session in both houses of the Legislature . After both houses had adjourned Mr. Jerome was still busy looking for some disinterested statesman to stand sponsor for the measures . After Mr. Jerome reached Albany this evening he spent a couple of hours chatting with politicians and legislators at the Hotel Ten Eyck before he went to the Capitol . He announced that in all probability he would ask for a public hearing on the bills and come to the Capitol at the head of a large delegation to urge their passage . " All this talk about racing as now conducted in this State being a gentlemen 's sport is pure tommy-rot , " he said . " Let us put it to the test and see how long Mr. Belmont and the other gentlemen behind the racing interests here would continue racing if they were not in a position to declare big dividends on their ventures . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and simple . " Mr. Jerome was asked why he proposed to have violations of Section 351 of the Penal Code , which deals with pool selling , made a misdemeanor instead of a felony as it is at present under the provisions of the Percy-Gray law . " It is merely restoring the law to what it was before t he Ives amendment and the later/Percy-Gray act were passed , " he replied . " The gentlemen who , if my information is correct , We 're chiefly instrumental in having the Percy-Gray law passed were interested in race tracks , and they were shrewd enough to see that if violation of this section was made a felcny it would be difficult to find a jury to convict a poor beggar who had been arrested for running a poolroom , for instance , and who when haled before the court could say that it was proposed to make him a felon and deprive him of his citizenship merely for what a lot of gen tlemen who own race tracks were carrying on openly with the connivance of the law : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate Chamber in conference with Senators . After adjmirri.ment he , stild he hoped the bills - Would be introduced to-morrow , but he dm not as yet know who was going to introduce them . Senator Saxe introduced four other bills for Mr. Jerome . These were simple working measures , providing for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure which the last year 's experiences in Mr. Jerome 's office have shown to be desirable . Gov . Hughes was asked to-day what his attitude was on the proposed anti-racetrack legislation . " That is a subject ' I will not fake up until it reaches me in the regular way , " he replied . " Furthermore , it would be I manifestly improper for me to discuss any action I might have in view on legislative matters in advance . "                     