@@676554

txt Evidence is at hand to show that somebody tampered with Section 4 of the Platt amendment , as it was passed in the United States Senate , before the amendment was incorporated , in the Cuban Constitution . It was su posed to be identical , but there is a marked difference between the two . This matter will be brought out in the investigation of Gen. Leonard Wood before the Senate Military Committee . An effort will be made to show that Gen. Wood was cognizant of the change . It is asserted that Section 4 of the Platt Amendment , ' which applies to various acts of the Military Government , embracing concessions , when adopted by the Cuban Constitutional Convention , was changed to the advantage Of a number of important ' con ! cessions.gr6nted by Gen. Wood . The fourth section of the Platt amend ' ment as it passed Congress was as follows : I " That all acts of the United States in Cuba during its military occupancy thereof are ratified and validated , and all lawful rights acquired thereunder shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an act of Congress , and in the usual manner was finally deposited in the State Department . A transcript of the Platt amendment was made and on May 31 , 1301 , sent through the War Department to Gen. Wood as the Military Governor of Cuba . Gen. Wood on June 8 transmitted the document to ithe President of the Cuban . Constitutional Convention , Senor Mendez Capote . On June 12 the convention adopted the Platt amendment and added it to the Constitution already adopted . As it appears in the Cuban Constitution the fourth section of the Platt amendment is as follows : " That all acts of the United States in Cuba during the military occupancy of said islands shall be ratified and held as validated , and all rights legally acquired by virtue of said acts shall be maintained and protected . " An examination of the Spanish text of the section shows - unmistakable corroboration of the charge that there was tampering with the language . The charge is nfade that the changes in the section , as it was adopted by the United States Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exactly what was desired by a large number of concessionaires , such as the Jai Alai , the Castaneda Electric Light and Power Syndicate , the Cuban Central Railway , and many other lesser concessionaires . The effect of the distinction between " lawful rights acquired thereunder " and " rights legally acquired by virtue of said acts , " is at once obvious . A lawful right might have been called into question by the Cuban Congress . ... For instance , the Jai Alai : an immoral gambling concern , might have had its valuable ten years ' concession modified by Congress as a consequence of pressure from an enlightened public sentiment . But with the - fundamental law of the land protecting " ail rights legally acquired , " the Cuban Congress carrot enact into law any modification of the Jai Alai charter , no matter how iniquitous it may be . By a stroke of the pen it is unalterably fastened on the Cuban people for the period named in the concession . There is no proof in the hands of the Senate Military Committee as to where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could have been made in the War Department in Washington . They could have been made in the office of the Military Governor of Cuba . They could have been made in the Cuban Constitutional Convention . by friends of the concessions that would- be favorably affected by the vital influence of a change in the Constitution of the new republic , the fundamental law of the land transcending in its sanction any law that the Cuban Congress might pass . In this connection there is testimony before the committee going to show a more decided insubordination on the part of Gen. Wood against the orders of Secretary Root than any Gen. Brooke has shown . This was in the matter of the Castaneda concession . A syndicate , of which a number of Boston and New York capitalists were members and for which ex-Attorney General Griggs was attorney , desired the same rights which Gen. Wood chose to grant the Castaneda people . The concession given the latter had been initiated by the Spanish Government , but required acts by the Military Governor to complete and perfect it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Root directed him by telegraph to rescind his action on the ground that he had violated the Foraker act , forbidding concessions . While ex-Attorney General Griggs , R. 2k . C. Smith of the Boston Fruit Company , J. A. Hayward , and another member of ' the Syndicate were in Secretary Root 's office a telegram came from Gen. Wood appealing to him not to order him to rescind his order . Secretary Root was incensed at this , and thinking there was but one order , sent a telegram saying in three or four words " Rescind your order . " At this Gen. Wood , it is charged in the statement before the committee , rescinded one of the two order , but the one of less importance , and the necessary one validating the Castanada franchise , stood , and now has the protection of the Cuban Constitution by reason of the changes which were made by some one in the fourth section of the Platt amendment . The original copy of the Platt amendment , which was sent to Havana to be forwarded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cuban Government , and an examination of the document t is one of the things which may call for the visit of a sub-committee to Cuba . The committee will meet to-morrow . It is declared by Gen. Wood 's friends that before long there will be a reaction in favor ) f Gen. Wood . Senator Foraker was at the White Clouse : wice to-day and had long conferences with : h ? President . The tide has run thus far strongly against gen . Wood , but now his : riends say that there ' will be just as much paid in his favor .                     