@@676988

txt Before accepting the Greater New York Water Supply bill Mayor McCLELLAN Was careful to . record this protest against the mans-ling his original measure received at the hands of the Legislature : The bill as it is now nresented to me is in many ' respects . different from that which at my request was introduced in the LegislatUre over four months ago . It bears evidence of additions and omissions which represent the concessions to which the city wassobliged to consent in order to secure any bill to provide for an additional water . supply . I know , the uselessness of complaint . but I wish to record the fact that this bill and the one originally introduced show by contrast what we sought and what we received , so that if supplemental legislation be necessary later on , it can not be urged that this measure represents fully the claims of New York City . The chief omitaiOn from the Mayor 's bill is the section conferring upon this city full control of electrical power for street lighting , with the , right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streams it shall buy in the Catskills . ? The most objectionable ad- ! , dition is the section by virtue of which ithe City of New York " shall have no power to acquire " any additional watershed without the approval of the State Water , Supply Commission , i This provision hamstrings the whole bill . How completely the State* Com , mission dictated by Republican interests might delay , restrict , and nullify the operations of the Mayor 's non-partisan Commission In its $100,000,000 project may be inferred from the fact that the Municipal Commissioners must prepare maps and plans for its approval ; that by the terms of the  --  act creating it the State Commission may /prolong indefinitely the public hearings upon these plans ; that after the last hearing ninety precious days may elapse , when the Commission may finally approve or " reject the application entirely . " or return the plans , it may be , with such , Inimical amendments as the Mayor 's bill has itself suffered . The State Water Commission is bound to wield political influence through its power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manifestly it is better and cheaper to acquire lands in Ulster County and construct works commensurate with the requirements of a population which will amount to seven millions in 1925 . The State Commission may not allow It . Incidally such a foundation would provide the city with means of electric power . more than sufficient to free it from the extortion of the lighting companies  --  it might sell power and thus reduce the water rates . But the Stevens Lighting bill , to which a *State Lighting Commission string is carefully attached , forbids the sale of surplus power . Altogether Ramapo , the city gas and electric-lighting companies , ? and Gov . ODELL ought to be more pleased with the water supply . and power situation than this city , which appears to have ? surrendered its principle of home rule upon a doubtful chance . All depends upon Gov . Higgins 's right selection of men for the twin State Commissions .                     