@@676491

txt The arrest in this city a day or two ago of a blind I mendicant who , when haled before the Magistrate on a charge of vagrancy and violation of the city ordinances by soliciting alms on the public street , ' admitted that begging was not necessary for his support , as he was comfortably provided for , but that he did it as a recreation , Will no doubt cause many people of limited experience to wonder - what satisfaction ' can be derived from such art employment . The blind beggar explained it as follows : " I only do it for pleasure . I ca n't see like other people , and I would go mad if I at in the house all the time . I do it to have som4thing to keep me outdoors . I do n't have to do it , as my brothers will take care of me if I wish them to . " This blind man is a type of a very large class of persons , not all mendicants by any means , but all incapable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close and often degrading pursuit of a gainful occupation after the necessity for concentrated toil has passed . There are in New York some thousands of very wealthy men who follow business for the same reason that the blind mendicant followed begging . They can not read , or think , or take pleasure in any form of intellectual recreation like other people , and if compelled to sit idle nil day would be at least profoundly unhappy . They perhaps have not the-quality of brain to go mad in the conventional sense , Ct it may be they are already insane on the subject of acquisition and are incapable of any other form of pleasure than that which is profitable in money returns . However this may be , the case of many a rich merchant and financier is very closely parallel to that of the blind beggar who could not be content except in begging . It is useless to criticise or blame those who cling to the last to the occupations which have for them no other function than to add to the accumulation of superfluous wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they know , and would be as hopelessly lost to tile , and use , and name and fame as was Merlin immured in the hollow oak if compelled to forego the satisfaction of winning whatever they seek , from pennies to million.s , by whatever means are known to them . They are commonly the objects of misplaced sympathy . No doubt in their own way they are as happy as other people .                     