@@781430

txt Cipriano Castro , ex-President of Venezuela , wan to-night ignominiously expelled from the Island of Martinique by the French Government . He protested to the last against his expulsion , and refusing even to , put on his clothes was placed upon a stretcher : and carried by gendarmes from his hotel aboard the French Line steamship Versailles . He complained with every motion of the stretcher like a man in pain . The Versailles is bound for St. Nazaire , at the mouth of the Loire , in France . Official notice was served on Castro this morning of the decision of the French Government that he must leave the 1e1-and within nine hours from the receipt of such notice , and that the Commissary of Police at Fort De France had been charged with the execution of the order . The ex-President was Indignant , and strove all day long to find some excuse which would serve to induce the Colonial Government to allow him to remain . He declared first that the state of his health did not permit him to leave , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities , reported that he was strong enough to travel , Insisted nevertheless that he suffered from intolerable pains I in the abdomen and the kidneys ; that he was without funds to meet his traveling expenses from Fort De France , his money being deposited elsewhere than in Martinique , and in short that he could not embark on the Versailles . He demanded sufficient delay to make it possible for him to leave here for Santa Cruz de Teneriffe , in the Canary Islands , which are Spanish territory . Late in the afternoon he summoned a lawyer and physician on his own account to certify that he was unable to leave the country . The Governor of Martinique and the public prosecutor , however , refused an extension of time , and about 5 o'clock the Commissary of Police , accompanied by a large force of gendarmes , proceeded to the hotel where Castro was staying for the purpose of removing him , forcibly if necessary , to the steamer . Foreign Consuls on Hand . The affair created , a great sensation . and long before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Later appeared the Consuls representing the various foreign powers , who showed great interest in the expulsion of what one of them termed " the common enemy of peace . " Sefior Castro , who during his few days at Fort de France has had very little communication with anybody , locked himself in his room , In company with his brother Carmelo and his secretary , and for a time refused to reply to the summons of the police officials . The police hesitated to break In the door , and finally decided to submit the matter again to Gov . Foureau , but the Governor absolutely refused to permit any delay , and ordered that Castro be removed by roree of arms . He gave orders also that the Versailles remain in port until Castro could be put aboard . The police and gendarmes were forced to take rigid measures to hold in check the crowds outside the hotel , which by this time had grown riotous . Inside the ex-President railed against the French Government and the local authorities , denouncing them bitterly for forcing upon him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He declared that he would not budge , and that it would be necessary to take him on board the steamer on a stretcher . This the Commissary of Police , who finally entered Senor Castro 's room with : : an escort of gendarmes , prepared to do. - biit Seller Castro 's lawyer took steps to find the Chief Justice , and at the very last moment the Governor and Public Prosecutor decided to have another medical examination made . Accordingly , a medical commission composed of Doctors Bouvier , Costet , and Barbe proceeded with the examination in order to establish definitely whether Castro 's health was such that he could make the voyage . The consultation of the physicians continued for more than half an hour , and they agreed that the life of the ex-President would not be jeopardized by his removal to the steamer-Mid the return voyage across the ocean . Well as When He Left France . Prof. Ricci , who was a passenger with Castro on the Guadeloupe on the WA ) from Bordeaux to this port , was the original authority for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation on Castro in Germany had shown signs of suppuration , but : the final ' examination of the physicians this evening seemed to indicate that the President is in quite as healthy a condi ; tion as when he left France on March ' 26 last . deleted 2 paragraphs                     