@@676679

txt A straight line across the base of the Lieu-Tung Peninsula runs from the Liau-Ro to the River Yalu , from NiuChwang to An-tung . The abandonment of the line of the Yalu has been I Dreed by the operations ' of the Japane , , e . The abandonment of Niu-Chwang was a necessary sequel to this , as well as the abandonment of Port Arthur at the extremity of the peninsula . All of maritime Manchuria . excepting Port Arthur , as well as all of Korea , is now in Japanese possession , and will have to be recovered , if at all , by an advance of the reinforced Russian army under very unfavorable circumstances . It is not without significance that the two extreme points of maritime Manchuria are the two ports at which , under Russian occupation , foreign commerce has been suspended , and at which , under Japanese occupation , foreign commerce may be expected to revive . By treaty with China , we were authorized to appoint and maintain a Consul at Antung . But we were presently notified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered as an unfriendly act to Russia , which was in occupation , and as injurious to those " spe- cial interests " which Russia could never be brought to define , but which . evidently opposed every effort of any . foreIgn nation to do any business with Manchuria . As to Niu-Chwang , Russian occupation had killed our trade at that port , and in consequence , so small is the modern world , had thrown into bankrUptcy certain cotton mills in South Carolina . Since the Japanese occupation of An-tung it is announced that our Consul has gone there to undertake his Consular functions and to workup Manchurian trade . With the impending Japanese occupation of Niu-Chwang it is to be expected that our Consul there will resume his functions , and that our trade will revive . The prospect/is for some months , at least , of undisturbed Japanese occupation of both Ports , with ample notice to neutrals of any serious attempt on the part of Russia to regain them and close them again to the commerce of mankind : In these circumstances it would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed because their market was closed should reopen now that their riarket has been reopened , and if our Manchurian trade should begin to fulfill the Promise it showed before Russian occupation defeated that promise . Meanwhile , in the history of the port of Niu-Chwang , and in the history of our endeavor to open a new market by way of . An-tung , any Russian who may be curious to learn why American sympathies are not with his country in the present war may find the means of slaking his curiosity .                     