@@675663

txt Crowds leaving the theatres in Broadway last night scrambled madly for safety and carriages were hastily driven into the side streets before a furious runaway , which came down town at the time when the throng was at its height . That many were not killed or injured was due to the cool courage and iron arm of Michael Beyer , the coachman of the runaway carriage , who at great peril to himself and with the single rein he had , preveated the horses . from crashing into a jam of carriages just ahead by turning them into Thirty-first Street . against an empty cab standing before the Beyer , with a supreme effort , pulled his team up on the and sidewalk rolling , across one of the his fine falling stones and down the stairs leading to the cellar of Alper 's drug store . Then four by cable cars , the second time being hurled horses flagwomen , almost senseless from fright , but Grand Hotel . The shock upset the cab . As it was , the coach was twice struck unhurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. W. Roosevelt of 11 East Thirty-first Street , her mother , Mrs. d'Ormieulx : her daughter , Miss Lorraine Roosevelt , and Mrs. Perry , a friend who was visiting them . They had been attending the concert of the Musical Art Society at Carnegie Music Hall . and it was shortly before 11 o'clock when they passed under the elevated road at Thirtyfourth Street on their homeward way . The spirited team took fright at a locomotive ' passing overhead and bolted . Beyer rose up on his hox and sawed at their mouths , while bystanders shouted with fear or excitement . Suddenly the right rein snapped and fell and the horses seemed instantly to bound forward at redoubled speed . At Thirty-second Street they passed on the right a cable car going in the same direction . They turned on the track in front of it , and the carriage came in contact with the front of the car . It was tossed into the air , and it seemed as if it would roll over , but it came down right side up and free from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after it cn the sidewalk stopped lest they might run into peril . and those before fled to doorways and stairs . In front of the Bijou , Wallack's. and Daly 's the roadway was blocked with carriages receiving the audiences which those playhouses were discharging . Beyer saw that to let his team plunge into the mass would mean death and destruction perhaps to a score , and took the only chance open to him to avoid it by trying ' to turn into the side street . Had the gripman of the north-bound car that struck him anticipated the move and stopped , he might have been successful , but perhaps the collision was a fortunate one , as it was , for otherwise the runaway would almost certainly have plunged into the . Fifth Avenue streams of vehicles . The Roosevelt . carriage was badly wrecked , one wheel being utterly demolished , and the horse that rolled down the cellarway was so badly hurt that it may have to be killed . The cab that was overturned was considerably broken , and its horse also cut and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated by a hackman known around the neighborhood as The Midget . " His turnout was still able to travel after the wreck had been cleared away . The coach was owned by the Daly Stables , in Fourth Avenue . between Thirtyfirst and Thirty-second Streets . The rescued women remained for a time in the ladies ' parlor of the Grand Hotel , and then were sent to their home in another carriage . At the Roosevelt house at midnight it was said that , while all were still suffering keenly from their fright and the shaking up they had received . there were no evidences that any one of them had received bodily injury .                     