@@677098

txt In no section of the United States is the principle of home rule as fomulated in the doctrine of State rights so firmly established as in the South . Southern communities are tenacious of their local police powers . This being so , some surprise may be felt at the unanimity of the sentiment now prevalent throughout the portion of the South which has experienced or feared the yellow fever in epidemic form in favor of the surrender of their quarantine system to the Federal Government and of turning over the campaign against the mosquito to the Marine Hospital Service . But it is not surprising at all . The experience of the past three months has very clearly shown that it is impossible to leave to such bodies as local Boards of Health the determination of the large problems of commerce and intercommunication between States which arise when such an emergency as that now existing creates a popular panic . " The shotgun quarantine " is a system so barbarous as to have become intolerable . That a citizen going about his business in a perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detention camp without conveniences or a commissariat , tied to a tree if suspected of a desire to escape , and confronted by the muzzle of a shotgun in the hands of a farmer or village idler if he steps out of bounds , establishes conditions to which the more intelligent communities having important relations with other parts of the country can not remain willingly subject . The system now existing is impossible . If , therefore , Congress shall transfer the control of the whole question of quarantine , external and internal , to one of the Federal departments with supreme powers for the protection of inter-State commerce and the rights of citizens , those who denounce such action as an invasion of the rights and powers of the States may remember that it was not- taken until it became necessary , by reason of the fact that State and local powers were abused . There will remain , however , larger functions for the local Boards of Health than they are likely to discharge with the highest intelligence . The acceptance of the theory that the mosquito is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fever marks a step in the direction of progress upon which the Southern communities are to be congratulated . But this suggests considerations which should not be lost sight of under the impression that the Federal Government may hereafter take the entire responsibility for the public health in the States most exposed to epidemics of yellow fever . Not all who are stung by the Stegomyia fasciata suffer ill-effects therefrom . If this were not true the South would be depopulated . Millions of these insects have access to infected persons , and they probably sting millions of people who never know it . There must he a reason for this . The analogies of experience would warrant the belief that those succumb most quickly , or at least most readily , who are in a condition favorable to the development of the germs thus implanted . The conclusion from this would seem to be that in a community where the general health is good the liability to infection is lessened , and that since the elimination of the mosquito as a factor in the problem is not possible in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the danger from this cause may be minimized , the aim of local sanitation should be to correct as completely as possible every cause tending to prepare a community for an epidemic of any kind through the lowering of the standard ? ) f general health and the weakening of the powers of resistance . If this is done the co-operation of the Federal and local authorities will be effective beyond the powers of either working alone .                     