@@675837

txt Independent Democrats for Controller and Head of the Board of Aldermen Will Probably Be Presented . With only two votes in the negative ? those of - Herman Ridder and Charles Lutz  --  the joint conference committee of the anti-Tammany bodies last night agreed to present Seth Low as the fusion candidate for Mayor of New York . It was also practically agreed that Independent Democrats shall be named for Controller and President of the Board of Aldermen . The action taken , it is claimed , eliminates Bird S. Coler as a possibility as a Mayoralty nominee on the anti-Tammany ticket . The sub-committee of eighteen met at 4 o'clock at the headquarters of the Citizens ' Union , at 34 Union'Square East . R. Fulton Cutting held the proxy of Samuel Seabury and Henry D. Hotchkiss appeared for exSheriff James O'Brien of the City Democracy . Immediately after the calling of the committee to order , reference was made to attacks at the preceding Session on the character of Col. E. M. Knox . . , . nen Henry Weisrnann arose and said he had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had made and offered an apology . This was accepted unanimously . By a vote of 12 to G the name of Col. Knox was replaced on the eligible list . The sub-committee then began balloting , and while this was in progress , there was much bickering- and ill feeling shown , the sponsors for the different candidates exchanging remarks that were not always complimentary . Ballot after ballot was taken and at 7:30 o'clock the vote was : Seth Low , 8 ; E. M. Knox . 4 ; Charles W. Dayton , 2 ; F. Norton Goddard , 3 ; George L. Rives , 1 . In the next few ballots Knox , Dayton , and Goddard were disposed of and on the final ballot Mr. Low received 15 and Mr. Rives 3 . When the vote was announced two of those voting in the negative changed to Mr. Low , leaving Mr. Ridder the only conferree opposed to the - selection of Mr. Low . Mr. Ridder was urged to make the vote unanimous , but lie persistently declined and said he wanted information with regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of Eighteen then adjourned . M. T. Flaherty of Brooklyn , one of the Committee of One Hundred ; was in the ante-room while the sub-committee was in session , and he declared his belief that Mr. Coler should be named for Mayor , and intimated that he would have votes enough to control the conventions- of . th Citizens ' Union in Manhattan and Brooklyt . He'deelared that the Coffey organization in Kings County had little or no strength . COMMITTEE OF 72 MEETS . The - full Committee of Seventy-two met at 8:30 o'clock and Col. Willis L. Ogden presented the report of the sub-committee in favor of the nomination of Mr. Low for Mayor . Ex-Senator Jacob A. Cantor attacked the report and said : " It has generally been believed that the allied anti-Tammany forces would name an independent Democrat . With that idea in view the various independent Democratic organizations were formed . " The action of the sub-committee in going over to Mr. Low is not only a surprise , but seems to show a lack of good faith on the part of some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the Independent Democrats presented . Lieut . Gov . Woodruff will admit that the Republicans have less strength hi New York than the Democrats . This is a Democratic city , and an independent Democrat would draw many votes from Tammany Hall . I am afraid that the selection of Mr. Low will drive away many votes that the anti-Tammany forces might reasonably count upon . " In reply Lieut .. - Gov . Woodruff remarked that the Independent Democrats had received every opportunity to bring forward names of Independent Democrats so that publican and Citizens ' Union conferees had refrained from taking action on the their fellows could have full voice in the " ' a man of their choice . At the meetings of the sub-committee the Independent Democrats named had been eliminated from furrepresentativds of their political faith . ther consideration by the votes of the ' At more than one session both the Rematter . " But , " added Mr. Woodruff with emphasis , " yon could , not even agree among yourselves . How , then , could you expect us to agree on an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You have only yourselves to bla me . " William Hepburn Russell of the Greater New York Democracy sought to turn the tide from Seth Low by nominating R. Fulprise of many , was , according to all reports . seconded by Robert C. Morris , President of the Republican County Committee of New York . ton Cutting , and his motion , to the surLieut. is said , brit W was Woodruff relieved rubbed when his Mr. eyes , Cutit . ting arose and announced that under no circumstances would he be a candidate . John C. Sheehan and ex-Sheriff O'Brien each opposed the selection of Mr. Low , who , they intimated , so ' it is said , was the choice of Senator Platt . Lient. ' 4Gov . Woodruff denied that he had been in league with Senator Platt and others to nominate Mr. Low and also charged the Democratic conferees with bad faith , He declared that he had received petitionsfrom hundreds of sincere Democrats to name Mr. Low as the only man who could win . Next Messrs . Cantor and Russell urged the selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Samuel Greenbaum of the Independent Democracy said he was for Mr. Low because the majority favored him . To this remark Mr. Russell is alleged to have answered . " Your Independent Democracy does not represent more than twenty people . " " The Greater New York Democracy , " Mr. Greenbaum is stated to have shouted in reply . " can not count so many , " Ex-Senator Cantor then moved to recommit the report to the sub-committee for l further consideration , but it was defeated 14 to 51 . TWO NEGATIVE VOTES . The report of the Committee of Eighteen was then adopted with only two votes in the negative . A resolution %as then adopted declaring it to be the sense of the committee that independent Democrats should be named for Controller and President of the Board of Aldermen . The committee then adjourned to meet tomorrow evening at 8 o'clock . The sub-committee of eighteen will reassemble at 4 o'clock in the afternoon . The Committee of One Hundred and Seven announced a meeting for next Monday night-After the meeting Mr. Sheehan said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I looked earnestly for the nomination of some leading Democrat for Mayor . This was , however , in no derogation of Mr. Low 's qualifications . There is no citizen in our community of higher standing as a man of public spirit , integrity , and practical common sense than Seth Low . " As Mayor ' of New York his administration will be a credit as well as a profit to all our citizens . You can hardly imagine anything more opposite in every respect to the Tammany regime than will be the administration of Seth Low . " In the face of the shame and infamy of the present government of the city it now becomes the duty of all citizens , regardless of politics , to stand together for mutual protection and drive the official criminals from the power which they have so outrageously misused. "                     