@@677227

txt A mining catastrophe of incalculable horror and magnitude has stricken the great coal centre of Northern France . An explosion of firedamp at 7 o'clock this morning carried death and destruction throughout the network of coal mines centred at Courrieres , and fire followed the explosion , making rescues difficult and almost impossible . The intense excitement and confusion ill the vicinity prevented early estimates of the loss of life , but a dispatch received here at 4:35 P. M. said 1,404 miners were still entombed and probably lost . At 8:45 o'clock this evening a brief dispatch from Lille announced the awful total of 1,198 ( 1.41 .. d . A later telegram says the number of entombed men is estimated at 1,219 . A telegram sent from Courrieres at 8 P. M. said that the attempts to rezone the imprisoned miners had been given up , the galleries in the mine having fallen In . Rescue parties that came to the surface late in the afternoon said that further attempts to save the lives of the miners were useless . Another telegram received in Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it was sent , but that they were making slight progress , their work being most difficult and dangerous . Up to the present time 150 bodies have been taken from Pits 10 and 11 , all the men having been asphyxiated . One of the engineers of the mine told The Journal 's correspondent that the cage was unable to descend more than 150 meters , while the gallery where the miners were entombed was fifty meters further down . Rescuers who descended in this cage reported as having heard distinctly Imprisoned men , tapping on the water pipes , hut the hope that was kindled by this statement was extinguished by Engineer Leon , who estimated that it would take eight days to dislodge the debris in the shafts , and that meanwhile the miners would die either from starvation or asphyxiation . All France has been profoundly shocked by the disaster , which is said to be the greatr t in the history of Continental mining . President Fallieres sent his secretary , accompanied by Minister of Public Works Gautier and ' Minister of the Interior Dubief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Invitations to a ball ? . ; which was to be given at the Elysee to-night were canceled . The Ministerial crisis was temporarily forgotten , Senators and Deputies joining in the universal public manifestatlens of sorrow . The scene of the catastrophe is the mountainous mining region near Lens , in the department of Pas-de-Calais . Here are huddled small hamlets of the mine workers who operate the most productive coal mines in France . The subterranean chambers form a series of tunnels . Six of the outlets are near Lens , and others are at Courrieres , Verdun. and many other points . The output of these mines is particularly combustible , and is largely used in the manufacture of gas and in smelting . About 2,000 miners work the group of mines and , with their families , make a.population of from 0,000 to 8,000 . The catastrophe occurred shortly after 1,795 men had descended into the mine this morning . There was a deafening explosion , and then the cages and mining apparatus were hurled from the mouth of the CourrIeres mine . Men and horses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The roof of the mine office was blown off . Immediately following the explosion flames burst from the mouth of the pit , driving back those without who sought to enter and dooming those within . The work of attempting to ' rescue the miners was hastily begun by officials , engineers , and miners from the surrounding mines , who formed parties and made heroic efforts to penetrate the smoke and foul gases and bring out the imprisoned men . The families of the entombed miners crowded about the shaft seeking husbands or fathers and threatening , in their efforts to obtain details , to force back the'gendarmes , who kept them from the mouth of the pit . Those persons who were rescued were terribly burned . The latest estimates place the number taken out at .591 . Throughout the afternoon the heroic efforts at rescue were continued , but nightfall brought the conviction that the entombed men had been suffocated , and the dispatch from Lille at 8:45 P. 51. announcing the number of dead at 1,103 appears to remove the last hope that others may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate cause of the disaster are still meagre and conflicting . A dispatch from Lille states that a smoldering fire started last night in the Cecil pit of the Courrleres Mine , at a depth of 270 meters , where masonry works were proceeding . The Chief Engineer of the department of Pas-de-Calais says the fire started in the pit at 3 o'clock last Monday afternoon , and that the engineers coped with it as best they were able , but that yesterday , being unable to master it , they closed all the , outlets . Fissures , he thinks , must have formed which permitted the gases to escape , and these , becoming ignited , resulted in an explosion . One report says that the explosion occurred in Pits 4 and 11. and that the Plaines spread to all the communicating pits . A few miners escaped after the first L explosion , and at 10 A. M. the first cages came up with about a dozen balf-sulfohated men , who were taken to the nearest hospital . Among them was M. Voisin , an engineer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taw more injured miners were brought up , and two bodies , the first recovered , were taken to the surface . By that time assistance was reaching Courri:ILres from all parts of the Department of Pas-de-Calais , and a large force of volunteers were soon taking part in the efforts to rescue the miners who were still alive , and to recover the bodies of the dead . The lasth rescues were effected at 8 o'clock to-night , when a rescue party at Courrieres brought out esevral engineers , two of whom were unconscious but who were revived under medical attention . Foreman Leconte came up from the mine this afternoon and reported a terri fying scene below . One of the rescued miners , Pierre Dasson , said : " I was 280 meters from the shaft , when heard a deafening explosion . The air Immediately became rarefied and filled with poisonous vapors . Instinctively groped my way toward the bottom of the shaft of Pit near which I found a number of suffocating comrades , who had fallen helpless in the galleries and were crying for assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus they were enabled to reach the shaft . " The most agonizing scenes are witnessed at tee pit mouths . Late this afternoon the crowd was reported to be showing signs of impatience at what it considered - the slow progress being made by the rescuers . The populace of the district is thrown into a state of stupor by the disaster , which affects every household . Twenty-live thousand people are around the pit mouths to-night . THEY CELEBRATED OSWEGO . Virtues of the Up-State City Emphasized at a Dinner . One hundred and fifty past and present Citizens of Oswego gathered last night at the Hotel Astor for their annual dinner . ' Like other societies , celebrating the home of their birth , they were given to oratory , telling what a splendid city Oswego is and has been . Ex-Mayor John D. Higgins of Oswego acted as toastmaster . The chief speaker was Luther Wright Mott , President of the Oswego Chamber of Commerce . He said that if you should ask any policeman in his city what the population Might be , he would say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the same official would acknowledge that there were only 22,000 people really living in Oswego . Mr. Mott , however , called attention to the comparative values of quantity and quality , to the distinct advantage of the latter and Oswego . A. S. Gleason , George Neal Wheeler , Charles S. Brackett , Francis E. Hamilton , James 0 . Tyler . Samuel H. Vanden , Frederick B. Shepherd , and Judson D. Remington were among the Oswegans present . One of the diners said that he had it on excellent authority that the former residents of Hohokus , who had fled to New York , were planning a reunion and bankwet . MR . FINES OUT FOR HIMSELF . Gets Two Theatre Sites and Will Have His Own Vaudeville Circuit . J. Austin Fynes , formerly general manager for F. F. Proctor , contemplates building up a vaudeville circuit of his awn . This news comes in the form of the recorded transfers of two valuable pieces of theatrical property , which , it is understood , are merely forerunners of many more such pacels of property of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent an investment of nearly $700,000 , and include the double purchase outright of the Bijou Theatre in Jersey City and of a very valuable plot of Harlem property  --  the northwest corner of ' llfth Avenue and 125th Street . The facts of the purchases became known yesterday through the recording in the County Clerk 's office of the deed to the 125th Street corner , the title to which is vested in the International Amusement and Realty Company of this city . A dispatch irom Albany last night stated that this company had obtained a. certificate of incorporation early this week . The capital stock is put at 8100 , - 000 , fully paid in . Mr. Fynes is President of the company . The Harlem plot was bought from Messrs . Lynch &; McCoy at a reported price of about $350,000 . These two properties are the first links In the chain which Mr. Fynes is forming . He will take possession of the Bijou Theatre at once , and will boog high class vaudeville for immediate presentation . Daily rnain ? es will be given at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Mr. Fynes expects to place a theatre there . Mr. Fynes is a native of Boston , about 4E ; Years old , and came to this city twenty : ears ago to become managing editor " of The New York Clipper . Afterward he was made editor of The Evening Sun . He Identified himself with B. F. Keith in " TINY TIM " COT ASSURED . Dickens Fellowship Gives a Success . ful Recital to Aid Little Cripples . There will be a " Tiny Tim " cot hereafter in the Home for Crippled Children at Bath Bench that is to be run by the ChinIren 's Aid Society . The Manhattan Dickens Fellowship gave a reception recital last night in the east room of the Waldo : f-Astoria , which was so financially successful as to make the endowment of the " Tiny Tim " cot a certainty . In his introductory address George Cary Eggleston. honorary President of the Manhattan Dickens Fellowship , told some stories about crippled children who , he said , start in life without any hope for themselves at all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the lives of all those around them , as did the " Tiny Tim " of Dickens . they must be helped a little toward some fresh air and light such as they could get in the home established by the Children s Aid Society . Marian Leland recited several selections that reflected the spirit of the occasion . Bernard Landino , a tenor , sang Tosti 's " Non l'arno piu " and two other sings . Florence Pratt gave Wagner 's " The Ride of the Valkyries on the piano and three other numbers .                     