@@677953

txt President Roosevelt hae  --  taken a hand in the wage dispute now ocOpying the attention of railroad managers and their employees . Notices by the companies of reductions in pay have been met by threats of strikes . The retort of the carriers invariably has been that bankruptcy would follow if the old scale were paid , because " drastic legislation by congress and the states " had crippled the revenue producing capacity of the roads . The president has taken official notice of the impending clash , and apparently fearing disastrous results to the public unless the threatened trouble is averted , yesterday wrote the interstate commerce commission suggesting an investigation of the statements made by the railroads . If " drastic laws " have harmed the carriers the public should , know it . The people also should know beyond , peradventure of a doubt If the " drastic law " excuse is merely a blind to cover the result of financial or other sine committed by the transportation companies . Text of President 's Letter . The letter is as follows : The White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? To the Interstate Commerce Commission : I am informed that a number of railroad companies have served notice of a proposed reduction of wages on their employee . One of them , the Louisville and Nashville , in announcing the reduction , states that " the drastic laws inimical to the interests of the railroads that have in the last year or two been enacted by congress and the state legislatures " are largely or chiefly responsible for the conditions requiring the reduotion . Under such circumstances It is possible that the public may soon be confronted by serious industrial disputes , and the law provides that in such case either party may demand the services of your chairman and of the commissioner of labor as a board of mediation and conciliation . These reductions in wages rosy be warranted or they may not . As to this the public , which is a vitally interested party , can form no Judgment without a more complete knowledge of the essential facts and real merits of the case than it now has or than it can possibly obtain from the specialpleadings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their dispute should bring about serious interruption to traffic . Public Should Know Truth . ? If the reduction in wages is due to natural causes , the loss of business being such that the burden should be , and is , equitably distributed between capitalist and wageworker , the public should know it . If it is caused by legislation the public and congress should know it , and if it is caused by misconduct in the past financial or other operations of any railroad , then everybody should know it , especially if the excuse of unfriendly legislation is advanced as a method of covering up past business misconduct by the railroad managers , or as a justification for failure to treat fairly the wage earning employes of the company . - ? Moreover , an industrial conflict between a railroad corporation and its employes offers peculiar opportunities to any small number of evil disposed persons to defy life and property and foment public disorder . Of course , if life , property and public order are endangered , prompt ante-drastic measures for their protection become the first plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservation of the public peace , and the real merits of the original controversy are necessarily lost from view . This vital consideration should be ever kept in mind by all law abiding and far sighted members of labor organizations . Hopes for Peaceful Solution . It is sincerely to be hoped , therefore , that any wage controversy that may arise between the railroads and their employee slay find a peaceful solution through the methods of conciliation and arbitration already provided by congress which have proven so effective during the last year . To this end the commission should be in a position to have available for any board of conciliation or arbitration relevant data pertaining to such carriers as may become involved in industrial disputes . Should conciliation fail to effect a settlement and arbitration be rejected , accurate Information should be available in order to develop a properly informed public opinion . I therefore ask you to make such investigation , both of your records and by any means at your command , as will enable you to furnish data concerning such conditions obtaining on the Louisville and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or indirectly , to the real merits of the possibly impending controversy . THEODORE ROOSEVELT . . New Liability Law Planned . tionalueration , J1 a G  --  gaylat , or alava " , bill was begun by the lawmakers today when the house committee on judiciary gave a hearing on a bill of Representative Sterling , the counterpart of which was introduced in the senate by kIr . La Follette , and which is indorsed by the railway labor unions . The hearing today was given over entirely to managers of protesting railroads . R D. Warfield of the Louisville and Nashville , A. H. Harris of the New York Central , and Mr. Cochran of the Missouri Pacific were heard . They protested against the passage of any bill that would curtail the right of roads to fix a share of the blame on the injured negligent employ-6 , and also made a strong appeal , for the recognition of the common law , which failed to affix any value to human life . The interstate commerce commission is deluged with petitions from railroads for delay in the enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . There is little reason to believe they will be granted .                     