@@676939

txt " No people on earth . " said Mr. ROOSEVELT in his Inaugural Address yesterday , " have more cause to be thankful than ours . " Let us hope so . And why should not our hope be realized ? We have a great country , as our President has often told us . We are a great and powerful people . reasonably ? intelligent , virtuous perhaps above the average of nations ; we are just in our dealings : we are at peace with the world ; we have no enemies that we know of . and we fear nothing . It is a fertile and smiling land that we inhabit . We are industrious . The gains of our toil and the profits of our trade make us richer from year to year . All these are causes for thankfulness . ' We have just inaugurated as our President a man whose great gifts of mind and strength of character leave Us in no doubt whatever about his ability to bear up under the responsibilities Of that office . He is high-minded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and persuasions , and fully determined if he Can bring it about that we shall increase in honor and estate during his Chief Magistracy . Other nations thus favored by fortune might fall into a condition of besotted content . That peril does not confront us . Mr. Roost : - VELT Will not permit it . He admonishes us that the problems we have to Solve are grave , that the experiment of administering under democratic - forms the affairs of a continent is " vast and formidable , " that if we fail " the cause of free self-government throughout the world will rock to its " fOundations . " No man save one actuated by the worst motives would dispute or deny anything the President said in his Inaugural . It is indeed true that our duties and our responsibilities demand of us courage , hardihood , and endurance . President ROOSEVELT is alive to the responsibilities of his place . He has a due sense of what is expected of him as the successor of WAsniNGToN , of LINCOLN . and of himself . He sees more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us , it may be . but he knows that he has the strength to withstand anything that may come along , and triumph over it whatever its nature . Nor have we any anxiety on that score . So why should we not be thankful ? It depends a good deal upon President ROOSEVELT after all . Perhaps the country is very well off as it is . In its present condition and promise we may find abundant cause for thankfulness . VS-hy not let the country alone for a time ? It is doing pretty well . Give it a chance . Our causes for thankfulness , indeed , would be increased by one , and that a great one , if we felt some reasonable assurance that the President himself at the beginning of his term would be somewhat more disposed than in the past to leave the country free under the oper ation of natural laws and forces to achieve its destiny .                     