@@677711

txt Opens the Centennial Celebration of Cooperslown , with Honors for the Novelist . RELIGION OF THE FUTURE Finds Menace to Christianity in the Growth of Wealth and the Love of Pleasure . S-PeLtai to The Neil ! York 7 totes . COOPERSTOWN , N. Y .. Aug. 4 . ? Bishop Potter delivered an address this afternoon on the " Religious Outlook of the Future . " in the churchyard of historic Christ Church . where rest the bones of Fenimore Cooper and many of his family . Cooperstown began to-day a week 's centennial celebration in honor of Its incorporation as a municipality . Main Street . from the village library and the Alfred Corning Clark Gymnasium , both gifts of Mrs. Henry C. Potter and her sons , down to the Fenimore Hotel , is a fluttering mass of color . Pennants. generous use of the National emblem , and Japanese lanterns make up the fairy archway . Julia Ward Howe has sent an ode for the occasion , and Admiral Dewey contributes an essay , to he published in the historical volume later in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper on Cooper as a novelist . One of the highly prized gifts received by John Worthington . Esq .. Chairman of the Literary Committee , is a photograph of Queen Elisabeth of Roumania . The inscription , in the handwriting of Carmen Sylva , reads : " Our hearts are full of love for the great poet , our childhood 's dearest friend . We can neyir thank him enough for all the joy 1-n ? gav e us. ? ' Bishop Potter address , d a large assembly . He said in part : " There are , as t look out toward our . religious future , three notes of menace . The first of these Is to be found in the growth of wealth and the love of pleasure . The life of our forefathers was , compared with our modern habits and indulgences and demands . an austere life . There was little to get and little to spend ; and the conditions of life in the homes . that first covered these hills and in the lives that were Used in them were full of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not saying that hardship and privtttion necessarily make men and women devout and God-fearing ; but it must be owned that where life had little to give of pleasure or self-indulgence men learned to look beyond with equal confidence and eagerness for a realization of longings and hungers that they at least believed to be somehow shadows and prophecies of better things to come . Again : Another portent of alarm in our time . as one looks out toward the future . is in i he growth of what some men  --  and some churches  --  to-day call godless knowledge . The whole realm of that which may he known by man has in the last hundred years been transformed , and many cherished beliefs which . with most of us , have been intertwined with our earliest conceptions of material , intellectual . and spiritual truth . have been ruthlessly shattered or utterly swept away . " With all our vaunted emanicaption from earlier intolerance there is one note in our modern life which ought to make a Christian people profoundly ashamed . And that is our bondage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here in America , with races and lands in which ? as in China or India  --  such civilization as they possess Is imperitaisiy dominated by the spirit of caste . In some cities In India . not a great while ago , the Pariah caste was driven from the town at 3 o'clock in the afternoon and the gates of the city closed , lest the shadow of a Pariah might fall upon a Brahman . ' Monstrous and grotesque custom . ' we cry , ? with its inhuman dishonor of some of God 's children ! ' Yes , my brother  --  but will you tell me how it differs in essence from tbdt mental attitude or T hat wonted manner with which most of us Dear ourselves toward a negro or a Chinaman ? Are most of us able to find ourselves beside one of these . or any of their like , of whatever alien race or land , without betraying our repugnance , and , too often , our dewnright antagonism ? In face , the only difference between our conception or our estimate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its ignorance . " Men tell.us that these hours are hours of great restlessness and Impatience and surrender old forms of faith . My brother , T more than partly believe IC The religious history of mankind 1. s inevitably the renunciation of misconceptions , or half conceptions , or false conceptions of the truth for that clearer vision and that simpler faith which are the gift of the Holy Spirit ! Step by step , and often losing its feeble footing and sliding backward in its path , the soul climbs up to God . But out of failure comes a surer progress , and out of struggle the final and glorious triumph ! "                     