@@675969

txt It is difficult to resist the conclusion that Iminni.rrHAL 's advocacy of mov-71 ing platforms:to handle the bridge travel Is pure &; fanciful , It is ' not very many days since he was tploted on good authority as saying ; exactly this of the movable platform idea as regards its applicability to the conditions existing in the Brooklyn Bridge . Admitting that the movable platform is possible , as the practical tests in Paris and Chicago showed it to be , it is difficult to imagine a less economical employment . of power for the movement of given weights than the traveling sidewalk of three speeds , and it is doubtful if any way of loq.ding a bridge less profitably could be devised . It would have to be roofed , inclosed , and lighted throughout its entire length , and the amount of room this would occupy which could be utilized only by those choosing to walk at times not included within the " rush hours " would seem to place the plan wholly outside the bounds of practicability . Mr. LaxDElsITITAL is an engineer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many useful lessons , but the professional instinct which plans the easy expenditure of millions when unrestrained by considerations having weight with capitalists looking for dividends  --  sordid considerations ; it may be , but still potent  --  seems to haVe led him to conclusions which he will find it profitable to revise at leisure when assured that the Board of Estimate and Apportionment will not give them serious consideratioh in their present form . There is also room for disappointment with Commissioner LINDENTHAL 'S comprehensive plan in that it makes no pro- ? vision for the immediate relief demanded by the conditions existing at the New York terminal of the Brooklyn Bridge during the hours of maximum travel . An expenditure of a fraction of the $14,500,000 which his present plan demands for its execution , and in a fraction of the time required to carry it out , would remedy conditions which are now intolerable . What will best accommodate the travel of the existing bridge , divert part of it to a bridge which will scarcely be open to travel in-less than two years , and to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a problem of great interest , but not nearly so exigent as that which the always alarming and often fatal jam at the New York end of the existing bridge during the nightly rush presents . To deal with this is Commissioner LINDENTHAL 'S first duty . It need not interfere with the more congenial task of planning for the future , and certainly it should not be postponed until a magnificent and monumental scheme of ample terminals , elevated railroads , and a public building of 135,000 square feet ground area ( over a c'arshed ) is evolved in all its fullness . What can be done within two weeks is of much greater present importance than what may be done within even two years .                     