@@676597

txt A formal welcome to W. J. Bryan on his return from Europe . taking the form of a " dollar dinner , " was held to-night , and it was attended by nearly TOO Democrats . The dinner was intended as a testimonial of regard and sympathy with Mr. Bryan 's political policies and to mark his entry into active participation in the nrc-convention campaign . Mr. Bryan spoke to " The Moral Issue . " His speech was heartily applauded . He said : " Instead of talking of concessions and compromises , it is time for honest and aggressive action . We are ' confronted with a condition that may well alarm the thoughtful and patriotic . " We find corruption everywhere . Voters are bought at so much a head , representatives in our City Goternments are profiting by their positions , and even Federal ollicers are selling influence . " What is the cause ? The commercial spirit that puts a price on everything and resolves every question into ' Will it pay ? ' This commercialism has given popularity to that theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored few and defends the theory by an attempt to show that the money thus given directly finds its way indirectly back into the pockets of the taxpayers . " We see this theory in operation on every side . The protective tariff schedules Illustrate it ; our financial system rests upon it ; the trusts hide themselves behind it , and imperialists are substituting this theory for the Constitution . " Ls it strange that money is used to carry elections ? If a party makes certain 1 classes rich by law , will it not naturally turn to those classes for contributions during the campaign ? " If Congress votes millions of dollars annually to tariff barons , money magnates , and monopolists , is it not natural that Aldermen should traffic in the small legislation of a City Council . And if officials high and low use the Government as if it were a private asset , is it surprising that many individuals who are without official position . yield to the temptation to sell the only political influence they have ; namely , the ballot . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an appeal to the moral sense of the country , an awakening of public conscience . " And how can this appeal be made ? Not by showing a greater desire for the spoils of office than for reforms , but by turning a deaf ear to the contemptible cry of ' anything to win . ' and by announcing an honest and-Straightforward position on every public question . we would appeal to sincere men we must ourselves be sincere , and our sincerity can be shown only bv a willingness to suffer defeat rather than to abandon the cause of good government . " Shall we accept imperialism as an accomplished fact in order to appease those who are willing to indorse *government without the consent of the governed ? ' Trier , e-can be no thought of such a surrender , for who would trust us to deal with other questions if we prove false to the fundamental principles of self-govern-ment ? " Shall we change our position on the trust question in order to secure the support of the trust magnates ? Not for a moment can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against us ; not for us . Shall we abandon our advocacy of bimetallism in order to conciliate those who defeated the party in other campaigns ? Never ! Some phase of the money question is always before Congress , and no one can predict when the coinage phase of the money question will again become acute . No reform of any kind would be possible with the- money changers in control of the party . ? ' Shall we change our position on the tariff question in order to win over Democrats who are enjoying the benefits of protection ? It is absurd to suggest it , for the same vicious principle runs through all of the abuses , from which the people suffer . And so with the party 's position on the labor question , the election of Senators by the people , on watered stock . control of corporations and other issues . " The Kansas City platform is sound on every plank , and the first act of the next Democratic Convention should be to reaffirm it in its entirety : and its next act - shotild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and covering such new questions as demand consideration . " Then the convention should select candidates who believe in the platform . candidates whose Democracy will not be an issue in the campaign , and whose fidelity to Democratic principles will not be doubted at the election . " And then the committee should and - nounce that it will neither ask nor receive contributions from those %who are entrenched behind the bulwarks which we are attacking . And then let us defend our position not on the low ground of dollars and cents , hut by showing how Republican policies violate moral principles and invite -. the punishment that sooner or later overtakes the wrongdoer . " Will such a course insure victory ? The best that our party can do is to deserve victory , and an appeal to the conscience of the ' American people is sure to win ultimately awl offers the best promise of immediate success . "                     