@@781146

txt Determined that Mr. Bryan and the Democrats shall have no criticism to make against the manner in which the Republican Presidential campaign is to be conducted , Judge William Howard Taft to-day announced that the National Committee which will conduct his campaign will not accept a single contribution to its campaign fund from any corporation . Mr. Taft . believes that this decision wits vat him far within a literal Interpretaton of the law passed In 1907 , which was printed with editorial comment in yesterday 's lelzw Toast Insists . When it was pointed nut to Mr. Tat that the courts had held that Presidential electors were State officers And that their election therefore was beyond the scope of a . Federal law , Mr. Taft saki that that made no difference . The law as passed declared unlawful a contribution by any corporation to the campaign fund of art elector or a representative In Congress and his determination as announced emphatically to-day is to see to it that his campaign is conducted in accordance with the spirit of that law . Will Meet With Opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front many of his advisers is evidenced in the fact that Treasurer Sheldon , when he was here a few days after his election , announced without reservation that he would accept contributions from corporations , This was also the expectation of William Nelson Cromwell , who brought with him from New York the argument for publicity and persuaded the sub-committee to accept It . Exactly what induced Judge Taft to decide definitely against contributions from corporations is not known . One explanation offered Is that he intends to offset any advantage the Demeerats might hope to gain by their announcement along the same lines , while by ascribing his actions simply to a desire to obey a law already on the statute hooks he hopes to take all the force out of the Democratic announcement . The widest divergence exists In the opinions expressed here as to Mr. Taft 's attitude toward corporations as Implied to his refusal to accept contributions from them . A suggestion that meets little favor Is that Mr. Taft intends tit attack corporations , and so has little to these by refusing beforehand to accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be that a definite refusal to accept any contributions from corporations will square Mr , Taft with the people against the time when he is expected to hold back In the attack on large corporations instituted by President Roosevelt . His Stand on the ' Pewits . As to what will be his expression on the subject of trusts and ce rpnrations In his Cincinnati speech , Mr. Taft would only repeat to-day what he was quoted as saying In THE NEN ' : Tonic TINIFS this morning , that he would contribute nothing new to the discussion , : mil advocate no new remedies . For Information as to what he would have to say as to the Government 's relation to trusts , he simply referred to his former speeches . In the matter of Federal licensing of corporations , It is not believed that Judge Taft will go very far . certainly not beyond the Hepburn bill , which allowed corporations to take out such licenses . In a speech he delivered In Columbus , Ohio , on Aug. la. 1007 , he took direct issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr Rryan 's method pf oppressing unlawful trusts would be to require every persen partnership or corpora ti engaged In inter-State traffic , to take nut a F , rieral license . and by wftnnoiding such licenses from illegal trusts . he would make them impossible . It Is probable that a statute embodying this plan could be drawn which would stand the test of the ronstttutlon It would , however , hove to contain some provision fur ultimate judicial determination of those applicants for ? license who were violating the anti-trust ' law arid thus involve the same litigation we now have . Since that time a modification of the license idea has developed into that proposed In the Hepburn bill , which allows corporations to win a kind of Immunity by subjecting their agreements beforehand to Government inspection . Mr. Taft Is disposed at present to accept that idea. , but It is considered unlikely that he will go a step further in that direction than he has to . This phase of the speech of acceptance is giving Mr. Taft more trouble than all the other sections combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now has It developed it , the rough draft of his speech , but is impressed with the danger of being misunderstood when he reduces his Ideas to the narrow limits he has set for himself . Kellogg to Revise Speech . To aid him in a concise expression of his attitude Mr. Taft has wired for F. B. Kellogg . Mr. Kellogg will get here Monday , will read the whole speech through , and then will begin with Mr. Taft a careful study and revisIm of the parts relating to trusts Mr. Kellogg 's reputation as a " trust buster " makes it likely that In reducing the number words Mr. Taft has devoted to the regulation of trusts he will try also to Inject greater Intensity into their meaning than Mr. Taft is at present prepared to stand for . Mr. Taft is watching with a great deal of interest reports from New York and elsewhere to the effect that a widespread dissatisfaction exists among labor men at Samuel Gompers 's promise to " deliver " the labor vote to the Democrats . Mr. Taft 's attitude is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote of which can be delivered . The great bulk of the deleted 4 paragraphs                     