@@676516

txt Col. George B. McClellan , at the formal notification of the Democratic city candidates , held at the Hoffman House yesterday afternoon , came out for partisan municipal government , and promised , in the event of his election , that he would assume full responsibility for the conduct of tha police . Controller Edward M. Grout closed a dramatic incident by declaring himself firmly and flatly for the election of Col. McClellan as Mayor . The declaration was entirely outside of the set speech which Mr. Grout had prepared and was brought about by one of the spectators , who called out while Mr. Grout was speaking , and demanded to know which candidate for ? Mayor the candidate for Controller would . support . Mr. Grout 's declaration was greeted with wild cheers by all present . The notification ' ceremony , which took Once a ' few minutes after 4 o'clock in the big parlors of the hotel , was f nzarliecl by the protest of- the Brooklyn members of the Committee on Notifications , four of the seven Brooklyn represcutatiVes on tire committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominations of Messrs . Grout and Forties . These four members remained away . while the other three took the position of Senator McCarren and attended the triple notification . The protest sent to Deputy Attorney General Thomas C. T. Crain. as Chairman of the Committee on Notifications , was not given out by Mr. Crain , but found its way to publicity through the agency of the Brooklyn bolters themselves . NOTIFIED BY MR . GRAIN . The candidates of the city ticket , George McClellan for Mayor , ' Edward'AL Grout for Controller , and Charles V. Fornes for President of the Board of Aldermen , all were notified in a single speech by Mk ' Crain , and after they each had given their speeches " Of acceptance , the candidates on the Tammany county and borough tickets , . Tustice Henry Bischoff , - Jr. , - to succeed himself on the Supreme- Court bench , Mitchell L Erlanger to be Sheriff , and John F. Ahearn to be Borough President , were notified of their nominations by Charles W. Dayton , ex-Postmaster , and the Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeches of acceptance . Several Brooklyn men came over to attend the ceremonies , including , Senator Pa trick H. McCarren , who is leading the opposition to Hugh in Brooklyn . Accompanying him was Representative Lindsay of the Fifteenth Brooklyn District , a follower of McCarren in his stand . together with Conrad Hasenfiug of the Nineteenth District , whose organization also has come out in favor of the entire ticket . Judge Tighe , one of the old . organization leaders in the Tenth Ward , also was present . Brooklyn was represent- ? ed on the Notification Committee by ex- - Judge Henry P. Haggerty , the law partner of Senator McCarren , and by Frank Biba. and Denis Winter . The other four members from Brooklyn , who remained away , were Alden S. Swan , Frederick D. Mollenha uer . ; Thomas Meagher , and Lawrence J. Mannion . Charles V. Fornes was the first of the candidates to arrive , he appearing at 4 o'clock , and was greeted cordially by ail present . Col. McClellan reached the room five minutes later , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t . Two minutes later Edward M. Grout appeared and was cheered as enthusiastically as Col. McClellan had been . Then at 4:11 ) o'clock the Meeting was called to order by State Senator Victor J. Dowling. who introduced Mr. Crain as Chairman of the Notification Committee . Turning to the three candidates and ad-dressing them at the same time , Mr. Crain said . " Cot George B. McClellan . Mr. Grout , and Mr. Fornes : The honest and efficient discharge of public duty . without favoritism and in the interest of the entire people , is of the . essence of the Democratic creed . It involves conduct incompatible with- Republicanism . Tested by this lest , not only your personal worth , but your loyalty to Democracy is established . In ' the light of your records . illustrative ofyour high charcater as men and devotion . to the interests of the people , the Democrats of New York City . in City Conven- ' tion assembled , eager to throw off Republican misrule , have nominated you , respectively , to the offices of Mayor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the gentlemen present with ' me have been commissioned by that convention to notify you of such nominations . " COL . McCLELLAN 'S SPEECH . When he concluded Col. McClellan stepped forward , while Messrs . Grout and Fornes remained standing . Turning to Mr. Crain and then to the audience , Mr. McClellan read his speech , being frequently cheered and applauded , especially as he declared that the accountability for his of= ficial acts , if elected , would be to the people , and not to any single man or aggregation of men . He said : " Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the Notification Committee : As representatives of the Democratic City Convention you have officially notified me of my nomination by the Democratic Party of New York City as its candidate for Mayor . The office for which T have been nominated is one of the most important . most powerful , and most honorable in the gift of the American people . The mere expression of my appreciation and of my thanks would be but an insufficient return for the confidence that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incur in accepting your nomination must be met by proving my gratitude in deeds , and not in words . ' " The public official is the trustee of the people 's confidence , and in executing their mandate he is responsible to them and to no one else . If I am elected Mayor of New York I can only fulfill your expectations by being answerable in the performance of my duty , and in my appointments of public officials , to no man . nor group of men , but to the whole people of New York . " If I am elected 1 shall assume the full responsibility for the conduct of the police . and shall insist that it be neither the ad- ' . junct of the Republican machine nor of the Democratic Party ; that those who hold high office in that department must . not only be honest and zealous . but that they . must not place upon the rank and file , composed of brave and upright men , the stigma of corruption , nor force faithful public servants to bear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be enfOrced , and must be-bbeyede but they should be enforced in the spirit in which ? they were intended ; with due regard for the rights of the citizen , Ind not used as instruntents of oppresslooReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . , and blackmail nor for , the unwarranted curtailment of individual liberty . " The imperative demand for adequate school accommodations must be met without a m : . onent 's unnecessary delay . " A sufficient provision for the education of every child living in the city ; an abundant supply of wholesome water ; clean streets ; equal and just taxation ; increased dock facilities ; the extension of improved tenements ; a strict enforcement of all necessary sanitary regulations ; free bridges : the requirement of our common carriers of sufficient and rapid transit ; the completion without needless delay , or unnecessary inconvenience to the people , of the public works already undertaken , and of such additional improvements as are imperatively demanded and are within the power and means of an economical administration , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five boroughs , and to make them in fact as well as in name a united community  --  these are some of the many objects which it should be the duty of the Mayor to promote . " Clean appointments ; a capable and honest police force ; a business administration efficiently and honestly conducted ; no step backward in the management of any department : improvement in all directions ; the desire to obtain for all citizens security . health , comfort , and happiness ; such is my conception of a democratic government . I believe that that Democrat serves his party best who serves the people faithfully . THE VITAL ISSUE . " This is neither the time nor the place in which to discuss at length the questions involved in the campaign . It will be my privilege to do so many times during the next few weeks . I trust , however , that you will indulge me if I as briefly as may be impress upon your attention what is in my opinion the vital issue which confronts the people of New York ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of purely local politics , and makes it of vast importance to the people of the United States . " Under our political system the National , State , and Municipal Governments are so interdependent upon each other , so closely interwoven , elections are held so frequently that you can no more divorce partisanship from the government of the munici. polity than you can eliminate it in the government of State or Nation . The whole fabric of our scheme of government is based upon the theory that the majority shall rule . " Parties exist in order that the aspirations of the majority may be attained . fula. lie officials belonging to one of other of the great parties are held to a strict accountability in the performance of their duty to the people , by means of the machinery of the party to which they belong . Abolish the party organization , bring for i the moment non-partisanship into being . and the inevitable result must be that the so-called non-partisan movement either falls into the hands of a strong man at its head . uncontrolled by any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is absorbed entire by one of the existing political organizations . In this country nonpartisanship is impossible . " The result of the so-called non-partisan experiment inaugurated by the people ff this city in the election of the present municipal administration confirms the truth of this contention . That many of those taking part in the so-called Fusion movement were actuated only by the best of motives admits of no denial . Many of the present officials assumed office influenced by the purest ambitions and the highest ideals , and it would be but blind and narrow partisanship on my part to deny that some of the departments of the City Government have been well managed . No sooner , however , had the present Chief Executive been installed in office than the non-partisan movement began to disintegrate and the old party allegiance and lifelong parry ties resumed full sway . The City Government rapidly drifted into the control of that party to which the majority of its members belonged , so that to-day . despite its promises and the wishes of many cf its members , it has become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city and the welfare of the people have been made subservient to the selfish ambitions of Republican politicians , who seek , from their party , nominations for high office . Extravagant expenditures have been authorized . and unwise appointments have been made for purely partisan purposes . in order to influence the election next year . the members of the present city administration , with a few notable and most honorable exceptions , have stopped at nothing in their effort to control the city revenues and public appointments , nor : have they hesitated to turn the police force into a weapon of political terrorism for use on election day . 1904 . This Democratic city has been exploited for the benefit of Republican strongholds throughout the State by means of unjust and excessive taxation , without one word of protest from a Republican Mayor and despite the earnest opposition of a Democratic Controller . " THE CROWNING ACT . ' " As the crowning act of inconsistency which stamps their professions of nonpartisanship with hypocrisy and which is the final proof of the impossibility of nonpartisanship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conscientious , and independent officials , who have committed the unpardonable sin , in Republican eyes , of believing in the possibility of nonpartisanship by accepting Democratic nominations . " The election of the ticket you have nominated will be but a step in the direction of Democratic supremacy throughout the Union . Success at the polls this year is not enough ; it must be followed by a government of the city so efficient , so excellent , that it will disarm criticism and meet the expectations of Democrats throughout the country . If the Democratic Party on attaining power is to retain it , it must show itself worthy of the trust . " To secure the success of the Democratic ticket at the polls will require the ceaseless activity of every Democrat in New York . Democrats may differ before the party convention has been held , as it is their right to do , but when the wishes of the majority have once been ascertained , Democrats are always loyal to their party . " I ask the people of New York to remember that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one man or any aggregation of men , but that we are struggling for good government in New York , and for the final supremacy of Democratic principles throughout the United States . Let us then forget the differences and the preferences of yesterday in the hope of the victory of to-morrow . " Chairman , as a citizn of New York , justly proud of the confidence of so many of his fellows , as a Democrat loyal to the platform adopted at the City Convention and profoundly grateful for the honor shown him by his party , I accept your nomination . " Acceptance by Grout . When Col. McClellan had finished and the cheering subsided Mr. Grout stepped forward . He was vigorously applauded and cheered , and then began to read his set speech . " Gentlemen of the Democratic City Convention , " began Mr. Grout , " I appreciate highly the personal honor of the general . approval of my record as Controller . I accept your nomination and will shortly address you in a letter , speaking at greater length . It is sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that this municipal campaign was to be honestly fought out as a non-partisan campaign . " At this point a voice from the back of the room , which afterward was found to have come from Arthur Higgins of the Fifteenth Brooklyn District , was heard shout-ing : Mr. Grout . I want to ask you a question . Will you vote for George B. McClellan for Mayor ? " Mr. Grout stopped abruptly , while several men in the back of the room made as If to eject the disturber . ? I will answer that question , " said Mrs Grout , firmly and decisively . Then he turned to his manuscript again . The man was not to be put off , however , and started again , when Mr. Grout turned , impatiently : ? If you will wait a minute I will answer your question , as I said I would . " He was-cheered and then proceeded with his reading . " But I have found that the organization ' which professed the non-partisan principle , ' which professed to be neither Democratic nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has squarely and exclusively allied itself with the Republican Party . The contest is thus and by them resolved into a contest in which . in this great Democratic city . Republicanism and Democracyare ranged one against another . In such a contest , I , a Democrat all my life , must necessarily be a Democrat . Applause . Upon that necessarily and upon my record in office I shall stand for reelection . " Mr. Grout then laid down his manuscript , which he had finished , and , deathly pale , looked at the audience . The silence was Intense for a minute . " That is all I had meant to say , " he said . However , a question has been put to me , and I am obliged to the man for putting it plainly and squarely . If there be any man , woman , or child who , after listening to what I have said , or , reading it , does not know seshere I stand , I will give them the squarest kind of an answer . Three weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me . I would have said I would vote . for Seth Low for Mayor . Let me be entirely frank on that point . As a member of his administration , and believing that the aampaign would proceed honestly along non-partisan lines , I. could do nothing else . Events of the last two weeks , however , have proved that the Republican Party has gained complete control of the Citizens ' Union , and that the Citizens ' Union is insidiously destroying the Republican organization . Applause . " Mayor Low no longer can pretend to be anything save a partisan Republican . Applause . Between him and the clean-cut and manly candidate of the party which has done so much for the public good there is no choice . By my vote and by all the work which I can- accomplish , by all honest means , I shall support George B. McClellan for Mayor of New York , " MR . FORNES 'S REMARKS . Tremendous applause followed this speech , and as Mr. Grout turned to take his seat he was cheered again and again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shook it warmly . Mr. Fornes next spoke . " I had intended merely to speak a few words of acceptance and leave the rest to my letter . of acceptance next week , " said Mr. ? Fornes , " but I have been so happily surprised at the loyal words and firm position on Democratic principles taken by Col. McClellan , our standard bearer , thaaI must say mare . There is a true saying that surroundings are incentive of words . Certainly the scenes and surroundings here can not but arouse words of loyalty as a Democrat to my lips . But I hardly feel that I can add words to the grand sentiments already expressed . " This indorsement of the performance of my duties as President of the Board of Aldermen , being tendered to me unsolicited and unconditionally ty my fellow-Democrats , thereby expressing the noblest of Democratic principles , ' namely , that the official serves his party best who best serves his fellow-citizens , and if the indorsement of my candidacy conveys those Sentiments of merit , which I believe it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the great honor accorded to me . Should you again elect me to my present office I can promise you a record of which you will nave nothing to complain . My letter of acceptance will explain my position more fully . " Mr. Fornes was applauded , and then several flashlights of the group were taken . OTHER CANDIDATES NOTIFIED . Charles W. Dayton , the Chairman of the recent Tammany Borough and County Conventions , and the Chairman of the Committee on Notifications of the candidates of these conventions , next addressed Justice Bischoff , and formally told him of his unanimous nomination at the hands of the County Convention , thus bringing to Justice Bischoff 's candidacy to succeed himself the unanimous indorsement of all parties . " It is gratifying to the Democracy that your re-election is settled beyond peradventure. " said Mr. Dayton , " through your indorsement by the Republican Party and the Citizens ' Union . Your distinguished service upon the bench during the past fourteen years well deserved this special mark of public confidence , and I am sure that I voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the County of New York . but throughout the State , by saying that your unchallenged re-election insures to the bench an incorruptible , industrious , impartial , courteous , and able jurist . " Then Mr. Dayton notifed Mitchell L. Erlanger of his nomination for Sheriff , and ex-State Senator John F. Ahearn of his nomination for Borough President . In the notification of Senator Ahearn , Mr. Dayton told him that the way his name was greeted in the nominating convention was one of the greatest demonstrations of personal affection he ever had witnessed . " Your long and honorable career in the public service , " said Mrs Dayton , " as a representative in the Assembly and : Senate of the State of New York , your assiduous attention to your duties as such representative , your exceptional knowledge of the needs of the Borough of Manhattan and of its people , your recognized talents and integrity furnish unanswerable grounds upon which to sustain the propriety of that nomination . " Justice Bischoff , in accepting and thanking the convention for the nomination . said he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to outline . " A Judge should have no policy , " he said . " for resting on policy the quality of justice would be impaired . All of us have our conceptions of an ideal Judge , and I have had my ideal . I have tried to live up to mine , but I have not been free front shortcomings and imperfections . However , I am glad that you have attributed them not to willfullness , but to the frailties of mankind , and I appreciate deeply your nomination . My endeavor shall be that in my future course I shall not allow my record to be less commendable and shall strive to have it more so . " Mt . Erlanger followed , merely saying that he was not a politician , although a life-long Democrat . He said he would remain true to principles , and if elected would serve with fidelity . Ex-Senator Ahearn promised that he would do everything in his power to justify the selection that had been made in making him the candidate . When Senator Dowling declared the meeting over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informal reception . WILLOUGHBY STREET 'S PROTEST . Letter Sent to Murphy Notifying Him of the Stand Taken Against Grout and Fornes . After the notification ceremonies at the Hoffman House yesterday afternoon a representative of the Willoughby Street organization in Brooklyn handed out copies of the letter that was sent to Tammany Hall last week notifying Mr. Murphy of the stand that would be taken in regard to the notification . It was accompanied by a copy of the protest of the Kings County organization at the triple notification . In his letter to Tammany Hall John L. Shea , as Chairman of the Kings County Executive Committee , urged that care be taken to distinguish between McClellan and Grout and Fornes in the notification , as no Democrat , he said , would oppose McClellan , while Kings County emphasized its declination to approve of Grout and Fornes . He said that the members of the Notification Committee from Brooklyn would participate in any act concerning McClellan , but would decline to go into the notification of Grout and Fornes and would ignore the entire proceedings if the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The letter of protest from the four members who remained away from the notification ceremonies reads : Dear Sir : The undersigned members of the Notification Committee for Kings County had hoped until'a day or two ago to be able to act with you and the other members of the same committee from the sister boroughs in the agreeable duty of informing Col. McClellan that he had been named by the Democrats of the city convention for the Mayoralty . That they have been disappointed in this expectation Is due in no degree to any change in their relations to Col. McClellan , but to the fact that the gentlemen in charge of the arrangements have chosen to join to him , as if no less Democratic than he , two nominees who were quite recently pledged to oppose him at the polls , and who , If sincere , regard the Democratic organization in Manhattan as unworthy of toleration , and Col. McClellan himself as nothing but a tool in the hands of the eorruptionists . We refer to the cases of Messrs . Grout and Fornes , both of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as unworthy of belief , it Co ) . McClellan is entitled to the support of any honest man . In view of these circumstances , we have had to decide between a silent acquiescence in the arrangements in question , which might have been seriously misconstrued by the people of Brooklyn , or the forwarding of an explanation , which is here presented . There is a way out of the difficulty suggested by the Chairman of our Executive Committee , Mr. Shea , but as it received no consideration at the hands of the Tammany Committee it need not be further discussed , though we are still of the opinion that it would have been . better had Col. McClellan been notified at a meeting separate from that which is designed to place the mark of approval on Indubitable perfidy . The responsibility for the rejection of a suggestion so plainly intended to serve the cause of Ca McClellan must rest on the shoulders of the gentlemen who assumed it . It is enough now to say that we were required to choose between forwarding our protest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already said , in adopting a course open to misconstruction . We have chosen to abstain from any impairment of the felicities of the occasion , except , what is unmistakably demanded by our duty to the regular Democratic organization of Kings County , which we have the honor to represent . To the support of Col. McClellan , the Democrats of Kings were pledged by their representatives in the convention and are now further bound by the action of their County Convention and all of their Assembly District Conventions which have had an opportunity to take action . To Messrs . Grout and Fornes , on the other hand , they are not pledged , can not be Pledged . and are in no mood to be pledged ; but on the contrary , are as firmly opposed as they were when they informed the convention through their Executive Committee that these candidates could not poll anything like the full Democratic vote of Kings County , Regarding the combined folly , shocking lack of self-respect , and scandalous indifference to party principles shown in the nomination of two men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have quite recently declared Tammany to be , we again draw the line sharp and clear between Col. McClellan and Messrs . Grout and Fornes , while remaining as ever uncompromising Democrats . Very truly yours ,                     