@@781137

txt The infernal machine that was found near the liner Umbria on the Cunard dock at New York is believed 1 by the police to have been made in thi4 city at 247 Washilfgton Boulevard . Advices to that effect were received by the locai authoritiee-late last night from the New ' York police , who gave ' the maker 's namb as G. Russell or Rosseau , and ' to-day Inspector McClusky . Chief of the New York Detective Bureau , with Detective Sergeants Fiinston and Carey arrived here in an effort to surprise the man before the fact became public that there was a clue leading to this city . Investigation showed that a.man who said he was G. Russell , and whose description tallies with that of Rosseau , wanted by Inspector McClusky , had- lived- at the house mentioned , which is kept by Mr. and Mrs. H. Ehlan . Mrs Ehlan said that her lodger left on April 25 , announcing that he ' Intended to go East . During his stay in her house he was engaged in some mysterious work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what he was doing , however , she said , to know that it had something to do with clocks , and that he was always arranging some machinery that had a number of wheels in it . deleted 3 lines " During the week Russell roomed across the street , " said Seymour , to-night , " I planed down four strips of wood about twenty inches long for a man answering his description , who said he had a patent of some kind . I believe he said it was a gambling device . " " Some time ago , " said Clarke , " a man came to my shop and asked for assistance in making something nest in the way of a gambling device . We- made him a cone , with an inch base and a disk to fit it . He first said that he wanted only one pair of the iron pieces , but later asked for three more pairs . He never called for the additional pieces . - The man answers the de , scription of the mysterious stranger known at 287 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trunk in which the infernal machine was shipped from this city on April 25 was purchased of the American Storage and Van Company , 246 West Madison Street . On April 2 ' 2 a man answering the description of the New York suspect ordered the trunk deliVered at the Washington Boulevard address , from which place it has been traced through the transfer company to New York . Inspector McClusky returned to New York to-night , but left ins two detectives to assist the local police on the case . Before leaving for the East , the Inspector fore leaving for the East the Inspector said he was confident that the infernal machine was made or at least completed at the Washington Boulevard house , though he was doubtful as to whether the plot had been thought out in Chicago . Lieut . Rohan or the Chicago Detective Bureau , who has charge of the case , said . to-night : " I believe that without any doubt this man Russell , who lived at the home of Mrs. Ehien , is the man who made the bomb , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have discovered already- how , when , and where the infernal machine was made . " Lieut . Rohan would not sale whether he believed the mysterious " G. Russell " or " Rosseau " is in Chicago , but the fact that the Lieutenant has kept his men on the run is taken- as an indication that he has reason to believe the dynamiter is in this city . Detectives Funston and Carey had a long conference with Lieut . Rohan . They have information that Russell or Rosseau received mail here , and they are endeavoring to learn how long he was in Chicago prior to taking a room at Mrs. Ehlen 's . They think so complicated a piece of mechanism as the infernal machine was shown to be could not have been completed in seven days , and that its beginning was at some place other than the Washington Boulevard boarding house . A Mrs. Perkins . who , three years ago , occupied the premises at 295 Washington Boulevard . which is a portion of the building in which Russell is supposed to have constructed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man who answered the description now given of Russell rented a room from her , and after three days disappeared in a mysterious manner . After he had gone she found three sticks of dynamite in the room . She called the police , and they took the explosive away .  --   --   - -  ROSSEAU 'S MOVEMENTS HERE . G. Rosseau , the mysterious boarder of 366 West Thirty-first Street . had not been apprehended up to an early hour this morning although Capt . Langan of the Detective Bureau said late in the afternoon that the man 's apprehension might be effected at any moment . Every available man " on Inspector McClusky 's staff was working on the case yesterday , while every policeman in the city had in his possession a description of the dynamiter , with instructions to . keep a keen lookout for him . The police of other cities were also asked to join in the hunt . The man is believed to have been in Washington as well as in Chicago . The local police are now in the possession of nearly all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Rosseau ' is supposed to have come to New York from Chicago , as well as the expressmen that handled his baggage on his arrival in this city . They also have every reason to believe that on his arrival in New York , the night of April 27 , he went to the West Shore Hotel , at Eleventh Avenue and Forty-second Street , where he registered under an assumed name . The next day he went to Dillon 's express stand , on Ninth Avenue . near Thirty-first Street , and hired a truck to go to the West Shore Ferry house and convey his trunk to Mrs. Currie 's boarding house . Frank Butts was the driver of the rig , and he says that on the way- to the house Rosseau told him that he had slept in the West Shore Hotel the previous night . " There were several names- on the register of April 27 that the police thought might have been the alias under which the dynamiter went , but they couid not say so po , titively . Mrs. Currie , landlady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boarded , was not inclined to believe that he brought the box to this city from Chicago , She thought he constructed it in his room at her house . This theory was borne out somewhat by a pawnbroker named Levy , whose place of business is at 441 Eighth Avenue , . near Thirty-third Street . Levy said that on Monday of last week a man who fitted the published descriptions of Rosseau visited his place and purchased a saw and a pair of wire cutters . He paid 50 cents for the saw and 60 cents for- the cutters . He also wanted to purchase some wire , but Levy did not have the kind in stock that he wanted .                     