@@676423

txt It is stated here that proper respect will be shown the mandate of the courts so long as they keep within their jurisdiction , but that the Navy Department can not submit to any interference with its rights . The cruiser Galveston at Richmond , it was added , will be launched when ready . Secretary Moody is not at all disposed to act hastily regarding the Galveston , but indefinite delay upon the construction of that vessel in the event of an international emergency might prove a grave matter , and the department therefore feels bound to proceed with the work as rapidly as possible . It is hoped that the vessel will be in condition for launching next Monday afternoon . Secretary Moody was informed to-night of the action of the Richmond court restraining the Government from further work on the Galveston , but declined to talk on the subject until after conferences to be held to-morrow with the President and the Attorney General . Attorney General Knox also was unwilling to be quoted in the matter:untit his opinion rendered to the Presi- .. 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - Galveston has been made . public . It can be stated , however , that the Attorney GerAral regards as eminently well taken- the. - contention above announced by Rear Admiral Bowles , Chief of the Bureau of Construction and Repair , that no court has the right to interfere with work on a Sear vessel and that the Government would be warranted in calling Federal troops to protect its agents engaged in such work . It  --  is well understood by the President and secretary or the Navy that the proposed . ction of the Government in taking possesion of the cruiser will result in no real Lemonstration of opposition on the par : of he State authorities . Parties who furnished material far the ankrupt contractors have taken legal pro:cedings for the detention of the vessel , ill order to protect themselves against loss , and the Government will make a demonstration of force to get possession of the vessel in order to safeguard the legal rights of the private creditors , who will thus be able to establish that they were compelled to yield to a force which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a friendly act of war , " and is in the nature of a friendly suit in a civil court to Establish a desired status . The material men will make a protest and take such legal steps as are calculated to preserve their rights , the Government will ignore the protest and send a gunboat to overcome any atteelpt on the part of private claimants to interfere with taking forcible possession , and that will terminate the affair . The private claimants have given tacit assent to the Government 's plans , and the Navy Department has no disposition to Prejudice the legal rights of the Triggs Company creditors . The case is without precedent , but the circumstances are such that the Federal authorities are justified in using force to secure possession of the vessel and to pre'vent interference by the State authorities . Instructions have been sent Lieut . Theiss and Naval Constructor Grosdeck , in charge of the work on the Galveston . to proceed with all possible dispatch in the effort to get the ship ready for launching on Monday . An invitation has been sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sponsor for the vessel , to be present on Monday to christen the Galveston with the traditional bottle of champagne . Capt . Charles Train will act as the representative of the Government . When the Trigg Company failed last Spring they also had under construction a hydraulic dredge for the War Department and a revenue cutter for the Treasury Department . These vessels will be taken to the Norfolk Navy Yard . together with the Galveston . for completion there . Locks . it is feared . may have to be constructed in the channel leading from the Trigg yard before the Galveston can be got out , and this work may require six weeks ' time or more . When the Galveston is launched a gunboat probably will be sent to accompany her to Norfolk . It is not expected that the department will have to resort to a show of naval or military force to execute its orders .                     