@@780998

txt As a fitting epilogue to the acquittal of Alfred Dreyfus , Philip Bunau-Varilla to-day gave to The Associated Press a remarkable story of how he first discovered positive proof of Dreyfus 's innocence and the guilt of Esterhazy . The story has heretofore been known only to a few intimates , Including Dreyfus , who said at a recent dinner here that , while the establishment of his innocence was attributed to many causes , M. Bunau-Varilla 's chance detection of the fact that he could not have written the famous " bordereau " was the real cause of the triumph of justice . The interview took place at the residence of M. Bunau-Varilla in the Avenue d'Iena , where his study is hung with souvenirs of his services with the late Ferdinand de Lesseps and as Minister of Panama at Washington , and more re- ' cently of his struggle on behalf of a sealevel canal . " Yes , " said M. Bunau-Varilla , " a document among ' those old records was the basis of the whole Dreyfus agitation , and was instrumental in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polytechnic School together in 1878 . I recall his very characteristic Jewish look , which was rather unprepossessing . But he was a good fellow and a companionable student . " Our ways parted on our graduation , he going into the army and I becoming a Government engineer . We seldom came together after that , but once , chancing to meet him on the Avenue Montaigne , we chatted about a project which I was directing for the development of the French Congo . Later Dreyfus wrote to me , asking for information about the project , for the purpose of writing a geographical study upon the French possessions in AfricaThrough an oversight the letter remained unanswered . " It was some years later that Dreyfus was arrested and convicted before a secret ' court-martial . I at first thought he was a victim of the prevailing anti-Semitic sentiment , but the conviction appeared to establish his guilt . I happened to dine afterward with my brother , Maurice , proprietor of the Matin , and he spoke of having a photographic reproduction of the bordereau , constituting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the official photographs of the bordereau had been scrupulously traced and returned to  --  the- court , - bald eeme , ona. had ingenuously photographed one of the photographs , and this was delivered to my brother with the idea that its publication would prevent further assertions that Dreyfus was innocent . However , Maurice decided not to publish it , as he did not wish again to call public attention to Dreyfus , who was then considered to be a vile traitor . " When my brother spoke of the bordereau the idea flashed across my mind that I might compare the document with something written by Dreyfus during our school days at the Polytechnic School . I finally found the old , unanswered letter In which Dreyfus asked for information relative to the Congo . " M. Bunau-Varilla then showed the correspondent of The Associated Press a letter , written on notepaper in a delicate handwriting , in which Dreyfus asked his old school friend to give him information about the Congo , for a geographical study . By the side of this letter M. Bunau-Varilla placed the photograph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I began a careful comparison of the bordereau and Dreyfus 's Congo letter , " he continued . " The first glance gave me the impression that they were in the same handwriting . But , suddenly , I observed something which caused me profound astonishment . In Dreyfus 's letter to me the words having a double ' s ' were written with a long ' s ' first and a short s ' second , whereas in the bordereau It was just the reverse . The short ' s ' was first and the long ' second . " I myself write a double ' s ' with a long s first . I tried to reverse the letters , but found it was impossible . It was like a. right-handed man trying to write with his left hand . My brother made an independent comparison of the bordereau and the letter and reached the same conclusion , namely , that the handwriting of the letter about the Congo was not that Of the bordereau . As , together , we realized this discovery we felt as though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his determination to publish the photograph of the bordereau , so that every one poisessing letters written by Dreyfus would be able to make comparisons , and the following day the people generally , and the Dreyfus family in particular , saw for the first time what has since been known as the ' bordereau . ' From the appearance of that photograph of the bordereau dates almost everything known as The Dreyfus Affair . ' " Everything of importance which followed was in consequence of that discovery and the publication of the photograph of the bordereau . But the three capital consequences were : " First  --  The Dreyfus family were enabled to see the mysterious and only proof on which Dreyfus was convicted , and they were thus enabled to make comparisons establishing the innocence of Dreyfus . " Second  --  The appearance of the photograph of the bordereau led M. Castro , a stock broker , to recognize it as being in the handwriting of one of his clients , Esterhazy , thus precipitating Esterhazy 's trial and the publication of Zola 's famous ' I accuse ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bordereau permitted Col. Picquart , head of the Intelligence Department , to break his silence and become the most powerful witness in establishing the innocence of Dreyfus . " All the facts which so violently agitated the world foe years were simply the results of the three essential facts following the appearance of the photograph of the bordereau , which would not have occurred if I had not forgotten to answer the letter Dreyfus wrote to me about the Congo . Once that letter was answered I ould have torn Dreyfus 's letter to pieces , the photog-Lph of the bordereau would not have appeared in the Matin , and Dreyfus would be clad in shame or still conflned on Devil 's Island . "                     