@@677437

txt The Association to Prevent Corrupt Practices is making a definite and energetic effort to secure the enforcement of the law passed last Winter ( Chapter 502 , Laws of 1906 ) directed to that end . Two important objects are sought by the law , ( 1 ) to secure an accurate and adequate accounting of receipts and cxpenditures for political purposes , and , ( 2 ) by a judicial inquest , to get at the facts when the law is evaded or violated , in order that offenders may be brought to book . The ArEcciation has selected a case in Clinton County , and has presented to the Supreme , Court a petition by EDWARD J. LANCE , a candidate voted for at the la test election , , Nov. 6 , submit- ting the evidence that : will be produced , a " d asking for the inquest contemplated by the law . The petition sets forth that the statement made by the Republican County Committee of Clinton County is defective and does not cover all receipt : , by that committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sums paid out . As to some of these it is alleged that they were paid for votes in the town of Beekman-town , in Clinton County , and also in the City of Plattsburg in some half-dozen instances , as to which affidavits are made by persons believed to haya been paid or promised payment by parties named in the petition . The offenses charged are , further , allegel to be in violation of an agreement between representatives of the Repubheat ! and Democratic organizations and the Independence League , pledging all these organizations against the expenditure or promise of money for the put. - chLsing of influencing votes and pleiging. the organizations to unite in an effort to bring about the conviction of persons . engaging in the violation of the law as to bribery at elections . The petition has been submitted to Justice SPENCER CETI. of the Supreme Court , sitting here , but residing in Clinton County , where the matter will be proceeded with . We are not , of course , at liberty to express or to form any opinion as to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the face of the facts as presented , we think those who are moving in the matter are strongly to be commended for their action in bringing it to issue . They appear not to . have , and we are persuaded that they have not , any political or personal bias in the premises . The counsel for the petitioner , ' GEORGE S. BIX.BE , Eqq. , a native of Clinton County , is and has always been a Republican , and states in his affidavit that both he and his associate , HENRY E. BARNARD , are rendering " purely voluntary " services . In short , the movement presents itself as a disinterested effort to enforce the law . If it succeeds it will be to the substantial advantage of the ' whole State .                     