@@676412

txt By a dexterous and extraordinary speech Premier Balfour last Slight temporarily smoothed over the differences in the Cabinet , relieved Colonial Secretary Chamberlain of any necessity of - resigning , and for the moment averted a crisis which threatened the Unionist Party . This Mr. Balfour accomplished without committing the Government either to protection oil free trade , though his speech will generally be taken to mean that the tariff issue is to be shelved for the present . Henry Chaplin 's amendment , which gave rise to the most interesting debate of the present Parliament , was defeated by the overwhelming majority of 424 votes to 28 , the majority being composed of Unionists , Liberals , and Irish members . The minority supporting Mr. Chaplin were almost all folowers of the Government . while many others of the Conservative Party abstained from voting . The amendment declared that the removal of the tax on grain " involves a Needless and injurious disturbance of trade and a serious loss of revenue , without substantial relief for the consumer , " and that if any taxes were removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of general consumption . It was 10:30 o'clock when Premier Balfour sprang to his feet to reply to the taunts of the Opposition and the appeals from his own party . The Premier was loudly cheered . He had scarcely commenced to deal with Mr. Chaplin 's amendment before he was interrupted by a hurricane of applause and ironical cheers at the entry of Mr. Chamberlain . who had been absent hitherto throughout the evening . The Colonial Secretary dropped into his accustomed place The House was packed with peers , members of the House , and spectators as it had not been since the days of the Home Rule bill , and they waited and listened in tense expectation . THE PREMIER 'S SPEECH . In a whimsical vein Mr. Balfour explained that the only reason that the grain tax was put on was because the Government wanted money , and the only reason it was taken off was because the Government wanted money no longer . Rea  --  erting to the charges of vacilliation made against him , the Premier took on a tone of unusual vehemence . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( which statement met with loud applause. ) did not regard it as a fetish , and he bad absolutely an open mind regarding the necessity for any alterations in a system wihch was founded to suit the conditions of fifty years ago . He refused not only to make a statement of any finality upon such an important question , but he also refused to compel his colleagues to conform to a standard of opinion upon which he himself had an open mind . He admitted that differences of opinion existed within the Cabinet , but said these were not serious enough to cause the resignation of any member . Mr. Balfour made an impassioned plea . inforced by the precedents of friction in Mr. Gladstone 's Ministeries , for allowing the Premier to retain an open mind upon a question so difficult and so superior to all party issues . He said he did not believe that the country would ever return to the old protective system . and added that no tax on food was ever imposed without the full assent of the , working classes . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great phenomena ? huge tariff walls against the United Kingdom . the growth of the trusts , and the desire of the colonies for closer fiscal union with the mother country . These factors could not be ignored . He maintained that the method of starting a public discussion was the only way to deal with the problem . though he did not commit himself to Mr. Chamberlain 's more advanced programme . It would be folly and rashness to interfere with the great system which had been in operation for so many years without the most careful examination and without due regard for history and the traditions of the past . while at the same time they could not ignore those new problems which the everchanging face of industrial life presented for decision and the action of statesmen This non-committal speechand appeal for an open mind not only in the Cabinet but in the Unionist Party . made with all the eloquence and magnetism which Mr. Balfour wields so successfully , brought a constant salvo of cheers . Throughout Mr. Chamberlain sat beside the Premier beaming with satisfaction . LIBERAL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader , briefly replied , appealing for an opportunity for the House more fully to discuss the issue raised . He said one member of the Government was prepared to make a revolution in the country 's fiscal system a question upon which the next general election should be decided . Under these circumstances it ceased to be a pious opinion and became a practical action . This appeal elicited no response on the part of the Government . The members of the House trooped into the lobby to vote against Mr. Chaplin 's amendment , the general comment being " Balfour has saved Chamberlain . " The Colonial Secretary , himself jubilant , said : " Our friend the enemy is nonplused this time . " With the exception of some irreconcilable malcontents , the Unionist Party is greatly relieved by the outcome of the debate , all the members expressing gladness that the crisis is passed , though at the same time believing that the same Cabinet can not long continue to embrace such opposites on the fiscal policy of Great Britain as Colonial Secretary Chamberlain and Chancellor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkable animation in and about the Houses of Parliament yesterday afternoon when the time approached for the resumption of the debate on the Chaplin amendment . The answers to questions , not referring to the great problem of the day , passed almost unnoticed , so keen was the anxiety to get to the all-absorbing topic . The debate was resumed by Major Seely , ( Conservative , ) who , as a convinced free trader , said he rejoiced in ' the repeal of the grain tax . Sir Charles Mike : Liberal ) contended that the House had the right to demand an opportunity for pronouncing judgment on this important fiscal question . There was enormous exaggeration in the statement that it was foolish for this country to maintain a policy differing from that of the rest of the world . While the United States and Germany were reaping much prosperity under protection , Great Britain 's foreign exports at the present moment were equal to the combined exports of the United States , Germany . and France . which , considering the enormous expansion of the population of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The speaker denied that protectionist countries were cutting out Great Britain from the markets of the world . Germany , he said , had not even hurt Great Britain 's market in South America . and when one considered the great natural advantages of the United States , her size , and her highly cultivated population , it was marvelous that she had not years ago attained the first place in trade . The commerce of the United States had progressed independently of protection , but it had been retarded rather than advanced by the adoption of protection . H. H. Asquith ( Liberal , ex-Home Secretary , ) declared that the reason for the f abandonment of the grain tax remained n " unsolved and inscrutable mystery . " r . Chamberlain had told the public that he tax did not fall on the consumer . If that was so . its repeal was a " magnificent display of , international attachment . " as it practically meant that Great Britain was making a present to the United States of the f2.300,000 which the tax brought in . All the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ritchie on Tuesday evening to justify the repeal . Never had a small minority been so rapidly and completely . justified . Describing the situation as " politically indecent , " Mr. Asquith urged an explicit declaration of the collective judgment of the Cabinet in regard to the larger questions of fiscal policy , and , turning toward Mr. Chamberlain , who at that moment entered the House and sat down beside Premier Balfour . Mr. Asquith asked the Colonial Secretary what was his position in view of Tuesday 's speech by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Ritchie . Was Mr. Chamberlain a brand plucked from the burning , a backslider brought home again by th- gentle , persuasive influence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer ? Was the word " requiscat " or the word " re urgam " to be carved on the tombsto of the grain tax ? He was glad to see hat Mr. Chamberlain was still sitting on the Cabinet bench , although it was quite unprecedented to see two Ministers sitting on the same bench and holding fundamentally and irreconcilably divergent views on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity of the empire and its fiscal and commercial prosperity . It was unexampled and an entire departure from the traditions and rules of public life that upon matters of this kind two responsible Ministers should emit not only discordant opinions on public platforms , but pose as the respective propagandists of two wholly irreconcilable policies . Sir Edward Grey ( Liberal ) characterized the situation as intolerable . He disagreed with the contention that the grain tax did not fall on the consumer and said he opposed its imposition last year because he felt it was bound to lead to a colonial demand for preferential rates . Mr. Chamberlain 's suggested inquiry into the subject was merely another name for a crusade . Having raised the issue , the Government was not . entitled to hang it up . Preference with the colonies was an irretrievably dangerous step . LONDON PRESS COMMENT . The London papers this morning admit that Mr. Balfour secured a great personal triumph , one of the greatest in his career , in last night 's debate ; but while one section of his supporters in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gladstone 's and earlier administrations for Ministers holding opposite views , another section comments on the undeniable weakness of the Premier 's statement , and pleads as an excuse that he had to escape from an extraordinarily delicate dilemma . Nobody , in fact . believes that there is any element of durability in- the existing situation . " Even should Mr. Charilberlain agree , as it is said he has , to postpone any active propaganda of his views in the country , it is beyond all question , " says The Conservative Standard . " that his policy holds and must continue to hold the field . His plan must , however , be discussed on its own merits , not pressed on the electorate by selfish considerations such as old-age pensions . " The Liberal journals are able to indulge in much sarcastic criticism at the expense of the Government , " willing to do anything so long as they may retain office . " " The Government has arrived at an agreement , " says The Daily Chronicle ? " they have agreed to differ . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means Premier Balfour employed " to muzzle his Colonial Secretary . " The immediate future is held to depend on . the action of the Conservative free traders , who form a large and important section of the party . Should Mr. Chamberlain or his friends commence an active campaign in the country , these free traders would become restive and a dangerous situation would arise for the Government . The Opposition leaders are determined to allow matters to remain in the present anomalous position . A. C. Hutton ( Liberal ) has already given notice of a motion condemning any departure from the existing fiscal policy , but there is some doubt whether the Liberal leaders will commit themselves to such a vote of censure , which would have the effect of uniting the Ministerialists to avoid defeat . A LIBERAL-IRISH DEAL ? An interesting phase of the situation has opened up in the possibility of a new deal between the Liberals and the Nationalists . It was alleged in the lobbies last night that the Liberal leaders were willing to give Mr. Redmond an undertaking that in the event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was passed the Liberal Government would introduce a similar bill , with perhaps better terms than those offered by the present measure . The lobby correspondent of The Times emphasizes the difficulties lying in wait for the Government . which has to rely on the Irish votes to avert defeat . He thinks it would be unwise to assume that the gratitude of the Nationalists for the benefits conferred by the Irish Land bill will be long lived , and warns the Ministers that a dangerous situation may arise at any moment .                     