@@676063

txt The peace in South Africa and its very elastic terms were welcomed in London to-night with a mild reps. tition of the Mafeking celebration . Hundreds of thousands of people surged through the streets of London from Whitechapel to Buckingham Palace . but never at any time did the density of the crowds equal that of those which created the verb " : to maffick . " To-night there was a tremendous noise in the streets , composed of a pandemonium of horns and cheers and the coarse jests of costers , but the abandon which marked the announcement of the reliefs c f Mafeking and Ladysmith was lacking . Women , many of them carrying babies ; boys , drunken loafers , and others , glad of any excuse to defy law arid order , were the principal elements in the ragged processions which wended their ways through the city , through Pall Mall and up Picea- , dilly . The crowds concentrated in Regent Street , and especially in the Strand , and let themselves loose . Women of the lower class jabbed men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apology for confetti , and in turn were hugged and kissed by any man who found time for such a diversion . A few helpless policemen stood around and watched the fun . One of the favorite decorations with the crowd was a cluster of red , white , and blue stripes wound around a tall hat . American visitors in London , who to-night saw the city crazy for the first time , freely expressed their utter astonishment at the scenes , and ingenuously asked : " Were the Mafeking celebrations worse than this ? " This question called forth a response from the Americans resident in London as follows : " Why , this is n't a circumstance to Mafeking . " A very serious undercurrent of discontent is probably responsible for the fact that London has not been entirely given over to the wildest debauch . An old soldier , who stood apart from the boisterous crowds and refused to " maffick , " said bitterly : " Peace with honor ! It seems to me we 've got all the peace and the Boers have all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarters . The Libbral members of the House of Commons declared freely to , night that peace in South Africa might have been secured a year earlier and upon better terms had not the British government been so obdurate . AMERICAN FLAGS SEEN . The decorations and illuminations of London took on a more organized form as the peace news grew older . The American and the Irish flags figured largely among the decorations , while the new ensign of the Australian Federation made its first appearance in a national celebration . The words " God Save the King " were very generally Inscribed across the union jacks exhibited . This was a sort of unconscious tribute of the National belief that peace in South Africa was due more to King Edward 's personal influence than to any other cause . A company of negro minstrels and other public singers in London to-night took advantage of the occasion frequently to sing " God Save the King . " A curious feature of the night 's street scenes was that banners were carried in several processions bearing the inscription " Bravo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was driven through the streets to-night was not decorated with flags or some other sign of rejoicing . There was a general jubilation in St. James 's Park . The large crowds which had assembled there waited until a late hour for a chance to give members of the royal family , bound for Buckingham Palace , a passing cheer or a toot from a paper trumpet . At the height of the rejoicing a hearse passed through Piccadilly . and even the undertaker 's assistants , who are known as mutes , waved TTnion Jacks . Throughout the evening the crowds exhibited the utmost good humor , and while some of the worst elements in London took advantage of the opportunity to disgrace themselves , the announcement of peace , on the whole . was received with merely mild " mafficking . " This was somewhat atoned for by the uproarious scenes in the fashionable restaurants . The people who were dining in these places vociferously joined in with the orchestras when popular airs were rendered . and then indulged in what was termed a " battle of napkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown around the dining rooms indiscriminately . In the restaurants the amusement was heightened by the uproarious waving of British flags . The ' rejoicing began early in the day . when crowds of suburbanites poured into London and converged toward the usual ' centres , the Mansion House , Royal Ex- , change , Trafalgar Square . &c.,; and quickly bedecked themselves with tiny flags , buttons . and badges . The earliest demonstrations occurred on the Stock Exchange , where the members arrived an hour earlier than usual , and ' began bidding up of South African securities and consols . On the official opening " God Save the King " was sung by al . present , and a telegram was dispatched to Lord Kitchener as follows : " The members of the London Stock Exchange join with the rest of the British Empire in rejoicing at the happy end of the lengthened campaign . Peace with honor is a fitting prelude to peaceful coronation celebrations . Heartiest cong-ratula- ; tions to Your Lordship and the brave boys with you . " The members of the Stock Exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor , Sir Joseph C. Dimsdale , and afterward resumed business , but without much heart for their work . A LEVEE AT ST . JAMES 'S . Later in the day a levee at St. James 's Palace and a Cabinet meeting in Downing Street attracted immense crowds . Thousands of people awaited the arrival of the ' Cabinet Ministers , and the scenes which greeted the popular favorites have not been equaled in many years . Many of the Ministers wore Court dress , on account of having to be present at the levee , which added to the attractiveness of the occasion . ft is almost needless to add that Joseph Chamberlain , the Colonial Secretary , came in for special attention from the masses . The police were unable to hold them in. bounds , and crowds surged around Mr. Chamberlain 's carriage , hurrahing and shouting congratulatins until the Colonial Secretary escaped within the building . On the adjournment of the Cabinet meeting the crowds repaired to Buckingham Palace and St. James 's Palace , and further relieved their feelings by cheering the King and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Ambassador . Joseph H. Choate , and all the members of the Embassy . and a number of special coronation envoys were present Mr. Choate presented in the Diplomatic Circle Douglas Robinson and W. C. Endicott , and in the General Circle J. Lee Saltonstall and Robert S. Keeling . Telegrams received from all parts of the provinces testified to the extreme joy felt by all classes at the conclusion of the war . At many places the Magistrates discharged all the prisoners charged with light offenses . A singular fact is that the first news of the conclusion of peace was received at Windsor , by telephone , from Berlin and Paris . Many of the provincial Exchanges closed at lunch time , and the children at the schools every-where were dismissed . The news of peace was transmitted this morning to the inhabitants of Blenheim Palace , the country seat of the Duke of Marlborough ( who married Consuelo Vanderbilt of New York ) in a manner that had considerable flavor of American progressiveness . An immense phonograph. with a monster born attached , had been hoisted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated by the Rev. Aylmer Scott . the local vicar , and it transmitted the peace dispatches , word for word , so loudly that they could be heard in a radius of half a mile from the tower . After this had been done the Union Jack was run up on the tower flagstaff and the phonograph sang the national anthem . in which the whole neighborhood joined clamorously . ? Queen Alexandra drove out from Buckhigham Palace at 6 P. M. and was greeted with loud cheers .                     