@@676033

txt LAST WEEK 'S TURMOIL IN : THE STREET . Whether the legal proceedings which appear to have been begun to bring to account one of the men most prominent in the exciting occurrences - of last week in Wall Street come to anything or not is very doubtful . The law does not take great care of the class of people who were the chief sufferers in these matters . If they have been the victims of deliberate swindling of a definite sort which it is possible to prove in accordance with the elaborate rules of legal evidence they may , after the lapse of a long time and the payment of considerable cost , succeed in punishing the guilty ; but as a rule attempts to do this are made rather with a hope to make the guilty disgorge than with an expectation to secure adequate penalties for wrongdoing . The law assumes in practice , if not in theory , that men who take extraordinary risks in the hope of getting extraordinary profits engage in a game of which they know the rules , and must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make an assumption very different . So far as can be gathered from the published facts , the losses of the past week have been made either in ' dealing in stocks and securities of little actual value or in dealing in a purely speculative and gambling fashion in stocks of some substanCe . In both cases the losers invited their fate . It is only as the situation throws light on the general conditions in the financial world that it has any public interest . In ' this regard it does not appear that there is much to disquiet the most conservative It is indeed rather to be wondered at that the long period of relative prosperity has not bred a larger flock of such enterprises and speculations . That this is , the case is largely due to the occurrence from time to time of similar or more severe disturbances which have checked the ardor of the gamblers and put those engaged in legitimate business on their guard . The result is that we have at present the unusual experience of quite steady and remarkable activity and prosperity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timidity in the speculative markets as a whole . The attitude of the general business community is one more of prudent watchfulness than of eager or venturesome confidence . The feeling , which is not very definitely formulated , is that we have been so prosnerous in so many directions for so long a time that the change which all believe must come some time may come at any moment , and it is well to have not too much sail spread when it arrives . It is a healthy feeling , and only the headstrong and giddy speculators need regret it .                     