@@675404

txt Senator George F. Hoar 's anti-expansion speech , delivered in the United States Senate and cabled to Hongkong at a cost of 84,000 , was the culminating influence that brought about the insurrection against this Government by Aguinaldo and his followers . " John Barrett , ex-United States Minister to Siam , made this statement as his belief before an assemblage of college men last night at Lake Forest IThiversity . He said it was the first time he had publicly named the Senator . It is possible that Mr. Barrett was encouraged to grow confidential before his audience , because it was known that the anti-expansion sentiment at Lake Forest had been strong . After he had mentioned the name he added that the Government had made a quiet investigation , and had traced the speech from the Senate Chamber to Paris and Hongkong and the camps of the Filipinos . There was much interest in the reception Mr. Barrett 's speech would meet . At the close of the meating he was cheered , and the audience of several hundred people waited in line to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address the speaker said it had been discovered in the Government investigation that Senator Hoar 's speech was cabled in cipher and in fragments to Paris , where it was put together and forwarded to Hongkong . It Interested the Government to know what friends the Filipinos had at this time who were in a position to send the message . " I was in Hongkong at the time , " said Mr. Barrett . " and I remember the incident distinctly . I was coming down stairs in the hotel when I met the President of the Hongkong Junta , and he had in his hand the long dispatch he had just received . It gave a large part of Senator Hoar 's speech in full , and a summary of the rest of it . I asked the President what he was going to do with it , and he fold me that he meant to send it to the officers of the army in the Philippines . He was urged not to do it , but he protested that it had been printed in the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been delivered it was in the hands of those who saw an opportunity to make political capital of it . The speech was published and distributed among the soldiers , and I believe it was the culminating influence that brought about the open insurrection . This speech , you must remember , was delivered before there was an open insurrection . The Government has made some efforts to find nut who was responsible for the transmission of the speech . Nothing will be said about the results of the investigation , but it is pretty well understood who were involved . " I was in the islands , and I know that many of the Filipinos were more friendly to the Americans than to Aguinaldo and his leaders until they were incited to war by such circulars as these . " SPEECH CITED BY BARRETT . Senator Hoar 's speech opposing the Administration 's policy was delivered in the Senate Jan. 9 , 1899 , and was in reply to the speech of Mr. Platt of Connecticut opposing the Vest anti-colonial resolution . Without adverting to the proposed policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except in a general way , Mr. Hoar entered upon a discussion of the Constitutional phases of the question involved in the resolution under consideration . He began by saying that he was induced to speak only from a commanding sense of public duty , and added that he disliked to differ from the President and from so many of his party associates . Holding that expansion was contrary to the spirit of the Constitution , Mr. Hoar held up to more or less ridicule those who favored expansion and the ratification of the treaty of Paris . without amendment . Their arguments , he said , were " Three cheers for the flag ! Who will dare to haul it down ? Hold on to everything you can get ! America has outgrown A.mericanism ! " " In general , " he went on , " the friends of what is called imperialism or expansion ' content themselves with declaring that the flag which is taken down every night and put up again every morning over the roof of this Senate Chamber , where it is in its rightful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once floated , whether that be its rightful place or not  --  a doctrine which is not only without justification in international law , but if it were implanted there would make of every war between civilized and powerful nations a war of extermination or a war of dishonor to one party or the other . " Senator Hoar then followed with an analysis of Senator Platt 's views . He contended that not one of the authorities cited by Mr. Platt  --  citations from Supreme Court decisions , from Mr. Webster , from the text writers , and from legislative precedents  --  helped him . " From these postulates. " he said . " the Senator Mr. Platt reaches the conclusion that we have a right to conquer , hold , and govern a subject population of ten millions , without any Constitutional restraint , such people being entitled to no Constitutional rights , but subject to the uncontrolled will of the American Congress . " He says be has faith in the Declaration of Independence . That declares that all men are created free and equal , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governed , which he interprets to mean , from the consent of seine of the gaverned ! Although I do not find that any of them are expected to consent in this case : that he wishesI had the same faith in the Declaration of Independenee that the fathers had ; that he prays that tae sound of the Liberty Bell from the tower of Independence Hall , still ringing in his ears . may proclaim liberty to regions r ever dreamed of by the fathers , " That proclamation he will make by turning our guns and bayonets , if need be , upon the people of the Philippine Islands , compelling them to submit to a Government whose Dowers , just or unjust , are not to depend upon their consent , compelling them to submit to taxation without representation , and depriving them forever of the equality , in which the Declaration of Independence , in which he still has faith , declares they were created . * ? * " The Constitutional argument for slavery was ten times as strong as the argument 1 of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men for their good . The Senator from Connecticut proposes to own voters for their good . But the slave property had come down to the slave owner from his fathers . To the Constitutional doctrine of the Senator from Connecticut I desire to oppose mine . * * " The power to conquer alien peoples and hold them in subjugation is nowhere expressly granted . The power to hold alien peoples and hold them in subjugation is nowhere implied as necessary for the accomplishment of the purposes declared by the Constitution . It is clearly shown to be one that ought not to he exercised by anybody ? one that the framers of the Constitution thought ought not to be exercised by anybody . " 1 . Because it is immoral and wicked in itself . Because it is expressly denied in the Declaration of Independence . 3 . It is affirmed that it is immoral and unfit to be exercised by anybody in numerous instances by contemporary State Constitutions and the contemporary writers and authorities on public law , who expressed the opinion of the American people in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who framed it . " Senator Hoar quoted President in his message to Congress a year before , in December , as saying : " I speak not of forcible annexation , because that it not to be thought of , and under our code of morality that would be criminal aggression . " The President , Senator Hoar said , placed himself and the American people " on the stern enduring and perpetual rock of righteousness , " and asked . " who shall haul him down ? Who shall haul down that code ? Who shall haul down the President ? " Further on Senator Hoar said : " At the close of the nineteenth century the American public , after its example in abolishing slavery has spread throughout the world , is asked by the Senator from Connecticut to adopt a doctrine of Constitutional expansion on the principle that , it is right to conquer , buy , and subject a whole nation if we happen to deem it for their good  --  for their good as we conceive it , and not as they conceive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No man was ever created good enough to own another . ' No nation was ever created good enough to own another . " . IZo single American workingman , no humble American home will ever be better or happier for the Constitutional doctrine which the Senator from Connecticut proclaims . If it be adopted here , not only the workingman 's wages will be diminished , the burden of taxation be increased , not only , like the ' peasant of Europe , will he stagger with an armed soldier on his back , but his dignity will he dishonored , and his manhood discrowned by the act of his own Government . ' senator Hoar then drew attention to Cuba , citing the resolution , referring to it as a precedent why the Philippines should be treated in a like manner , and freedom granted the inhabitants .                     