@@676924

txt James Coolidge Carter died yesterday at his home , 7 East Eighty-eighth Streeet . Although he had been ill only a few days , his advanced age balked the efforts of his physicians , who found that he had overtaxed his constitution by excessive devotion to his profession . In addition to his legal labors he was an enthusiast in the work of municipal - eform , and knew very little relaxation , although he was a member of many clubs and societies . Mr. Carter was born at Lancaster , Mass. , Oct. 14 , 182T , and was the youngest of eight children . He was prepared for college at Derby Academy , Hingham , Mass. , and entered Harvard College , being graduated In 1850 . During his Harvard days he was a member of the Institute of 1777 , the Hasty Pudding Club , the Alpha Delta Phi , and the Phi Beta Kappa Society . After spending three terms in the Harvard Law School he received the regular degree of LL . B. , and in 1885 was honored with the degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter entered the law office of Edward Kent , son of Chancellor Kent , in this , city , and in 1858 was admitted to the bar . He at once established himself in the practice of his profession , and soon won a place among the foremost lawyers in New York . His professional career was from that time one of continuous achievement . His fame became international , and the fact was admitted everywhere that he possessed one of the most thoroughly equipped legal minds which this country ever produced . Other attributes which contributed to his remarkable success in courts and in convincing men in every undertaking were his acute and accurate judgment , powerful logic , and absolute force and clearness of statement . As a nisi prius lawyer he had but few equals . His counsel was sought in controversies involving National and international questions , frequently of the most complex character , and there were very few of the many Important litigations in which he figured that be was not found on the winning side . In 1875 Gov . Tilden appointed him a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for cities in the State of New York , and in 1888 Gov . Hill appointed him a member - of the Constitutional Commission . When It was proposed to codify the common law of the State of New York Mr. Carter opposed the measure . notably in a Mono , graph which he published in 1883 entitled " The Codification of our Common Law . " In 1892 President Harrison appointed Mr. Carter , with Edward J. Phelps and Judge Henry W. Blodgett , as counsel to present the claims of the United States belore the Bering Sea tribunal , which met in Pais in February . 1893 . The members of the commission and the English press pronounced the address of Mr. Carter the most perfect argument , from all standpoints , delivered by any of the eminent counsel engaged in the case . It was the crowning effort of Mr. Carter 's many achievements . In 1889 an address which he delivered before the State Bar Association of Virginia on " The Provinces of the Written and Unwritten Law , " attracted worldwide attention , as did another address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association , this being the " ideal and the Actual in Law . " Although his life was a very busy one , Mr. Carter found time to complete many monographs of great importance to practicing lawyers . In addition to this he was much sought after as a  --  speaker at banquets and public meetings of all kinds , and his wit and eloquence lent a charm to every assemblage which he found time to attend . He always took an active interest in nolaics and good government for the city . Mr. Carter 's funeral will take place from All Souls ' Church on Friday nthrning at 10 o'clock .                     