@@677009

txt At a meeting of the Assembly Judiciary Committee at the Cadillac Hotel last evening a form of complaint against Supreme Court Justice Warren B. Hooker , for presentation to the Legislature at the special session , was drawn up . The com-plaint embodies the findings of the cora1 mittee with respect to the charges made against Justice Hooker by the State Bar Association . It contains too new allegations . The committee held two sessions yesterday . Chairman Fish had sent out invitations to the membert of the Senate Judieiary Committee to meet jointly with his committee to draw up the Hooker ' complaint . Senators McCarren , Warniek , ' Ands , Raines , and Malby were at the hotel when the committee met in the fore:noon , but they refused to take part in the proceedings , declaring that it would be , time enough for the Senate Committee to ' get into the case when it had received ' from the Assembly , after the Legislature had been convened , the concurrent resolution calling for Justice Hooker 's removal . Senator Brackett , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Cadillac after the Assembly Committee had held its second meeting - and ; decided upon the form of the cornplaint against Justice Hooker . There were also at the Cadillac in the course of the day , Speaker Nixon , Majority Leader Rogers , and Henry B. Coman , who acted as counsel to the Judiciary Committee in the proceedings against Justice Hooker at the regular session . The best information among the leaders of the Legislature with respect to the date for the special session was that the call I would be either for next Tuesday or Wednesday . When the Senate receives from the Assembly the concurrent resolution calling for Justice Hooker 's removal , there will be a meeting of the joint Judiciary ' Committee to agree on procedure . It is settled that Justice Hooker will have at least ten days in which to prepare his answer to the charges against him . There is a difference of opinion , however , as to how his trial shall be conducted . Some members of the Legislature hold that it will be necessary for both branches to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testimony . They hold that fairness to Justice Hooker demands that every man who is to vote on his case should have heard all of the testimony , a juror 's oonulotios  --  as -- -ta .... the truth of testimony often- being made up by the manner of the witness . Other members of the Legislature hold that it would be absurd to have the 200 members of theSegislature sit in the case as a court . They say the concurrent resolution for Justice Hooker 's removal will be acted upon as every other concurrent resolution is  --  that is , it will be referred to the proper committees , which will report on it , and each branch of the Legislature will then act on the report of its own committee . It requires a two-thirds vote of each branch of the Legislature to remove the accused . Yesterday two prominent Supreme Court Justices informed certain leaders of the Legislature at present in the city that they did not believe the Legislature had the power to remove Justice Hooker by resolution , and gave it as their opinion that if his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action of the Legislature aside . They said the judiciary of the State was disposed to view the precedent which would be set by Justice Hooker 's removal by resolution as dangerous . " When a Justice of the Supreme Court is impeached , " one of the Judges is reported to have said , " it is the Senate and the Court of Appeals which tries him , the Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals presiding . The co-ordination of the Judiciary with the Legislature is preserved in that form of proceeding . But if the Legislature can remove a Justice by resolution , then the Judiciary must be subordinate to the Legislature instead of co-ordinate with it . Power of removal means superiority . " It is understood that at the beginning of proceedings against Justice Hooker counsel for him will raise the point that the proposed proceeding against him is unconstitutional .                     