@@675402

txt The inaction of Congress with reference to Puerto Rico is not creditable . It is positively and distinctly discreditable . Gen. DAVIS 'S testimony does not raise that point . It merely and powerfully enforces the point . Of course , we do not expect much of Congress in the way of speed or unanimitY of action in respect to any question Which is or which is capable of being Made a party question . What we do expect and what we have a right to expect is that Representatives shall partake the feelings of their constituents , and give effect to the average sentiment on a question which is simply a question of the credit of the country . And eminently such is the question of Puerto Rico . The plain fact is that here is a community which is distinctly worse off by reason of coming Within the " disposition , government , and control " of the United States than it would have been if it had remained a Spanish possession . And it has suffered this injury although the inhabitants of it welcomed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our ocupation , anxious to forward every just and reasonable wish of the invaders . This is a state of things which no patriotic American can contemplate without some self-reproach . And , as we say , we have a right to assume that Congress Is composed of patriotic Americans . We have even a right to assume that Congress is composed of Americans of average intelligence . Yet how do the facts square with this assumption ? Congress has been in session for five weeks . When it met it was greeted with a message from the President , explaining the Puerto Ric-an situation , and adding , by way of recommendation : " Our plain duty is to abolish all customs tariff between the United States and Puerto Rico and to give her products free access to Our markets . " It has been demonstrated over and over again that this Wks what was necessary to . Puerto Rico , what was our duty to the people of Puerto Rico , and what was to our own interest and duty as the power Which had assumed control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , written by persons of authority , had pointed out our duty . The Secretary of War had argued the ease in his report . The President had adopted his conclusions and based upon them a recommendation . The Merchants ' Association of New York had supported the argument and the recommendation in an elaborate and convincing report . The ease had been shown to be extremely urgent . The Senate had a Colonial Cornrnittee . The House had a . Comittee on Insular Affairs , before which Gen. DAVIS bas been summoned to give his cumulative and superfluous testimony about a matter which , in decency and humanity , admits of no delay What is Congress waiting for ? Why is not the provision putting Puerto Rico on the same footing With the territory of the United States , as regards the disposition of her prod1tcts , not already part of the law of the land ? There is no answer to this question ; which will save at once the patriotism And the intelligence of Congress . The inaction of Congress , in so clear a case , Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the debating society which sits in the Capitol is , by its nature , unfit to deal with dependencies , and that the way to deal with these is to make " crown colonies " of them and govern them without reference to the National Legislature . If Congress is not prepared to acquiesce in this conclusion Congress had better make much more haste than it has shown any disposition toward making in securing a rational disposition of the urgent case of Puerto Rico . The question is scarcely less urgent for Congress itself than for the island .                     