@@677671

txt Supreme Court Justice Blanchard , in an opinion banded down yesterday , granted to Bainbridge Colby an injunction , pend. ing trial , restraining the merger of the Mercantile and Equitable Trust Companies . When this decision was made there was also pending before the court a similar application , made on behalf of Charles 1W . Morse and other stockholders in the Equitable Life Assurance Society , for an order restraining the society and the two trust companies from engaging in the Imerger . When it was found that Justice I3lanchard.had decided against the merger . this motion was adjourned until Aug. 12 , An appeal from Justice Blanchard 's decision will be taken to the Appellate Division for hearing next October . The Directors of the Equitable Life take the position that the insurance law of 1908 compels them to dispose of their holdings in the Equitable Trust Company , and that the liquidation of the trust corn ' pany can only be avoided by the merger . The temporary injunction obtained in the Colby case restrains the Equitable Society from thus disposing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merger of the two trust companies , made before Justice Blanchard , was in behalf of Bainbridge Colby , the owner of 300 shares of the Equitable Trust Company . It was sought on the ground that the rights of the plientiff would be materially injured by the proposed merger . Justice Blanchard agrees- with this contention , while he says that there is nothing in the papers to show that there was any ulterior motive on the part of the Directors of either of the two corporations . in seeking to effect the merger . He says , in part : It is not inconceivable that two corporations having an equal amount of capital might be so situated that the item of good-will in the case of one equaled the capital ; while the other corporation really had no good-will and no assets other than its actual capital . In the I instance of such corporation , it might be well that a merger upon terms similar to those proposed in the present case might be entirely fair to the stockholders of both corporations , provided that the merged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the less prosperous corporation than that corporation had hitherto earned . The proposed merger of the defendant corporations , however , is analogous to the arrangement just mentioned . Upon analysis it appears that the promoters of the merger hope to earn upon a capitalization contributed by the Mercantile Trust Company the same per cent that that company has earned during the past four years ; but upon the capitalization contributed by the Equitable Trust Company they hope ? to earn somewhat less than that company has proved itself able to earn during the past four years without the assistance of the Mercantile Trust Company . In other words , the merged corporation does not pretend to be able to earn upon the capitalization contributed by the Equitable Trust Company aa much as that under the management of its ' own stockholders has earned upon an average diliTag the past four years . Nevertheless the promoters of the merger ask that the stockholders of the Equitable Trust Company give to the merged corporation their control over their investment and forego once and for all the possibility of ever receiving upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mercantile Company receive upon an equal Investment , and accept in place of the earnings which the experience of the past four years has proved that the Equitable Company can earn . a somewhat less amount of potential promised and estimated earnings based not upon fact or experience , but upon the prophecy and estimate of the promoters of the merger . The stockholders of the Equitable Trust Company are.enked to give over the complete control which they now have over their investment to a new corporation in which they will be in a hopeless minority and outnumbered two to one . It is not difficult for the court to perceive that the latter end of the stockholders of the Equitable Trust Company may in such event be worse than their present condition . Justice Blanchard closes his opinion by saying that the merger apparently would have an obvious advantage over the present stockholders of the Equitable Trust Company , and adds that both corporations are virtually controlled by an individual shareholder , the Equitable Life As-. surance Society . Unless tie present condition be preserved , he says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may prove himself to be entitled to at the trial , would be lost by reason of the merger and the extinction of the Equitable Trust Company . The point to be raised in the Morse proceeding when it comes up for argument on Aug. 12 , will be that the Equitable Life Assurance Society has no right to take any part in the merger or to consent to it , as such consent would constitute an investment of the funds . The law , as amended , prohibits the society from investing in the bonds of any corporation other than the bonds of a municipal corporation . THIEF ON THE TRAIN . Snatches a Woman 's Satchel and Jumps Into a Detective 's Arms . Mrs. R. S. Layton , said to be prominent in the society of Elmira , N. Y. , had an exciting experience with a pocketbook snatcher on a Pennsylvania train bound for her home last night . As she boarded the train in the Jersey City station a man jostled her and grabbed a fancy leather handbag contathing her gold watch , some cash , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man through several cars , followed by the conductor . The train was then crossing the Green Street bridge . The thief jumped from the train , ' but into the arms of Special Officer J. F. Waldron of the railroad . Taken to Police Headquarters in Jersey City , the prisoner said he was G. Edwards of Houston Street , New York . The police believe he had followed Mrs. Layton from New York , where she had been on a shop . ping trip .                     