@@677565

txt It is well that the National Publicity 13in Organization should seize on the BOosevelt-Rarriman disclosures to re . new agitation for their measure . Adequate publicity would go far to check Such mad excesses in the use of money these disclosures show . The publicity already attained , with the anxiety and distress , betrayed " oy at least One of the parties to the transactions ; now exposed to public discussion , proves that . Obviously , if it had been lmown beforehand that all the correispondence , or even the general facts . to which the correspondence relates , would be laid open to the scornful scrutiny of the pUblic , we may be sure that the game would have been pursued with greater caution if the pursuit had not been wholly abandoned . But publicity of this sort is not adequate , It is misleading It leaves the sub- ' Sect matter quite obscured and confused and sophisticated . No one Knows ; whether the case is as bad as It seems or worse . And the process of probing for the truth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be specially urgent to get at the truth : they will be more eager to ascribe men- I dacity to one or the other of the par- I ties to the quarrel , as their sympathies ler antipathies incline them . In such a situation it is clear that II the office of Chief Magistrate is exposed to inevitable and deeply regrettable discredit . The charges and counter-charges with which such a dispute IS carried on may conceivably be of no great importance to a man of Mr .. lakleamax 's experience and associations ; in any event their effect on his repUtation is a matter of concern to him alone and to his friends . Their effect on the incumbent of the President 's office is of very great importance not only to him but to the American-people , and no matter on which side the balance of credibility Inclines , it is humiliating that there should be any balance to watch . And the worst of It an is that the feeling of humiliation or resentmenewhich is aroused by this exposure will tend only indirectly to the correction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light . The publicity which will be really preventive or punitive must be preicribed , ordered , and enforced by law . It must be a substantive part of the organized system for the protection of the purity of elections , for the preservation of the dignity of our high Offices , for the defense of the integrity of that bulwark of liberty , the free expression of the people 's will . Now there is no reasonable doubt whatever that a statute could be drawn , and if enacted , could be enforced , which would make such negotiations for large slims of money as Are described In the correspondence of 1=toosEvELT and Mr. HARRIMAN practically futile . For obviously Mr. Moose .. ye-LT would not have considered the obtaining of such a contribution , itior would it willingly have been made , had it bebil certain that the names of All subscribers , with the amount of their subscriptions , would be made public and that vouchers would have ' to be submitted for every expenditure fiom these funds . It may be contendthat ' Mr. lioosEVErir was ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; aioney and that of his friends In anyI Improper manner , and it may be that the pertions in as high authority as " Mr. Coirrsurou or Mr. Brass were equally ignorant of such intention : but it remains a perfectly safe assertion that none of them would have tried to get money in such quantities from such Sources had they been sure that the White - light of publicity was to be 42our0 on the transaction from its inception to the details of its final exeChticin . That is the secret of all legislation on this subject Every step that will lead the public mind in that direction is a good one                     