@@675989

txt - GOETHE 'S The ? " Iphigenie auf Tauris " of Goethe was given yesterday afternoon'and evening at the Irving Place Theatre for the . first and last time this season . Goethe is said to have remarked after witnessing an unusually stormy play by a contemporary that for most people it appeal 's to be enough merely to see something happening . In Iphigenie all the stirring events of the Greek legend happen off the stage , and the characters go through five acts of almost . uninterrupted discoUrse . Schiller , who in this matter of dramatic action ranged himself with most people , attempted in 1802 to remodel Iphigenie in order to give it greater theatric effect . He had the perspicacity to discover that if he touched a word of it he would have to rewrite the whole . " Iphigeni-2 " is generally conceded to be one of the perfect poetic dramas of the world . A noble theme is clearly stated and is developed with irresistible force and con- ? viction to the necessary and beautiful conclusion . To the eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great importance ; the story is full of human significance and poetic charm . Yet the fact remains that it makes small use of the capabilities of the stage . This peculiarity of the play was admirably regarded in its presentation . The unintelligent actor would be sure to try to make up for the deficiencies of action by movement and gesture . Herr Direktor Conried 's people stood for the most part quite still while speaking , scarcely moving an arm , and the absence of motion was never felt . Even the expression of the faces gave way at times to the great essential of such a representation , enunciation . The words of the poet fell upon the mind with the fullest possible effect . The Iphigenie of Hedwig Lange was statuesque and pure , expressing in a large and simple manner the virginal goodness and intelligence intended by the author . The Arkas of Vladimir Schamberg was virile and gracious . Franz Kierschner was an adequate , if somewhat old-fashioned , Thoas , and Eugene Hohenwarth an acceptable Pylades , and Alexander Rottman a somewhat heavily Teutonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sixtieth season of the Philharmonic Society of New York took place yesterday afternoon at Carnegie Hall . The programme was as follows : Symphony in G major , No. 13 Haydn Air from " Iphigenie en Taurlde Eine Faust Symplionie Gluck Liszt Mr. Emil Paur , the present conductor of the Philharmonic Society , is a gentleman of large imaginings . He is net fond of music on a small scale when ho has a great orchestra of 110 men for its performance . It was not astonishing , therefore , that as a sort of gentle preparation for Beethoven 's ninth symphony , which he has in hand for the final concert of the season , he should invite all the world and his wife to hear once again the elaborate " Faust " symphony of Liszt . There was a time when Liszt and Wagner used to sing together about Goethe 's epic , and both of them had ideas of symphonies . Wagner 's never went any further than the first movement , which became the familiar " Eine Faust Overture , " but Liszt turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Faust . one for Gretchen. and a third for Mephistopheles . It takes much longer to hear the Liszt composition than it does to hear that of Richard Wagner , but the latter stays longer in the mind . Yet the Liszt work is one of the finest things its writer produced . It is altogether too long drawn out , and the second movement with its pretty little Gretchen theme skates miles on the thinnest sort of ice , but there is a certain potency in the first movement , in spite of the unfailing Lisztian stretching out of the preparation to say something . Oh , those repeated , broken phrases ! Now they make . one wish that the composer would stop preluding and  --  get down to business . But when LisZt does really settle down to the body of his first movement there is some substantial matter in it and a quantity- of admirably made instrumentation . The third movement is immensely clever in its travesty of the materials heard in the earlier portions of the work . The voices of both Wagner and Chopin speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divinity , which Wagner did not conceive till he wrote " Das Rheingold , " is heard in its naked form . The climax of the final movement is made with the use of a tenor solo and a male chorus . Here Liszt followed in the path pointed out by Beethoven in his last symphony . Liszt 's peroration is inspiring . It follows musically the same path as Wagner 's , which makes the Gretchen theme triumph over all others and sing of the eternal feminine which " leadeth Us upward and on . " But Liszt uses the voices for this effect . Mr. Van Noose , who Sang the solo , was not in perfect voice and a temporary obstruction injured his tone in " this place . The male chorus of the Apollo Club was quite swallowed up in the torrent of sound which Mr. Paur let loose from the orchestra . Mr. Van Noose was heard to better advantage in- the Gluck air , which he sang very well indeed . The orchestra has not clone better work at any time this season than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fine precision . unanimity , and vigor . The muscularity of ? the strings was especially notable , and the intonation of the wind much much better than it usually is . The Haydn symphony , which opened the concert , sounded fresh and joyous , though the body of tone in it was a trifle too thick . Mr. Paur was extremely energetic yesterday , and it was better to hear the results of his efforts than to watch the efforts themselves . The programme will be repeated at the concert to-night , and there is every reason to expect an evening of real pleasure .                     