@@780994

txt The Central Railroad of New Jersey's. steamboat Asbury Park broke her rudder chain on her way ' to New York this evening . She left here a few minutes after 6 o'clock with about seven hundred passengers on board . She halted part way up the bay , and there was much speculation as to the cause , while the tide swung her about . . There was no panic , as those who investigated foujtd Capt . John L. Braisted sitting coolly in the pilothouse , and the boat was under way before any one knew what the trouble was .. The chain had been spliced with a rope . New York was reached twenty minutes late . While at the dock the chain was spliced again , and the boat left ten minutes late to make her 8 o'clock trip down . Midway across the bay the splicing parted , and an . attempt was made to steer with the tengines , but this was found uncertain with so little sea room , and off the Southwest Spit the boat was halted and a tiller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight men to a side , with a quartermaster at ' the point to repeat the orders of Capt . Braisted . Atlantic . Highlands was reached half an hour late . - MINSTREL 'S WIFE A SUICIDE . Mrs. GeorgyThatcher Dead from Gas on Eve of Trip to Join- Husband . Mrs .. Mary T. Thatcher , forty-five years old , of the Navahoe Apartments , West One Hundred and Sixth Street , wife of George ? W. Thatcher , the minstrel , committed suicide last night in the bedroom of their only child , a daughter , in the flat . Mrs. Thatcher stopped all the cracks and holes with paper and clothing and turned on the gas . Her daughter said a nervous trouble and having to leave the hotel because ' of renovations being made there , caused her act . Thatcher is traveling with a road cornPanY playing the " County Chairman " and will be in Kansas City to-day . lie had written his- wife to join him and Mrs. Thatcher was to have started this morning for the West . - Yesterday Miss Thatcher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. J. , to spend the day . Miss Thatcher remembered last night that her mother had been particular about her instructions that they should return by 8:30 o'clock at the latest . When they reached the apartment Miss Thatcher opened the door and was almost overcome by the odor of gas . She screamed , and Parker ran for a physician . Mrs. Thatcher was found dead on the bed in the daughter 's bedroom . Miss Thatcher recalled several days ago her mother had said to her : " If anything happens to me , May , you 'll find the key to the safe deposit vault in that bureau . " The vault contains $50,000 left to Mrs. Thatcher only a few months ago by an uncle of Philadelphia . DALTON HELD . UP IN AUTO . Police . Let Him Go on His Way to Bail Out a Chauffew ; " Bicycle Policeman Ennis of the West One Hundred arid Twenty-fifth Street Station automobile saw taap , werfur automobile whirling past the station ' last night at a rate which he estimated at twenty-five miles an hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At Claremont Avenue the auto turned down'townand the chase continued until Ennis overhauled the thachine at One Hundred and Fourteenth Street . He says that his machine will make forty-two miles an hour and that he had to press it to capture the speeders . The chauffeur said at the station house that he was Emil Rosot , twenty-six years of age , of 203 West Thirty-fourth Street , and that the machine was owned by Ernest Porot , a French tourist staying at the Waldorf-Astoria . Two women and another man , who were in the machine with him , refused to divulge their identity . Rosot was locked up , as he said that he did not care to appeal to his employer to furnish bail for him . The three others went off in the machine to look up a bondsman . The man who was with Rosot in the automobile immediately drove the machine to the Hotel York , at 487 Fourth Avenue , where he found William Dalton , Commissioner of Water , Gas and Electricity , who was taken aboard . The vehicle then proceeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Station at a. rapid rate of speed . At Eighty-sixth Street the speed of the machine attracted the attention of a bicycle policeman , who signaled the driver to stop . He did so , and the policeman said he would have to place him under arrest for violating the speed law . Commissioner Dalton protested . telling the bluecoat who he was and explaining that he was then on his way to the One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street Station to hail out a friend who was in trouble . The policeman doubted Mr. ralton 's statement that he was a Commissioner , but was finally convinced of his identity when the Commissioner produced his credentials , and permitted the automobile to go on . TRIED TO WHITTLE DYNAMITE . Boy Was Thrown Thirty Feet and Maimed  --  Also Lost an Eye . By whittling a stick of dynamite Saturday afternoon fifteen-year-old Nundo Arino of 3,491 Arthur Avenue , exploded it among a crowd of Italian boys , blowing out his right eye , injuring his other eye , blowing off three of his fingers , cutting his face and chest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Fordham Hospital . - The explosion blew a hole in the ground two feet deep at Hoffman and One Hundred and Eighty-seventh Streets , where the boys were standing . Arino found the stick , which was several inches long and wrapped in brownish-pink parer . He began to whittle it with a pocketknife and it burst . The boy was blown thirty feet away . Four other boys were knocked down and bruised but not seriously hurt . It was thought at first by the police that some one had tried to kill the lad , and an investigation was begun by Capt . Deevey 's men of the Bronx Park Station . They did not hear of the explosion until yesterday and had no details until they learned that Corciner Berry had'been summoned to take the injured boy 's ante-mortem statement . They believe a stick of dynamite was dare-iessly left near the excavations for sewers which are going on at the corner where the accident happened .                     