@@677370

txt The first question the experienced Occidental is likely to ask in regard to the promised " Constitution " of the Celestial Empire is : What is the Chinese Government up to ? That is a query not flattering to Chinese good faith , and we must be careful that aversion and race prejudice do not color our views . But it remains true that most of the so-called " advances " originating in official circles have had the effect of imperiling foreign interests , while their authors have professed the exact opposite . There are two things which the Chinese , especially the official class , earnestly long to get rid of , the intervention of foreigners in the collection of revenues set apart as security for foreign loans , and the exercise of extraterritorial jurisdiction by foreign agents for the protection of foreigners residing in China . Connected with these is also a strong dislike to the exercise by foreigners of concessions for railways and other works . This feeling was at the root of the scheme to drive Sir ROBERT HART , the eminent British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The action of the Govern , ment was indirect but effectual . Two Imperial Commissioners were appointed , and they proceeded immediately to issue orders over the- head of Sir ROBERT , especially forbidding the publication of accounts until submitted to them . The only satisfaction the British Government has so far been able to obtain is the solemn assurance that " no change in the customs administration as fixed by the loan agreements of 1896 and 1898 is contemplated . " In the same spirit , railway concessions granted as late as 1895 have been transferred to the native provincial bureau , while the British Legation is calmly assured that the concessions are still valid .. Meanwhile obstacles of an annoying and persistent nature are thrfrien in the way of the foreign judicial officers . When , therefore , the Emperor calls the Viceroys to Peking , led by Yux .. Ni Sm KA.t , the vigorous ruler of the highly important province of Chi-Li , to confer as to a " Constitution , " and promises One as soon as the people are fitted for it , one instinctively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one may be forgiven for at least suspecting , that the outcome will be a screen of apparent modernization behind which the Government will conceal an obstinate adherence to the old anti-foreign , anti-Modern pol , icy . This suspicion is confirmed by recent reports from Japan to the effect that the Japanese , who were expected , and probably themselves expected , to be taken as leaders in a new movement for the regeneration of the empire , are now treated with marked coolness by the officials of the Chinese Government , while their enterprises are even more evasively and persistently discouraged than those of the Westerners . Had there been any real desire on the part of the ruling OEMs in China , to put the empire in harmony with the . rest of I the worldo it is certain that ? the example and counsel of Japan would have been followed . But the Japanese have understood that the only way they could gain the eonfidience and respect , or even the fear , of the West is by deserving it . This is a sentiment that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling Chinese , in most cases . Undoubtedly , in the course of time , the Chinese will be brought within the influence of the ideas pre vailing throughout the civilized world , but for the present the tendency seems to be rather in the direction of reaction .                     