@@676698

txt The marriage of Princess ALEXANDRA , daughter of the Duke of CUMBERLAND and BRUNSWICK , claimant of the throne of Hanover , with the Grand Duke of MECKLENBURG  --  SCHWERIN may well have given satisfaction to the bride 's grandmother , the aged Queen of Hanover . She had lived , it is true , not quite long enough to be present at the wedding , but long enough to enjoy thwarting the Prussian family which seized her throne . ALEXANDRA is the Princess whom the German Emperor is said to have chosen for his eldest son . The ex-Queen of Hanover had lived to be eighty-six , having long outlived her blind spouse , but no age was too long for her resentment at the treatment which that spouse and their son , the Duke of CUMBERLAND , received at the hands of BISMARCIC . She Passed nearly forty years inculcating in her family a protest against the great injustice of the seizure by Prussia of Hanover , and it may have sweetened her last year on earth to know that her granddaughter disdained an imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the hated Hohenzollerns . The chances of happiness for Princesses are small , but ALEXANDRA starts in wedded life with the advantage of mutual inclination on the part of bride and bridegroom . No happiness could have been hers if she had taken the glittering bait and married the imperial Crown Prince . It would have been as cold-blooded a marriage for State reasons as was the wedding of the present Emperor . But unless appearances and rumors are wrong , ALEXANDRA is not the woman to submit meekly to domestic tyranny or stand indifference with-out a struggle to assert herself . The marriage at Gmunden has received a certain political flavor through the presence of important Hanoverians whose hearts are true to the GUELPHS , but the situation is such as to create little excitement in the Wilhelm Strasse and only the most perfunctory remarks in the greater part of the German press . The Hanoverian question is only important in contingencies hardly likely to occur during the present generation . It would be hard to foresee the conditions Under which a return of a Guelph ruler to Hanover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up hope ; they bequeath their yearnings to their heirs With a steadfastness " worthy of a better cause . " Whether Centrum Party or Socialists or Agrarians gain preponderance in Germany , there will be no popular , no feudal , no clerical enthusiasm for the return of the GUELPHS . The question in Germany is rather the other way  --  how to get rid of more of the small rulers . The King of Hanover is not half the trouble while sternly sulking at Gmunden that he would be in Hanover . What makes a return to the Guelph line in Hanover doubly detested is the close connection which has naturally existed between that house and the English throne . Germans are still sensitive over the influence formerly exerted on Prussian politics by British statecraft , reinforced by royal connections that reach back to the beginnings of Prussia as a kingdom . It is true that Prussia reaped enormous benefits thereby . What would FREDERICK THE GREAT have done without British subsidies and support when three countries sought to suppress his rising power ? It is ungrateful of Prussia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grateful . Perhaps it is better for Germany that ALEXANDRA did not marry the Crown Prince .                     