@@676831

txt The correspondent of a prominent financial Institution in this city , who has lived and done business in Japan for many years , writes as follows concerning the aptitude and adaptability of the Japanese ; " It is not only in war that the Japanese take a prominent position . In the art of government ; in National education , in liberality in commerce they deserve to take high rank ; and even in the minor affairs of life they come to the front , for on the Fourth of July last the Yokohama baseball team challenged the Tokio students to a test match , with the result that the Tokio young men made a score of 22 to their opponents ' 6 , defeating the American team on their own ground and at their own game . . " What a superb record could be compiled of the evolution of Japan from the restoration of the empire to the close of the year 1904 by a conscientious and capable historian like ? Prescott ! " In referring to Japan in this way , I do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of time this country will be prominent in all those qualities which tend to make a nation great ; and , although warlike when challenged , the desire of the rul- ? ing classes in Japan is for peace , friendship with other ' nations , and a magnificent extension of the nation 's commerce and manufactures . This view deserves to be made known in the United States , for , naturally , the extension of Japanese commerce will include increasing interchange of commodities between Japan and the United States , converting the now silent Pacific into a grand ocean highway " You may think that I take a too enthusiastic view of Japanese progress and the future of the country . I may do so , but it is founded on the honest belief in the capacity of this people to adapt themselves to any circumstances ; and they have shown in government , in free institutions , in commerce , and in general relations with the outer world an astonishing power which entitles them to he reckoned with as a factor in the future of the human race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to you by others ; but I have not knowingly exaggerated any statements made in this letter . The proof is before the world , and it must be of service to the pro- ; gressive people of America to have a correct view of the potentialities of this new Eastern empire . "                     