@@677264

txt On a charge of sending lottery tickets out of the State , John M. Rogers , a wealthy resident and Park Commissioner of this city , was held in $15,000 bail by United States Commissioner Mahaffey to-day . His printing shop was raided last night by Secret Service officers , and several plate- used for printing lottery tickets , and about a ton of partially printed tickets of the Honduras lottery were seized . It is said that striking printers gave the information on which the raid was based . M. F. Griffin of Philadelphia , Secret Service agent , who was at the head of the raid , said to-day that the seizure is directly connected with the seizure at the Terminal Storage Warehouse , at Twenty-seventh Street and Eleventh Avenue . New York , by Agent Flynn on Monday , and also with the discovery of plates and partially printed tickets yesterday at the plant of the Rogers Bolt , Gauge , and Drill Works at Gloucester . N. J. Many of the papers and books of the Rogers printing concern were also seized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the District Attorney . John P. Nields . Soon afterwards Mr. Rogers , accompanied by his attorney , Willard Saulsbury , appeared before United States Judge Bradford , and an affidavit was presented declaring that the search warrant issued by the court had been " grossly and flagrantly abused " by the officers . After a hearing Judge Bradford directed Marshal Flynn to turn over to Mr. Rogers all documents that have ho direct bearing on the lottery charge . This decision came as a surprise . The court refused to specify what effects should be surrendered , saying that the Marshal " understood the English langauge . " There was a quarrel in the corridor between the counsel for Mr. Rogers . Mr. Nields , and Marshal Flynn . The District Attorney refused to permit Mr. Saulsbury to enter his office to examine the books . The matter was taken before the Judge , and finally a large quantity of the seized effects were surrendered by the Marshal . When the trial of Mr. Rogers is called in the June term of the Federal Court , Mr. Saulsbury will move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search . Secret Service Agent Flynn and his agents confiscated at the Terminal Storage Warehouse , at Twenty-seventh Street and Eleventh Avenue , on Monday $500,000 worth of lottery tickets , several thousand ? dollars ' worth of steel engravings , and 300 electrotype plates used in the making of lottery tickets . " The confiscation of this property , " said Chief Flynn yesterday , " has grown out of a case at Wilmington , Del. , upon which Secret Service men have been working for some time . A plant had been running for twenty years making and disposing of tickets purporting to be for the Honduras National Lottery Co. of Puerto Cortez . In reality the lottery tickets were manufactured and the subsequent proceedings carried on at the same plant . The operations were a continuation of the Louisiana Lottery Company , which was put , out of business in Louisiana in 1895 . " A short time ago the operators of the Wilmington plant became aware that they were being watched . We had suspected that nearly a million tickets flooding the country every month came from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where they were discovered and seized ny my men . A raid was made on the Wilmington plant last night , and also a search of another plant at Gloucester , N. J. At both places plates and printed matter were found . " We expect later to arrest the agents of the lottery company . They are scattered all over the country . In some cases we know them to be persons of considerable means and prominence . The man at the back of the whole business owns.a big steel plant . " The lottery paraphernalia confiscated Monday was addressed to one L. Dugan , of 718 Seventh Avenue . This is a millinery store , and the goods were never sent there at all . Chief Flynn is looking for the person named Dugan.                     