@@676879

txt President Arthur T. Hadley of Yale , after a rough-andtumble fight with a beggar to-day , got the better of the man and subsequently caused his arrest . Introducing himself as Charles F. Porter of Denver , Col. , a man called upon President Hadley in his room in the Administration Building , and asked for funds with which to get to Syracuse . He said his father was an old Yale man , and that he was absolutely without money . President Hadley telephoned to Police Headquarters for a detective , and was asked to detain Porter , who became suspicious and tried to go . The President seized him and a struggle followed . When the detective reached President Hadley 's office he found Yale 's chief executive . and two students wrestling with Porter , who is a powerful man weighing about 250 pounds . President Hadley was almost exhausted , being so out of breath that it was several minutes before be could speak sufficiently to prefer a charge against the man . Some idea , of the strenuous nature of the scrimmage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that Porter was so exhausted ' when he reached Police Headquarters that he had to be supported by two officers , and it was some little time before he recovered sufficiently to be able to tell his story . Papers were found upon him which show Porter to be a veteran of the Civil War , having served in the Eighth Missouri , and that up to a short time ago he drew a pension of $8 per month . The last place at which this pension was paid was Los Angeles , Cal . lie is held on a charge of vagrancy . SMOKE FILLS SUBWAY . Burning Packing About Hotbox Drives Passengers from Trains . A hot box on a car of an up-bound Subway train during rush hours last night . set fire to the oil-soaked packing just before the train pulled into the Seventy-second Street station . A dense smoke arose , which tilled the tunnel and the train , and it was a scared lot of passengers that piled . out of the cars at Seventy-second Street ' and made for the upper alt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Third Street and then over on the Lenox Avenue line , leaving a trail of dense smoke behind it . Into this smoke ran a train or two following the one with the hot box , and it was thick enough to cause various other outpourings of nervous passengers , when a station in the smoke zone gave opportunity for escape . Meanwhile the cause of all the trouble was making its painful way up the Lenox Avenue branch . When it reached One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street it came to a dead stop , and more smoke from the burning packing rolled through the stationkand out into the street . The Subway - employes refused to talk about the trouble , and some wild stories got afloat , to continue until the offending train got up to One Hundred and Forty-fifth Street , where the blaze Was quickly put out .                     