@@676624

txt A dispatch received here from Port Arthur , dated today ; says : " At 1 o'clock this morning several Japanese torpedo boats were sighted from here With sails set for the purpose of disguising their Character . " The battleship Retvizan and the shore batteries opened fire on them and continued firing until daybreak without any visible result . " After daybreak a Japanese squadron , apparently convoying transports , was sighted . At 11:15 this squadron came nearer and an engagement which lasted forty minutes ensued . There was no damage . Pew shells fell in Port Arthur . . ? " It is expected here that the Japanese will attempt a landing soon . " A Russian correspondent of The Ass o ' elated Press telegraphs from Port Arthur under date of to-day as follows : " Last night at about 10 o'clock Japanese torpedo boats again unsuccessfully attempted to approach Port Arthur . Firing was heard at sea after midnight , and it is presumed ' that Russian torpedo boats torpedo-boat destroyers attacked the Japanese . No details of the result are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Viceroy : of . the Far East , . Admiral Alexieff , to the Emperor , has been given out . It Is dated yesterday , . The place whence it is sent Is not stated , but , is supposed to be Mukden . The message ' is as follows : " A squadron of the enemy 's vessels . ' numbering sixteen , approached the fortress at about 11 o'clock this morning and opened a bombardment on the cruisers Askold , Bayan , and North . which were in the outer harbor , and also on the fortress . The firing-continued for half an hour . Then .. our cruisers went into the harbor . The enemy fired for several minutes on one of our batteries , and then ' began to - leave . - They stopped within sight of the fort , but out of range of fire . " At this time four of the enemy 's cruis'era detached themselves from the squadron and proceeded to Pigeon Bay , where they quickly opened fire on our torpedo boats that were cruising there . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Commandant consequently sent troops to Pigeon Bay . The firing there lasted for thirty minutes , but ? no landing was made . The , Japanese cruisers then departed . " Suitable measures have been taken to oppose a possible effort on the part of the enemy to creep up by sea . ' " Our loss this day was one man wounded at the battery . " I respectfully report the above to your Imperial Majesty . " A second telegram from Viceroy Alexieff to the Czar is dated to-day . It says : " On Feb. 24 seventeen of the enemy 's ? warships , with twelve torpedo boats and steamers , were cruising outside Port Arthur , but keeping out of range . On the same day the Russian cruisers Bayan , Ashold , and Novik left the roadstead . Two Japanese cruisers advanced toward the Novik , which returned to Port Arthur accompanied by our torpedo boats from Pigeon Bay . The enemy 's cruisers were left far behind . In the evening our cruisers returned to the roadstead . " On the night of Feb. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese torpedo boats again appeared in the reads and the battleship Retvizan and the fort batteries opened fire on them . Battery No . IS reports having sunk one of the enemy 's torpedo boats . " At I ) o'clock in the morning a squadron of fourteen vessels was sighted in the distance . " Maps of Port Arthur and Port Adams and a chart of the Yellow Sea were discovered aboard the enemy 's vessels which ' were sunk in the night attack of Feb . Conducting wires and electric batteries were found on the vessel which caught fire . The wires were cut by port miners . The fires have been extinguished . " A dispatch from Port Arthur says the Japanese torpedo attack of yesterday re . suited in a complete Russian success . The accurate shooting of the batteries inflicted losses on the enemy , and caused the boiler on one of the Japanese torpedo boats to explode . Early in the morning a Japanese fleet consisting of six battleships and four cruisers appeared on the horizon . The Russian cruisers Askold , Bayan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese torpedo boats advanced to within thirty or thirty-fire cable lengths to attack them . The Japanese battleships and cruisers separated and then advanced against two Russian torpedo boats cruising in Pigeon Bay . One of the latter broke through the enemy 's line under a hot fire and reached harbor . At 10:45 o'clock a fierce artillery engagement began between the Japanese battleships and the Russian cruisers supported by the shore batteries . In view of the supe. riority of the enemy 's six battleships over the three light Russian cruisers , the latter were withdrawn . The enemy ceased fire at 11 : 2P . The Japanese manoeuvring was clumsy , and in turning the vessels came so close to one another that Russian shells could be seen falling on them as they huddled together .                     