@@676741

txt Alton 13 . Parker , Democratic candidate for President , said last week that he did not propose ' to be photographed by camera men . This statement has called forth a protest from Miss Abigail Roberson of this city , the young woman who last year sued a big milling company for damages for publishing her likeness on one of their advertiseMentS , and Whose prayer for relief was denied by the Court of Appeals , of which Judge Parker was and still is Chief Justice , Miss Roberson yesterday sent a letter to Judge Parker . Among other things she says : " My . Dear Sir : I read in The Associated Press dispatches yesterday afternoon that Mrs. Parker was obliged to leave home to avoid the annoyance of ubiquitous photographers , notwithstanding the warning given by you and reported in the same dispatches last Saturday morning in which it was announced that that would be the last daY , of promiscuous photographing of yourself and family , and wherein you are ttuoted as saying : ' I reserve the right to put my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everlastingly afraid that I shall be snapped by some fellow with a camera . ' " I take this opportunity to remind you that you have no such right as that which you assert . I have very high authority for my statement , b.ane , nothing less than a decision of the Court of Appeals of this State wherein you wrote the prevailing opinion . The action was one in which I was ? the plaintiff , and tile Rochester Folding Box Company and another corporation were the detendants , and is reported in 111 New ' York at Page NS . " You may recollect that the facts in that case were undisputed , and that it was admitted that the defendants without my knowledge or consent , and knowing that they had no right or authority so to do , had secured my photograph , and , having caused it to be enlarged and lithographed in life size , had circulated about 25,000 copies thereof as an advertisement of the com . modifies in which one of the defendants dealt ; that the likenesses were posted conspicuously in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and had been recognized by my friends and others ; that my good name had been attacked . I desired an injunction against the defendants restraining the further use thereof . " The question arose upon demurrer , and the Special Term held that the complaint entitled me to relief . The Appellate Division of  --  the Fourth Department unanimously affirmed that decision , and upon the appeal to the Court of Appeals this latter court was divided , three of the Judges deciding with you that the facts admitted furnished no ground for relief and three dissenting . You referred to my cause of action as a so-called ' right of privacy , and admitted that such publicity , which some find agreeable , ' is to plaintiff very distasteful , and that I suffered mental distress , ' when others would have appreciated the compliment to their beauty , ' and in an opinion sixteen pages long you arrived at the conclusion that I had no rights that could be protected by your tribunal . " To be perfectly fair to you , I ought to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication under similar circumstances which was in its nature libelous . It necessarily follows , therefore , when you now say that you reoerve the ' right ' not to be photographed with your bands in your pockets or in other comfortable attitudes . either that you arc asserting a right for yourself and your family which you are unwilling to ac-. cord to litigants before your court . or else that there is something in the attitude suggested of such a nature that a reproduction of it with photographic exactness would be necessarily libelous . It is not apparent how your likeness in the attitude suggested could be libelous , at least not as long as you kept your hands in your own pockets . " I am forced to tire conclusion that this incident well illustrates the truth of the old saying that it makes a lot of difference whose ox is gcred . I sympathize with Mrs. Parker in her annoyance , but I know of no reason why you or your family have any rights of the nature suggested which do not equally belong to me . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was much more entitled to protection than yot . " I was a poor girl making my living by my daily efforts , and never had courted publicity in any ma , nner . I had never appeared before the public in any capacity nor solicited any favor at its hands . You , on the other hand . are a candidate for the highest office in the gift of the people of the United States , and that fact makes you the legitimate centre of public Interest . You are asking the suffrage of the American public , and the American public would seem to have some legitimate right of investigation . Your candidacy is something more than merely voluntary , and it may fairly be said that you have invited the curiosity which we have both found to be somewhat annoying . " To this extent , at least , it would seem to roe that the right which you denied me. but which you now assert for yourself , was stronger in my case than in yours . " Judge Parker , in deciding Miss Roberson 's caae @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his opinion he recognized the sympathy to which she was entitled , and the impertinence of the milling company in refusing to be governed by her wishes , hut he denied the right of an individual to prevent his features from becoming known outside of his circle of friends and acquaintances . In the course of his opinion he says : " The right of privacy , once established as a legal doctrine , can not be restrained to the publication of a likeness , but must necessarily embrace as well the publication of a word Picture , a comment upon one 's looks , ' conduct , domestic relations , or habits . And were the ' right of privacy ' once legally asserted , it would necessarily be held to include the same things if spoken instead of printed ; for one as well as the other invades the right to be absolutely let alone . Insult would certainly be in violation of such a right , and with many persons would more seriously wound their feelings ' than would the publication of their picture ; and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken and done day by day which seriously offend the sensibilities of good people to which the principle which the plaintiff seeks to have imbedded in the doctrine of the law would seem to imply . I have gone only far enough to barely stiggest the vast field of litigation which would necessarily be opened up should this court hold that privacy exists as a legal right , enforceable by Injunction. "                     