@@781136

txt It is the opinion of the best-informed and most far-seeing of the Republican politician 's that the differences between Senator Platt and Gov Odell may well give President Roosevelt cause for great concern as to what New York trill do for him in the Presidential contest In 1904 . No one entertains the belief that Gov . Odell would take the New York delegation away from President Roosevelt even if conditions should be such as to put it absolutely in his power to take such action . For the Governor to start a fight against the President 's renomination would simply mean that the friends of the President would all to themselves with Senator Platt and set out to accomplish the Governor 's political destruction . The Governor would then have two formidable foes instead of one , andthere are few who believe that he would be powerful enough to defeat such a combination . notwithstanding the success die has hadeein his contests for supremacy with Senator Platt . Therefore , even if the Governor felt disposed to take issue with the President with regard to where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Convention , which his friends deny absolutely that he does , it is the general opinion that it would be political folly for him to assume any such attitude . Whether Gov . Odell or Senator Platt is the dominant personality in the delegation which wilt be sent by New York to the National Convention the delegalion will vote for President Roosevelt . That much is conceded , by both the close personal friends de the Governor and the Senator . The cause for concern which the President has In connection with the controversy ? now being waged in the State organization Is not over New York 's support of nomination ; but what New York will do for him on the day of election in view of the bitterness which is now being engende'red throughout the State by Republican f aCtionis ts . The prediction of Louis F. Payn that President Roosevelt if renominated would have ' at least 100,0130 majority against him iii - New York would of itself be given no especial weight in view of the fet that Mr. Payn 's prejudice against the resident is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warped in any matter-In - which President Roosevelt is concerned . But in the heat of the sensational events which have taken place here during the last few days the Republican State leaders have disclosed information as to conditions in their party which they have here-Ia.:ore carefully glearded from becoming pubic . ? - GRANGER ELEMENT DISPLEASED . ' te attitude which Senator Ambler has i ' . o  --  Ward the organization has given its lecalers : pore concernthan anything which has been eitnelee said or done by the three original insurgents  --  Elsberg , Brackett , and Brown . Senator Ambler is recognized as one who understands the sentiment of the farmers of the State probably better Than any other man in public life . For years he - has been one " of the most prominent men in the State Grange , and in the Senate lee has been known as the Farmer 's Friend . " being at the head of the Agricultural Committee and having charge of all legislation in which the farmers have an especial interest . Senator Ambler declares that in taking the position he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frank M. Baker 's nomination he was carrying out the wishes of the Granger element of the State . An interesting story is told by one who is closely associated with the Granger element as to the cause of the resentment which this element is now declared to feel against the Republican organization . He said that notwithstanding the canal pledges given in the platform adopted by the State Convention at Saratoga , the Grangers had the absolute promise from the leaders of the organization that there would be no canal legislation . " if Gov . Odell desires to know where the 8.000 plurality hr which he was elected camp from . " said this gentleman . " I can give him some information on the subject which possibly might be a surprise to him . The Grangers were hesitating over the course which they would take in the Gubernatorial contest until they received the pledges of the Republican leaders that ' no , cenal legislation would he enacted by the Legislature if the Republicans were in conT* ? ol . I could mention one Democrat in the State Grange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , threw his influence and began spending his money for the election of Gov . Odell and the State ticket . and who . I de not exaggerate when say , is chiefly responsible for the in-creased up-State vote which Gov . Odell received , and which saved him from defeat . " This-gentleman stated that if he were to make public interviews he had had with prominent Grangers in the State . and letters he had received from others since the Canal bill has been signed by the Governor convincing evidence would he furnished that the Republican organization undoubtedly was in a bad way .. STRIFE AMONG REPUBLICANS . An illustration of the strife within the Republican Party is furnished by the contest which is now being made over the Niagara Falls charter . A new charter for that city was prepared by the organization Republicans , whose leader is James Low , . Collector of the Port . The chief feateire was a provision creating the office of Controller and giving to the Mayor the power of appointment . The Controller ; by virtue of his office . Was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Apportionment and the Board of Public Works , and through him Mayor Hancock . who , although a Democrat , was elected by the organization Republicans , expected to secure control of both those bodies . The hilt  --  was given lo Senator L'Hominedleu and Assembly-Man Leggett to intro-duce. - It has passed the Assembly , but is being . held ' up in the Senate . Senator la'Hornmedieu admits that he sees no chance of getting it though . The opposition comes from William C. Warren , the Republican leader of Erie County . The motive which led Mr. Warren to undertake to defeat a bill which had the ap-preval of the Republican organization in the county adjoining his own and in which he- could have no political interest IS understood to be purely financial . Mr. Warren is part owner of an electric light company in Niagara Palls . As originally introduced , the 1 .... ellommedieu bill provided for a mu-nicipal ? electric lialiting plant . The constrUction of such a plant would have put Mr. Warren 's compaire out of business , and the charge is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . este- of his friends in Niagara . County as of greater importance than the political desires . of - the Republican organization of Niagara Falls . Incidentally it may be remarked that 31r . ' Warren is regarded as one of the Governor 's allies , while Senator L'Hommedieu is considered as belonging to the Platt wing of - the party . Mr. L'Hommedieu previous to.his election to the . Senate was a member of the Republican State Committee . He succeeded Senator-Ellsworth in the Senate and Senator Ellsworth took his place on the State Committee . He feels very/bitter over Mr , - Warren 's interference with the ' Polities of his . district . This incident ' is but one of many which might be ' related as showing the lack of harm-onions ' action which now prevails - among. the leaders in the Republican State organization . Since it has . become . generally understood that there was a divided authority- in the ' . State Organization the district leaders have been ' disposed to act tor , themselves not only because of the tion . It specifically referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation proposed by the Governor . If the Senator had not taken the determined public stand which he did take upon this question , it was stated , the Mortgage Tax bill advocated by the Governor would assuredly have been passed , and a way would have been found to have taken care of the canal debt which will be created under the Davis-Bostwick bill in the event that that bill becomes operative through the approval of the people in the election next Fall without the necessity of imposing a direct tax . If this could have been accomplished Gov . Odell feels that the estrangement of the granger element from the Republican ortiganization would not have occurred , and e further believes that the desire of New York City and Buffalo for canal . improvernent would have allayed all resentment in those localities because of the mortgage tax tion . All his calculations in this respect were completely upset by Senator Plan 's interference , and it is upon the Senator , and not upon him , he thinks , that the responsibility rests for the creation of political conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lytt4. - Should the differences between the friends of Senator Platt and Gov . Odell result finally in an open fight , interest will centre largely upon the attitude of the State Corn- ! mitteemen . William Barnes . Jr. , the Albany County leader , will be one of those ! who will be a strong factor in the contest . 1 He is Chairman of the Executive Corn- ; Mittee of the State Committee , but he has I bad and undoubtedly still has ambitions to j be Chairman of the State Committee . Ile once told Senator Platt as much upon the retirement from the office of Mr. Odell to the C. , overnorship . He was forced to give way . ' however , to the Senator 's close friend , eol . George W. Dunn of Binghamton . It is believed by many that the Albany C  --  unty leader is not as friendly to the Senator as the Senator 's friends might wish him to be . The Albany County leader has been able thus far to hold himself on good terms with both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Odell administration , however , and is ? believed to treasure a grudge against Senator Platt . and so probably would eit found on the Governor 's side in case of a division . Gov . Odell returned to Albany to-night . ' He declined to answer any question as to the political situation . He would not affilm or deny the interview accredited to him from Buffalo . All that he would say was that he would look over such legislative matters as had been sent to him during his absence and make his decisions later . ?                     