@@677463

txt The account in THE NEW YORK TIMES 'S ANNUAL FINANCIAL REVIEW of the condition of our China trade is one of the many suggestive contributions , from first-hand authorities , in that periodical . Mr. JOHN FOORD , the writer , as Secretary of the American Asiatic Association , is officially the first authority on this side of the Pacific . " On the face of the returns " Mr. FOORD is compelled to acknowledge a shrinkage ' in our trade with the Far East , including Japan , the Chinese treaty ports , and Hongkong ; of more than .40 per cent . But qe enumerates the special causes which attenuate the ' general statement . Half the falling off In the China trade is due to the cessation of a temporary and casual demand for copper for mintage . Of the remainder , Mr. FOORD finds some explicable upon the ground that cotton cloth had been overimported during the previous year . The falling off in our exports to Japan is fully and satisfactorily accounted for by the cessation of the Japanese demand for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , foodstuffs may be included . How much of the decline In the China trade is attributable to the Chinese boycott of American products Mr. FOORD does not attempt to compute . The only item he specifies as excluded by that movement is petroleum , and that in Southern China . Probably nobody could , from the accessible statistics , say precisely what the consequences of that movement have been . But , when you meet with a clear result and an efficient-looking cause , , it seems safe to connect them . In fact , it would be , so to speak , immoral , if our treatment of the Chinese on the Pacific Coast had not had some result in diminishing the volume of our Chinese trade . Our persecution of the Chinese , and those not by any means altogether of the excluded classes , has been , as everybody on this side of the Rocky Mountains is prepared to admit , disgraceful and uncivilzed . ? The Chinese would indeed be " pigeon livered and lack gall " if it had not its effect upon the trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loss and damage falls where it should fall , upon the Pacific Coast itself . But some of it falls on other parts of the country , which have furnished no Justification for the resentment which . the Chinese are entitled to feel . But for the great home demand for cottons , as Mr. FOORD points out , the falling off of the Oriental demand would have had lamentable results on Eastern and Southern- mills . It might be wished that the effects of the Chinese boycott were statistically more clearly traceable , especially as there seems to be ground for apprehension that the same race persecution which has been practiced against the Chinese is to be put in force against the Japanese also . A clear statistical showing of the commercial results of such a persecution would be apt to have its effect upon the business men of the Coast , who have heretofore acquiesced in the proceedings of its labor leaders ' and its hoodlums.                     