@@781435

txt Trains for passenger traffic will begin running.through the Hudson tunnels from the lower end of Manhattan Island to New Jersey a week from to-morrow , according to the announcement made yesterday by William G. 11.1cAdrio , President of tits Hudson and Manhattan Tunnel Company . Simultaneously came an announcement from the Pennsylvania Railroad that its two tunnels , extending from Weehawken to the railroad 's new terminal at Seventh Avenue and Thirty-third Street , have been completed , so that the laying of tracks can be started at once . This work is to be imshed ' and in a few months the two tubes will be ready for traffic , These two systems of tunnels , with the other two tubes of the Hudson Company , which have been in use fdr more than a year , will mark the end of reliance upon the ferry sistern across the Hudson River , and NMI bring about the complete linking of Manhattan with New Jersey . Already the ere &; tunnels running from Morton Street to the Lackawanna Railroad terminal in Hoboken have proved of great value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is promised , will work a benefit well nigh incalculable . ' The two tubes of the Hudson Company will carry pessengers/from Jersey City to Manhattan and back in ears that will be run only in these tunnels . The Pennsylvania tunnels will be for the , use of railroad trains to and from the West and South . President ' McAdoo of the Iluason Company calculates that his trains wilr make the trip from Jersey City to Manhattan in three minutes . Althdy there have been trial trips , and he bases his , estimate on the results obtained . The Hudson Company 's tunnels have been bored front the Pennsylvania station in Jersey City to the Hudson Terminal Building at 30-50 " Church Street , Manhattan . Within thirty days of their opening two tubes from the Pennsylvania station in Jersey City to the , Brie Railroad station there and then on to , the Lackawanna station In Hoboken will be completed . A complete circuit of the Hudson system around to Hoboken and pack to.ManleatfMi ? . tiee wdei ceeforleth Street will thus be establish . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey branch will run back and forth in a shuttle service betwitter Hoboken and Jersey City instead of being operated over the entire system . The . opening of the Hudson tunnels to-morrow week will be made the occasion of a celebration . President McAdoo has issued invitations to 2,000 men of prominence to ride in his cars through the tunnels , and they will attend a reception in Jersey City , which the citizens there have prepared . The 2,000 guests will congregate on the two sides of the river , half leaving Manhattan at 10 A. M. and the others leaving Jersey City ' at noon . Among those who have promised to attend are Vice President Sherman , Gov . Hughes , Gov . Franklin Fort ' of New Jersey , Secretary of War Dickinson , United States Senators Kean and Briggs , Acting Mdyor McGowan , and Mayor Wittpeon of Jersey City , besides legislators and Judges from New York and New Jersey . " The opening of these tunnels , " said Mr , McAdoo yesterday , means a saving of at least nine minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In time there will be nothing much for the ferries to do but card vehicles , " When the tunnels open Pennsylvania Railroad passengers arriving in Jersey City will be- able to exchange the terry coupons on their tickets for transfers tiirough the tunnels without extra.charge . They will have the alternative of crossleg the river by boat or of taking an elevator in the station down to the tunnel . Those leaving Manhattan will be able to exchange their ferry tickets at the terminal concourse . The final inspection of the Pennsylvania Railroad 's tunnels running to the new terminal station In Manhattan was made a few days ago by Vice President Samuel Rea of the railroad and Charles PC Jacobs , chief engineer of the tunnel - construction , and Mr. Rea gave orders to rush the track laying so that , if possible , trains may be run by the end of Summer . To facilitate this work , traeks have been laid from the Pennsylvania 's line at Harrison to the mouth of the tunnels on the Hackensack meadows , eix miles away . On these trains loaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the two tunnels was begun at both ends in May , 1803 , and the two ends of both tunnels met in May , 1008 . The week involved boring two , tubes under Bergen Hill , behind Weehawken  --  no easy task . The two tunnels are 23 feet in diameter and are lined With 2 feet of concrete . They are 2.8 miles in length from Manliattan , to the Hackensack end . The tubes einerge in Manhattan at Ninth Avenue . In the course of their construction a01,995 cubic yards of earth and rock have been excavated . In tunneling under the river compressed air was used , and Tor this purpose 3,770,000 , e00 Cubic feet of air were Pumped into the tunnels . The tubes contain 0420 tons of cast iron and steel and 740 tons of structural steel wereeused. - In the various concrete linings 240,500 barrels of cement were utilized .                     