@@678123

txt A crowd gathered in Dyker Heights Park . Brooklyn , yesterday to see the preparation of a moving picture for the Vitagraph Company of America . The story to be portrayed was the abduction in an automobile of a young girl by the leader of a gypsy band and the pursuit In two other cars by the girl 's father and his friends , culminating in a fight on the water after the pursued and pursuers had embarked In launches which were waiting at the foot of the Shore Road . Bath Beach . The abduction had taken place , and Arthur White , an actor of 503 West 173d Street , was speeding along Cropsey Avenue in the automobile , holding the stolen girl in his arms and waving defiance to his pursuers , when , at Fourteenth Avenue , where there is a slight curve in the road , Walter Ackerman of Nineteenth and Cropsey Avenues , who was driving the car , lost control of it and It upset . I The girl and White , together with Ackermanand another actor , were thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except White , who was caught partly beneath the overturned car . 1Stuart Blackton of 1,526 Church Avenue , Flatbush , who was managing the picture taking , saw the possibilities of the accident and had the cameras kept trained on the scene , while he hurried to White 's help and called Dr. Spellman from the Norwegian Hospital . The crowd lifted the car and White was pulled from under it badly bruised and only half conscious . Dr. Spellman revived him , but said that he had probably internal injuries . White was put in one of the automobiles and carried to his home . Ackerman was arrested for driving without a license . The young woman said she was not hurt and refused to tell the police her name . POLICE BUILDING CAVE-IN . New Porte Cochere 's Arch Tumbles ? Structure Must Be Rebuilt . The heavy concrete ports coch  --  re at the north end of the new Police Headquarters building , at Mulberry and Grand Streets , caved in yesterday afternoon . No one was Injured , none of the workmen being under it at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the arch , jumped clear of the falling darts and escaped unhurt . The porte cochAre was finished only recently . Its construction was , seemingly , on a massive scale . The top of the carriageway was held by an arch of material covered with tiles . This arch suddenly gave way yesterday and crashed to the ground . The sides were sprung and the heavy concrete blocks wrenched apart . The sides were still up last night , but in such condition that they will have to be torn down . The porte cochere must be entirely rebuilt . The tiled archwork was done by the Cohesive Tile Company as sub-contractor . The work on the building is being conducted by Thomas &; Oppenheimer , receivers for the contracting firm of Gillespie , Walsh &; Gillespie . Supt. Weber of the receivers ' office , in the building , said , yesterday that there was no reason to believe that any other part of the construction work on the building was faulty . An examination will be made today . One of the Subway loops which will connect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but an engineer for the subway construction company said yesterday that a most careful inspection had been made , and it was certain that the Subway work had nothing to do with the fall of the porte coch  --  re or would in any way affect Injuriously any part of the building . SKYSCRAPERS BAD FOR CITY . Congestion Committee , Stirred by the New ** Plan , to Prove It . The plans for a new 909-foot skyscraper at Broadway and Nassau Street , for the Equitable Life Assurance Society , have been the topic of discussion among members of the Committee of Congestion of Population in New York . Two points have been raised regarding it . One is that with the financial district covered with skyscrapers as tall , or even approximately the height of the Singer and Metropolitan Life towers , and the proposed Equitable structure , the downtown streets would be entirely inadequate for the passage of the thousands of people doing business there . As one of these interviewed put it : " To accommodate such a crowd the people would have to walk in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roadways would not hold the delivery wagons , automobiles , and carriages of people going to the structures . " The other point regarding the Equitable Life building was that the plans filed were not in mature shape , but might have for their object the approval of Building Supt. Murphy and thus anticipate a new law regulating the height and plans of skyscrapers . Beniamin C. Marsh . Executive Secretary of the Committee on Congested Population , said in discussing the increased height of office buildings yesterday : " We have men compiling statistics covering traffic conditions and the number of persons in the streets in the financial section . These figures will not be ready " for a report for several weeks . The question of reforms in the building regulations is now in the hands of a commission appointed by the Mayor . We are not contemplating any action in the courts on the plans for the Equitable Life structROADS TO CARRY MILLIONS . All Lines Making Preparations for Big Summer Excursion Traffic . To-day the rush of vacation travel begins . Preparations for moving during the Summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this country , and multitudinous tariff sheets giving rates have been prepared in accordance with the restrictions made by the various State Commissions in com , pliance with the law . The Pennsylvania Railroad has made ' ? provision to handle fully 1,000,000 passen- ? gera . Plans have been made upon a much greater scale than ever before to extendI the privilege of very low rates to people living on various portions of the corn- ' , pany 's lines who desire to visit the more attractive , resorts at the seashore or among the mountains and lakes . Special excursions taking passengers from , 100 to 160 stations at a time will also be run continually during the Summer from numerous portions of the system to Niagara Falls and other well-known resorts .                     