@@675468

txt The Senate Committee on Privileges and Elections today directed Chairman Chandler to press action on the Clark resolution as originally reported . The language of the resolution of the committee is as follows : " Resolved , that the Chairman be directed to press to a vote the resolution reported by the committee . " An agreement has been reached between the members of the committee and the friends of Senator Clark , that the matter shall go over until Monday : that no effort shall be made to get action on the committee resolution to-morrow , and that if Mr. Clark 's credentials arrive before that time they shall not be presented before Monday . This is due to the fact that there are already a number of special orders for to-morrow in the Senate . The adoption of the resolution was preceded by a discussion of the various points involved in the controversy , including the proper course to be pursued with reference to Mr. Clark 's credentials when they was presented to the Senate . The principal discussion was , however , based upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Senate from the committee declaring that Mr. Clark was " not duly and legally elected to a seat in the Senate . " The vote on the resolution ' stood 6 to 3 . Senators . Pritchard , ( Rep. , N. C. , ) Harris , ( Pop. , Kan. , ) and Pettus , ( Dem. , Ala. , ) casting their votes in the negative . These Senators expressed the opinion that the resignation of Mr. Clark had the effect of definitely settling the case , and that the Senate was not called upon to- take further action . - Md. , ) Ca Senators Chandler , ( Rep. , N. H. , ) Hoar , . Coma ( Rep. , s , M ( Repass. , ) .. Burrows , , ffery ( Rep. , ( Dem. , Miemch .. , , ) La.Mc , and Turley ( Dem. , Tenn. , ) took the oppo ) site view , holding that Mr. Clark 's resignation did not in any way bar the further action of the Senate , as the resolution is directed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in office . The discussion was spirited and personal at times . There was no vote upon the question of the reference of the credentials under the Lieutenant Governor 's appointment , but there is no doubt that the committee holds the reference should be made . Senators Pritchard and Harris expressed themselves as opposed to the reference to the credentials when they arrive . The principal participants in the controversy over the motion to press the committee resolution were Senators Turley for the motion and Pritchard in opposition . Mr. Turley took the position that when the Senate assumed jurisdiction of the case it no longer rested with Mr. Clark to determine it by resigning , while Mr. Pritchard held that the right of resignation was a personal right and could be exercised at any time . He also contended that the va- ' coney in the seat occupied by Mr. Clark began when the latter made the announcen.ent of resignation . There were some references to the reappcintment of Mr. Clark by the Lieutendnt Governor of Montana , indicating the opinion on the part of some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of securing a seat in the Senate . The news of the appointment of Martin Maginnis by Gov . Smith did not reach the committee during its meeting . The appointment surprises the members , but does not annoy them . Just what will be done with the papers of Gov . Smith , certifying to the appointment of Maginnis , Mr. Chandler does not pretend to say . Before the Maginnis certificate arrives it is expected that the appointment of Clark will have been certified by Lieut . Gov . Spriggs . At all events , the double appointment or the appointment of two men to fill one place adds to the complication of the case , and furnishes one more reason to the committee for postponing action upon Clark 's latest request to be admitted to the Senate . Martin Maginnis was here during the trial of Clark 's case . He then said that he seas not a factien Democrat , but was personally friendly to both Clark and Daly . If he had been appointed upon Clark 's resignation there is no doubt that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many acquaintances here , is personally a good fellow , and his services in the Senate would have made him useful . Maginnis 's right to the seat under the appointment of Gov . Smith is not regarded as valid by Senators who have talked in'formally about it , but they admit that his chance of being seated is as good as Clark ' s.                     