@@677034

txt For three consecutive months the stocks of iron at merchant furnaces have increased , the increate for June having been 70,084 tons . Sinultaneously the consumption has shrunk from 735,498 tons in March . this year 's maximum monthly consumption , to this year 's minimum , in June , 573,801 tons . Here there would seem to be a distinct slowing up of the industry which more than any other is the pulse of prosperity . But any hasty inference of the sort is checked by several considerations . Last year at this season also there were three consecutive increases of merchant stocks , and consumption fell in June , 1904 , to 431,813 tons . It will be seen that this year's:low-water mark makes a favorable comparison , and it will be recollected that last year 's trade was not checked by what may be taken as a seasonal halt , a sort of hesitation while the crops are sized up and the prospicts of the Fall estimated . The stimulating crop report for the month not improbably will be followed by a quickening in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not necessary , however , to rely upon any unusual gain in consumption to make out a good case for the iron trade . There are two ways of checking accumulation of stoats , and both are effective at the present time . Production has been effectively checked , capacity having fallen from 452,000 tons on May 1 to 408,600 on July 1 . And consumption , though rednced , continues at a full rate . Running back through the last three half years the later is the larger in each case , showing that the check to consumption is not perukanent so far as the figures disclose . It would be possible to imagine things which might extend the check noticed last year as well as this to a longer term , but this would be mere prophecy or a hunt for calamity . With their accumulations stocks are now smaller than last year , and are quite as small as is desirable . Extravagantly small stocks tend to create panic among consumers and to foster premiums and runaway markets . Stability is better than alternate feast and famine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product when prices were Insatisfactory . Moreover , while the visible stocks are growing the invisible stocks  --  consumers ' accumulations  --  are steadily dwindling and must be nearly exhausted . Prices still favor buyers , but those presuming too far upon this fact may suffer the experience of belated buyers last year , who found the market rising out of reach week after week , until finally asking prices were paid for supplies which might have been had more reasonably " if taken earlier . In short , the iron trade appears to. have gone through an experience not unlike the stock market . When securi. ties got up pretty near the record maximum prices the market broke as though from appreciation or apprehension of that fact . There was nothing substantial to explain the reaction . Similarly the iron trade has been frightened by having reached a maximum rate of production . It seemed to be thought that all that iron could not be used . Hence there must be accumulations , and the market must be broken by the welklit of metal pressing upon it . But apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for anything else . A production at nearly the rate of 2,000,000 tons monthly , and a consumption which almost carries that large amount of metal out of sight , without even the talk of a boom , denote together an unusually active and sound state of trade . It is , the iron which is consumed rather than the iron which is made that is the barometer of generartrade , and in this aspect there is almost nothing to be desired reasonably .                     