@@676186

txt The following information concerning affairs in Colombia has been received from a reliable authority at Colon : The Colombian revolution within the past low weeks has assumed certain new phases . the most noteworthy of which are the resumption of hostilities in the interior of the republic and the nature of the attitude of the United States Government with reference to the interpretation of the treaty of 1S46 between New Granada and the United States . With regard to the hostilities in the interior , Gen. ** has again appeared in the field , and is now said to hold the important strategic point of Tenerife , on the Magdalena River , where he has mounted cannon . The number of Gen. Uribe-Uribe 's followers is not known . The river at Tenerife is narrow , and transit on it is completely blocked and will remain so as long as the revolutionists hold their position . It will be difficult , however , for them to hold Tenerife unless they are well provisioned with all the necessaries of war , as that part of the country can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding Tenerife there can be no communication between the Isthmus and the Atlantic Coast and Bogota . In the matter of the attitude of the United States on the Isthmus , the arrival at Colon of Commander , and his subsequent declaration of his intention to fulfill the obligations of the treaty by landing United States marines and bluejackets to maintain free transit over the railroad , caused intense irritation in all Colombian circles . where it is not admitted that the present situation warrants such action . This feeling of irritation was further intensified when 1,000 Government troops , entering Color . from Panama , were forced to lay aside their arms temporarily and travel under the escort of American marines and bluejackets . Since this , and presumably after having communicated with the revolutionary Gen- Herrera , Admiral Casey of the United States battleship Wisconsin has notified the Government that no military employe whatever , regardless of rank , and no arms or ammunition , can be conveyed by rail across the Isthmus without the special permission of the American commanding officer . It is not easy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders or the scope of the privileges the Colombians have lost . This ill-feeling , it is believed . will result in serious friction having its origin in irresponsible quarters . It is said that civil employes of the Government will also be debarred from travel on passes over the railroad . The stipulated number of such passes for the current year has already been exceeded . There are clear indications that the Colombian Government is approaching a serious crisis with regard to its ability to continue the war . It is said upon good authority that millions of dollars of paper money are printed daily at Bogota . Exchange at Barranquilla has reached S5 Colombian dollars for one gold dollar . Nothing more forcibly illustrates the financial stress of Colombia . which entails extreme hardship upon all classes and I untold and abject misery on the poor , than 1 the utter destitution and pitiable condition of the Government troops from time to time sent out from the interior . Many of these soldiers are boys , their ages ranging from seven years up . To a foreigner arriving in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reign of terror . Liberals are unable to walk the streets under penalty of arrest . A large proportion of the Government troops on the Isthmus comes from the colder provinces , and are not accustomed to the hot climate of the Isthmus . They have often to sleep out of doors or under inadequate shelter , and are badly fed , ragged and barefooted . They now fill the improvised hospitals on the Isthmus , suffering from fevers and dysentery . There are often ten deaths a day among the soldiers stationed at Colon . IIt is a daily occurrence there to see the 1 armed police impress negroes from the 1 West Indies to carry the bodies of soldiers to the cemetery , where they are dumped into ditches without religious ceremony . Many of the troops would desert but for lack of means and opportunity to do so .                     