@@675740

txt Lawyer Benjamin Adams , a member of the local Board of Education , was arrested this afternoon upon the links of the Saegkill Golf Club upon a charge of violating the law , in that he played golf on Sunday . The arrest was an outcome of the agitation against Sunday sports . About three weeks ago a number of the ministers united in a demand upon the police that the baseball games be stopped . The Police Commissioners ordered the stopping of all forms of recreation , including golf . Several wealthy golf players threatened to leave their churches unless the agitation against Sunday sports and harmless diversions was stopped . Two of the ministers who signed the petition to the police recalled their signatures and in a local paper explained that they had signed upon the solicitation of a brother minister . The authorities did nothing last Sunday . The baseball team played away from home and the golf players went over the links as usual . To-day there was no baseball game , but Detectives Welsh and Robinson went out to the golf links @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time were Walter W. Hodgman and several ladies . Mr. Adams , hoswever , was the only one playing . Mr. Hodgman accompanied Mr. Adams to the police station and obtained bail for him . The case will be vigorously fought . At the time Mr. Adams was arrested John C. Havemeyer was preaching in a Central Methodist Church on the desecration of the Sabbath . He denounced all forms of amusements and also denounced the use of trolley and steam roads , and said that the patronage of these roads by church people caused the owners of them to keep their men working on the Sabbath , thereby violating the laws of God and man . Seated in a front pew was a young man . who was taking shorthand notes of - the sermon , and who said he was hired by Hr . Havemeyer to do so . Mr. Havemeyer 's coachman sat upon the box of his coach outside the church . At the close of the sermon Mr. Havemeyer gave a general Invitation to those present to ask him questions . When he did this an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he had for many years endeavored to lead a truly Christian life . He wanted to know why Mr. Havemeyer or any one else changed the Sabbath from the seventh to the first day of the week . The question was apparently a surprise to Mr. Havemeyer , but he made reply tin a general way in an effort to show that Sunda , was the true seventh day . The old man ' again arose , and defied Mr. Havemeyer to prove by any book or paper or scientific facts that Sunday was the Seventh Day . Mr. Havemeyer replied that the Church was not the place to discuss the matter . Tu this the old man replied in dramatic manner , holding his hands aloft : " In the name of God Almighty and Jesus Christ , I call upon you to repent of your sins and stop the desecration of the real Sabbath . ' The affair created a sensation in the church . The man refuses to give his name . but said he lived in New York City , and attended the service because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Sabbath . He had come to Yonkers to " Rise up in the house of his friends and confute him . " FRANK E. EVERETT ARRESTED . Ex-Clerk of Morristown Board of Freeholders Arraigned on Charge of Embezzlement . Frank E. Everett , for two years prior to January , 1301 , clerk of the Board of Freeholders of Morristown , N. J. , was arraigned before Magistrate Flammer , in the Centre Street Court , yesterday morning , on a charge of having embezzled the funds of the board . He was held to await extradition papers , and was committed to the Tombs . Everett is forty-four years old . Last January Everett , who was the clerk of the Freeholders ' Board of Morristown , disappeared , and examination if his accounts showed a shortage of some $3,000 . Investigation led the examiners to believe that a skillful system of peculation had been used . They found that bills of $100 against the municipality were ' changed upon filing to read $700 by the simple addition of a horizontal stroke to the ' 1 " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they discovered that " 3 's " and " 6 's " had been changed to " 8 's . " Everett , it now develops , went to Montclair and then to Arlington . A , iveelt ago last Saturday he came to New York and arranged to occupy apartments at 128 West One Hundred and Fifteenth Street . He returned to Arlington and on Friday brought his wife , four sons , and a daughter to New York . On Saturday afternoon he was arrested at the corner of One Hundred and Fifteenth Street and St. Nicholas Avenue by Central Office Detectives Sommers , Brown , and , who were acting on information sent from Morristown . In court Everett had nothing to say , and was held to await the action of the New Jersey authorities .                     