@@677168

txt Andrew Hamilton , the legislative age*t of the New York Life Insurance Company , in his report to the trustees of that institution which will be presented to the Armstrong investigating committee today , offers to put up $100,000 to cover any adjustment of the account between himself and the company which stood open when he sailed for Europe last summer . The report was considered by the New York Life 's own investigating committee at a meeting in the Hanover Bank Building offices of the company yesterday afternoot which lasted from lucheon to long after dinner time . Although neither the trustees who constitute the New York Life 's investigating committee nor President John A. McCall , who attended their meeting , would say anything about the report , it was learned last night that in addition to the offer to put up $100,000 to cover the settlement of his account , Hamilton makes . in the report a statement somewhat In detail about the purposes for which he has expended the company 's money . He does not , however , render a financial statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word and does not disclose the names of the people to whom he paid the money , for reasons which , he says In the report are obvious . One important feature of the document is that no attempt is made to disguise the fact that much of the money that Hamilton spent for legislative purposes did not go to lawyers appearing before committees . In fact , it is understood that Hamilton remarks specifically that at times in his activities it was essential to employ men who were not lawyers , but who had relations with legis  --  ators . Details which would lead to disclosing the identity of individuals so employed are lacking . All of the members of the New York Life 's self investigating committee ? Thomas P. Fowler , Norman B. Ream , Clarence H. Mackay , Hiram Steele , and Augustus G. Paine  --  with the cimmittee 's counsel , John G. Milburn and ex-Judge William H. Keener , met President McCall in the Hanover Bank Building offices of the company yesterday afternoon to take up the Hamilton report ' which John C. McCall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Europe with him last week . The body of the document was gone over in detail with Mr. McCall so that he might throw as much light as possible on the subject matter . President McCall , it is understood , was not , however , aware of the details of Hamilton 's doings except as to what was contained in the report , for , as he testified on the stand , Hamilton ran his end of the business himself and his decisions in matters of expenditures were unquestioned by the administration . President McCall left the meeting for a few minutes before six o'clock . To reporters he said : " It would not be courteous to the Armstrong Committee to divulge the nature of the report more than to say that it is very thorough . " " Is the report satisfactory to you ? " one of the reporters asked . " I should say it was , " replied Mr. McCall . It was said last night that a possible , if not probable , result of the Hamilton report will be a movement to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the names which Hamilton declines to disclose can be brought out by other means . Influences are at work to force this question upon the attention of the Legislature . Information came out yesterday that suits are now in preparation in the Attorney General 's office against all the Trustees and officers of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of the same nature as those brought by the Attorney General against the old Board of Directors of the Equitable Life . In these suits , which will be pushed when Mr. Mayer returns from his Southern trip , it will be alleged that the Trustees of the Mutual are responsible as Trustees for whatever mismanagement has occurred and whatever funds , if any , were wasted by reason of it . Specific charges will also be made against individuals who are involved in the disclosures made before the Armstrong Investigating . Committee . Ex-Judge D Cady Herrick and William G. Choate have been retained as associate counsel with James B. Dill by the Mutual 's investigating committee . There will be a meeting of the Mutual 's hoard to-day . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gillette and Grannis would be received at that time . Thomas C. Bell , who has been manager of the office of Charles Raymond &; Co ? the Mutual 's general agents here , was appointed Inspector of Agencies yesterday . Coincidently . Mutual agents received a letter to the effect that first year 's commissions on deferred dividend policies would be reduced from Tri to GO per cent . The legislative investigating committee has four sessions left in which to complete its work . To-day it will be busy with the Hamilton report and the testimony of Louis F. Payn , the former State Superintendent of Insurance , who will be asked about the charge made under oath in the Canadian insurance investigation by J. W. Wells , formerly a Vice President of the Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company , that that concern paid $40,000 to be allowed to write its own report of an examination of the company by the department in 1897.                     