@@676324

txt An informal conference of Democratic Senators was held in the conference room this afternoon after the adjournment of the Senate . Mr. Gorman presided and there were eighteen or twenty other Senators present . The object Df the meeting was to exchange views about the pending treaties and other matters with a view to formulating a party policy . It is understood , as a result , that they will present a united front against the Cuban treaty . The Senators were anxious afterward to make it plain that the meeting was not even formal enough to be called a conference , much . less a caucus . They preferred to call it a " talk . " Senator Morgan was not present . There was a good deal of talk about what should be the Democratic attitude toward the Panama Canal treaty . At one period of the discussion a desire was manifested by some Senators to call a caucus to deal with this matter and the other issues before the Senate . Later this idea was dropped ? at least for the present . Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was found that almost all those present were against . Cuban reciprocity , Senators Bacon , Clark . and Teller being particularly vigorous in their opposition to it . It is understood that the Democrats will notify the Republican leaders of their opposition to the treaty . If they should take this attitude the treaty could not be ratified . The Democrats hold that there is no longer any pretense that Cuban reciprocity is needed to save the Cubans from distress and starvation ; that this was a pretext advanced last year in order to push the bill through ; that all accounts agree that the Cubans are enjoying prosperit- , even though they did not get reciprocity last year ; that they evidently do not need reciprocity , and that the reciprocity idea is solely in the interest of the Sugar Trust . They will take the position that tariff revision in the interest of a single trust is not tariff revision at all , and will also argue that tariff revision can not be effected by a treaty . A leading Democratic Senator claimed to-day that there were at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban treaty . These are believed to be Patterson and Teller of Colorado , Taliaferro and Mallory of Florida . Bacon and Clay of Georgia . Foster and ** of Louisiana , and Money of Mississippi , Cockrell and Stone of Missouri . Carmack and Bate of Tennessee . Clark of Montana . Simmons of North Carolina . and Dubois of Idaho : These Senators are said to base their opposition on their responsibility to the sugar and tobacco interests in their State . The Democrats did not , however , formally agree on any programme with regard to either the Cuban or the Panama Canal treaty . They spoke as.individuals and for the purpoft'e of ascertaining each other 's views . The sentiraent towa , d the- canal treaty was in the ma.n friendly . The outlook for the canal is improved by the conference . They were a unit in their attitude toward the Crum appointment , which was one of hostility . There did not seem to be any very strong belief , however , that the nomination would ever get out of committee . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think there was any immediate likelihood of a caucus . The approximate unanimity of sentiment manifested obviates any necessity for a binding conference . In this respect the effect of Mr. Gorman 's leadership is seen already , for heretofore it has been difficult to get the Democrats together on any proposition . When Senator Gorman was asked what the conference was about he looked at his inquisitors gravely and replied , without changing a muscle of his face : " It was purely about some personal and private matters . No public questions were discussed at all . " The Republican leaders are outspoken in their expectation that the Cuban treaty will be ratified . Senator Aldrich . when at the White House to-day . in reply to a question . said that be knew of no new organized opposition to the Cuban treaty , and that he expected it to be ratified . Senators Allison and Lodge expressed the same belief                     