@@675666

txt Police Captains Thomas . Westervelt , Donohue , and other members of the police force who failed to suppress gambling houses and other illegal resorts found to exist in many precincts by the Committees of Five and Fifteen , may be indicted by the Grand Jury next week . Police Commissioner Murphy received yesterday from District Attorney Philbin a communication in which the latter stated his intention of bringing criminal actions against certain police officers at an early date . Pursuant to his policy to give the police authorities a chance to act before taking action himself , the District Attorney inquired whether or not it was the Commissioner 's intention to prefer charges against and bring to trial the officers in whose precincts gambling houses were found in operation and raided by citizens ' committees . In a letter sent to Col. Murphy , and published in THE NEW YORK ' TIMES . Mr. Philbin made clear his position in ' regard to thi  --  matter of precedence in trials by stating that in his opinion the interests of the public would be best served if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of duty and other offenses , before the machinery of the criminal la w was put into operation . Should the District Attorney proceed first , said Mr. Philbin , any subsequent proceedings by the Police Department would be embarrassed . The tesult of any police trial does not deter the District Attorney from taking action in cases of this kind , whereas if the latter should institute proceedings first , and the trial result in an acquittal , it Would be taken by the Police Department as a vindication of the acCured officer . Assistant District Attorney Gans finished and submitted to the District Attorney recently the brief he has been engaged upon for some time , regarding the iaws applying to police officials who willfully 11 , - greet , for pecuniary considerations , to suppress illegal resorts . Police responsibility as de , tined by the highest courts of this country and England is also treated at length . With this oriel before him . Mr. Philbin was prepared to proceed against the police officers against whom he has been gathering evidence , together with that submitted by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go ahead , notice was served on the Police Department to look out for developments . The receipt of the second letter at the Central Office created ' no little consternation . Assistant Corporation Counsel Browne . who was recently assigned to look after the legal affairs of the Police Department , was hastily called into conference , and shortly after hurried down to the District Attorney 's office , and was closeted with Mr. Philbin for some time . Col. Browne deplored the worriment and trouble to which police officers would be put if tried twice . Mr. Philbin was n't quite so sympathetic with the poor policemen . Mere transfers did n't seem to him to be sufficient punishment for an officer whose neglect of duty was apparent when committees of citizens could find any number of gambling hpuses in his precinct An full blast , ' raid them , and secure enough evidence to warrant a Magistrate in holding them for the action of the Grand Jury . Col. Browne went away after finding the District Attorney would n't recede from the position he had taken , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted when seen by a NEW YORK TIMES representative that he had received Mr. Philbin 's letter . " Will you make the letter public ? " he was asked . " No , Sir , I wilt pot , " said the Commissioner acridly . " The District Attorney wrote it . and he may give it out if he wants to . " Mr. Philbin was informed of Commissioner Murphy 's statement , but he also declined to make the letter public , on the ground - that it would not be courteous to the Police Commissioner . " That 's vdey kind of the District Attorney , " said Col. Murphy sarcastically when told this ; " to place the responsibility on me , " he added grimly . " Will you bring the Captains named to trial ? " he was asked . " I will not disc uss the letter in any way at the present time , " was the reply . Capt . Westervelt was in charge of the Church Street Precinct when " Ridge " Levien 's poolroom at 20 Dey Street was raided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and others . He was transferred shortly after the raid to Charles Street . Capt . Thomas . replaced yesterday by Capt . Chapman . although at present on sick leave , was the real head of the Tenderloin police when the Committee of Fifteen descended upon eight gambling houses in his district . Capt . Donohue has charges of extortion preferred against him by Mrs. Mildred Hamilton , and also failed to note the existence of one or two gambling houses raided by the Committee of Fifteen . At this time the names of the others who will be indicted can not be learned . Whether any weightier charges than neglect of duty in failing , to suppress gaming houses will be made against the three Captains before this Grand Jury is also being kept secret at present . The general impression around the Criminal Courts Building is that the District Attorney has in his possession much evidence against certain police officials and " pantatas " gleaned from witnesses who were prisoners captured in the numerous raids . The indictment of " John Doe . " " Richard Roe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family Is confidently looked forward to , and sensational developments are expected within the next six weeks . In regard to Capt . Donohue , Col. Murphy last evening said that the accusations of the woman Hamilton were not under such serious consideration as those entered by citizens of failing to suppress places where the law is habitually violated . He would to-day go over such evidence as has been prepared and decide on action . FIVE CAPTAINS TRANSFERRED. , Thomas . Chapman . Thompson . England , and Martens Sent to New Precincts . Five commanders of precincts were transferred yesterday morning by Commissioner Murphy . They were : Capt . Andrew J. Thomas , from the West Thirtieth to the West One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street command ; Capt . George S. Chapman of the Mercer Street$command to West Thirtieth Street , Capt . William Thompson . of the City Hall command to Mercer Streets Capt . Frederick W. Martens , from West , One Hundred and Twenty-fifth St , peet to : the Central Park Arsenal , and Capt . John W. England of this command to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Tette ; derioin " well . He was Captain there When he became notorious through his action'fnl regard to the Seeley dinner at Sherry 's , and : the entertainment furnished the banquet-I ters by the famous " Little Egypt ' and , others . Capt . England 's transfer created ; surprise . He was in Chief DeverY'a " shake up , " but Commissioner Clausen 's influence kept him in the Park Mr. Clausen is now in Cuba . Capt . Thomas. ? is now on a vacation . Capts . Martens and Thompson are accustomed to shifting . Capt . Chapman was in Col. Murphy 's of --  ; flee yesterday afternoon , and was told , plainly that the Commissioner would hold him responsible for all conditions that ; might exist and crop out in the Ninee teenth Precinct . Other Captains who have been transferred or who may in the neat future change commands will to-day go Col. Murphy and be told what is expected of them . Capt . Chapman was expected to assume command of the Tenderloin Station last evening , and isa anticipation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house , and all the evening friends dropped in to congratulate him , and were disappointed when informed-that he would not take charge until-this morning . The proprietors of the resorts in the neighborhood of Twenty-eighth and Twentyninth Streets and Sixth Avenue were somewhat uneasy . They figure that with the majority of the gambling houses and poolrooms closed there remains little else - for Capt . Chapman to use his axe on but their front doors and furniture . They all claim to be running within the law 's demand , and have been closing promptly at 1 o'clock . The Haymarket , which Capt . Chapman once raided , is the only one which is open all night . The proprietor , Edward Corey , says he enjoys this special prerogative , as he pays the sum of $10 a night for a dancing ball license to the city . RAID PRISONERS RELEASED . Detective Had No Evidence Against Alleged Gamblers ? A Lawyer 's Predicament . Detectives of the East Fifty-first Street Station arraigned yesterday morning in the Yorkville Police Court John Dallas of 329 East Ninetieth Street and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Capt . Lantry 's forces on Wednesday night on the alleged " crap shooting " place at 200 East Forty-fourth Street , said to have been run by Dallas . In court Dallas denied that he was the proprietor of the place , and said he was a driver for the Union News Company . Detective Macauley testified that when he entered the place he saw some dice on the billiard table and 31.40 in money , but he saw no one in the act of playing . " What were these other people doing ? " asked Magistrate Braun . " They were seated about the tables in the room . " " Then you have no evidence against any of the men ? " " No , " said the detective . " Then they are discharged , " said the Magistrate . Next case . " The most fervent sigh of relief breathed by any of the prisoners at these last words of the Magistrate welled up from the bosom of Louis Spiegel , a lawyer , with offices at 74 Elm Street , and living at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who enjoys the distinction of being the only man captured in the raid who gave his full name and address , stated after the court proceedings that he does not and never did indulge in the pastime of crap scooting . He was a victim of circumstances , he said , inasmuch as he had but just entered the premises to serve a summons when the raiders appeared .                     