@@676854

txt Considerable as are the resources of the English language , they would fail even If drawn upon with a prodigal pen to convey a just idea of the aversion of Eastern Democrats to the political programtnes of Mr. BRYAN , Mr. WATSON , and other volunteer leaders and reorganizers of the party . Will it suffice , therefore , to say that the pratings and the Proclamations of these gentlemen do not interest the Democracy of the great StateS of the North and East ? Mr. BRYAN produces again his shopworn ideas of the campaigns which buried him and his party in disaster , only to be taunted by Mr. WATsort with inconsistency . You accepted the St. Louis Platform , says the Georgian ; you are bound by it for four years . You insisted that the platform of Kansas City was a law unto all the Democrats of the Nation . You must now conform to your own ruling . This is Mr. WATsmi 's neat and ingenious method of getting Mr. BRYAN out of his own path . Mr. WATSON has more brains and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rid of the Nebraskan so easily . No consideration of mere consistency will keep BRYAN quiet . On the other hand , it appears that considerations of the plainest common sense will fail to keep WATSON quiet . He affirms that . the Democratic leaders in the South are false leaders , because they make their bargains with the plutocrats of Wall Street and leave the plain people of the South to shift for themselves . Are they not in fact shifting for themselves with a high degree of worldly success ? Does Mr. WATSON know any Southern Democrats who , with cotton at its present price and with the crop at this year 's figures , are sitting by the roadside be-Moaning their fate and lamenting the bounteous Bryan years of 1896 and 1900 ? Mr. WATSON is personally , so his friends say , a most agreeable man . But politically he is described with great propriety by a correspondent of Tan Timns , who pronounces him a " scarecrow . " It is no time for scarecrows . Some owlish students of our politics are pointing with hoots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and are wondering with some premonitory shivers what it will be four years hence . Nobody who has looked far enough beneath the surface to discover from what quarter the Votes came that gave Mr. ROOSEVELT his vast majorities is disturbed over DEss or the Socialists . That great body of votes is not to be won by the Socialists , not even if they put up a man immeasurably saner than DEBS . Nor will they be won back to the Democracy by such leaders as BRIAN or ' WATSON , or by any other standard bearer who insists upon policies which must make the Democracy always a losing party . Mr. WninmxmAxx , whose Democracy is in every respect sound , appeals to Judge PARKER to assume the functions and exercise the authority of leadership in the Democratic Party . The place belongs to the JUdge if he wants it . Undoubtedly it would be a good thing for the Democracy . Mr. TILDRN , in the dismal years of Tweed domination in New York , kept his Chairmanship of the State Committee . He said that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because I did not know where it would go if I dropped it . " He had taken the State organization through that period of debauchery and degradation . Judge PARKER might now perform a similar service . His tenure of the place would keep the symbols and the seal and the flag of the party out of the hands of the scarecrows , now eagerly reaching for them .                     