@@781421

txt The Italian steamer Pedemonte , which arrived this morning at La GuaYra , reports that while pausing near the Island of St. Vincent Thursday night her deck was covered to a depth of two inches with ashes and her passengers were nearly suffocated with the smell of sulphur . During Thursday all along the coast , especially in the Gulf of Paria , subterranean noises were heard . The Indians were terrorized . THE ISLAND OF ST . VINCENT . Scene of a Great Eruption in 1512 and Minor Ones Before Tiaaft . Those familiar with the geological and topographical formations of the Windward Islands say that it would not be surprising if both Mont Pelee on Martinique and La Soufriere on St. Vincent , exploded in the same manner . Both of these mountains slope gradually from the coast , both go to about the same height , both have a small lake within their crater ; and , Curiously enough , each has been known colloquially as " La Soufriere , " although the official name of each is different . The St. Vincent mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of Martinique . Mont Pelee vomited forth volcanic fires in 4851 , but soon afterward became inactive , so that both islanders and scientists believed it to ne comiletely extinct . Not so with La Soufriere , of the Morne Garou. of St. Vincent . That mountain was the source of a tremendous eruption in 1812 , of another smaller one in 1755 , and , according to tradition , of still another in 1718 . The great eruption of 1S12 took place on April 27 of that year . There had been disturbances all about the shores of the Caribbean Sea for two years before the great gutburst came . On March 26 , Just a day more than a month before the principal eruption , the coast of Venezuela was vigorously shaken , and the city of Caracas suffered the loss of thousand of its inhabitants . The seismic Convulsion moved to the Sea from Caracas , and on the date mentioned reached the little island of St. Vincent . With a great roar , the gases and fumes , the flames and molten rocks of the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and terror to all the surrounding country . For three days the great volume of smoke that were emitted from the volcano covered the island with darkness . It is said that the noise of the eruption was so great that English soldiers at Barbadoes  --  sixty miles away  --  supposed it was the cannonading of a naval battle , and preparations were made to withstand an attack . Before the eruption of Mont Pelee , little St. Vincent enjoyed the distineting of having produced the most important volcanic disturbance in the history of the Lesser Antilles . The island is only eighteen miles long and eleven miles wide . It lies in the Caribbean Sea , sixty miles west of Barbadoes , and twenty-five miles southwest of St. Lucia . The entire island is of volcanic structure , and La Soufriere rises to a. height of 4,048 feet . This island was discovered by Columbus in 140S . In 1627 , when Charles I. granted St. Vincent to the Earl of Carlisle , it was peopled by Caribs : in 1672 the island was given to Lord Willoughby , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Duke of Montagu by George I. After hostilities with the French and Caribs , the island passed definitely to Great Britain in 1783 . Immigrants were introduced soon afterward , and the plantations of the island were well cultivated . The " Carib " country is a broad and fertile tract , sloping gently backwards from the sea to the base of the hills of the central mountain range , and it derives its name , obviously , from the aborigines of the country . The valleys are fertile and well watered with fine streams , several of which are spanned with substantial stone and iron bridges . The principal harbor of the celony is Kingstown . The harbor is formed by the projection into the sea of two promontories , the extremities of two spurs thrown out by Mount St. Andrew . The shores sandy and the sea so smooth , generally , that boats can be beached anywhere along it . There are about seventy miles of roads running around and through the island , these being for the most part close to the sea , coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beautiful island . Communication along the coast is maintained in a very unique manner . The natives propel large six-oared canoes , these plying daily for about twenty miles . It is a favorite custom of visitors to the island to inspect the coast and the peculiar people living along it with these vessels . Steamers anchor in the bay , and the cargo is transported to and from the shores in lighters called " Moses " boats . These are Peculiarly shaped , and are built only in St. Vincent . The town of Kingstown is remarkably well laid out , and is one of the Prettiest small ports in the West Indies . The island of St. Vincent was formerly under the general government of the Windward Islands , Barbadoes being headquarters ; but in 1885 , Barbadoes was made a separate Government , and Grenada , St. Vincent , Tobago , and St. Lucia were placed under a Governor . The Official Council of St. Vincent is composed of eight members nominated by the British crown . Tilz , population of the island is about 42,000. of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 5,000 . The principal exports are sugar , rum , cacao , spices , and arrowroot . The people trade very largely with this country , the firm of Middleton S. Co. , G6 Broad Street , ' this city , having an extensive business in the island . The chief imports from the United States are breadstuffs and sirp.II hardware . La Soufriere rises several miles from the shore . Its crater is about three miles in diameter , and there is a lake within it about a quarter of a mile in diameter . deleted paragraph                     