@@781298

txt The Committee of Fifteen , close upon the announcement of the cessation of the labors of the Tammany Committee of Five , descended last night upon ten alleged gambling houses in the Tenderloin , and two in the West Forty-seventh Street Precinct , with detachments of Capt . Thomas 's policemen , capturing in this , the first of their raids , a few look-outs , doormen , and any quantity of gambling paraphernalia . Dress-suited and silk-hatted , Committeeman Austen G. Fox and his associates entered the West Thirtieth Street Station . and to the surprised Sergeant at the desk Mr. Fox explained his mission , produced warrants for the arrests of the proprietors of eight houses , and asked that they be served at once . The houses visited were the Victoria Club , at 15 West Thirty-second Street ; the premises 116 West Forty-second Street , 11S West Thirty-fifth Street , 21 West Thirty-first Street , 104 West . Thirty-eighth Street , 12S West Thirty-first Street , 12S West Thirty-sixth Street , and 172 West Thirty-second Street , 10.1 West Forty-third Street , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Tenderloin of the fashionably dressed raiders all was quiet and undisturbed around the station house . Mr. Fox 's advent with his companions immediately precipitated intense excitement . A crowd gathered around the station and followed each detachment of police accompanied by its silk-hatted committeeman . In the streets in front of the gambling houses loiterers and late passersby , attracted by the little knot of policemen , gathered about tile place , stopped , and looked on in wonder . The alleged gambling houses , however , were apparently not doing business . Shades were drawn tightly . Lights burned dimly for some time previous to the arrival of the raiders . No persons were seen to enter any of the houses . Serge . Churchill was just about to , summon the 12 o'clock squad to relieve their Comrades on post since 0 o'clock when Mr. Fox pushed open the door and walked in with his companions . Sergt. Churchill looked surprised , and Mr. Fox , introducing himself . held a short whispered conversation with him , showing his warrants and explaining that it was his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warrants . The Sergeant at once summoned the doorman and instructed him to allow no one to leave the station house . The 12 o'clock squad was marched out and detailed in posses of five to accompany each of the committeemen . The busy clang of Patrol wagortebells waked the nighthawk eabmen and callee 'd the late pedestrians to pause and in ' /tidily instances to follow the wagon . Drawing up before high-stoop houses with stained-glass doors , with little wickets therein , policemen staggered out , bearing roulette tables , poker tables , boxes of chips , and other gambling implements . Mr. Fox said that he was simply in charge of the Tenderloin raiders , and that detachments of his colleagues were engineering-descents upon other resorts in other precincts . He said that the men in charge of the policemen were not all members of the Committee of Fifteen . No resistance was encountered at any of the places visited . The shuffling feet of the policemen aroused the lookout inside in each case , and the wicket was quickly withdrawn and as quickly closed . In response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warrant served on the person admitting the officers , by the committeeman in charge . The elegantly furnished rooms were empty in every case save for an occasional loiterer . The cornmitteeeman immediately directed the removal of the paraphernalia found . The doors were barred again , and no one allowed to enter . All information was refused . Prisoners taken awaited . the arrival of a patrol wagon . except when the place raided was in the neighborhood of the station house . The policemen on posts for six hours gruffly kept back the increasing crowds who pressed around the doors . One of the first places visited was IOS West Thirty-first Street . The place was dark . Entrance was gained without difficulty . Two roulette wheels and a lot of other gambling " ' ambling apparantus were seized and carted to the station house in the patrol wagon . At 116 West Forty-second Street more stuff was found , but no prisoners were taken . The tip . it seems , had gone- forth early in the day to lie low , but that raids by the Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congregating on Broadway. , being barred from their usual haunts , said that the tip to do no business for a while came from Mulberry Street . Tips from this source are virtual commands and are never disregarded . To this fact tile knowing ones attribute the general closing movement of the gambling houses , rather than to any foreknowledge of contemplated raids . Simultaneously with the visit of the committeemen to the West Thirtieth Street Station , representatives of the committee went to the Wept Forty-seventh Street Station , and a squad of men under Roundsman Rohrig sent out with the raiders to 104 West Forty-third Street . It is a small dwelling house operated , it is alleged , by a man named George Clark . The doors were battered in . The place was empty . No. 148 West Forty-third Street was entered in the same manner and more gambling paraphernalia confiscated . No prisoners were taken . Among the first prisoners taken to the West Thirtieth Street Station were John Duran of 116 West Twenty-fourth Street and Henry Degerman of .323 West Fortyeighth Street . These men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Walcott 's saloon . Closely following them into the station came Assistant District Attorney Schurman and Justice Jerome of the Court of Special Sessions . They shook hands with Mr. Fox . Justice Jerome admitted that he was on hand to hold court , if necessary . and continue the District Attorney 's investigations into the identity of " John Doe . " At about 1 o'clock Mr. Fox returned : o the West Thirtieth Street Station . He said that the raids had been planned to show the citizens of New York and the police that poolrooms could be found and raided , too . " Mr. Baldwin and r acted as a sub-committee of the Committee of Fifteen alone , for what was to be done In this precinct . " he continued . " There are eight lawyers assisting us with their advice . I do not care to mention their names . " The complainant against the men who were locked up at the West Thirtieth Street Station was George G. Hammond Jr .. who said that he represented the ' Committee of Fifteen . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wrest Thirtieth Street Station was piled up high with the paraphernalia which had been confiscated in the . various places . Cards and poker chips literally covered the stones of the sidewalk . The crowd was momentarily growing and became difficult to manage Meanwhile one patrol wagon after another was arriving at the police . station , some with prisoners and others with roulette wheels and other richly finished gambling implements . Justice Jerome took a seat behind the Sergeant 's desk and questioned prisoners as they were brought in . In several instances he found that the persons who had been taken into custody had a valid excuse for their presence in the various places , and they were allowed to go . The best-known place raided was the Victoria Club , 15 West Thirty-second Street . This is a brownstone house close to the Imperial Hotel . The police themselves say that some one tipped off this house . for when the squad got there it was dark . There was no one in the rooms save a negro waiter and a man to look after the door . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifteen 's men said the house is conducted by a man named Lichtenstein under the patrcnage of Frank Farrell , the Poolroom King . " In the place at 24 West Thirty-first Street four men who said they were James D. Howard , Providence , R. I. ; David Hudson , of Framingham , Mass. ; James W. Hill , of Boston . Andrew G. Andrews of Boston . and John Williams were captured . Only Howard and Hudson were held by the police . The others were questioned by Justice Jerome and allowed to go . THREW VITRIOL ON POLICEMAN William Hardiek , twenty-seven years old . living at 119 East Eighty-eighth Street , and attached to the Oak Street Station as a patrolman. was blinded by vitriol last night and it is expected will lose the sight of his right eye . Hardick was appointed to the Police Department on Nov. 1S , 1S97 . He came to this city from Albany . About six weeks age Hardiek went to Albany and was married . It is said that for some time Hardick has been paying attention to Sadie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gardiner 's mailing room . 216 William Street , and was thought to be engaged to the woman . Hardick was on duty on the Peck Slip post last evening when the Regan woman . it is alleged , approached him and threw a quantity of vitriol in the policeman 's face . The woman then disappeared . Hardick was found on his post by Roundsman Shattuck. who took him to the station house and then telephoned to Hudson Street Hospital for an ambulance . Before one arrived , however . Dr. Bradner of Gouverneur Hospital reached the station after an insane patient . He attended the policeman , and later was assisted by the ambulance surgeon from Hudson Street Hospital . Policeman Lyons and some detectives were sent to look for the Regan woman , but were unable to find her . BAIL FOR RICE 'S LAWYER . Sudden Deposit of $10,000 for His Release in Mr. Osborne 's Absence District Attorney Interferes . Albert T. Patrick , a prisoner in the Tombs since Oct. -1 last , charged with forging Wee . Rice 's name to checks aggregating several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released on bail yesterday in the absence of Assistant District Attorney Osborne , who may charge Patrick with the murder of the old millionaire . Mr. Osborne was in Albany yesterday to oppose the repeal of the special jury law . Patrick was held by Magistrate Brann in the Centre Street Police Court in $10,000 for the action of the Grand Jury . John T. Milliken , a wealthy manufacturer of St. Louie , Patrick 's brother-in-law . with his lawyer , Charles W. Webster of Kansas City , called at the City Chamberlain 's office yesterday and deposited til0.000 in cash as security for Patrick 's appearance at any time . Mr. Webster had previously seen Bond Clerk Pooie at the District Attorney 's office , and the latter had made out the bail form . This must be signed by some Assistant District Attorney . Mr. Osborne , who has charge of Patrick 's ease , being absent , the form was sent to First Assistant Le Barbier . The latter indorsed it " Correct as to form " and returned it . It was Poole 's duty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and the District Attorney learned of the proceedings from an outsider . Mr. Webster went before Judge McMahon and asked that Patrick be released . Judge McMahon had already ' acquiesced Verbally , when District Attorney Philbin entered the courtroom and requested the Judge to defer action on the motion until to-day . Mr. Philbin stated that he was not familiar with the case and that none of his assistants except Mr. Osborne was . Judge McMahon immediately put the matter over until to-day . Patrick was brought over from the Tombs in charge of a Deputy Sheriff . He seemed highly elated over his prospective release , and laughingly said that he had . gained fifteen pounds since his imprisonment . Messrs . Webster and Milliken seemed disappointed over the failure to secure the prisoner 's release . Patrick merely laughed and went back to his cell with a smile on his face . District Attorney Philbin said that it was peculiar , to say the least , that efforts to bail Patrick should be made on the very clay that Mr. Osborne was out of town . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . but that no action would be taken until the circumstances attendant upon the effort to obtain bail were fully investigated and Mr. Osborne had conferred with him . TEACHER ILL WITH . SMALLPDX . Miss Guinne of Public School No. 109 Removed to North Brother Island Other Cases - and Two Deaths . Delia Guinne , twenty-eight years old , a teacher in Public School No. 109 , at Ninety-ninth Street and Second Avenue , was removed from her home at 740 East One Hundred and Forty-third Street , to North Brother Island . yesterday morning , suffering from smallpox . Her case is the latest of a dozen or more that have been found in the five-story double flathouse in which she , with her parents and a brother and sister , lives . Owing to the prevalence of smallpox in the neighborhood Miss Guinne a week ago went to live with a sister who has a home on University Heights and who is also a school teacher . Monday morning Delia became ill and returned to her home . Her complaint was found to be smallpox . On Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed to North Brother Island a smallpox patient . Other cases reported to the Board of health were Frank Dorsch , twenty-seven years old ; Pasqualla Bicotsa , two years old : Philomena Ipalioca. forty years old . and Josephine Tunis . seven years old , of eal East One Hundred and Twenty-seventh Street ; Grauben Noon . thirty-seven years old . of 757 St. Ann 's Avenue ; Annie Schmidt , five years old , of 2.288 Second Avenue ; Claude Bishop , twenty-two years old , of 257 Seventh Street , and Michael Marchette. forty years old , of 2 East One Hundred and Thirty-third Street . Deaths reported were William McVeigh. thirty years old , of 300 West One Hundred and Twenty-sixth Street , and Frank Dunlap. twenty-four years old , of 740 East One Hundred and Forty-third Street . BELATED SHIPS IN PORT .. Storms and Coal Famine Delay Vessels Bound In  --  The Britannia Burns Her Woodwork . Among the vessels that arrived from Bermuda yesterday , where several had been compelled to call to replenish their coal bunkers , was the Fabre liner Britannia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britannia ran short of coal , and for twenty-four hours was compelled to burn her woodwork . On the morning of the 7th the British steamship Knight Commander was sighted , and , in response to Britannia 's appeal for assistance , managed to get a line to her . The hawsers held for 190 miles , when they broke . Another connection was made , but it also broke- after holding for a few hours . The next connection that was made held until the 9th . Then attempts at towing were abandoned . The Britannia made sail , and , accompanied by the Knight Commander . arrived at Bermuda on the 12th , where her coal bunkers were filled , and the voyage to this port resumed . Other vessels arriving yesterday that had been compelled to pay a visit to the coal dealers of Bermuda were the Amsinek steam- , ship Fernfield and the British steamship Adm .. The Fernfield was within 180 miles of Sandy Hook , when the terrific gales rag-ing at that time.buffeted her . until she was so far out of her course that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take on a new supply of coal . When she started for New ' York the second time the Fernfield ran into another fierce northwester , and at the end of three days was compelled once more to make Bermuda and take on her third supply of coal , which this time held out for the rest Of the voyage .                     