@@675830

txt The Borough Convention of the Citizens ' Union in Brooklyn was stampeded by the friends of Controller Coler last evening . After a three-hour session marked by exciting scenes the following , resolution was - adopted : At this first meeting of the delegates for the Borough of Brooklyn , Citizens ' Union who are also the delegates to the corning City Convene tion to name among others a candidate for Mayor of New York City : Resolved , That we urge the reconsideration of the action of the Union Committee of One Hundred in eliminating the name of a man from the list of eligible candidates who can bring the greatest support and strength to the Union ticket in an effort to secure an efficient and honest administration of the city 's affairs , He Is the present Controller , the Hon. Bird S. Coler . We further declare that it is our wish that he be named first on the list of available candidates for the office of Mayor , and we appeal to our representatives to submit our wishes to the general conference at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were scenes of great excitement The friends of Controller Coler , who earlier in the evening had succeeded in electing their candidate permanent Chairman of the meeting , shouted and waved umbrellas and t5 in the air . There were some delegates who did not think it was advisable to pass the resolution . Their speeches were drowned in the applause for the resolution . One delegate shouted : " Why should we pass this resolution when I know that Controller Coler will be the candidate of Tammany Hall for the Wa.yoralty ? " The Coler delegates signified their disapproval of this statement , and throughout the hall rang the words , " Never ! Never ! " The rising vote on the passage of the resolution showed that nearly nine-tenths of the delegates favored the resolution . About twelve or fifteen delegates stood up in opposition , but many of the delegates , among whom were CoL Willis L. Ogden and Ludwig Nissen , gave up hope of averting the stampede and made no effort to poll the full vote of their friends . THE FACTIONS FIGHT . The convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the two factions . CoL Willis L. Ogden , who is at the head of the Conference Committee of the Anti-Tammany organizations of the Greater New York and Ludwig Nissen had mapped out just what ought to be done . The committees to be named and even the names of the committeemen were settled- before hand and distributed . MT . Nissen was chosen Temporary Chairman , and the Coler delegates made no opposition . Chairman Nissen delivered a speech , in - part as follows : We meet here this evening in accordAnne with the rule laid down by the central body of the Citizens ' Union to hold a preliminary convention  --  not to make nominations  --  but for the purpose of organizing and for the further purpose of creating a conference committee which- shall , between ' the time of this preliminary convention and the actual nominating convention to be held on Sept. 2G , confer with other bodies of citizens , regardless of political affiliations or faith , and try to agree upon a ticket to be presented to the voters of this borough , the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immoral , and dishonest government of which we are now the victims . " It is recognized on all sides - that in order to dislodge the thoroughly intrenched forces of Tammany Hall and its chief ally , the Willoughby Street auction rooms , a strongly cemented union of all the forces opposed to the continuance of the misrule we are now suffering from is absolutely necessary . " round figures , the City of New York will probably cast about 600.000 votes . There are 50,000 city employes who will be expected to cast their votes for Tammany supremacy . Every one of these 50,000 will be able to influence at least one vote besides his own , which will double that figure . It is estimated that the vicious and criminal classes who pay Tammany a license fee for being vicious and criminal and for being protected in what they consider their legitimate pursuits of vice and crime will control at least 100,000 more . This will give Tammany a start with practically one-third of the total vote to its credit without making any fight whatever . It needs only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of respectable : itizenshin to win . " No matter who its candidates may he , : he man , if elected , will inevitably fall a ? ctim to its policy , and , though perhaps mwillingly , become a most efficient tool n the enforcement and perpetuation of its ystem . If you elect honest and capable ! nen , subject to the dictation of no machine i-r boss , the introduction of reform policies of government will be an easy task , provided the majority of the people want such introduction , for in this country of ours it is the duty of the minority to always gracefully submit to the will of the majority . " . The first fight came over the selection of a permanent Chairman . The majority - report of the Committee on Permanent Organization favored the election of Ludwig Nissen for permanent Chairman Then the Coler men began to unfold their plan . A minority report was presented in favor of H. J. Flaherty for permanent Chairman , and then the excitement began . COLER DELEGATES ' STRENGTH . The first shout of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a majority . Mr. Nissen then pleaded for harmony of action among the anti-Tammany organizations , and said : - " I have no desire to precipitate any fight or any discussion as to who shall be permanent Chairman of this convention . I have acted as temporary Chairman by request-I do n't want to act as permanent , Chairman , unless by unanimous vote of this convention . The present officers should not - be deprived of the conduct of the affairs of . the Citizens ' Union in Brooklyn . " " ' We do n't want you for Chairman , " cried - one delegate . " For once the labor men of Brooklyn have won a victory , ' declared another . - . Mr. Nissen tried to induce the convention to allow the Committee on Permanent Organization to reconvene , so that he could withdraw from the contest . The delegates voted down the motion to take a recess . Mr. Nissen then said that the delegates should be warned of the action they were taking , and that they would have to bear the responsibility . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " shouted a. majority of the delegates . " The delegates must not get excited , " said Chairman Nissen , after securing a measure of quiet by dint of pounding with his gavel . " We are not excited ? we are only enthusing , " screamed a delegate . Several times attempts were made to call the roll . But when Albert S. Haight , Chairman of the delegation for the Third District , cast 29 votes for Ludwig Nissen for permanent Chairman there was absolute confusion . I wo n't put down that vote , " declared Secretary Baker . " There are not twentynine delegates in their seats from the Third Assembly District , and Mr. Haight knows there are not . " OPPOSITION DEFEATED . There were more stormy scenes after this incident , and anti-Coler and Coler delegates came near to personal encounters . The call of the roll by Assembly Districts was discontinued and a personal roll-call was ordered . This had not continued far before the opponents of Coler , perceiving that they were outnumbered , capitulated . Chairman Nissen said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have said so a dozen times , but the convention will not apparently allow me to withdraw . " Why do n't you withdraw ? " cried a dozen delegates . After Mr. Nissen stated that he had withdrawn a dozen times a motion was made to adopt unanimously the minority report naming M. J. Flaherty , the Coler delegate , for permanent Chairman . The resolution was finally carried with a shout . Mr. Flaherty also had his speech prepared and headed " permanent Chairman . " He made a bitter attack on Thomas C. Platt , which was cheered to the echo . He spoke in part as follows : " Having entered upon a campaign for the rights of the people , the assistance of the independent voters of both parties for the Union is needed , but it would be a dire misfortune if not an irreparable loss if oir efforts resulted in merely ousting one set of rascals to make room for another from ' the other side  --  merely to turn Croker out and to put Platt in . Such a result would sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what is of far greater moment , would kill all independent movements for years to come . " We are not engaged in an effort to turn out everybody irrespective of merit or official record . On the contrary , it is cur earnest hope and purpose to get rid of the evil while retaining , the good . When we find a public official who has stood manfully for the best interests of the community , nobly defending its rights and its property against the grasping efforts of corporate wealth , whether it be the Ramapo steal or some other scheme whereby the public is to be exploited and robbed , it is the imperative duty of the people to see that such faithful service is rewarded . " Should the people fail to show their appreciation of those who have fought their battles and defended their property against the official looters of both parties , we may expect greater fraud and corruption in the future , as even public officials are human and can not be expected to vigorously oppose corrupt schemes , thereby incurring the hostility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not support them in such acts . Fidelity to the public interests merits full reward . " Years of trickery and deceit practiced by the bosses of both great political parties have convinced the working people that there is nothing to be expected either in the matter of just and much-needed legislation or in the enforcement of those laws which were enacted at the request of la bor . " DICTATION REPUDIATED . The next fight was initiated by a resolution declaring that some of the wealthy members of the Citizens ' Union in Brooklyn had declared that they would not contribute to the campaign unless " candidates satisfactory to themselves are nominated . " The resolution declared that there would be no dictation to the Citizens ' Union of Brooklyn by any class , either rich or poor . and that nominations would be made of men who would serve the public interests whether they were supported by large contributions or have to depend entirely upon the meagre contributions of the people . The friends of Controller Coler showed a desire to thrash out the whole matter and denounce in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threats . Fists were shaken at some of the delegates and some names not in a parliamentary manual were applied . The last contest was caused by the resolution indorsing Controller Coler , being offered by Delegate Smalley . At this time the convention was in an uproar . The efforts of the friends of Col. Ogden and Mr. Nissen were unavailing , and the Coler delegates celebrated their triumphs with cheers . " The statement has been made by some delegates from the Citizens ' Union to the General Conference Committee in New York that there is no Coler sentiment in Brooklyn . We just want to show those gentlemen now delegates in this convention that there is sentiment for Controller , Coler in Brooklyn , and I hope that they will never make that assertion again , " said Delegate D. B. Van Vleck . The meeting adjourned just before midnight . Col. Ogden , when asked about the effect of the action of the convention , said : " I cant tell now . " " Will the Brooklyn delegates to the Citizens ' Union Convention be for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell anything about what the delegates will do . "                     