@@677375

txt The country is not much interested in the news that will come from Maine to-night as to the general result of the elections to be held thereto-day . The local issues are not very exciting -- -the chief is one of stricter enforcement Pf the anti-liquor law of last year  --  and the relative size of the majority expected for the Republican. , candidate for Governor will have little significance unless it should fall very much below the usual figures . But the result in the Congressional ' district of Mr. LITTLEFIELD will have National interest . It is about the first and altogether the most conspicuous and important instance of the entrance of the Labor Party into the field of National politics : Mr. LITTLEFIELD is opposed bitterly by that party , under the direct lead and inspiration of Mr. GOMPERS , on the general ground that he is not friendly to the policy of the Labor Party , and specifically because of his opposition to the Anti-Injunction bill and the Compulsory Eight Hour bill . It is on these points that Mr. LITTLEFIELD has made his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speakers of National repute , particularly Speaker CANxov . We sincerely and earnestly hope that he will be successful , and we heartily agree with Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S opinion that it " would be a positive calamity to his district and to the country to have such a man left at home " on such an issue . Mr. LITTLE  --  FIELD is no more inimical to the true interests of workingmen than Mr. GOMPERS himself , but he is firmly opposed to the class legislation which the present leaders of the organized workingmen are striving to secure . In that he is clearly right . Of course any Republican and protectionist who takes this ground is logically hampered by the fact that the tariff is class legislation of the most unjustifiable sort . The Republicans . moreover , for years have been seeking workingmen 's votes on the plea that the tariff benefited them as a class , and that the burden , placed on the shoulders of other classes was on this account fair Arid reasonable .. But two wrongs do not make a right . That Mr. LITTLEFIELD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is as right as he is wrong on the tariff . He is , besides , a man of high character , unusual force and ability , long experience , and extraordinary influence . We trust that his majority will be big enough to check at once the mischievous movement directed now against him , and , if successful , sure to be directed against every conscientious Congressman who will not bow the knee to Labor .                     