@@676709

txt The disposition of the contested seats and the selection of temporary and permanent officers of the convention leaves nothing for the determination of the convention itself except the Vice Presidency . Senator Fairbanks continues to daily with the Vice Presidency , and his hesitancy and refusal definitely to declare himself is annoying to his more earnest advocates . He has been importuned to say that he desires the nomination . but thus far the most that can be extracted from him is that if the convention should name him for Vice President he would not decline the nomination . Representative Hemenway and other Indiana leaders to-day gave out statements that Fairbanks , while not a candidate to the extent that he is seeking the nomination , will certainly accept if chosen by the convention . The Indiana man is seen frequently in the hotel corridors and talking cheerfully with those who approach him , but his refusal to make a positive declaration is exasperating to his friends , many of whom might be easily won for another candidate if a well-organized movement should be developed in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Fairbanks indeed has furnished Gov . Odell , Senator Depew , and other leaders of the New York delegation the opportunity to make headwaykith the boom for Speaker Cannon , whicir they launched on their arrival this morning , and which they are vigorously pushing to-night . When Gov . Odell and Senator Depew announced that they were for Speaker Cannon for Vice President , new interest was added to the situation , Senator Platt was not in accord with Gov . Odell and Senator Depew in reviving the Cannon boom . The senior Senator declared that he was for Fairbanks . This division among the New York leaders whetted curiosity , and soon the members of all the various delegations here were eagerly seeking information as to what New York was likely to do . There Is hardly a doubt that Gov . Odell and Senator Depew will be able to control the delegation , and they are outspoken in their intention to force the Speaker to take the nomination if they can get the necessary support from other States . " The convention should nominate Cannon , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Odell . " But he insists that he will decline , " was remarked . " No man can afford to decline the nomination if it comes to him , " said the Governor . White Busbey , Speaker Cannon 's secretary , and other friends of the Speaker saw Goy . Odell and Senator Depew and urged them not to press Mr. Cannon 's eandidacy , but the Governor and junior Senator had evidently made up their minds upon their course of action , and were not to be swerved by such arguments as Mr. CanDon 's friends brought forward . An interesting explanation of Gov . Odell 's and Senator Depew 's attitude was furtaished to-night by a close friend of the Speaker , who was disturbed by the position taken by the New Yorkers in defiance of Mr. Cannon 's wishes . He said : " Odell and Depew are not urging Cannon because they are sincerely anxious to have the Speaker take the second place on the ticket , but because they believe that with Mr. Cannon out of the Speakership there will be an excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York to that important post . " Odell and Sherman are close friends , and it would be of the greatest advantage to Odell to have Sherman as Speaker during the next four years . He would thereby be enabled to play his cards against President Roosevelt much better if he and the President should clash , which they are almost certain to do , the feeling between them not being any too cordial at this time , although of course Odell as State Chairman in New York will do all in his power to give the Electoral vote of the State to the President . " Depew has fallen in with Odell 's purposes because he desires to be re-elected to succeed himself , and realizes that he can not possibly succeed if Gov . Odell should conclude to oppose him . " Gov . Odell insists in conversation that the movement in the New York delegation for Cannon is a serious one , and he expressed the belief that It was necessary to get some enthusiasm into the campaign , which would be accomplished with Cannon 's nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State of New York , and that the nomination of Mr. Cannon would be worth thousands of votes to the ticket in that State . WHAT PLATT SAYS . When what Gov . Odell had said was repeated to Senator Platt he looked wise and asked whether the insistence upon Mr. Cannon 's nomination was confined to New York State . Then he said , and with a good deal of emphasis , that he favored the candidacy of his Senatorial colleague , Mr. Fairbanks , and was waiting to hear from him personally before he would cornMit himself . Gov , Odell went to the Chicago Club tonight , and there he met ex-Secretary Root and Senator Boise Penrose . The Governor and Mr. Root talked together for some time , and subsequently the Governor had a long conference with Senator Penrose . It was considered significant as to the nature of the conferences that when Mr. Root Was asked later what he thought of Speaker Cannon as a candidate for Vice President , said : ? I think that Mr. Cannon would make a very strong candidate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination Undoubtedly would create enthusiasm . " That - Fairbanks wants the- nomination none who talks with him has any doubt ; but he wants President Roosevelt 's personal supporters to insist that-he must take it . The general opinion is that he will be the nominee , but there would be no doubt about it if he would take the plunge and boldly declare himself . There is expectation that he will do this before the convention convenes . The arrival of the Indiana delegation may clarify the situation . If Fairbanks is to go before the convention as a candidate it will be necessary , if the usual methods obtain , that his State delegation should present his name . Here again a difficulty is presented by Fairbanks 's hesitation . He has not even consented that he shall be thus formally presented , and the Indiana men are handicapped in consequence . They declare that they do not desire to push him against his own inclination , because it might be assumed they were anxious to retire him from the Senate to obtain his seat for another . WANT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pertinent to observe that the Indiana men who are most earnest for the nomination of Fairbanks would be candidates for Hitt vacancy in- the Senate tat would follow his election to the Vice Presidency . Representatives Hemenway , Charles Landis , Gov . Durbin , and others who are here pushing Fairbanks as strongly as that can be consistently done in view of the singular attitude of their candidate , would strive for the succession , and they do not want to be placed in the attitude of seeking to force , upon him a nomination that he will not declare he desires to have . There is one thing that is helping Fairbanks'r chances , and that is the belief among many of the delegates that his nomination is not preferred by , the President . In short , it is openly stated that Roosevelt does not want Fairbanks nominated , and this suspicion is strengthened by the declaration of those who are close to the President in favor of Cannon or Hitt . Metcalf of California is also named by close friends of the President in this connection . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost unanimous , and when it is Intimated that the President is at least indifferent to the Indiana man , and would prefer another ' , the Senators reply that that is an additional reason for choosing Fairbanks . One of them expressed the feeling on ' this point by saying : " Mr. Roosevelt should he content with the disposition of the convention to nominate him for President , and should be willing to allow the convention to determine on a candidate for Vice President , which seemed about the only function that had not already been arranged at Washington fur tile convention . A movement talked about is to have the Alabama delegation take a step that may force an utterance from Fairbanks . That delegation Is favorable to his nomination , many of the delegates having been instructed for him . Alabama will be the first State to be called , and it Is proposed that Mr. Fairbanks shall be asked to inform the delegation how they shall cast the vote of the State for the Vice Presidency . If he should declare that he is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomination comes to him , Alabama would start the ballot ' by giving Fairbanks the solid vote of the State , which movement , it is believed , would result in giving an impetus to his boom that would insure the nomination . As the situation is viewed to-night , it is believed Fairbanks will be nominated ur.less the convention shall be swept by a h ) sterical wave in favor of Speaker Can . non . Cannon is preferred above all others by the close friends of the President , and there is some reason for the belief that his nomination is earnestly desired by the President himself . Cannon win be the permanent Chairman of the convention , and when he is introduced it is proposed to raise an enthusiasm that will b  --  ush aside Fairbanks and others who have been named and force " Vncle Joe " to abandon his determination not to permit himself to be made the candidate . HE ALONE COULD DEFEAT IT . Should this movement be made , Cannon 41s the only individual who can defeat It . The position would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the resourcefulness and stubbornness of " Uncle Joe . " As presiding officer , he could set his face against the movement and persistently refuse to recognize any delegate who might attempt to place him in nomination , and even if his desires in this direction should be overridden and the delegations cast their votes for him to a number sufficient to nominate , he could resolutely adhere to his determination and decline to accept the nomination . Speaker Cannon is capable of doing this heroic act , and when such a contingency was recently presented to him , he declared with characteristic emphasis that he would not permit himself to be swerved from his determination not to allow himself to be made the nominee for the Vice Presidency , The Opposition expressed to the nomination of Fairbanks by close friends of the President has been instrumental in arousing the advocates of the Indiana man , and tonight buttons are plentiful on coat lappels bearing the likenesses of Roosevelt and Fairbanks , and these are being openly distributed by Senator Scott of West Virginia and other Senators . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beveridge , one of the most forceful of the Indiana orators and one of the best speakers in the Senate , will make the principal speech in the convention placing Mr. Fairbanks in nomination . The candidacy of Mr. Hitt is not strong outside of the iriends of the President who are opposed to Fairbanks . The report that came from Washington to-tiny declaring that Mr. Hitt is sick and that he will be unable to be here in consequence is being used with effect against his nomination . Congressman Curtis of Kansas accosted Congressman Littlefield of Maine in the corridor of the Auditorium Annex to-night anti asked : Do you think the delegates are warmins up to Fairbanks ? " Well , if they are , they are furnishing their own heat , " said kittlefield . Other nevi:4 of the Chicago Convention is published on Page 5.                     