@@781041

txt Dr. Paul Gibier , who introduced the Pasteur treatment for rabies into this country and who was widely known through the world of science as a student of PSYchology , was killed in a runaway accident near the medical institute of which he was the head , at Suffern , N. Y. , on Saturday . It was the physician 's practice to make daily trips to the branch in this city , at 313 West Twenty-first Street , where such patients as have homes in the city or who do not care to commit themselves . to the secluded life of a sanitarium are treated . He had driven to the Suffern station that afternoon with Mrs. C. 5 ' ; Hoen , Mrs. Gibier 's mother , intending to take the 5:28 train for this city . They just missed it , and , as there was no other for two hours , he proposed that they pass the interim in driving about his farm in the buggy , which was drawn by a nervous , spirited horse . They had reached one end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon two boys setting off firecrackers by the roadside . The horse ran , but Dr. Gibier regained control of him after a brief struggle , and all danger seemed past , when there came another detonation , and the horse again leaped forward . The harness broke , and the loose leather striking against his side served to increase the animal 's terror . DOCTOR 'S SKULL FRACTURED . The occupants retained their presence of mind as the vehicle dashed along the road for a considerable distance , and clung to the swaying seat as best they could , but the wheels struck an obstruction , the buggy collapsed , and both were thrown out simultaneously , Dr. Gibier on one side and Mrs. Moen on the other . Dr. Gibier struck on his head on a rock , receiving a terrible wound and fracturing the base of the skull . Ile never spoke again . Mrs. Hoen , who is seventy-six years old , fell in the road , and , though much bruised . she made her way to her son-in-law as the horse disappeared around a turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did her best to stanch the blood . The boys , left out of sight , were all unconscious of the mischief they had done , but the horse galloped on to . the barnyard with the remains of the buggy trailing behind , and a number of persons ran back ever the road in the direction from which the animal had come to the scene of the accident . Dr. Gabler was borne to ' his house and Dr. Wagenen and Dr. Gillette , local physicians , were promptly on hand , but he died at midnight as his wife sat holding his hand . DR . GIBIER 'S CAREER . Dr. Gibier was born in the Department of Indre , central France , where his mother and sister yet live , Oct. 9 , 1851 . Dr. Gibier Was educated in Paris , where he spent the greater part of his life . Being graduated from the medical department of the University of Paris , he held for some time the position of Assistant Professor in Comparative Medicine in the Paris Museum , and was Also resident physician of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became interested in Prof. Pasteur 's method of curing rabies by inoculation , and became one of his foremost Pupils . Dr. Gibier succeeded in demonstrating the rabies microbe independently . About this time much attention was drawn to , him from his having secured some leprosy virus , with which he inoculated an ape , preserving the cultures , and it was rumored that he had discovered or was about to discover an antitoxine for leprosy . Other scientists who pursued the study of this disease along the same lines published Papers in refutation of these assertions . Dr. Gibier himself made no claims . Often , called upon for service by the French Government , Dr. Gibier was commissioned in 1888 to make a study of yellow fever , then epidemic in Havana and Florida . He spent some time in this city on his way back , and became imbued with the idea of starting a Pasteur institute here . He received much encouragement from prominent physicians of this city , and discussed the project during that Winter with Prof. Pasteur himself , with the result that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . THE PASTEUR INSTITUTE . Victims of dogs suffering from rabies ? or supposedly so  --  cats , coyotes , and other animals , flocked to him in great numbers from all parts of the country , and the Poor were treated without charge , butDr . Gibier received many a substantial fee from grateful patients . Soon the building proved inadequate to meet the demands upon its accommodations , and Dr. Gibier selected a site at the northwest corner of Central Park West and Ninety-seventh Street for a new home for the institution . He erected the building principally with his own means , but received a considerable subscription from residents of a New Jersey town where he had treated many for dog bites . The structure was five stories , and of handsome architecture . It was unique . On the asphalt roof were cages filled with rabbits , guinea pigs and white Mice used for experiments , and many suggestions made at the Pasteur , Charcot , and Brown-Sequard laboratories were utilized . ? The building was dedicated in 1893 on Dr. Gibier 's birthday , the inaugural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upper part of the city , and the ever increasing difficulties in the way of keeping patients quietly indoors in the face of so many temptations , proved objectionable , and Dr. Gibier moved his institution- to Suffern . All his preventive efforts were not attended with success , but when a patient died it was explained that the treatment had been too long deferred . DR . GIBIER 'S DECORATIONS . Dr. Gibier was a man of magnificent physique , and never used tobacco or stimulants . He was a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor , and the possessor of a gold medal given by the French Govern-ment , having received . these and other distinctions for services in cholera epidemics in Spain and the South of France . He had become an American citizen , and- was a member of the New York Academy - of Sciences , the County Medical Society , and the Medical Association of New York , and also the editor of The ' Therapeutic Review . He was a voluminous writer . Though generally considered a Spiritualist , he insisted that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who respected all religions . He was a member of the Grand Orient Masonic Lodge of Paris . Dr. Gibier was to have sailed for France on July 19 , and had been working , hard on a paper which he meant to deliver before the Medical Congress there as Secretary of the Psychic Society . He leaves a wife , who was Miss Agnes Moen , of Baltimore , but no children . Arrangements for the funeral have ' not been completed . but the body will be brought to the local institute this morning . Dr. Gibier bad repeatedly said he wished his body to be kept eight days after death and then incinerated , and it is hoped that this can be done . His successor in his work will be his nephew , Dr. G. G. Rimbaud , who has long been associated with him . Dr. Rambaud is now in France . but a cable message was sent yesterday urging him to return immediately .                     