@@676681

txt Most of the . Directors of the Western Union Telegraph Company were unwilling to state yesterday their position in relation to the charge of collusion with poolrooms made against the company by F. Norton Goddard and Police Commissioner . Senator Depew was a notable exception . He said : " It has been a year Since I attended a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Western Union . and I am not at all informed on the charges which have been brought against the company in connection with the operation of poolrooms in New York . " I know President Clowry very well , and esteem him very highly . I can not believe that he would be a party to breaking the law . If I am shown , however , where the Western Union is deliberately assisting in the violation of the law I will insist that it be stopped . If it is not stopped I will resign from the board . I will not stand for a minute anything which is even tainted , with illegality in the conduct of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am frank to say that I have n't the slightest idea what they are . I have been to a race track but once in my life , and then I did not make a bet . I noticed , on the day I went to the races , that there were long waits between each contest , and when I asked what caused the delays I was told that they were necessary to give the men in attendance a chance to bet . I never bet . " So far as I know , the poolroom question never has been brought up before the Board of Directors . It is reasonable to believe that , in view of the present situation , it will be taken into consideration . I have not attended the recent meetings , as my duties in Washington have occupied my time very fully . I belong to the Directorates of several corporations . As a general thing , I consider my duty as a Director is t3 see that the stockholders are not fleeced . " In the case of the Western Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the charges which I am informed have been brought by Police Commissioner and others are proved to me to be true , I shall demand action on the part of the board . " Robert C. Clowry , President of the Western Union , let it be understood that he did not ' care to make- any ' reply to the statement given out by Police Commissioner ? accusing the company of aiding . and abetting the poolrooms in-this city  --  illegal : : ly , 1 willfully , and for big profits . Throughout the day Col , Clowry denied himself to nev spaper men . Requests ' for air interview sere met with the following statement issued by his private secretary : ? Col. Clowry has nothing to say . His statement given to the newspapers a few days ago is his last word in the matter . He is " talked out . " Russell Sage was seen as he was leaving his office for the Western Union Building , where it is his custom to take luncheon in the private restaurant established for the company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Western Union , will you state whether you are willing to aid civic bodies and the authorities in closing up the poolrooms in this city by having the Western Union wire service to those places discontinued ? " he was asked . Mr. Sage shook his head sadly , as though he had not understood the question , and turned away . James Stillman said that he had just returned to New York after an absence of four weeks . " I know nothing whatever of poolrooms , " he declared , very positively , " and t will not discuss the poolroom question , either as a Director of the Western Union Corapady or as an individual . " Thomas T. Eckert , Chairman of the Board of Directors ; Samuel Sloan. and Morris K. Jesup refused to be interviewed . Does the Dowling Law Afford a Grip ? Capt . F. Norton Goddard , originator of the " moral suasion " crusade against the company , intimated yesterday that this might be followed by a more drastic policy should the Western Union Directors tarry too long before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the Governor 's signing of the Dowling AntiGambling bill , compelling witnesses to testify regardless of whether the testimony proved damaging to themselves , had changed radically the aspect of the case of the Western Union and its relation to the poolrooms . It was pointed out that under the new law District Attorney Jerome would be in a position to establish through " John Doe " proceedings , at which officials of the company and even the Directors could be COMpelled to testify , whether there was criminal responsibility on the part of those concerned . " I did not want to mention this phase of the matter before , " said Capt . Goddard , " because I did not care to bring to bear any additional pressure which might induce Gov . Odell not to sign the Anti-Gambling bill . " The poolrooms certainly are gambling houses within the meaning of the law , and the Inspectors of the Western Union visit these poolrooms regularly . " I have received no information or intimation that would lead me to believe the Directors intend to close up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do . " Should they fall to respond , however , " he continued. , " twenty-nine men will leave this town as sick with nervous prostration as any set of men ever were . You can Picture to yourself the position of these Directors , eminently respectable men as they are . They-cannot ride in a street car without having it stare them in the face that they are in league with criminals dangerous to the community . " Of course , this does not apply to all the Directors of the Western Union Telegraph Company . But some of - them are callous , as has been shown . "                     