@@678682

txt The people of Boston are about to put into operation a plan to govern themselves which is well described by The Transcript as " ingenious . " The experiment will be watched with interest . Any workable plan to rid a municipality of political interference in its business deserves encouragement , and the plan settled upon for Boston seems at the outset - workable , though it will undoubtedly cause much confusion . Candidates for municipal office are to be nominated by petition , and any petition signed by 5.000 voters will be accepted . This may lead to a troublesome number of nominations for Mayor , City Councilmen , and members of the School Committee . In last Tuesday 's election , when this plan of municipal reform was adopted , 74,000 votes were cast . It would be possible , therefore , to have fourteen or fifteen tickets in the field . Of course , a. larger measure of intelligence than this would imply is expected in a community where such a device to lift the municipal administration out of politics has been adopted by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than one petition . The temptation to sign the first that Is offered to him every voter Is urged to overcome by the promoters of the plan . " Leadership , " The Transcript hopes , " will come in various ways as the campaign develops . " It has already come in at least two ways . There are both Democratic and Republican candidates for the Mayoralty in the field . If the illustrious FITZGERALD should be elected under the new plan it - would have a severe setback in Its very inception . The politicians , however , are sure to be as active as ever as long as there is a fighting chance for success , and they will soon be adept in working the new plan to their own advantage . Their own scheme for the reformation of city government was defeated , but they have not lost hope . Boston 's Good Government Association , its permanent Finance Commission , organizations of business men , and local improvement societies favored the successful plan , which was called Plan No. 2 in last Tuesday 's election . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduces the City Council to a single chamber of nine members , and fixes Feb. 7 as the date of the inauguration of the new City Government . Six petitions for the Mayoralty nomination were in circulation Wednesday , and the petitions for other offices promise to be numberless . Boston has emerged from the turmoil of one political campaign to face another which bids fair to be the most complex and bewildering in its history . Misgivings about the result are only natural , yet the movement which has taken shape in the new charter was unquestionably sincere , and , thus far , the people who really want good government have triumphed . The hardest part of their work , however , remains to be done .                     