@@677976

txt It is plain that the Aldrich bill can not pass the Senate without modification , and it is probable that It can not pass at , all . If it go through the Senate , it Is practically certain that it can not be passed in the House of Representatives . On the other hand , a very different fortune has attended the Fowler bill in the House . That bill , at the opening of the session , was regarded as hopeless . There was bitter opposition to it in the Banking Committee . It was freely predicted that it would never beereported , and it was declared by very good judges of political events that It would never reach a vote in the House . The Senators particularly , who were wedded to . Senator ALDRICH 'S emergency device , spoke of the fate of the Fowler bill with a curious mixture of pity and contempt Since it is clear that the Aldrich bill can not become a law in Its present form , and equally plain that the Fowler bill is steadily gaining in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see if a measure can not be framed , on the essential lines of the one that has gained the greater support , that can be passed by both branches of the National Legislature . The chief changes that would naturally suggest themselves are the abandonment , In the Aldrich bill , of the recourse to miscellaneous bonds as security for circulation , and the abandonment . In the Fowler bill , of the guarantee of deposits . With these two important modifications , it ought to be practicable to work out a plan that will command the approval of a majority of Congress , and that will be of real service in protecting the country from the proved defects of the present cur-1 rency system . One thing is obvious and should not be ignored in Congress , that the change in the position of the two bills since the opening of the session three months ago has been unquestionably due to the development of a definite , Intelligent , and efficient public opinion , growing out of reflection on the experierces of the country in the last half year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are indifference . Ignorance , and error prevailing throughout the Union with regard to the question of the bank currency and Its effect upon the  --  daily business , the common Interests , of the community . That was true a year since . It is not true now . That fact should be understood and acted on , and if this is done with promptness and without political prejudice the country will reap incalculable advantart.                     