@@678627

txt At the instance of ' State 's Attorney Wayman Judge Jesse Baldwin issued to-day bench warrants for three men  --  John J. Holland , President of the Jury Commission ; Nicholas J. Mar-1 tin , private secretary to Alderman Mi-1 chael Kenna , and Willis J. Rayburn , a real estate man with an office in the Fort Dearborn Building . It is said that war- , rants for other men , well known in political and legal circles , will follow . The I charge against the three- is that they conspired to draw names of grand jurors i in a maner other than that required by law . Rayburn was the first nj the three to be arrested and was shortly afterward released on bonds . Under the State law the names of prospective Grand Jurors are selected at ran1 dom from a sealed box containing the names of 1,500 citizens who have been examined for jury service by the Jury Commisioners and their- fitness certified . A similar method is prescribed for petit Jury lists . The three accused men are alleged to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Coming in the midst of- the trial of Police Inspector McCann for alleged grafting , the news of ifirnraftin bases " alleged tampering with the jury lists caused excitement in political circles . The complaints on which the warrants were issued were drawn up by a special agent of the State 's Attorney , who has been investigating the jury drawing methods for weeks . When the warrants were issued , subpoenaes also were sent out by the court for the production of all records , documents , and papers of the jury corrimis6lon . The State 's attorney remained silent concerning the details of the allegations against the men , but in criminal court circles the action was regarded as the forerunner of further airing of alleged conspiracies which may have affected the drawing of other grand and petit juries . Because of the nature of the charges against Police Inspector . McCann , especial care was exercised , it is believed , in drawing the Grand Jury which indicted him and in selecting the members of the petit jury now engaged with the case . Commenting on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action , State Attorney Wayman said to-day : " We propose to throw the light on the darkest hole in Cook County and clean out the Jury Commissioners ' room , which I is rotten . We have been working on this for several months , and when the evidence is produced there will be a complete reformation in the manner of selecting juries in Cook County , that it will be possible for the law to be administered , for the poor to get their rights , and for criminals to know that , having committed crime , they can not openly flaunt the fact in the faces of decent citizens and boast that ' we can fix any jury . ' " When you stop to consider that within the last three months we have had called into the jury box in Cook County , in the trial of important criminal cases , ex- ; convicts , men under indictment , saloon hangers-on , selected for the particular purpose of acquitting the defendants ; when you stop to consider that the biggest fight in the trial of a criminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you will understand something about the magnitude of the action just taken . " This action on the part of the State Attorney is considered .. , the most farreaching of any of his recent glove to expose city and county conditions , which he has clasz:ifled as " rotten to the core . " According to information supplied at the State Attorney 's office , Mr. Wayman has been investigating the methods of the Jury Commission for two months . $20000 HOUSE FOR HIS HENS . Ray Rainey , Thinks Comfort Will Tell on the Egg Output . If the hens belonging to Ray Rainey of Fort Hill , at Huntington , L. I. , do not appreciate the efforts of their owner to make them comfortable , they will surely be ingrates . They are to lay eggs in future in a twenty-thousand-dollar house . Mr. Rainey bought a handsome ' Colonial mansion at Fort Hill two years ago , and has made himself and his family very comfortable in the- place . He has a liking for fancy chickens and has a large flock on his estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will thrive better if they are made as comfortable as he Is himself , and so he had plans drawn for a/twentythousand-dollar house for them . Work is now in progress and the hens are overseeing the job , squawking their approval each day as the house grows . Each hen is to have her separate boudoir . ( Common hens call them nests . ) A record will be kept of the eggs laid by each pullet , and the length of her life will depend , somewhat , upon her output and their hatching quality .                     