@@677497

txt American and foreign paintings , sculpture , classical antiquities . Persian arms and armor , medals and plaques , and Italian textiles are among the important acquisitions received by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in the last month , together with twenty-two Chinese porcelain vases lent by J. Pierpont Morgan . Most important among the new accessions are American paintings , the gift of George A. Hearn . who gave 5125,000 to the Museum last year . The paintings Include the picture by George De Forest Brush entitled " In the Garden , " representing a mother and her two children . The other Hearn pictures include " Seventeenth Century Lady , " by William M. Chase ; " The Seer , " by William Sergeant Kendall ; " The Young Pioneer , " by Douglas Volk ; " L'Allegro , " by F. Ballard Williams , and " Portrait of a Lady , " by F. W. Benson . " A Nativity , " by Fiorenzo di Lorenzo , has been purchased out of the income derived from the Rogers fund , and will be on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a small but good example of this little-known master of the Umbrian School . " The Bouquet of Oaks . " by Charles H. Miller , the gift of William T. Evans , will be hung shortly in Gallery 12 . Two notable examples by Frans Hals , which J. Pierpont Morgan has lent the Museum , have been placed on exhibition in Gallery 24 . The portraits are of Herr Bodolphe and his wife . The canvases are signed with a monogram and dated 1643 . A painting of the Duke of Gloucester , by Sir William Beechey , has also been lent the Museum by Kenneth Frazier . A recent purchase among the bronzes is a small - roup entitled " The Fight , " by Edward W. Deming , and a relief of George Washington , cast in bronze , from an early papier-mache original , the gift of William F. Havemeyer , has been added to the Huntington collection . Mr. and Mrs. Frederick S. Walt have also presented to the Museum eight bronze medals of George Washington , one of Gilbert Stuart , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Jones . Four hundred and fifty-seven silver and silver-gilt souvenir spoons from various countries are the gift of Sir William H. Redding . Four paintings by Turner from the Marquand and Vanderbilt collections nave been hung in the newly arranged British Room . The collection of the famous Bishop jades has been rearranged , affording better facilities for examination Under improved conditions of light and space .                     