@@675492

txt M. DELCASSE , the French Minister of Foreign Affairs , in his speech in the Chamber the other day , took the same ground about the difficulties of intervention in China that has been taken by this journal . He likewise agreed with the view we have . taken concerning the simplification of the problem that has been made by the usurpation of Prince TUax and the horribly savage use he has made of his temporary control . The powers are not at war with China and are not likely to be . It is admitted now on all hands that Admiral KEMPFF showed a much clearer comprehension of the questions of international law involved than was shown by any of his ea-commanders when he objected to the attack upon the Taku forts as an act of war on China , when China had not made herself responsible for the acts of the rioters , at Peking or elsewhere . To make war on China would entail the monstrous task of conquering the country and of making the conqueror responsible for its condition , a task which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the powers represented by their soldiers at Tien-Tsin and by their martyrs at Peking . The blunder against which the American Admiral I protested might have had very awkward consequences if the usurping Chinese Prince had not been inspired to avert them . The powers would have been put in the position df making war on China to avert or to avenge the acts ' of rioters without international responsibility . Not that intervention was not entirely ; justifiable . The use of foreign forces to put down a . Chinese mob was not only justified but demanded by the fact that the mob endangered the lives and property of " nationals " of the intervening powers . They were right in offering , they would have " even been right in insisting upon , the acceptance of their help by a Government which had shown itself incapable of dealing with the mob so as to fulfill its own international obligations . But it was neither just nor prudent for the intervening Governments to assume the complicity of the Chinese Government in the work of the mob or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly had shown . It was only upon - such an assumption that the attack Upon the forts could have been justified , and our Admiral was within his rights and duties in protesting . We are still intervening in behalf ? of our respective " nationals , " for the rescue of such of them as may sail be living and for the punishment of the murderers of such of them as may be dead . But we are now freed from the ' embarrassments which confronted us at the earlier stage . The actual Government of China is itself , in the contemplation either of Chinese or of international law , a mob , in successful rebellion against the rightful Government . The allies are coming to the assistance of the Government and the people of China against their enemies . They incur no perplexing responsibilities by any attacks they can make on the usurper or upon those who take his orders . The fact relieves them of a grave responsibility and frees them , from consideration which would otherwise have greatly hampered their operations . And the latest news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which resents and resists the acts of the usurper , and is prepared to welcome the honest cooperation of the Western World in restoring order and punishing the disturbers of order .                     