@@677177

txt Mrs. Minor Morris , who on Thursday was dragged from the White House , is to-night in a critical condition . She seemed to be on the road to recovery on Saturday , and her physicians held out hopes that she would be able to be out by Monday . At the beginning of this week her condition took an unfavorable turn , and she has been growing steadily worse . She had a congestive chill to-day and has continued to grow worse . It is evident to-night that her nervous system has . suffered something approaching a collapse . The bruises inflicted upon her by the policemen have not disappeared , a striking evidence of their severity . Her arms . shoulders , and neck still bear testimony to the nature of her treatment . Mentally and physically she is suffering severely . It was learned to-day that two Cabinet officers , one of whom is Secretary Taft , have been laboring with the President for two days to get him to issue a statement disavowing the action of Assistant Secretary Barnes , who ordered Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was treated . They have also urged him to promise to take action which will make impossible the repetition of such an occurrence . The President has held out stoutly against the advice of these two Cabinet officers , He authorized Mr. Barnes to make the'statement that he gave out , in which the treatment of Mrs. Morris was justified , and it is not easy to take the other tack now . On high authority , however , it is learned that the two Cabinet officers have not ceased their labors . They both look on the matter not as " a mere incident , " but as a serious affair . The Morris incident was brought up in the House to-day just before adjournment by Mr. Sheppard of Texas . He was recognized for fifteen minutes , in the ordinary course of the debate on the Philippine Tariff bill , and began at once to discuss the resolution he introduced Monday calling for an investigation of the expulsion . He excused himself for speaking on the resolution at this time , saying that as It was not privileged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Committee on Rules . He went on to describe the incident at the White House . ' He had proceeded only a minute or two when he was interrupted by Gen. Grosvenor , who rose to the point of order that the remarks were not germane to the Philippine Tariff bill . " I will show the gentleman that it is germane , " cried Mr. Sheppard . " It is Just as proper for this country to have a Chinese wall around the White House as it is to have such a wall around the United States . " " Well , if he thinks it is proper to thus arraign the President and his household , " said Mr. Grosvenor , " let him go on . " " If the President had heard the howl of a wolf or the growl of a bear from the adjacent offices , " retorted Mr. Sheppard , " the response would have been immediate , but the wail of an American woman fell upon unresponsive ears . " There had been several cries of protest when Gen. Grosvenor interrupted Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and urged him to proceed . They applauded his reply to Mr. Grosvenor , and the Ohioan did not press his point . " These unwarrantable and unnecessary brutalities , " continued Mr. Sheppard . ' demand an investigation . Unless Congress takes some action we shall soon witness in a free republic a condition where citizens can not approach the President they have created without fear of bodily harm from arbitrary subordinates . " Mr. - Sheppard had nearly reached the close of his remarks when Mr. Payne , the titular floor leader of the Republicans , renewed the Grosvenor point of order . Mr. Olmstead of Pennsylvania , in the chair , however , ruled that with the House sitting in Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union , remarks need not be germane . Mr. Payne interrupted again , - to ask a Question . ' " If a gentleman has the facts upon which to found his attack , " he said , " does lie not think the police court is the better place to air them ? " " The suggestion is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' friend of mine , " replied Sheppard . When the speech was finished Grosvenor got the floor and said he had been aware of the rules when he did not press ' his point . " But I made the point , " he continued , " merely to call the attention of the young gentleman from Texas in a mild and fatherly manner , to my protest against his remarks . I hoped he would refrain from further denunciation or the President . He has introduced a resolution which is now pending ' before the proper committee . That resolution asks for facts and I supposed that the gentleman would wait for the facts until that resolution is brought into the House . " I know no difference in proper conduct between the President 's office and household and the humblest home in this Nation , but I do n't believe a condition has arisen such that the husband of this woman can not take care of the situation . " A high Government official to-night I added to the accounts of the expulsion an incident , which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policemen and their negro assistant were dragging Mrs. Morris through the grounds the scene was witnessed by the women servants , some of whom called out , " Shame ! " One of the policemen pressed his hand down on Mrs. Morris 's mouth to stifle her cries for help , and at that sight a. man . servant , a negro , rushed , forward and shouted : " Take your hand ' off that white woman 's face ! Do n't treat a white woman that way ! " The policeman paid no attention to the man , and continued his efforts to - stifle Mrs. Morris 's cries .                     