@@676403

txt Another dark strike cloud log d up on the , horizon of the anthracite coal region to-day . The Executive Boards of the United Mine Workers in sessioii- here to-day indorsed the selection of their three District Presidents on the Board of Conciliation , authorized by the Strike Commission , and if these members . are not recognized by the operai tors the Executive Boards will contemplate calling a convention of mine workers to declare a general suspension of work until their members are given recognition . The District Presidents , as a result of to'day 's meeting , issued the following statement to-night on the dispute : " At a joint 1 meeting of the Executive Boards of the I Anthracite region here to-day the members selected to represent the mine workers of each district on the Concilation Board reported that the representatives of the operators refused to recognize them or the I mine workers ' credentials , or accept them as members of the Conciliation Board . They reported that the operators objected on the Iground that the mine workers ' representaItives were appointed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ award of I the commission relative to the manner of selecting , the members of the Conciliation Board provides as follows : That is to say , if there shall be a division of the whole i region into three districts , in each of which I there shall exist an organization , represent'ing a majority of the mine workers of each district , one member of said Board of Conciliation shall be appointed by each of said organizations and three other persons shall be appointed by the operators , the operators in each of said districts appointing one person . 1 " The district boards are still of the opinion that they appointed their representatives as provided for by the section of the award , and voted unanimously to reaffirm their former action . The district I officers have been exceedingly anxious to have the Conciliation Board form and meet for the purpose of adjusting many grievances which have accumulated , and to this end have been bending their energies . " The officers have advised where grievances arose that the men would not strike , and where strikes occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Conciliation Board , which they hoped would soon be formed in accordance with the commission 's award . " Two questions were under consideration by the meeting to-day : One is to make application to the National President of the mine workers to issue an order for a general suspension of work throughout the whole anthracite region , to continue until the operators agree to adjust existing grievances and live up to the award of the Anthracite Coal Strike Commission : the second is that a delegate convention be called to consider the advisability of taking the ' above action . " Another meeting will be held to-morrow to decide as to whether a suspension of work shall be ordered . District Presidents Nicholls , Dettroy , and Fahy intimate to-night that the Executive Board of the Mine Workers will stand by their decision and will insist that their members on the Conciliation Board be recognized . A district officer when asked to-night if the objections of the operators could not be removed if the mine workers selected their representatives on the board by a majority vote of miners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken . If the operators demanded that , he said , the miners had as much right to ask that the company representatives be selected by a vote of the stockholders . " Will the miners quit work if they are called out ? " was asked . " Yes , every man will come out . The 30 , - 000 men in the Schuykill region , whom we ordered back to work , will not hesitate to come out again , and there are acute grievances in every region which will cause a suspension if such a step is decided upon . The district officers have counselled the miners to remain at work pending the settlement of the trouble by the Conciliation Board , but if this board can not be organized there is nothing else for them to do but quit . " National President Mitchell believes that the miners ' representatives on the board are legally chosen , and as the district officers have just returned from a conference with him a t Buffalo they evidently are acting on his advice . It is feared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region will experience another struggle which will attract the attention of the world . It will be a bitter fight to the end . Some of the members , however , feel that the operatcrs will recede and recognize the credentials of the miners ' Presidents .                     