@@677012

txt The labor unions of Sweden , it appears , are resolved that no armed constraint shall be put upon Norway to hold her to the Scandinavian union . They are telegraphing to the Norwegian unions that they will refuse to respond to a call to arms if an attempt is made to coerce Norway , and the Social Democrats have issued proclamations declaring that the workingmen will go on strike throughout Sweden if the Riksdag authorizes armed coercion . Doubtless many righteous persons , well-meaning but befogged in their thinking , will applaud these declarations of Swedish labor and Socialism . They will approve and applaud them because they make for peace and 11 against war ; of course , any man or any influence that opposes war must be good and commendable . But in truth the action of the Swedish labor unions and Social Democrats in exhorting their fellows not to respond to a call to arms is sedition , and it leads inevitably to anarchy . The ruling power in the political society called Sweden is a Government consisting of a King and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supreme authority . Resistance to the lawful procedures of that Government is , according to its grade , seditious , insurrectionary , rebellious , or treasonable . Government is impossible where one class in the political system organizes itself in resistance to the laws and to the authority of the sovereign . The members and organs of the human body could not get on at all together if they did not operate harmoniously in obedience to a single supreme vital force . Civil government can be successfully carried on only by common consent and universal co-operation . When one withholds his consent and refuses to cooperate it is the custom to put him in jail or make way with him . This is the law of safety , and not an unjust law , since it Is based upon the will and serves the interest of the majority . If the majority withhold their consent and efuse their co-operation , - then revolution takes place  --  which is another matter altogether . If the Swedish labor unions and Social Democrats are to have the liberty to exercise their right of private judg7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norway , then of course they may exercise the same right in other matters . They may resolve that they will pay no taxes , no rents , no debts ; that they will take the property of others if they happen to need it without compensation ; that they will kill their enemies " on sight " ; and that they will obey only such laws as please them . That , of course , is anarchy . Under the Articles of Confederation , in this cOUntry the ' people ' of ' some Of the ' States ' refused to pay taxes for the support of the Federal ' Government . Their attempted exercise of the right of private judgment was abridged by the adoption of a . Constitution which established a ' Government strong enough to enforce its decrees and maintain its authority . The Swedish Government must maintain its authority or it will fall to the ground . Probably , however , there is no intention to make war on Norway . The labor unions and Socialists have raised that bugbear for their own purposes . Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swedish agitators now disclose , that the extreme principles of organized labor are incompatible with good citizenship . When labor unions here have forbidden their members to take service in the National Guard , declaring that no good union man could assume a military obligation which might involve the taking up of arms against his fellows , they showed that they set the union above the Government  --  that a good union man could not be a loyal and law-abiding citizen . Sensible workingmen have repudiated these anarchistic doctrines , but the agitators and extremists cling to them . The course now taken by the unions in Sweden shows where these doctrines lead .                     