@@676785

txt " Our men have been chastened . Union labor will benefit from salutary lessons taught by the strike . " In these words and with the tone of optimist/1 , President Donnelly of the butcher workmen last right characterized the outcome of the summer 's great industrial struggle at the stockyards . Improved industrial conditions in the pack-rig houses are looked for as the consequence of the strike now ended . Burdensome impositions formerly insisted on by the unions will be removed , Donnelly declared , and the establishments will be so operated that employment in them will be more desirable . Salutary Lesson for Men . " It has been a losing fight for us , In a way , " he said , " but 1 believe the anal results will be for good . Our men have learned that they were not omnipotent ; that they could be beaten . From now on they will be more conservative . There will be less of the spirit of dictation that has appeared , we all know too well , from time to time . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than when the strike began . On both sides there is a feeling , I am sure , that the mist takes of the past are not to be repeated In the future . " We have the assurances of the packers that they intend changing the system of operating their plants . They have told us that they will seek to give steady work to their crews so far as possible . This will mean fewer men for the union , but they will be higher paid . more satisfied men , and they will make the union a better organization . Change in Union 's System . " A reorganization of our union and the methods of conducting It is one ot ' the first tasks for us to undertake . I have not worked out the details , but my idea is to have a representative of the executive board in each packing center who in a way will be responsible for the good conduct of the men . Grievances will be reported by the workers to this board member , who will adjust them . This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and business agentewho have been called in in the past wheneyer any difference arose . " I also favor a permanent arbltration board to pass on controversies that can not be settled otherwise . " My ideas of the future of the union are based on the knowledge that the employers are not hostile to It . We want to make it an organization that can do business with the packers to the benefit of both sides . " That there will be some friction in the Some Friction Is Expected . coming weeks is certain . But it will be the constant endeavor of myself and the other officers of the union to smooth over these difficulties to the best of our ability . There will be no fresh outbreak of the strike with the sanction of the executive board . " Other labor leaders were outspoken as to the evils of the old system and the benefits to be gained by its destruction . " The second strike was a mistake , " one of the conservative union men said . " There is no question that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the workers refused to abide by It when they renorted back for duty . Taught by Second Strike . " But , everything considered , this second strike was the best thing that happened In connection with the tight . The cattle butchers and others of the more skilled workers thought they could not be whipped and that they could secure anything they asked from the employers . They insisted on that second strike Wetly to show their power . " Unreasonable restrictions were imposed by the local unions of the butcher workmen . They insisted on a limitation of output . There were SOO stewards and business agents in Chicago who continually were running to the busy superintendents , with every imaginable petty grievance . These stewards and nehritm wilt now look for other'emnloyment . Owners to Be More Independent . " The function of a labor organization is to secure the best wages and conditions for the workers consistent with the successful operation by the employer of his business establishment . The old system of the butchers . established over Donnelly 's head , did not meet this test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher wages for the men and will enable the owners to run their plants with more independence . " It should not be forgotten , however , that the union . with all its blunders , is largely responsible for the betterment of conditions . And the strike has produced it feeling of mutual respect between employers and men . " What Other Leaders Say . Vice President C. E. Schmidt of the butcher workmen . Business Agent G. F. Golden , and others drew lessons from the method of running the strike through a large committee like the joint conference board . " This struggle was tried with two methods . in turn . " one said . " For a time Donnelly alone was practically in charge . Then later the large board was placed in authority . Neither system was a success . Two or three competent men make the ideal strike committee . " This lesson should also he noted : that the threat of a strike will wrest from employers greater concessions than the strike it:21f . " All Trades Ordered Back . The joint conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In sympathy with the butchers to return to work . Donnelly sent out a circular letter to the butcher workmen announcing the terms of the understanding ending the strike and instructing the members to report for duty in small numbers today and In greater force on Monday and next week . In two weeks ' time , the union leaders believe . 00 per cent of the packing house workers again will be union . The teamsters ' joint council Instnight gave the leaders of the packing house drivers authority to call off their strike as soon as assurances had been received from the employers that the old men would be reinstated . A committee from the union will try to see the packers today .                     