@@781376

txt The people of Managua are in open revolt against Zelaya without check from the police . They are crowding the streets and giving vent to unrestrained denunciation of the Administration . Shouts of " Long live Liberty ! " " Long live the United States ! " " Long live Mexico ! " " Long live Estrada ! " are heard on every side . The street demonstrations began last night , and to-day the temper of the people was madly excited by the report that a battle had been fought and won by " Vasquez , commander of the Zelayan forces around Rama , and that Vasquez had a:lessee* a large number of revolutionists . With this report canoe the additional rumor that Vasquez load violated the armistice , and it was not considered likely that he would do so unless under instructions from Zelaya . These reports lost nothing in passing from mouth to Mouth . As the Mexican Minister was the guarantor of the armistice , it was stated that that official would ask for his passports Unless Satisfactory explanations were rnade . Pear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ferment . Zelaya is denounced on every hand , but he is still in control , and the people fear a wholesale execution of political prisoners as a parting shot . Tile prisons are full of men , most of whom are in a halfetarved condition . The people openly demand American intervention , and vigilantes have been organized to prevent the escape of the President . A serious danger threatens , for the American concessionaire of the electric lighting declares that he will put the whole city in darkness if money due is not paid before noon to-morrow . This bill amounts to 109,000 pesos , and it is hardly likely that the demand will be met . The American Vice Consul . Henry Calera , he s stuck to his post and conducted the business of his office under conditions of considerable danger . The open demonstration began last Sight . When the Government attempted to put through Congress a bill conceding to certain exploiters mining rights covellug vast undefined areas , Congressman Enrique Corda , who had been released from prison only recently , opposed the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body was supposed to be friendly to Zelaya . The Government precipitately adjourned the session amid hisses . When Corda left the building he got an e-ation . He was followed to his hotel by a mob which cheered him and cried : " Long live liberty ! Down with oppressiUll : " Responding to insistent calls cor.la made a bitter attack upon Zelaya. lie said he had intended further attacks , but lied desisted on the assurance that President Zelaya would resign the Presidency in the morning . Crowd Visits Our Consulate . The crowd . which constantly grew larger , moved to the home of Henry Caldera , the United States Vice Consul . Here they cried : " Viva E'strada ! " " Viva the Revolution ! " " Viva the United States ! " In front of the Mexican Legation calls were made upon the Mexican Minister for a speech . He asked to be excused , Later Dr. Madriz arrived in the city and his advent was the signal for even a greater demonstration , Violent denunciations of the present regime were voiced freely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street meeting of malcontents had been permitted without police interference . It continued for several hours . The events of last night and to-day admit of but one interpretation  --  the antiZelaya feeling is so strong that the Government does not dare to attempt its suppression .                     