@@678015

txt There is a pretty direct incitement to bombmaking and bomb throwing in the speeches made by Mr. ROBERT HUNTER and Mr. JOHN SPARGO : two well-known Socialists , at the meeting held In a Park Place rathskeller on Friday evening , a meeting said to have been presided over by the Rev. Dr. CHARLES P. FAGNANI of the Union Theological Seminary . Mr. HUNTER said that the crowd asseinbled in Union Square on Saturday afternoon a week ago was " a peaceful one , " and yet it was driven back by the policemen brutally , the scene being " the most outrageous " Mr. HUNTER had ever witnessed . All this is demonstrably and flagrantly untrue . The majority ' of the r ersons constituting the crowd may have been peaceful in their intention , but in fact they were an unlawful assemblage . Meetings can not lawfully be held in the public parks without a permit , and a permit in this case had been refused , and properly refused . In excluding the crowd from the square the police were doing what the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd was not within its lawful rights , and was therefore not " peaceful . " Does Mr. HUNTER know why the crowd sang the " Marseillaise " ? Was it as a vocal exercise simply ? Mr. HUNTER iS reported to have said : " I and others with me began to sing the ' Marseillaise ' at that point . My secretary and others with me were anxious , as I was , that I do something that would result in the ipdking of a test case . " That is , Mr. HUNTER wanted to get himself arrested . To the extent of his understanding and of his courage he was committing a breach of the peace . Mr. SPARGO denounces the newspapers for telling the truth about the Union Square demonstration . It is high time the truth were told about Mr. HUNTER , Mr. SPARGO , and all Socialistic and Anarchistic agitators in this community . The explosion of the bomb in Union Square has cleared the atmosphere a bit . Men see more clearly now the direct relation between the utterances of Mr. HUNTER and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombmakers and the bomb throwers . Men are beginning to inquire , too , upon what theory of theological , educational , and sociological duty highly educated persons in this city are acting when they give aid and comfort to the agitators by personal association and participation in their proceedings .                     