@@677393

txt Mr. HEARST wastes his breath and wanders altogether from his point when he assails the newspapers that oppose him and belabors their proprietors . The World and The Herald are not running for office . To the voters who are attending to the progress of the campaign discussion it is a matter of indifference how they carry on their business . Mr. HEARST may prove the most flagitious doings under their roofs without thereby demonstrating his eligibility to the office of Governor . They have a right to criticise him , to expose his weaknesses , point out his inconsistencies , and to turn voters against him by argument and persuasion . If he disproves what they say about him he makes a point . He makes none when he uses bad langLge about them or their proprietors . So far as the Governorship campaign is concerned their business methods are matters of no public interest . On the other hand , Mr. ** and his newspaper properties are exhibits in the case on trial before the people . ' He must expect to be criticised as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the people should be asked to judge his public professions by . his personal conduct . He flays the public service corporations for their tricks and subterfuges , but he appears to have set up an interesting variety of private service corporations froth motives and for uses that will scarcely bear examination . Although Mr. 14tr , iistsr 's business is carried on in the State of New York , he prefers incorporation under the laws of New Jersey . Many of the great Trusts , mergers , and combinations resort to New Jersey for their charters . The corporation laws of that State are more " liberal " than the laws of New York . This is a point against Mr. HEARST which newspapers and campaign speakers have a right to make . The world over the man who does not practice what he preaches is suspected of insincerity . It is the right of his opponents also to point out that his present intimacy and political partnership with the worst of our bosses are glaringly inconsistent with his pledge to his own League that he was going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. HEARST talks to his audiences about the management of the newspapers that make it . He does not seem to have a clear understanding of his position before the people . A candidate must prove that he is fit for the office to which he aspires . In that undertaking Mr. HEARST has made little headway . Proofs of his unfitness accumulate , and instead of disposing of them one by one , he wanders off into irrelevancies and imperti$ nencies , by which we do not mean " sassiness , " but matters not pertaining to campaign issues . From what he says and what his.newspapers print one would judge that he believed the ignorant voters would elect him . His appeal certainly is to ignorance alone . It must repel intelligent men .                     