@@678308

txt Nearly one hundred steel and iron men I and others interested in the Industry were the guests of Elbert H. Gary , Chairman et the United States Steel Corporation , at a dinner at the WaldorfAstoria last night . It was in effect an ' anniversary of the first of the long series of dinners instituted at the height of the business depression last year by which the steel men kept in touch with the trade situation and avoided the demoralization which has always attended previous reactions in the trade . Last year 's dinners and conferences resulted in the formation last Spring of the American Iron and Steel Institute , which carried on the spirit of the earlier gatherings . Although last night 's dinner was given by Judge Gary personally and hot by the institute , the guests were almost nithout exception members of the formally organized body . Besides the Presidents of the United States Steel Corporation 's principal subsidiaries and the heads of the leading independent companies there were present a number of the purely executive officers of the company . The European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jean de Nazimoff . The . dinner , which was private , was served in the Astor Gallery , the tables being arranged in the shape of a horseshoe . Judge Gary sat at the head , with V. E. Corey , George W. Perkins , and A. G. Dinkey at Iris immediate right and Charles M. Schwab and Prank J. Billings at his left . Others at the dinner were W. L. Brown , President of the American Shipbuilding Company : C. W. Bray . President of the American Sheet and Tin Plate Company ; H. J. Buffington , President of the Illinois I Steel Company ; J. G. Butler , Jr. , President of the Bessemer Ore Association ; J. A. Campbell , President of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company ; E. A. S. Clark , President of the Lackawanna Steel Company ; W. B. Dickson , Second Vice President of the United States Steel Corporation ; Joseph H. Hoadley , President of the Alabama Consolidated Coal and Iron Company ; Archibald Johnston , Vice President of the Bethlehem Steel Company ; G. G. , Chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohl , President of 1 he United Iron and Steel Company : W. P. Palmer , President of the American Steel and Wire Company ; F. W. Roebling , Treasurer of Roebling , Sons ' . &; Co. , and John A. Topping , Chairman of the Republic Iron and Steel Company . Judge Gary 's Address . Judge Gary himself was the principal speaker . He reviewed the course of events in the trade during the last year , which brought the sharpest reaction the industry has ever seen without demoralization , and dwelt upon the 5ood which has come of the open discussion of trade affairs between the principal interest and the independents , taking care to emphasize the fact that the conferences of the year were not in any sense agreements in violation of the Federal laws . In his address he said : " It seems now to be the common belief that the action and disposition of the manufacturers of iron and steel during the last year have been of material benefit to . the manufacturers themselves , to their customers , to their employes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your action has extended in some measure to other countries . " What Is this movement , and up to date what have been its results ? The movement has been simply an effort on the part of those : nterested in the Iron and steel industry to establish a basis of friendly association and intercourse which is calculated to enable each , to obtain full knowledge concerning the affairs of all the others , and the beneficial result s which naturally follow such knowledge . " That some have misunderstood our action is probable . Some at least have questioned the propriety , if not the legality , of cur efforts ; and apparently others have believed these efforts would be of no substantial benefit . I think I represent the views of all present in saying we have never doubted the propriety or legality of our action because we knew our motives were good . " We have never intended to antagonize the laws of the country , or the rights and interests of any one . We have occasionally read published criticisms of our movement on the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trade ; an agreement , express or implied , to maintain prices , to restrict output , or to divide territory . But the fault lies in the unjustified assumption of fact . " As r understand , it is not improper for competitors to meet and without reserve furnish full Information and express opinions concerning the business affairs of all , provided they are not acting under an agreement , express or implied . It is not wrong , even though any or all may be influenced regarding any particular business , nor even though the result may be to prevent radical and unreasonable changes in prices . " As to the results of our efforts to cooperate , there is , I think , no reasonable doubt they have been of great benefit . Not a Trade Restraint . " It is common practice the world over for men engaged in all the different lines to meet their associates and competitors frequently and to discuss conditions and interchange views respecting the proper and reasonable conduct of all concerned . It is not necessary to go into details . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , merchants . transportation companies , professional people , and all others . It includes prices . rates , quantities , amounts , productions , sales , wages , and fees . " In connection with the movement under consideration we have had no agreement in restraint of trade , express or implied . We have never intended nor resorted to any evasion , and the public has been accurately informed concerning our action . Therefore , we may dismiss this subject with the statement that if we shall be convinced we are wrong in our conclusions , or that we have antagonized public interests , or if complaint is made by any one authorized to make it . we will discontinue our efforts to co-operate , whatever injury may ensue . " We have been successful in securing stability as opposed to demoralization . This has tended to promote the best interests of ourselves and all others ' Whether or not this movement for conciliation and co-operation , as opposed to the unreasonable and destructive competition of the past , shall continue to be successful , I can not say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me within the last few days , ' It is well worth trying . ' " I have great faith in the future . The world is growing better . Soon it is to be hoped we shall , even in business matters , substitute the principle that ' right makes might ' for the old sentiment that ' might makes right . ' " We ought to be working together and for one ' another . Each should consider the rights and interests of all others . Let us bola little more generous toward each other . ' We ' have established a business - friendship **30;637;TOOLONG ' valuable .                     