@@677790

txt I Pittsburgers have learned how to get a railway trip to New York : 51.27 cheaper than the through fare . They . buy a ticket to Philadelphia under the two-cent fare law , and bta a second ticket from Philadelphia to the city of their desire . Certain other repu table and law-abiding citizens have also learned that they can ride to Albany for less than the through fare by buying two tickets , the sum of whose prices is less than the regular fare . Getting the better of a corporation , and that corporation a railway , is such a popular pastime that it seems a pity to uncloak the portentous proportions of these simple schemes . They are nothing less than securing rebates , by trick and device . Speaking techI nically they are ' accepting the " sum 1 of the locals , " instead of paying the lawful rate of which every user of the railways is bound to inform him , self at his risk . Ignorance is no excuse , and paying what the railways ask is no defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which vex shippers encourage the hope that some time there may be a - popular under- standing of technical questicins which are of burning importance to railways and their customers . When a shipper now wishes to avail himself of addition of the locals to make ' a - through rate he , is compelled ' to rebill his consignment . This has been decided to be lawful , and the Inter-State Commerce Commission has ruled that when the sum of the locals is less than the through - rate the commission will regard the through rate as unreasonable . Yet such is the terror of the Great Pine that not even this official encouragement is availed of by all , while-some claim that this permission is itself discriminatory , since all shippers can not rebill consignments with equal facility . It Is the plaint of the little man , overborne by the better business capacity and organization of the larger . concern . Thd $1.27 saved by the Pittsburgers ? why should Pittsburgers save anything on a trip to New York ? ? is not the measure of the importance of this ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of shippers , one of whom narrated his hardship . He made a sale based upon the sum of the locals as freight , but for reasons beyond his control ' he could not move his goods promptly . Before they were moved the companies had made a through rate , and repudiated the sum of the locals which they had quoted . The consequence was a loss of $85 on one shipment . An immense volume of traffic hangs upon the legality of the method by which the Pittsburgers travel to New York . If they do not watch out they may , get into jail before they arrive here .                     