@@677301

txt ' Evidence of American sincerity in the effort to persuade the Canadian Government to help preserve the scenic properties of Niagara Falls is not clearly discernible in the amended Burton-Lodge bill , now being considered by a conference committee of both houses . It is a Chicago Ship Canal bill , a Niagara Power bill , not a Niagara Preservation bill . Chicago has a drainage canal into which the waters of Lake Michigan are diverted . This diversion was provided for by the " domestic uses " concession of the measure as originally drawn ; in its present form , which allows diversion for " domestic purposes or for navigation , " the City of Chicago may abstract from the Great Lakes enough water to permanently damage the Falls . In view of this new concession we fear Secretary ROOT would find his diplomatic negotiation with Canada , designed to restrain her power companies from utilizing water which Chicago may freely take , a somewhat arduous task . But the bill deals gently in its " restrictions " of American power generating and transmission companies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cataract as they are at present using , which , competent critics declare , has already injured the American Falls , and at the same time the bill allows the transmission to the United States of all the electrical enttgy now generated on the Canadian side , with the right of obtaining from the Secretary of War , in his discretion , additional permits until the , sum total of 350,000 horse power , derived from both sides , shall be consumed in this country . At present less than 320,000 horse power is developed on both sides of the Falls . Senator KNox 's amendment , moreover , declares that the bill is to be construed as not to " withhold power from factories now under construction . " With all the power now generated on the Canadian side coming into the United States under the Secretary of War 's permits , what a chance for the Ontario companies again to cut into Niagara Falls for their home supply ! And will the Canadian Parliament be niggardly with new permits to its own ' companies while the United States treats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffer in these transactions is that of Niagara Falls preservation , which the original Burton-Lodge bill was drafted to serve .                     