@@677121

txt The Russian revolution emphasizes the isolation of Germany . Excepting Austria-Hungary , Russia and Germany are the two empires in Europe in which the dynastic system of governMent has retained most vitality . The three together might have reconstructed , at the beginning of the twentieth century , the " Holy Alliance . " Which was so efficacious at the beginning of the nineteenth , with less danger of beini hooted off the stage by popular derision than would attend such a revival in any other countries in Europe , much less danger than would attend the attempt in the Latin countries . Italy and Spain , to say nothing ? of France , are thus shoWn to be politically far more advanced than the countries of which , in some important sense , they may be said to be in arrears . The Russian revolution , in particular , gives fresh interest to the discussion raised by the dismissal of M. DELCASSE , undoubtedly at the virtual demand of Germany , from the French Secretaryship of Foreign Affairs , and by the sequels of that dismissal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his colleagues of his own assurance that Great Britain would come to I the assistance of France , if France should be attacked by Germany , that the " entente " had developed to the proportions of a defensive alliance . The " Moroccan question , " begun by the after-luncheon speech of the Kaiser to the German merchants at Tangier , of which no verbal report has even yet been transmitted to a waiting world , is a good many months old . But the report that M. DELCASSE had assured his colleagues of the assistance of Great Britain , in case of an attack by France , is only a few weeks old . The comment by the leading and most conservative organs of British opinion on the report of the Matin that these assurances had been given is worth attention . Those organs , with one voice , declared that it was quite out of the question that such an agreement had been made by Lord LANSDOWNE . But , they added , it is perfectly conceivable that Lord LANSDOWNE may have told the French Ambassador in London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no British Ministry which failed to come to the assistance of France , in case she were attacked by Germany under the assumed conditions , could remain in office for one week . At this point interjects his personality into the international discussion , and " by the most just title , " M. LAUZANNE , the editor of the Matin . His ostensible object is to relieve M. DELCASSE of the responsibility of having given the details of the sitting of the French Ministry to the world . He does not deny that M. DELCASSE was his original . informant . What he affirms is that he had a , full report in June of the proceedings of the Council of Ministers , but that , the matters in question being still matters of negotiation , he did not publish his report until September . after these had been adjusted . And then M. LAUZANNE adds on his own account the inquiry , why should Germany , . as represented by the German press , show all this sensibility about an alliance which was by its terms purely defensive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , unless Germany actually had the intention of attacking France , in view of the military weakness developed in the Far East on the part of France 's ally , Russia ? Truly , this is an inquiry as searching as it is Obvious . It disposed in ad- ' vance- of much heavily effusive talk which has appeared . in the German press since it was published , about the blood-guiltiness of poor Lord LANSDOWNE in being willing to plunge Germany into a " double war . " As a matter of fact , whatever Lord LANSDOWNE may or may not have had to do with it , the effect of what has been done and said , including the " indiscreet " but useful disclosures in the Matin , is to keep Germany out of a double war , by showing that it was hot France but Germany that would be friendless in case of the double war which Germany may have fondly imagined would be a single war , by reason of France 's only previous ally having troubles of her own . The plain fact is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What is coming at St. Petersburg no man can foretell . But any man can foretell that the future . rela- tions of Russia and v6ermany can no longer be adjusted by the conferences of Czar and Kaiser on board of an imperial yacht . There will be noboly authorized to speak for Russia in that kind of Conference , and national interests will no longer be pawns in the dynastic game . Moreover , account must be taken of the genei-al British willingness , to use no stronger word , to smash . the German Navy before it gets any bigger . Germany is , in fact , under very heavy bonds to keep the peace , and would be so if her titular ruler were a far more turbulent person than he is . For it grows every day clearer that Germany is absolutely isolated in Europe .                     