@@781384

txt The revolt at Moscow has practically been crushed . A correspondent of the - Associated Press telephoned at 7 o'clock this evening that the insurgents no longer had a chance , and that they were making a last stand . He predicted that there would be no further severe fighting . All the troops . he said , were now fighting on the side of fliC Government . Shortly before 0 o'clock to-night the correspondent telephoned that there seemed to be no longer any doubt that the insurrection was collapsing . The insurgents still held a quadrangle , in which the Workmen 's Council was sitting as a revolutionary ' committee , but only because Gen. Doubassoff was not yet ready to give the coup de grace . This quadrangle was described In a I message sent at 5 P. M. The correspondent said the fighting in the streets continued throughout to-day , but the populace was not participating in it and the troops were gradually getting the upper hand . The soldiers were hemming in the main body of the insurgents in the quadrilateral near the Brest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sadovia , and Bronnia Boulevards . In this quadrilateral the insurgents had fortified every Inch of their lines with felled trees , telegraph poles , and street cars , in front of which they had constructed a network of entanglements . Artillery was being used mercilessly . Two of the four Grenadier regiments , it was added , had returned to duty and were fighting on the side of the Government . Troops had arrived from St. Petersburg . The fires which destroyed the Brest station and other places last night had been practically extinguished . and the danger of the destruction of the city by fire seemed to be over . Another message from Moscow said firing continued intermittently throut ; h04 the day . At 5 o'clock automatic guns were being used in Strastner Square , but the insurgents were becoming exhausted . after their four days ' efforts , and the fighting was rapidly degenerating into guerrilla warfare . The insurgents were defending theme selves with revolvers and bombs as they were being hunted down from house to house . The correspondent said that the entire population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark streets presented a weird and uncanny appearance . As he drove to the telephone station he saw only e. few civilians , who were slinking along r the side of the walls so as to avoid the police and cavalry patrols ... who fired without challenging , The windows of the houses were stuffed with mat-tresses and blankets , and no light was showing . The police carried rifles with bayonets fixed . The correspondent saw the patrols firing every time the people gathered in groups . In the Strastonoi Boulevard ha saw three volleys fired and a dozen persons fall . while the remainder fled . He met a dozen improvised Red Cross wagons bringing in dead or wounded , for whom there was no longer a place in the morgues or hospitals , necessitating the temporary use of residences . All over the city there were marks of the battle . Houses had been completely demolished by the artiller3- . Emperor Nicholas and Count Witte tonight received a report from Gen. ledubassoff , Governor General of Moscow . saying that the revolt there had - failed ; that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d'sa f fection /night have existed among the troops had been overcome by the attacks with bombs and revolvers to which they bad been subjected from windows and roofs of houses , and which had so enraged them that they could hardly he restrained . Dispatches from Mosed* this morning said the military were holding the cen tre of Moscow , and the revolutionists were holding the outskirts of the city . A thousand men were working continually at the barricades , some of which were described as marvels of strength . Trenches had been dug and wire entanglements had been constructed in front of the defenses , which extended for blocks . deleted paragraph The mortuaries at Moscow are fined with the dead , the hospitals are unable to find " room for the wounded , and many private houses are filled with wounded persons . The Sieve says that the leaders of the revolutionary army at Moscow are mosl. ly students of Kieff , Kharkoff , and Odessa , among whom are many Jews . Reinforcements are reported to be on the way to Moscow from all directions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragoons from Warsaw have started by rail for Moscow . Prince Tcherbatoff 's " Black Hundred militia have been armed by Gov . Gen. Doubassoff. and terrible reprisals on the revolutionists are anticipated . Gen. Doubassoff is enforcing the most rigid martial law , and no person is allowed on the streets after 0 o'clock at night . Two attempts on the life of the Prtfeot of Police by students , one of them a woman , were frustrated . The students were arrested . The Bourse Gazette says it is reported that Gen. di Dioulin , Prefect of Police of St. Petersburg , has been informed by telephone that the dead or wounded at Moscow number 10,000 . When questioned to-night the General did not deny that such a report had been received . About one-third of the workmen have left Moscow and are traveling on foot to villages , some of which are hundreds of miles distant . The concentration of the troops in the city to fight the insurgents allowed the strikers and Revolutionaries a free hand in neighboring industrial towns like Perovo and Lubertzi . At lathertzi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the New York Air Brake Company , the works of which in that town are valued at $1,000,000 , sent an urgent Message to the Governor General to-day through the American Consul , appealing for the protection of the property and the 100 Americans who are employed there . Gen. Doubassoff promptly dispatched a squadron of dragoons . and this fact is considered as the best proof that he is confident he has the situation in hand .. Although rebellion may flare up immediately elsewhere , and although there already are indications of another upheaval at Odessa in the crushing of the attempt at armed rebellion in Moscow the leader. , of the " Reds " will receive a blow flout which they can not quickly recover . Count Witte is not so blind as to believe that the revolution can be stamped out , but with the present demonstration of the lengths to which the " reds " are willing to go he has hopes that the moderates of all classes will come to their senses and aid in the restoration of order and in accelerating the convocation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was publis .. ed to-day . Among the developments here to-day the most important was the capture of the leaders of the " Fighting Legion , " which , it is believed , ends the dangr of an attempt at an armed uprising in St. Petersburg . This capture , it is understood , placed in the hands of the Government complete information regarding the revolutionary plans and the places where arms are concealeck. and also disclosed the weak spots in the army . Police and troops surrounded and captured all the members of the Executive Committee of the fighting revolutionary organization while they were discussing plans for an armed uprising here . They have also already captured large quantities of arms , bombs . Sic . A man named Schoolman was at the numbered forty-seven members .                     