@@676721

txt Mr. CLEVELAND 'S letter to the Tammany Committee is by no means the stereotyped and perfunctory sort of utterance which we have grown accustomed to looking for from public men on such occasions . The yearning for a reversion to the days of " Plain living and high thinking " from these days of high living and plain thinking is doubtless a counsel of perfection . But it is not on that account necessarily without its usefulness . But the main point which the ex-President makes , and the making of which appears to have been to himself the chief inducement to writing his letter , is resentment of the exclusive pretensions of the Republican Party . And there is no question either of the timeliness or of the practicality of this sentiment . Ever since it " saved the country , " the Republican Party has been prone to assume that the country so saved was its own property and to resent as larcenous the intrusting of the Government to its opponent . This assumption has never been more offensively made than it was made at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CLEVELAND takes just offense at it : Nothing can be more startling or can indicate a greater reliance by designing hypocrisy upon popular degeneracy than the impudent assertion by a political organization seeking to perpetuate its ascendency , that none not within its fold is either competent or honest enough to be trusted with governmental direction . In his righteous resentment of this " impudent assertion , " however , Mr. CLEVELAND seems to forget that , if the Republicans have put forward their exclusive pretensions this year with more than customary offensiveness , they have had more than customary excuse for it For two successive Presidential campaigns the Democratic Party has shown itself bereft of reason . It has twice put an impossible candidate on an insane platform , insomuch that neither the ex-President nor the Democrats for and to Whom he speaks have been able to support the Democratic candidate nor to gainsay the Republican pretension that upon those two occasions the destinies of the country could not safely have been intrusted to any but the Republican Party . Now there is a change . Reason has resumed her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive Republican pretension will be the nomination , which now seems to be assured , of a safe candidate on a sane platform .                     