@@678651

txt The French have a saying that it is difficult to speak of Dijon without thinking of mustard . For a very great part of the American people , we supposed . the mention of Newfoundland summons up the image of that large , black , handsome , good-natured , and faithful friend of man who is , or was , chiefly bred in that island . To Frenchmen , no doubt . Newfoundland suggests fisheries , for on that coast men of the French race are largely engaged in that industry . Henceforth Newfoundland will be thuught of as one of the chief seats of white paper manufacture . As was told in our columns yesterday morning , Lord NORTHCLIFFE , in the very heart of the Newfoundland wilderness , is creating a large industrial city . The corporation , of which he is the chief spirit , has acquired the ownership of vast tracts of land producing spruce timber , It has made available an immense water power , it has built mills , houses for its army of operatives . Its works will have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The pulp will be in part used for the manufacture of white paper for Lord NORTFICL/Frea publications in England , and in part will be pressed for export . Altogether about $6,000,000 will have been expended In this undertaking . The world 's great industries are all the time going further afield for their raw material . It was natural that Lord NORtHCLIFFE , with his publishing experience and large daily needs of white paper , with his foresight and his courage , should have disregarded entirely the slight matter of 2,000 miles of distance that separate his paper Mills from his publications , and should have been moved to avail himself in this large way of the resources of British territory beyond the sea . That part of the population of the earth that has learned to read wants to read more and more , all the time it demands more reading matter . The cheapening of the publisher 's processes through the introduction of tyPesetting , machinery and the substitution of photography for engraving in illustration has very much increased the consumption of white paper to supply the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it is no longer possible , that the paper mills , shauld : be erect:44 near the printi4 plant . The questibri of timber supply is controlling , and for that papermakers on any large scale must establish themselves in the forests . Some years ago a London newspaper made inquiries concerning certain weeds in our Far West with a view to the use of the fibre in papermaking . , , Lord NORTHCLIFFE Wkisely makes use Of the material and the methods sanetinned by experience . His great mills at Grand Falls giving employment to thousands of operatives and lumbermen will bring a great deal of money into Newfoundland every year , and will give the island a new business importance .                     