@@676616

txt We are advised by Washington dispatches that the issues upon which the President will make his campaign are thee : 1 . The Administration 's policy in the Panama matter . 2 . The attitude toward corporations taken in the Northern Securities case . 3 . The attitude toward labor shown in the Miller " open shop " case . 4 . The attitude toward the differences between capital and labor taken in the settlement of the great anthracite coal strike . Admirable ! Perfect ! Note the fine balance and harmonious adjustment . President ROOSEVELT rode down all law and smashed a treaty in the accomplishment of his Panama Canal policy . President ROOSEVELT rode rough-shod over the corporations , and ruthlessly smote the industries of his country in the attempt to enforce the rigorous letter of a law enacted by a demagogic Congress to meet a partisan emergency . President ROOSEVELT stood up like a man for the rights of labor and of employers by denying the demand of organized labor that a certain non-union man be dismissed the Government employ . President ROOSEVELT in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step which in the opinion of a very large number of employers of labor gave great aid and comfort to agitators and fomenters of strikes . So there you are . If he sacrificed law for a canal did he not sacrifice the corporations for a law ? If he turned a denying countenance upon labor in the Miller case , was he not suave and obliging in the anthracite case ? If the voter does n't like one picture , let him look on t' other . Nobody but a carping , cantankerous , opinionated , stiff-necked , temperamental fault-finder could find anything to criticise in this beautifully blended compound of opposites . If by law or edict it were made a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the common jail to discuss or think about any public clues ? tions save those enumerated in this proclamation of issues we should suppose that Mr. ROOSEVELT would be elected President by substantially a unanimous vote . Unfortunately the Democrats at St. Louis will be privileged to put into their platform matters not dreamed of in the compact Administration philosophy of the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared by the party in power , without regard to the impertinent suggestions of the other fellows , the business of electing our Presidents would be much simplified .                     