@@675788

txt A bitter discussion arose in the House of Commons last night over the Colonial Office appropriation . The opponents of the Government had ample opportunity to bait Mr. Chamberlain as the result of a motion , pro forma , to reduce by ? 100 the vote out of which the Colonial Secretary 's salary will be paid . Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman ( the Liberal leader ) said that in view of the patience with which the nation had for twenty-one months endured Mr. Chamberlain 's policy in South Africa , he thought it eppor. tune to secure a statement from the Colonial Secretary as to the war situation . Sir Henry went on to point out that Cape Colony was now invaded and overrun by Boers , and he asked what prospect there was of repelling the invaders , what the condition of Cape Colony would be after the war , what was the prospect of famine as a result of the Government 's " policy of devastation , " and where was Cape Colony 's Constitution , which appeared to him to be under lock and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied that farm burning had been entirely abandoned and replaced by the policy of concentration camps . He contended that these were humane and satisfactory institutions , as had been shown by the fact that thousands of Boers came into them voluntarily . He continued : " - The Government has the best reasons to believe that a vast majority of the Boers acknowledge themselves beaten , and would gladly surrender and resume peaceful pursuits but for the comparative handful of irreconcilables , who are carrying on a guerrilla war that is rapidly degenerating into brigandage and absolute murder . Lord Kitchener is adequately dealing with the problem by establishing blockhouse cordons within which the peacefully inclined can safely settle and be protected . " Regarding the announcement by Lord Kitchener that Commandant ' Kritzinger had declared his intention to shoot all natives in British employ , whether armed or unarmed , Mr. Chamberlain said the Government had telegraphed orders to Lord Kitchener to inform the Boer leaders that such acts were contrary to civilized usage , and ' that all guilty persons of this class , if captured , would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheering . Mr. Chamberlain said in another part of his speech : " There seems to be an impression that we have come to some sort of an agreement with the Boers that natives are not to be employed in this war , but there is no such agreement Incursions into protected districts must be more severely dealt with , if there is to be ' sniping ' of soldiers from behind hedges , and even of women . " ? Rubbish ! " cried an Irish member . Mr. Chamberlain retorted that he had met some ladies who had been assaulted in this way . " If things have changed from bad to worse in Cape Colony , " the Secretary continued , " it is because the Cape rebels have found rebellion a cheap , interesting , and even amusing performance . Then , there has been mistaken leniency ; this was the policy in the past " Botha , De Wet , and Schalk-Burger do not say that the war was caused by the raid . They say they are fighting for their independence . It is nonsense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be a fight to the finish . To fight to the finish is now the Policy of the Government . " Sir Edward Grey ( Liberal Imperialist ) expressed bitter disappointment at the tone of Mr. Chamberlain 's speech , although he agreed with the general military policy of the Government He said the Colonial Secretary had dealt carelessly with the subject of employing native troops . and had not distinguished between Africans and highly trained Indian troops . John E. Redmond ( the Nationalist leader ) asserted that Mr. Chamberlain 's speech was " a candid , if somewhat brutal exposition of the Government 's policy , " and said he prayed to God that the resistence of the Boers might be strengthened . The debate was continued for another hour after Mr. Chamberlain 's speech , and the amendment to reduce the salary of the Colonial Secretary was rejected by a vote of 154 to 70 . The House then took up other subjects , and was still in session at 4 o'clock this morning . Mr. Chamberlain 's declarations were coupled with the assurance that a considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of September . His speech is treated by the morning papers as the beginning of the third period of the war .. The Standard . Daily Chronicle , Morning Post , Daily Telegraph , Daily Graphic , Daily - Nfail , and Daily Express rejoice at the " Government 's resolute attitude . " The Daily News , on the other hand , regards it with uneasiness and apprehension , and The Morning Leader as ' the opening of an epoch of terror and shame . " The Standard says : " The pestilent activity of a small section is keeping the whole vast area in a state of tumult . throwing an enormous cost on the Imperial Treasury , and postponing the resumption of peaceful industry . The time is clearly at hand , if we rightly construe Mr. Chamberlain 's words , when Lord Kitchener win be instructed not to treat as pr Boners of war British subjects captured with arms in their hands . It is a stage which every guerrilla conflict ultimately reaches , and it is to be deplored . since it may mean terrible deeds leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into which the campaign has degenerated must be stamped out at any cost " The Times says : " The Boers have announced their determination to shoot every native who accepts service with the British or assists them in any way . Mr. Chamberlain has very properly telegraphed instructions that all who are found guilty of such practices shall suffer death .. We have carried leniency Very far , further than it has ever been cardeleted 4 lines                     