@@677202

txt The storm which swept the lake region yesterday struck New York at 10:25 o'clock last night in the form of rain , bearing with it a foretaste of the cold wave predicted for to-day by the Weather Bureau . The temperature fell rapidly after nightfall . The thermometer registered 53 degrees at 6 o'clock , but at 10:30 o'clock had fallen to 35 degrees . It was said at the Weather Pureau late last night that it would be much colder to-day , with high winds and possibly snow . The blizzard which struck the Great Lakes Tuesday night was headed this way , and the Washington Bureau sent out the following : " Northwest storm warnings are displayed from Delaware Breakwater to New York ; high northwest winds to-night , with cold wave and possibly snow . " The lives of a hundred ice harvesters were endangered at Bay City , Mich. , on Tuesday afternoon , when a gale suddenly swept down upon them , breaking the ice field loose from the shore . It finally pounded against the shore again , and the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Important Captures of Man and Girl After Patient Watching . Six years ago the Secret Service officers of the Treasury had their attention attracted to a counterfeit $10 gold piece which had been passed upon a downtown merchant . The false coin was of good make , being 10 karat in body and having an edge of 24 karat to withstand the test of " nicking . " Following a trail , the Secret Service men arrested 12-year-old Frances Angeloni . The girl was questioned , but gave such an innocent recital Of how the money came in her possession that she was not prosecuted . The detectives watched her continuously since then , however , and their years of vigilance was rewarded yesterday when they swooped down upon a frame tenement at 173 Hopkins Street , Brooklyn , and arrested John Angeloni , who said he was a jeweler , and then went to 22 Eldridge Street , where they again arrested the girl , now a grown clerk in a jeweler 's store . The charge against them was counterfeiting silver dollars . The Government ' experts say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in workmanship and general cleverness among the best that has ever come under their observation . DIED AFTER A SNOWBALLING . Old ' Longshoreman Did n't Blame the Boys , Bless Their Hearts . Edward Feeny , a seventy-year-old longshoreman , of 136 Charles Street , hobbled into the New York Hospital Tuesday and told the surgeon he had been " sorter knocked about by some little boys who had been having a good time , bless their throwin ' snowballs . " Feeny was attended to by Dr. Gillespie , who put the old white-haired man to bed . The surgeon saw that he was injured internally . Feeny died yesterday afternoon at 2:10 o'clock in the hospital . But he never said a hard word about the boys . The old man told the hospital people Tuesday that he had been met at Fourth Avenue and Seventeenth Street by a crowd of boys who were throwing snowballs . They pelted him . Some of the pieces of snow were so heavy that they bowled the old fellow over on the sidewalk . He got up laughing , each time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tired of the sport , the old man said , he felt that he was " sorter sick , just a little . " So he had hobbled to the hospital . UPROAR IN THE WALDORF . It Started Like Melodrama and Wound Up Like Farce . Persons who were dining in the WaldorfAstoria last night heard a stentorian voice yell , " Turn me loose ! Turn me loose ! I i never did it " There were sounds of struggling , and then more yells which proceeded from the ' hallway by the palm room . Guests gathered from all parts of the house , and there ! was a crush by the palm room door . Tall people could see that a. huge man was struggling with two others while he yelled and screamed and pleaded . Short people could only ask , " What is it ? " A young page , who had been reading extensively of late , declared that " Old Ring Brady " was arresting a famous crook who had stolen a million dollars ' worth of diamonds and pearls . One chambermaid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elope with a millionaire 's daughter . What it really was all about was told by House Detective Lyda : " C. W. Watson , a coal operator from Baltimore , hung his $150 overcoat on the coat rack near the palm room , or had Charles I. Smith , the attendant , to do it for him . Then he went in to dine . I had been following a suspicious character about the hotel . " He sat down under the palm room rack . I tipped Smith to get out of the way so that the fellow could do something . He reached up and unhooked Mr. Watson 's coat and got up to leave . I grabbed him . " The prisoner said he was Walther James , a French salesman , of 210 West Forty-fifth Street . He was locked up in the Tenderloin Station . SHAW DISCOURAGES METZ.  - -  - Controller Hardly Thinks Now He Can Get Custom House Taxes . On his return from Washington yesterday Controller Metz said he had had a lang talk with Secretary Shaw of the Treasury Department about the National City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street . " Secretary Shaw told me that no deed ever had been made out and that the contract of sale only had been signed , " said the Controller , " The Secretary did say , however , that at the time the contract was made it never was expected that the matter would hang fire so many years or that the bank would pay the Government the large proportion of the purchase money which was paid , at least not until the bank was ready to take over the property . " By paying this large sum of $3,215,000 , said Mr. Metz , and leaving but $50,000 unpaid , the bank draws four per cent . interest from the Government on its payment and pays the Government four per cent . interest only on the small amount remaining unpaid . The Controller does not think the city stands much chance of collecting the taxes which he has been working to collect .                     