@@678518

txt The reforms in the Consular Service instituted by the last Administration are being extended to the Diplomatic Service by President TAFT and Secretary Knox . Appointments of eminent men to prominent Ambassadorships , such as those of London and Paris , are ' not likely to be wholly discontinued , but the recent appointment of Mr. BACON to Paris is particularly gratifying to those persons who want to see our Diplomatic Corps placed on an equal footing in efficiency with those of other countries . Candidates for appointment to the smaller places in the service are now subjected to an exam- I ination for fitness similar to that of applicants for Consular appointments.1 The State Department has also arranged for a regular course of instruction for young men who have passed these examinations and are on the eligible list for minor appointments in 1 the Diplomatic Service . Forniefly a young man went to fill the post of Secretary at a foreign mission with the vaguest knowledge of the  --  duties to be required of him . Now he is to be instructed in the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aliens , the policy of the ' United States in the Far East , and other essential subjects . Officers of the State Departments and membei.s of the Diplomatic and Consular Corps ? are among the instructors . We are thus in the way of having a permanent Diplomatic . Service in which a young - man of good education and the right sort of lEbility can make a career The Washington . correspondent of The ; Sun suggests that improvements other than pureiy educational are desirable among our younger diplomats , who may be expected to rise in the service . Cosmopolitanism is admirable in an Ambassador and his Secretaries , but to be truly cosmopolitan one must not forget his own country , which in his eyes , if not always on the tip of his tongue , should be a more important part of the world than any other . Good manners are as essential as a knowledge of languages , but too many member 's of our foreign legations have mistaken affectation for ? manners , and have grown to dislike , if not their country , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up his Americanism , and it is a fact that few Americans fail to . It is a pity that any of the few shoul I ever be attached to our Diplomatic Corps . The filling of minor posts by competitive examination , and the promise held out to beginners of ? promotion for merit , should help to reform the service . The State Department 's school  --  for diplomats may in time outgrow its present confines and need a permanent and separate establishment . It is the realization of an idea long cherished by many traveled Americans .                     