@@678245

txt The supposed disinclination of Miss Elkins to embrace the Catholic faith spoken of in special cable dispatches from Rome as a possible bar to the marriage with the Duke of the Abruzzi is said on good authority not to exist , though no further statement is expected from the Elkins family , and Miss Elkins , who will remain with her parents in their West Virginia home until after the election and then come to this city as usual , has preserved a dignified silence throughout . Senator and Mrs. Elkins are members of the Presbyterian Church , in which their children : were all baptized . They are extremely liberal , however , have always enjoyed a warm personal friendship with the Catholic dignitaries of Baltimore and New York , and would offer no oppositirn whatever to their daughter embracing the Catholic faith . Miss Elizabeth Elkins , the eldest daughter of the family , became a Catholic on the occasion of her marriage to the late Edward Brunner of New York , the ceremony taking place with great pomp in St. Patrick 's Cathedral , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the family , recently married a daughter of the sate Senator Kenna of West Virginia , the ' ' ceremony being performed by a priest of the Catholic Church , of which young Mr. Elkins is a member . Miss Katherine Elkins occasionally attends the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church with her parents , but she has never ' united herself with that body , and consequently is not , from an ecclesiastical point of view , a Protestant Admission to the Roman Catholic Church would be very easily accomplished in the event of her acceptance of that creed . That she has read seriously on the subject in the last few months is known to her friends . She has at no time expressed herself as ready or anxious to accept the faith , but it is known she has no prejudice against it . CHILDREN FORCED TO WORK . Many Parents Idle , Apparently ? Fewer Marriages Now . More than twice as many children are seeking employment this Fall as last Fall , and there has been a decided falling off in marriages , according to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year , 1,300 children , 14 years old , applied for certificates that they might become bread winners . Last month more than 2,700 children asked for employment certificates . There is but one construction put upon this unprecedented increase by the Health Board . That is that a larger number of parents find themselves at the approach of Winter either out of employment or with their earning capacity reduced , so that the children 's help must be enlisted . It frequently happens that boys and . girls can get work when men and women can not , and , of course , they can do some work for which adults are not adapted . The apparent falling off of marriages is almost as noticeable as is the increase in the number of children asking to be allowed to go to work . though the figures at the department may be Misleading , for clergymen who performed the marriage ceremonies may not have returned the certificates , as required by law . An investigation is to be made of this , however , involving a comparison of the records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall . It is a penal offense for ministers not to report marriages to the Health Department , and so few , comparatively , have been reported to the department that a list of the first 5.000 on record there will be sent to the City Hall to be compared with the first 5,000 recorded in Clerk Scully 's office. , If it is found out that ministers have not been reporting to the Department of Health direct , steps will be taken to find out the reason . There is absolutely no doubt , however , so it was declared yesterday . that no failure on the part of clergymen to send trr their reports can account for the drop in the number of weddings .                     