@@677125

txt Mr. Palgrave wrote a book on the intolerable fluctuations in the British money market , which altered in a se-looted period of thirteen months four times . In the same period the New York market for prime commercial paper , which ought to be the steadiest money market , altered 27 times . It is impossible to say how often the call money rate altered , ' but the extremes were 11/2 and 25 per cent . We are now passing through one of those flurries . It would be incorrect to say that it has no significance , but it is true that it has no such significance as it would possess under anything like a scientific monetary system . A. rate of 15 per cent . then would signify something like panic . Now nobody suggests such a thing , and the best authorities Will be short and not serious . To the obvious question , Who is it that wants-money so badly , and why ? there is - an apparent answer -- the banks . Only about a quarter of them have maintained their lawful reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have invaded their reserve , several have done so infrequently , but there are others which have ranged be-14w the legal minimum for consecutive weeks . Since an amount equal to the entire surplus of the associated banks is held by one of them , it is obvious that the banking situation is under concentrated control . It is fortunate that it is so in one sense , for the management of the bank is marked by strength and intelligence , but it is unfortunate that the duty shared by all should be shirked by so many . Our market is lapsing into the condition of administration by a great ? - central bank , but we do not have the advantages which we should enjoy if in fact our finances were ordered upon that system . For example , in Germany there are 260 towns with a common rate of discount . In France there are 200 centres of credit where money is worth exactly what it is in Paris . In Scotland a thousand banking offices have identical rates . Here , in 43 cities there were simultaneous rates varying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and our troubles come from it . Our reserve law and custom place a premium upon the congestion of funds here in the dull season , and when the time comes for the use of actual currency , the entire credit fabric is disarranged . Credit may be created , but " money " can not be extemporized . When reserves are deficient loans must be called , and borrowers beyond suspicion are exposed to inconvenience . Not deficiency of credit , but deficiency of means of accommodating seekers of credit , is the interpretation of yesterday 's squeeze . If the banks had regarded themselves as guardians of the community 's credit they would have built up their reserves In anticipation of a demand as certain to arrive as the Autumn . But according to the theory of our banking system , the banks ' responsibility is first to their shareholders , and their resources are diverted to what is called a second line of reserves , investments in securities which are carried as loans . Naturally , banks do not call their own loans first , end are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These are not criticisms , but statements of fact . Our system is defective , but it might be better worked . The responsibility for not working it better is nobody 's in particular , and that 's a pity , for concentrated responsibility makes for discharge of duty . Meanwhile nothing Is happening which need disturb anybody 's confidence in the worth of his property . Earnings and yield are not a whit affected by yesterday 's money market .                     