@@676977

txt Returning from his bear-hunt President ROOSEVELT takes the occasion of a Chamber of Commerce dinner in Denver to communicate to the American people views and opinions upon public affairs that would cause multitudes of his fellow-citizens to take to the woods he has just left , if they felt that he had the power to put in practice the policies he preaches . That the Presidential ' mind has undergone no essential change , and the theories that so profusely germinate therein no mod , ifica ! ion during these few weeks of retirement from the distractions of civilization , will be apparent to anybody who reads this extract from Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S Denver speech : I want to say a word as to a Governmental policy in which I feel that this whole country ought to take a great interest and which is itself but part of a general policy into which I think our Government must go . I speak of the policy of extending the power of the Inter-State Commerce Commission and of giving them particularly the power to fix rates and to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once . As I say , that represents in my mind part of what should be the general policy of this country , the policy of giving not to the State but to the National Government an increased supervisory and regulatory power over corporations . Applause . These observations are really of startling import , and but for two reasons they would create a state bordering on public alarm . One reason is that we are now well used to these utterances from the President . The other reason is the United States Senate , which the business interests of the country have come to believe stands between them and the application of the dangerous principles and policies to which the President is committed . If this were new matter that the President proclaimed on Monday evening ; if the Senate were made up of men-known to be of his mind or disposed to yield to him in all things ; that is to say , if Mr. ROOSEVELT had the power to embody in a statute his word and his will , values would doubtless go tumbling and there would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far surpassing in its painful and destructive consequences the year 1893 . The capital invested in railroads in this country , according to Poor 's Manual for 1904 , amounted to $6,355,207 , - 335 in capital stock and $6,722,216,517 in bonds . The capital invested in manufactures amounted in 1900 to $9,831 , - 486,300 . Here is an aggregate of corporation capital reaching the vast sum of $22,908,910,352 . The President of the United States contends that the ultimate control over these billions of capital , and most vital details of the management of the corporations in the stock or bonds in which it is invested , shall be taken agway from the owners of the shares and bonds and committed into the hands of Federal Commissioners at Washington , appointed by himself . Of the railroads he would take immediate controL The control of other corporations would come later , for the fixing of railroad rates is but part of a general policy " of giving not to the State but to the National Government an increased supervisory and regulatory power over corporations . " What this means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his Commissioner of Corporations , Mr. GARFIELD . In a report treating of some of the gravest and profoundest problems of Constitutional law , with an airy confidence that seemed astonish'lig in a lawyer so young and unpracticed , Mr. GARFIELD , after declaring that the system of State-created corporations under which we got along reasonably well for a century and a quarter " is thoroughly vicious , " recommended a substitute system upon which , It appeared , he and the President had agreed . This was a system of Federal franchises or licenses for all corporations engaging , or intending to engage , in inter-State commerce . The scope of his plan was indicated by Mr. GARFIELD when he said that " inasmuch as practically all of the corporations of the present time are engaged in inter-State commerce , " &c.; Commissioner GARFIELD and the President manifestly aim at the control of all the corporations in the country . That is what it would come to , in spite of the decision in the Knight case that manufacturing is not inter-State commerce . We are within the mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the President 's recommendations would put into the hands of a few Federal commissioners in Washington the ultimate and practically absolute control over twenty-two billions of the invested capital of the American people . If so great a. change in our economic policy were really at . hand , business men would inquire first of all who was to wield this autocratic power over their fortunes . They might be apprehensive enough , even were they confident that Mr. ROOSEVELT would continue to be President for an indefinite number of years . But what would happen if there were reason to fear that not Mr. ROOSEVELT , but let us say Mr. BRYAN , would come to the Presidency ? That is quite among the possibilities . The President warned his Denver audience that the Federal power must accept this control over corporations with the " firm determination " not only to do justice to the people but to do justice to the corporations . He is accustomed to soften his proclamations of subversive and revolutionary ideas by some such counterpoise of cautious counsel . But if a thoroughgoing demagogue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again is by no means an impossibility , what would he care for the railroads or for justice to any soulless corporation ? It is just there that the trouble comes in . In short , Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S theories if put in practice would , in addition to other disasters , tie the entire business of the country up to its politics . Just as whenever tariff revision is talked of the highly protected industries quake with the fear that their bounty may be taken away , so every corporation in the country , as often as a Presidential election recurred , would be smitten with alarm , stagnation , and practical arrest of business until its fate were determined one way or the other by the voting . Of course business could not be carried on under such a Government system . If such a change impended the owners of corporate securities would make all haste to put their money into some form of property not subject to such perils , and as they would all want to sell their shares and bonds at once Wall Street for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and excitement , to be followed by the silence of death : Translated into practical effect this is what the President 's policy of transferring from the States to the Federal Government the power of control over all corporations really means . ' He hopes to see his ideas enacted into a statute at the next session . There is the Senate , however . Probably in the whole course of its existence that body never had so many friends as at the present time .                     