@@676361

txt Ex-Gov . William J. Stone , newly elected Senator to succeed George G. Vest , was to-day before the local Grand Jury investigating boodling in the State Legislature for an hour and twenty-five minutes . When he issued from the Grand Jury room , looking very serious and somewhat fatigued , the Senator said : " I do n't think my evidence can be of any value to the Grand Jury in its investigation of boodle charges in connection with the Alum bill . I would be glad if my evidence before the Grand Jury could be made public . I would even bear the expense of making a transcript and copies for the press , but of course the Grand Jury would not stand for anything like that . Some day I will write the entire story of my connection with the alum legislation . I have been attacked repeatedly for working for the passage of an anti-alum baking powder law and I have been patient under repeated malignings , but I think I shall prepare a written statement of the entire matter before long and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused of inventing a mythical health society , which he pretended to represent in the interest of a pure food law , aimed at the independent manufacturers of baking powder . He secured the passage of the law , and by personal labors with the Legislature prevented its repeal . He acted as attorney for the Baking Powder Trust , and his son Kimbrough acted as prosecutor of the independent concerns . Stone has never been accused of handling any boodle . Senator Stone was subpoenaed on the street this morning by Sheriff Dickman himself , who saw the Senator walking along , and jumped off a street car to serve him . A dozen deputies had been looking for Stone in vain for two days , armed with subpoenaes from the St. Louis and Cole County Grand Juries , although Stone claimed he was in his office in this city yesterday for several hours . Col. " Bill " Phelps , another much-wanted witness , has not been served with a subpoena yet . He is the attorney and legislative agent for the Missouri Pacific Railroad , and Senator Frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , swore before the Grand Jury in this city that Phelps gave him a $1,000 bill for services rendered . Phelps dodged a subpoena in this city and another in Carthage. his home . He is said to be on his way to Arizona , from where he will accompany a sick daughter to Asheville , N. C. A dozen or more other witnesses testified before the local Grand Jury to-day , some of them concerning the seven one-thousanddollar bills which Senator John P. Collins of St. Louis is said to have shown after his return from the last legislative session . Other witnesses testified as to the methods used to defeat race track legislation against the interests of the syndicate which controls local racing and other pieces of legislation of importance to ? the people at large or certain corporations or syndicates . The Cole County Grand Jury is believed to have found one indictment already against a State Senator for accepting a bribe for voting against the alum repeal bill . Attorney General Crow and Circuit Attorney Folk held a lengthy long-distance telephone conversation to-night . discussing among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. J. Kelley in New Ybrk City and his extradition to Missouri . It is learned that - Detective Tracey was unable to get any trace of Kelley in New York-to-day and Kelley is said to have left the State . but the Missouri prosecuting officers are very confident that the muchwar ted legislative agent of the Baking Powder Trust will be brought back to Missouri to answer the charge that he attempted to bribe Lieut . Gov . Lee to use his influence against the bill to repeal the alum law . Lee will certainly be a witness before the Cole County Grand Jury to-morrow . He has already made a signed statement of great length . revealing many facts concerning alum legislation and implicating five Senators in boodle transactions . One or more of these Senators has turned State 's evidence , it is said on the best of authority , and another report of almosa equal authenticity is to the effect that at least a dozen alum Senators will be indicted before the week is out . When the two Grand Juries have finished with the alum scandal they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create a Textbook Commission to adopt books for five years were defeated by the Book Trust , which now holds the contracts with the State and will profit to the extent of a quarter of n million of dollars by the extension of their contracts till another Legislature convenes .                     