@@676226

txt The logical control of the latter property points to the steam road as a means of facilitating the ' handling of its suburban traffic . Such a purchase ? would be in the line , of progress in transportation. : The elevated system is fourth in the development of the problem of handling urban passenger traffic . It was first the horse car , next the cable , next the electric system , next the elevated , and then the subway . There is nothing in subway development.suggestive at this time of practical union between the underground . and the steam road . But in ? the case of the elevated it is possible without change of cars to unite a steam system with , an elevated . one , through the joint operation of tames may be well sicIt was learned today that People 's Gas interests have become discouraged over the prospect of uniting the electric and gas lighting business of Chicago . The litigation in ' which the gas company has been involved has led to the rendering of opinions by lawyers to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be legal . Before any such consolidation could be effected a change in the Illinois statutes would be necessary . At this time there is small hope of such legislation being enacted . There has grown up among a certain class of citizens of Chicago the notion that combinations of capital are necessarily opposed to public interests . When , therefore , the combining of two such public service corporations as the Edison and People 's Gas coin-panics is proposed , not only is there cited the legal objection but the public hostility . The taxing bodies , too , seem from the corporation 's standpoint to be severe . The United Traction company , which is on the verge of bankruptcy , is cited as an illustration of how the corporations are faring . This is said merely as representing the capitalistic view . Insiders in ? the People 's Gas company op , pear to be thoroughly tired of the miscellaneous litigation which is brought against I the corporation . Any combination of the electric light and gas interests would have to be brought about through the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each concern is able to take care of itself , and that it seems hopeless to think of a combination of the properties . Money Sticks to the West . Some middle state bankers who come to_the New York say the probability of a return flow of money is not bright . Prices are high and business is so active in the west that more money than formerly Is required . So long as Wail street interest rates remain as they now are , there is no encouragement for the western banker to send funds in this direction . It is true that the New York as well as the Chicago banks are beginning to run up both in , the matter of deposits and reserves , but for some reason the high interest situation Is well maintained and no apparent break of a substantial character is in sight . The prominent institution here which last Friday put out time money at 5 per cent is again getting 6 . A feature of this money ' market is an effort to secure loans for forty days . This period is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is willing to pay 6 per cent plus a commission , making the rate about 7 . , The price of money this year is in various ways almost unprecedented . Flotation Market Is Flat . The market for new flotations seems to have collapsed . One of the richest institutions here has a $50,000,000 combination in hand , but it was learned this afternoon there was little probability of its being carried through . If the concern having the proposed consolidation under its auspices does not feel like raising the money it is pretty evident that no other big deal can find favor in Wall street . The packing house interests of Chicago had to drop their scheme because of inability to float industrial bonds . It was by means of a bond issue that the principal capital was to be raised . But a canvass of the situation did not warrant the assuming of large liabilities based on the market prospect ' Rock Island Interests Firm . ? Rock Island stock advanced today on buying by insiders , together with . their friends in other cities . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those in control of the system appeared to have a surplus of ready money with which to make a demonstration in their favorite securities . Boston and Pittsburg interests were buyers , as well as the New York insiders . The selling of the stock was general in character . It is still believed that the Ncw York Central will secure an interest in Manhattan . It is announced that Mr. Baer of the Reading has Mr. Morgan 's offer of the presidency of the Lehigh Valley under consideration . Mr. Baer hesitates , it is said , because of his present duties . It appears that the United States Steel corporation is offering finished steel abroad at prices below those quoted here . ' It is not believed , however , that the company is seeking seriously to invade foreign markets at this time . The domestic demand is such that selling at a low price abroad offers small attrv ? " ' " " HECTOR .                     