@@678726

txt The United States cruiser Des Moines , Commander Shipley , is at Bluefields , Nicaragua , awaiting the possible issue of an im portant engagement between the Nicaraguan Government and the revolutionary forces , which in the next few days should decide what the action of the United States will be . The cruiser Albany and the gunboat Yorktownr which received hurried orders last week while at Magdalena Bay to proceed immediately to Corinto , the Pacific port to the capital of Nicaragua , are now half way to that place , having sailed from Acapulco , Mex. , yesterday . Meantime the best information obtainable here is that Estrada is in fairly good shape to meet the Zelaya troops when the dictator chooses to make his attack . He is well Wrenched and his men - are well armed and supplied with plenty of ammunition , though he is outnumbered . The dictator , in fact , controls a large majority of the Nicaraguan population and has vastly greater resources of men ' and munitions to draw on than has the revolutionary leader . If Estrada wins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least , for action on the part of this Government . The revolution will then be greatly improved in position from all points of view , and there is even a chance that Zelaya would accept the , defeat as the signal for an attempt to escape from Nicaragua . To be really decisive . however , the battle must be a rout for the Zelaya forces . With a. drawn battle , or a defeat which yet leaves Estrada. too much broken to be able to follow it up smartly , the strategic advantage would really be - with Zelaya . The President in his annual message after announcing the rupture of diplo , matte relations with Nicaragua added that this Government " is intending to take such future steps as may be found consistent with its dignity , its duty to American interests , and its moral obligations to Central America and to civilization . " Just what view the President takes of the " moral obligations of the United States to Central America and to civilization " has not appeared from anything that has been said at the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved in any active effort to uphold the dignity of this Government in Central America by force of arms . But it is evident that when he wrote that sentence the President was contemplating the Possibility , if not in fact the probability . Of serious action in Nicaragua . The line which such action might take is at once , suggested by the note which Secretary 1Knox sent to Roderiguez , Zelaya 's chargd d'affaires , with its frank announcement I of complete dissatisfaction with Zelaya and his Government . The first step obviously must be the lelimination of Zelaya from the situation . As long as there is a chance that Estrada may accomplish that desired object there is no call for active interference on the part of this Government . But when it . appears , if it shall do so , that Estrada is not able to depose Zelaya the indications now point to a forcible move by this Government to this end . For these reasons it is likely that the promised special message on Nicaragua will not go to Congress until after the impending fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing most to be expected is that the President will ask directly for authority to remove Zelaya from the possibility for further mischief-making in Central America . In the language quoted from his message the President puts his contemplated action on the same ground as that on which we intervened in Cuba against Spain and against disorder and anarchy of the Cubans ' own making . It is a. recognition of the obligation this Government owes to the rest of the world to maintain order and security of life and property in Central America . Meantime Senator Rayner of Maryland has already brought the Nicaraguan situation sharply to the attention of the Senate . In a resolution offered to-day declaring that two Americans had been killed contrary to all rules of war . arid that . therefore . Zelaya was guilty of murder , Mr. Rayner demanded that should the revolutionists fail to capture Zelaya steps be taken by this Government for his arrest and GET BLACK HAND AGENT . Police Arrest Russian Who Called to Collect from Bank Cashier . William D. Omusta , cashier for Albert Krimmert , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday signed " Black . Hand , " and adorned with a crude drawing of a heart-pierced by a dagger and a revolver . The letter directed Mr. Omasta to prepare $1,000 in an envelope , which he was to give to a boy who would call fur It yesterday evening at S o'clock and present a card bearing the words , " Remember Philadelphia . " If he I failed to do as directed , Mr. Omusta was informed that he . and his brother and ' sister in Philadelphia would be killed . I Detectives Sullivan , , and Bedner were assigned to the case when Mr. Omasta notified Police Headquarters , but a young man bearing the card reached the office of Mr. Omasta at 5 : o'clock yesterday afternoon before the detectives had arrived . Mr. Krimmert Pnd the cashier kept the youth waiting by pretending to he busy preparing the envelope until the detectives arrived . Then they handed him an envelope containing a roll of paper and a real check for Ma making his acceptance of the envelope a matter of grand larcau.y . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue , expeeting that he would lead them to his principal , When he failed to do so after two hours , they arrested him . At Headquarters he said he wan Nathan Farbell , a Russian laborer without a home . He said that a tall man with black hair bad asked him to deliver the envelope at tile banking house and receive one in place of it . He seemed so cognizant of the contents of both envelopes , however , that the police charged him with being implicated in the attempted blackmail .                     