@@676209

txt There is no doubt that the question of labor in the Philippines is a very serious one , and the solution recommended by Prof Jaxxs , who has just submitted his report to the Government of a special investigation , is worthy of careful consideration He would admit Chinese under contract for a short period of three or five years , registering them , confining them to the district in which they are registered , and putting the employers under bonds for their proper treatment and for their return to China at the close of the period of contract . He is convinced that some such relief as this is absolutely necessary for the development of the interests of the Filipinos themselves . Substantially his argument is that the supply and the variety and the quality of labor now to be had from the natives is very insufficient for the prosperity of the islands . Neither the agricultural nor the industrial resources of the islands can be used to advantage , nor are the conditions of ordinary life tolerable . He gives instances of two enterprises , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a planter from Sumatra , the other an important shipbuilding concern . from England , which were abandoned because labor could not be obtained . The Government also , in the very essential work of constructing roads , has found itself practically baffled except when the military were in a position to compel labor , a most undesirable policy . In Manila wages for ordinary household service have advanced from $6 or $S in silver to $25 or $30 a month , and even these high rates are sometimes paid in gold . The cab service in the city is so poor that residents are constantly forced to walk because the Filipino drivers choose to loaf , and a company organized to introduce jinrikishas met with so much native opposition and interference that it had to give up the scheme . Obviously , the industrial development of the islands is not less essential to the peace and order of the whole population than it is to material prosperity . It is only through that policy that the people can gradually be brought into harmony with the modern conditions of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extent that they can be made self-supporting they will understand the real value of the rights of citizenship and the real , obligation of its duties . The homely old adage concerning the work Satan finds for idle hands is the explanation of some of the chief differences between civilization and savagery . And it is plain that the methods and habits of self-sup- port can better be taught and learned in a society where business is active and increasing than in one which is left to languish in idleness . In the case of the Philippines , on the one hand the introduction of effective labor so far as it can wisely and humanely be done , will give greater opportunity for native labor , and , on the other , it will compel industry through competition . The objection that the Chinese will abase the standard of living and of wages can not fairly be applied to the Philippines . The standard of living among the natives of the class similar to the Chinese who would be brought in is not higher than that of the Chinese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their wages , would not in the main be contented with lower wages . That indeed is the fact in this country wherever the Chinese are in sufficient number to constitute an appreciable element in the population . The situation in the Philippines is radically different from that which exists or can exist here . There is no adequate supply of efficient labor at any price , and without it it will be practically impossible to develop the industries or the resources and Interests of the islands . Whether Chinese labor is the only alternative is , of course , not a Question to be decided on the opinion of one expert , but Prof. JENKS 'S report is an able , careful effort to throw light on the subject , and is entitled to respect .                     