@@678465

txt After an exciting chase of two blocks Andrea Gambino , an Italian barber living at Fifth Avenue and Union Street , Brooklyn . known to the police as a Black Hand man , was Shot and killed last night by the man from whom he tried to extort $50 a few minutes before . He was shot seven times in the body and his head was battered in by his intended victim after he fell dead in the street . The fight start-1 ed when Gambino met Pietro Zarcone , a butcher , of 220 Fourth Avenue , at Fourth Avenue and Union Street . Zarcone was arrested shortly after the shooting , and when he was locked up in the Bergen Street Station he admittedl having killed Gambino . The butcher did not know Gambino and said he never saw him until he met him , shortly before 6 o'clock . Gambino demanded 850 from him and accompanied his demand with a threat . The money was refused . Gambino immediately reached to his hip pocket and Zarcone did the same . Both drew their revolvers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started to run up Union Street to Fifth Avenue . Zarcone was joined by a couple of friends and the fusillade of shots was kept up . The combatants kept crossing the street and tried to keep out of the way of each other 's fire . Several windows were broken and the people in the street as well as the vehicles scattered to get out of the way of the line of fire . Gambino ran back in Fifth Avenue Just as lie reached 155 his revolver fell from his grasp and In dropped . His assailants , who were close behind him at the time , rushed upon his body and beat his head with the butt end of their revolvers . They then fled . Patrolman Sheehan of the Butler Street Station , and Thomas Kerrigan of the Church Street Station , Manhattan , who lives in the vicinity , began a search in the neighborhood and soon found Zarcone . He ' refused to give the names of the men who joined him in the fight . The pollee later arrested an Italian named Munx Munzo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a suspicious person . He is believed to know something about the affair . The police arrested three more men last night on suspicion of knowing something of the shooting . They were Frago ' Zarcone of 234 Fourth Avenue , believed by the police to he a brother of Zarcone , although he denies this ; Francisco Monino of 430 Fourth Avenue , said to be a partner in the butcher business of Zarcone 's brother , and Gtuseppt Masuraco of 658 Sackett Street . Gambino 's wife told the police that she had seen three men follow her husband when he left their home , and that , fearing they meant him harm , she left the house and tried to follow them , but they walked so fast that they get away from her . She could give little description of the men .. PRESIDENT TAFT IN TOWN : - Sees Sothern in " If I Were King "  - -  1 Auto Carrying Him Breaks Down . President Taft came to town , early last evening on his way to New Haven to attend a meeting of the Yale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son Robert , several of the letter 's Yale classmates , who were Easter guests at the White House ; Capt . Archibald Butt , the President 's military aid , and W. W. Misehler , his assistant secretary . The party came in over the Pennsylvania in the private car Magnet , which was frequently used by Mr. Roosevelt . They were accompanied as far as Philadelphia by Miss Helen Taft and a schoolmate from Bryn Mawr . The train , which was several minutes late , was met by Inspector Leonard of the Jersey City police and twenty policemen , who escorted the President and his party to two automobiles that were waiting in the street below . The second machine was occupied by half a dozen Secret Service men . The trip from the ferry to the home of Mr. Taft 's brother , Henry W. Taft , was interrupted by the breaking down of the automobile . It left the ferryboat apparently in good condition , but at Eleventh Avenue and Twenty-fifth Street it came to a sudden stop . The chauffeur worked all the levers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chauffeur got out and crawled under the car and reported it disabled . Tile Secret Service men offerd thir/machine to Mr. Taft and his party , and the offer was accepted . Then a second start was made . One of tile detectives telephoned for a taxicab , but before it arrived the chauffeur succeeded In remedying the defect that had disabled the Taft machine . It made such good time that the President 's auto was overtaken before the house was reached . Arrived at his brother 's home , the President dressed for dinner at once , after which he went to Daly 's Theatre with Mrs. Taft , his brother , and his wife and their daughter , Miss Louise , to see E. H. Sothern in " If I Were King . " Box C , on the lower left-hand side , had I been reserved for the President , and the party entered the theatre during the first act . As the theatre was darkened , they were not observed . and there was no demonstration . Two Secret Service men took their stations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the box . When the lights were turned up after the first , act the orchestra struck up " The Star-Spangled Banner . " This brought the audience to its feet , and it was then that the President was discovered . There was a great craning of necks and instant applause . The President stood up with the others and repeat , edly bowed to the audience . After the performance the Taft party hurried to ' its automobiles , the crowd cheering . The President will start for New Haven at 9 o'clock this morning . He will return the the or igpcutltLereevenillnsgii was a passenger on Mr. Taft 's train , coming to New York to attend a musicale at the Plaza last night , at which his daughter , Miss Flora , sang .                     