@@677569

txt PINEIIIIRST , N. C. , April 9 . ? A sug. gestion that he should be permitted to retire from the Presidency of the Conference for Education in the South was made in a letter from Robert C. Ogden of New York which was read at the opening session of the conference to-day . It is probable that , for once , a suggestion from Mr. Ogden will not be headed , and that the conference will insist on honoring him with an election for another year , Mr. Ogden has held this post for seven years . Dr. S. C. Mitchell of Richmond , Va. , was elected President pro tern . of the conference . He read this letter from Mr. Ogden : " It is a painful and unwelcome task to give you official notice that it will be impossible for me to attend the tenth Conference for Education in the South . " In my judgment , the present confer . ence should take rank far above any of its predecessors in the creation of ideals and in the formulation of policies that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and larger efficiency . " My personal disappointment because of present limitations is proportionate to my faith and hope in what will be accomplished on the present occasion . Extraordinary progress in many directions is full of inspiration . The great undone margin is a challenge to patriotic self-sacrifice and lofty endeavor . In the prase ence of the ability , conscience , and devoe tion represented in the conference , a Pres. ident 's message would be superfluous . " Allow me to suggest that the present is an opportune time for me to retire from the office the conference has hone ored me with for so many years . " The conference sent this message till Mr. Ogden : " The Conference for Education in the South sends affectionate greetings to its President , with sincere wishes for his speedy restoration . Our meeting is a great success , both in numbers and spirt &; All regret your enforced absence . Youi spirit leads . " Dr. Mitchell was enthusiastically arm plauded when he spoke of Mr. Ogden 'S work . " Among the builders of National edue cation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' rank pre-eminent . They are Horace Mann of Massachusetts , George Peabody , founder of the Peabody Fund ; J. L. M. Curry of Alabama , and Robert . C. Ogden . I can not praise too highly the value of Mr. Ogden 's creative efforts and his genuine sincerity of purpose which has made his work the deepest influence in the cause of education in the South .. He is great because he loved much . " Several officers said that they could not afford to lose Mr. Ogden . About 2,50 women and men prominent in educational matters and representing practically every State east of the Mississippi were present at the conference . In his address on " hTe Task of the Neighborhood , " Dr. Mitchell said : " The fact is we are governed , not by law , but by respect for law . Whatever impairs this sensitive respect for law strikes at the heart of all our institutions . It is from this standpoint that we see the enormity of the crime of lynching , which stabs fatally the majesty of the law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South to-day . Democracy implies more than liberty , more than equality . It involves a sense of brotherhood . " Robt . R. Glenn , Governor of North Carolina , in an address of welcome , said that the association of whites . negroes , and Indians in schools was not only impossible in the South . but that North Carolina would decline any gift or endowment which suggested such a combination . ELLISON OVERRULES RIVES . New Opinion Strips Building tendent of Power Over Plans . According to an opinion just given by Corporation Counsel Ellison , the Superinrendent of Buildings ' is no longer the highest authority in the matter of building plans anti similar matters . Reversing his predecessor 's opinion . ' Mr. Ellison declares that the Board of Examiners , and not the Superintendent , has the final word in all matters that come before the body for adjustment . Ex-Corporation Counsel Rives , during the Low administration , held that the Superintendent of Buildings was supreme , after there had been several rows between that official and the then Board of Examiners . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buildings , Edward H. Murphy ; Fire Chief Croker , and William J. Prayer . There have been numerous disagreements , and one case , pertaining to alterations to the building at 20 Broadway , was carried by Mr. Prayer to the Corporation Counsel 's office . From the Legal Department Mr. Sperling sent Mr. Prayer Mr. Rives 's opinion . Believing that if Mr. Rives 's opinion was correct there was no use for such a body as the Board of Examiners . Mr. Prayer went to Mr. Ellison and asked that an original opinion be given on the questiop . Mr. Ellison sent Mr. ' Prayer a letter yesterday in which he absolutely reverses Mr. Rives . In the letter he says : " Your decision is final and must be carried into effect by the Superintendent of Buildings . " The result of the opinion will doubtless be to deprive Mr. Murphy of much of the power that has been his since he took office . His actions as to building plans , fireproofing .. and alterations , may now be overruled by the two other members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Aldermen Advocates Passage of the Ordinance . The Board of Aldermen received a report of the Health Committee yesterday favoring the passage of an ordinance making it compulsory that all raw milk sold in the city and not certified be pasteurized . The report of the committee is looked upon as a victory for those who have spoken at the hearings In favor of Pasteurization . No action was taken by the board on the matter yesterday , but it is expected that at the next meeting there will be a lively fight . Alderman Jacobson , Chairman of the committee , offered a resolution favoring the pasteurization of all milk which has no certificate attached to the effect that it was free from tuberculosis , and which had more than , 500,000 bacteria to the cubic centimeter . Alderman Dowling opposed the passage of this resolution . He said doctors dis-. agreed on the subject , and that he wanted the matter to , lie over . He . thought that the proposed ordinance would increase the cost of milk , and therefdre would be a hardship on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or failure to pasteurize the offender should have his permit revoked temporarily , and for a second Offense the offender should be punished as for a misdemeanor . It is proposed that the , ordinance shall go into effect on June 1 . next . On Alderman Dowling 's motion the Ina. ? ter went over for a week .                     