@@675472

txt Argument Before Justice Fursman Based on Allegations that March Grand Jury Acted Improperly . It was openly reported around the West Thirtieth Street Station early yesterday n:orning that the indictments found against Capt . Andrew J. Thomas of the Tenderloin precinct by the March Grand Jury were dismissed three days ago . It was stated also that the intention was that information in regard to the dismissal of the indictments should be withheld . Inquiries in regard to these statements last night showed that a motion to dismiss the indictments had been made before Justice Fursman of the Criminal Branch of the Supreme Court by Lawyer Abram I. Elkus on behalf of Capt . Thomas , and that the District Attorney 's office was represented by Assistant District Attorney John F. . Justice Fursman took the papers on the motion and reserved his decision . Around the Criminal Court Building , however , it was said that the decision is regarded as a foregone conclusion in favor of Capt . Thomas , although it was very doubtful whether the decision has been actually handed down . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of the order obtained from Judge Foster of the Court of General Sessions , by which counsel for Capt . Thomas was enabled to inspect the minutes of the March Grand Jury . The inspection of the minutes , it was declared , showed that the Grand Jury had acted improperly , and that it had received improper evidence . The allegations of counsel in regard to the proceedings of the Grand Jury were said to be general in character . Efforts to find Justice Fursman last night in order to learn whether he had rendered his decision on the motion to dismiss the indictments were unavailing . At the home of Assistant District Attorney John F. , 1,385 Lexington Avenue , it was said that he was out of town . Mr. Elkus , who made the motion in behalf of Capt . Thomas , when seen at his home , 65 East Seventy-ninth Street , last night , said : ? Such a motion was made by me several weeks ago , and briefs submitted . I have no knowledge of any decision either way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the indictments have been looked upon as based on purely technical grounds , which were not expected to be considered well taken when tested in court . Capt . Thomas was indicted by the Grand Jury on March 29 on three counts . The indictments were found under Section 154 of the Penal . Code relating to the omission to perform duty by a public officer . They were ' identical in character , and separately . charged the Police Captain with ? having failed to suppress the resorts in his precinct , known as the Tivoll and the Dore , in West Thirty-fifth Street , and the Haymarket , on Sixth Avenue . A distinct misdemeanor was charged in each case . No warrant was issued with the indictments , as it was understood that Chief Devery , would surrender the Captain when wanted . Chief Devery announced that he would not relieve Capt . Thomas of his command , saying : " If he has been indicted for a misdemeanor I will not suspend him . No man as valuable as he is ought to be suspended for any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " Capt . Thomas has only been in the Tenderloin a few months , and that part of the city is in better shape to-day than it has ever been before . The places up there are operated under licenses issued by the State . and it is not in our power to close them up . I think that Capt . Thomas has done all that it was possible for him to do under the circumstances . " Capt . Thomas was arraigned before Recorder Goff in the Court of General Sessions on March 30 , and pleaded not guilty to all three indictments . He was held in 81,000 bail for trial , although his counsel had asked that the Captain be paroled in the custody of Chief Devery . John Reisenweber , the Republican leader of the Seventeenth Assembly District , went on Capt . Thomas 's bond . SIGNOR MARCONI HERE . He Tells of the Use of Wireless Telegraphy in South Africa . Signor Marconi , the inventor of the wireless telegraphic system , was among the passengers who arrivred on the St. Paul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said : " I am here on purely private business , and not to obtain capital , as reported . I am not going to do anything that would interest the public . " " What about the use of your system in South Africa ? Was it successful ? " " Yes , it is used for communication between the cruisers and the Admiral at Delagoa Bay , and has proved successful for a distance of eighty miles , which is the best that can be done with the power to be had there . " When questioned as to the invention of Gen. Baden-Powell 's in other , Signor Marconi said that he had experienced some difficulty in procuring means for the elevation of the wire that is attached to the instruments , which should be raised about 100 feet above the instrument for telegraphing sixty miles . This problem had been solved by the invention of a system of kites by Baden-Powell , and this device had been of great service to him in his experiments . . " Are the land forces in South Africa using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There are ten sets of instruments in use in Lord Roberts 's army , but owing to the great difficulty of communicating with the army , I have not been able to learn much concerning the results obtained . " Signor Marconi said that his system was in use in the British- and Italian Navies , and by the North German Lloyd Steamship Company , and , while it had not been adopted as yet by the American Navy , he supposed that it would be in time . Signor Marconi will remain in America about two weeks , and will then return to London .                     