@@677675

txt NEW HAVEN , Conn. , July 9 . ? A prominent official of the New Haven Road tonight confirmed the report that his road and the New York Central had finallY come to a complete agreement in regard to the use of electricity in the mutual . exit from New York of the two roads . Everything had been settled , he said , for a long time to come . - The same official said electric engines furnished by the Westinghouse Company had been tested and had met every requirement . LAID CABLE WITHOUT PERMIT . But the New York Central Says Eli. son Told It to Go Ahead . It was admitted at the New York Central offices yesterday that the ( road had installed its system of overhead cables supplying power to uifferent third-rail zones ? northward from the Bronx without having obtained a permit from the city for Such part of the feeding structure as is within the city limits . The road had tried to obtain permits for such construction . from two city administrations , but hid . failed . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and city officials the Central , it was stated at the Grand Central Station yesterday , was told to go ahead without a permit and that the city would n't interfere . It is positively denied , however , that the overhead system of cables constitutes any menace to Hie or holds the possibility of electrocuting carloads of passengers . " After an exhaustive investigation , " said an official , " we found that it was necessary , owing to physical conditions , to put the conchiits underground in some places and string them as cables overhead in others . We did this . We found that we had fifty cases of trouble with the underground system where we had one with the overhead . " a e went to the city officials with these facts . IVhile we were unable to get . a permit from former Commissioner Ellison , we were told to go ahead . We went ahead . knowing that there was no danger and not wishing to have the plans for the extensive electrification held up longer . " It was admitted that John Stavin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some time ago demanding that the cables be removed from their position at Kingsbridge , where they were directly aabove the elevated structure of the Subway .. President Newman had replied that the road was willing to do everything that would safeguard life , but suggested that the matter be referred to a commission of engineers of the board and the railroad company . Mr. Starlit replied that the board had had a report from Engineer Rice which clearly indicated the danger . . The dispute was in Corporation Counsel Ellison 's ha.nds for an opinion when his removal was announced . New Post for Ira A. McCormack . Ira A. McCormack , assistant to General 3:tanager and Vice President A. H. Smith of the New York Central Railroad , has resigned his position ' with the Cvtral , having been elected President and General Manager of the Randolph &; Cumberland Railroad , which at present extends froin Cameron , S. C. , to Wilsons . He also , has become ' President of a development com- ; Pally which is to operate in the territory : of the railroad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 41 hibition and Talk To-day . An art exhibition , to be opened at the . Hebrew Technical School for Ceirls. - Second Avenue and Fifteenth Street , at 4 o'clock this afternoon , is the first step in an organized movement to create a popular interest in art , particularly on the east side . ? For this purpose an organization has been formed called the Art . Extension Committee . Among its members are : Dr. James P. Haney , Director of Art:and Manual Training in the Public Schools ; Dr. Blausteln and B. Tuska of the Educational Hance : Miss Anne Leary , founder of the Christopher Columbus Art Institute ; Nathanie l Myers , President , and Miss Anna C. Fledges . Superintendent , of , Hebrew Technical ? School : Mrs. Annie Nthan Meyer . a Trustee of Barnard College ; Miss Helen Sanborn Sargent , President of the Art Workers ' Club for Women ; Miss Helen . Pepke , Mrs. Miriam Sutra Price . President of the Public Education Association ; Prof. Edwin R A. Seligman of Columbia University . and Miss Lillian D. Wald. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first of a series of art exhibitions to be held under . the auspices of the committee . They as  --  e arranged by Miss Florence N. Levy , editor of The American Art Annual . . The talks and exhibitions will ? be continued every Wednesday afternoon at the school during this month , August , and ? Septemben .                     