@@678470

txt Men with proper credentials who desire to meet sensible girls might find it profitable to be present at the Halsted Street Institutional church tonight . Of course , it Is not arranged to give the men formal introductions to the girls on a wholesale scale , but the little fellow with the bow and arrow will probably look after that , as well as the other preliminaries to a happy existence . The Rev. D. D. Vaughan , pastor of the congregation , after telling of the good qualifications of the girls , will hold a " men 's meeting , " and what happens there remains to be seen . The preacher wo n't tell in advance . The Rev. Mr. Vaughan is a strenuous young preacher who successfully conducts a $10,000 a year proposition , including regular place of worship and modern settlement house , on a subscription list . Ile has swerved from the beaten path of pulpit oration by gathering material from the opinions of many young women on what constitutes " the Ideal husExpect Men to Be " Boss . " Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married " girls , " who have answered the minister 's questions , say they want the 01011 II ) be " the boss . " None of them desires a " dude , " and only six specify " handsome " as befitting the ideal . Exactly five of the women answered curtly that they did n't wish " model " husbands . but " ideal " ones , and gave their opinions after changing the word in their " copy . " The Rev. Mr. Vaughan smiled at the first three objections . Then two came by the next mail explaining that " model " means " a small imitation of the real thing , " and the pastor 's apologies followed . " Do you want him to he the head of the house ? " was the first question propounded . " Yes , " answered 121 . " No , " said one . " We will divide the honors , " replied the others . Do n't Want Their Own Way . " Do you want him always to follow your bidding ? " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to give his time to succeed in business or his home ? " " Let him so arrange as to make a success of both , " or words to that effect , replied the 125 . " Do you care whether he loves you , or do you really want a home ? " was the fourth question . " lie must love me , for I am able to provide a home for myself , " was the Invariable reply . " Do you prefer a business or a professional man ? " The minister said he was n't sure of his figures on this question , but expressed the belief that " about one-third want professional men ; one-third preferred business men , and one-third just wanted men who made a respectable living . " " Must he be wealthy ? " was the sixth , and there was not an affirmative reply In the lot .                     