@@677683

txt It was announced yesterday by the offlcers of Local No. 16 of New York of the Commercial Telegraphers ' Union that the decisive news which will determine whether or not there is to be a strike here against the Western Union and Postal Telegraph Companies will be received to-day . It was stated that messages were received from memners of the National Executive Committee from various cities , but the officers of the local were not prepared to give.them out . There seemed to be little hope that the trouble could be averted . It was announced last night that the Board of Strategy of Local No. 16 11I hadheld a secret meeting to devise ways 1and means for getting the co-operation of other trades in case of a strike . The Board of Strategy was formed about the time that the trouble with the Western Union and Postal Telegraph Companies began in order to get into touch with the linemen and others more or less connected with the telegraph business , so that they might be asked to strike in sympathy . The board , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a strike a success . The Executive Committee of Local No. 16 was at first averse to the appointment of the Board of Strategy because It interfered apparently with the powers of the committee . The board and the committee , however , are now working in harmony . It was stated that a cipher dispatch saying , " ire ready for the word , " was received by President Ahearn of Local No. 1.6 from National President Small . President Ahearn would not make any predictions as to the likelihood of a strike in New York to-day . He said , however , that everything was in readiness . A prominent officer of the union said : " At the meeting of the Board of Strategy the Captains of the thirty-nine districts were present and received instructions . To each Captain was given the names of ten men in the union , and he will be responsible for these men going out in case of a strike . " If the strike takes place here Col. Clowry will . be to blame . We have not asked for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding that a committee go before the company specifically as a committee of the union . We were willing to send a committee of the employes as employes , though there would have been a committee made up of union men , but in his letter to Mr. Neill , Col. Clowry made it plain that the company did not care whether the committee was composed of union or non-union men , So long as it was composed of his employes , and he was willing to meet his employes . He has not kept his promise . We have never yet been able to get a committee before the officials of the Western Union Company . " There will likely be a meeting of the officers of Local No. 16 at 56 Pine Street this morning , as important dispatches are expected from the National officers .                     