@@678699

txt Martin W. Littleton , as counsel for Charles W. Morse , the banker convicted and sentenced for violation of the National banking laws and misapplication of banks ' funds and making false entries in the bank 's books , served upon United States District Attorney Henry A. Wise yesterday notice of motion for leave to move for a new trial in the United States Circuit Court for his client , alleging as a reason for the new trial irregularities in the management of the jury which tried4he case . Mr. Littleton charges ? that the Secret Service men who guarded the jurors at the Astor House during the Morse trial supplied the jurors with so much liquor that they were unfit to perform their duties . Mr. Littleton also asserts that some of the Secret Service men were not sworn as Deputy Marshals and were partial to the Government 's side of the case . Mr. Littleton 's motion papers begin by accusing the Department of Justice at Washington with having been very desirous of obtaining Morse 's indictment and conviction , after the financial panic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corps of attorneys , expert accountants , and other employes at investigating the books of the Bank of North America from the time of the defendant 's connection with said bank , " the papers say . They go on ' to name the jurors who found Morse guilty and whose verdict caused'him to be sentenced which took place between Oct. 15 and Nov. 5 , 1908 , these fourteen bailiffs guarded the jurors at the Astor House when the trial was not going on . During the trial , Morse Was defended by Charles E. Littlefield and Wallace . Mr. Littleton only came into the case after Morse 's conviction , and he told a TIMES reporter last night that it was only because he happened to meet one of the bailiffs by chance in the street recently that he learned that the irregularities , now alleged , occurred . - - Who  --  the Were , .. Six of the bailiffs who guarded the jury at the Astor House , according to the motion papers , were originally members of the United States Secret Service . Some were sworn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Others , the motion papers state , were never sworn in at all , and performed the duties of bailiff without being under oath . According to the papers , the bailiff in charge , Irving Sauter , frequently ex'pressed the wish before the jurors that Morse should be convicted and sent to prison . " Sauter was informed that one of the jurors had served two terms in an asylum for paresis , " the papers continue . " He reported it to his chief , Stanley W. Finch , in Washington , but was told to keep this out of his reports . " The District Attorney 's office was also a party to this suppression , according to the papers . The bailiffs , or special agents of the Department of Justice , also took the jurors around the city , going with them into saloons , joining them In drinking , and even treating them , according to the complaint . There was also drinking at the Astor House , and at the jurors ' homes when they were allowed to go there in company with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , were taken down to Coney Island in a " Seeing New York " car , and allowed to " drink beer and whisky together . " There were other trips to Van Cortlandt Park as I Staten Island , and more whisky and beer , for which the jurors paid . The department 's agents were really " paid agents and employes of the prosecution , " the papers say . The jurors drank whisky , beer , and cocktails at their meals , the papers say , and had bottles of whisky in their rooms . Every evening they sat in their Astor House quarters smoking , drinking , and playing cards until midnight and a fter . One of the jurors has since admitted , according to the papers , that- a quart of whisky was sometimes consumed every right . After the Jury had retired on Nov. 4 , and while they were deliberating , the papers add , Juror Shirk complained of being too ill to deliberate , and Dr. Alexander Lambert , " a specialist on alcoholism , " was summoned from Bellevue Hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Shirk was suffering from the excessive use of i liquors , but insisted on the fact being kept secret , so say the papers . When Dr. Lambert orrived at the Astor House , they continv a he found that " Shirk was a chronic alcoholic with an enlarged cirrhotic liver , and that he had been drinking heavily , bat had been cut off from his accustomed quantity of liquor ; that he found from his diagnosis that the said juror had the ' jumps ' ; that he gave the juror two hypodermic injections in fifteen minutes . Thad **26;771;TOOLONG etxhcaetssitvhee ujsuer of alcoholic f. alcoholic liquors for several years , and advised him that he must give up the use of liquors or he would have delirium tre . wens . " Shirk was so feeble next day , according to the papers , that he had to be helped to the Post Office Building across the street , where the trial was going on , and while the jury was arriving at the verdict which gave . Mors.e fifteen years in prison he was taking Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Says . Edward J. Dewey , a companion of Shirk on the jury , according to the motion papers , was in such mental condition that he was unable to discharge his duties . The papers go on to state , In substance , that Dewey is a mental and physical wreck at the present time , " largely by an excessive and immoderate use of alcohol extending over a period of fifteen to twenty years . " Dr. Alexander Lambert , formerly of Bellevue Hospital , admitted last night that he had been called to the Astor House to attend one of the jurors during the Morse - trial , but refused to divulge the nature of the juror 's complaint . Mr. Littleton , for Morse , will-make his motion before the Circut Court of Appealsfn the . Post , Office Building on Npv .. 22 at.14:31V.A.                     