@@676745

txt What are the Syrians doing in Haiti ? That is the first question which the news that the Haitians are mobbing them suggests . It vaguely appears from the dispatches that they are trying to earn their living by trade , and have opened stores for that purpose . It is quite possible that their views upon the extension of credit do not agree with those of the Haitians who would be willing to become their customers if the credit were unlimited . The ugliest feature of this latest rioting , comparatively mild as it is , is the same as the ugliest feature of the mobbing of a Foreign Minister a few weeks ago ; and that is that it was done by " the army , " and thereby took on an official character . It is true that the army behaved in each case quite like an unsifficial mob , even to the using not of regular military arms , but of such weapons as GOD and nature had put into its hands , to wit , stones . The conclusion that the Haitian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidents . It appears that many of the Syrians are naturalized American citizens . Syrians , like other Levantines , are rather in the habit of becoming American citizens by adoption and grace , finding that American citizenship is something they can use in their business , and that it comes in particularly handy when they get into trouble with the unspeakable Turk . It seems unlikely , however , that Syrians should have taken out American citizenship to protect themselves against the Haitian " army , " and it seems that our Minister at Port-au-Prince is taking as much trouble in behalf of the Syrians who do not claim American citizenship as in behalf of those who do , his intervention , in either case , being actuated by motives of mere humanity . This is entirely proper , of course . But , with every one of these semi-official mobs , which the Haitian Government not only does not suppress , but which it appears to instigate , re-arises the question , How much longer are we prepared to put up with " the devouring absurdity " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Boston it is urgently demanded that we shall extend also to the Filipinos ? That question is liable to arise any day with urgency , when it is the safety of foreigners in Haiti that is in question , and when we object to foreign nations protecting their " nationals " in the most natural and efficient way Evidently we can not afford to make the Monroe Doctrine a shield or a screen for all the rowdies of the West Indies .                     