@@676578

txt It is preposterous to talk about a ' short session ' of the Legislature this year , " said Gov . Odell this afternoon . " I believe the coming session will be one of the most important In ? recent years . It is absurd to attempt to - sit down in December and say either what will be done or how long the session will last . " The Governor said he would not go to New York at any time within the next few ( lass . " . I am too busy with my message and the duties of my office to go to New York just now , " said the Governor . He would not comment upon the possibility that an interpretation of hostility might be placed upon his failure to join the conference of Republican leaders with Senator Platt . " I am not responsible for newspaper guesswork about my relations with Senator Platt , " said he . " A great deal of nonsense is being published about the matter and about the coming session of the Legislature . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The careful study of many questions of great importance can not be made in , a hurry . The matter of saving S40,00,000 to the State , which I shall touch upon in my message , is among the things that will take time . " The Governor refused to say just how such a saving could be accomplished . " There may have been a time , " continued ' the Governor , " when one could sit down in December and lay out the Legislative sea- . Sion , but the State is getting too big for that ' now . There will be several matters brought to the attention of the Legislature which will deserve  --  and I believe will receive ? close attention , and consume no ' small amount of time . I know that they say ' no important legislation is likely in a Presidential year , but even in a Presidential year we can not ignore the possibility of saving millions to the State . " Gov . Odell said that he and Chairman Murray of the New York County Republican Committee had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing further , and Mr. Murray was equally uncommunicative . PLATT IN CONFERENCE . Receiving Republican State Leaders in Batches of Five  --  His Comment on Odell 's Announcements . Senator Thomas C. Platt intends to see the Republican State leaders in batches of five at the Fifth Avenue Hotel before he returns to Washington on Jan. 4 . Yesterday in response to invitations Timothy L. Woodruff , leader of Kings ; Michael ? J. Dady of Brooklyn , George W. Aldridge , leader of Monroe ; William L. Ward , leader of Westchester , and William Barnes , Jr. , leader-of Albany , conferred with the senior New York . Senator . ? ' Immediately following the departure of the Brooklyn leaders from the apartments of Senator Platt , Naval Officer Sharkey and Chairman Brenner of Kings put in an appearance , and the quartet from across the bridge had a long conference . When Senator Platt Was , askera : - what- Ilie conference , with the five meant and what scope the series of invitations to the State , leaders was expected to attain , he replied that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer it again . He did not enlighten those who questioned him , however , as to what any one of the 500 answers was . The Senator declared that he had received a telegram from Gov . Odell to the effect that he had many engagements just at this time , but hoped to visit the Senator before he left New York again . In this connection , the Senator declared that he expected practically all the State leaders to visit him during the coming week . He expects at least live to appear at the hotel to-morrow and as many more on Tuesday . Most of those who he will see come from the counties north and west of Albany . J. Sloat Fassett is expected to be an early arrival , owing - to the fight he has on his hands to secure the Congressional nomination in the Thirty-third District , composed of Seneca , Chemung , Schuyler , and Steuben Counties , ? Frank W. Higgins , President of the Senate , and Speaker S. Frederick Nixon of the Assembly are due the middle of the week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confer with them regarding legislation , and particularly with Speaker Nixon , in relation to Assembly Chairmanships . In times gone by . the Senator had dictated every appointment of chairman from that of Ways and Means to that of the Committee on Unfinished Business . Senator Platt was asked if he knew what the Governor had t eference to when he declared yesterday at Albany that he wotild recommend something in his annual message to the Legislature which would result in a saving to the State of 540,000,000 . " He did n't telegraph to me about saving any such sum , " remarked the Senator . The Senator . would make , no comment when he was told that the Governor had declared that the coming , session would be the most important in five years and would undoubtedly be as long as any of the recent sessions . Senator Platt has been declaring all along that the session would be a short one . Asked if the presence in Albany yesterday of Chairman Charles H. Murray of the Republican County Committee and . Leader Edward H. Healy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Platt replied that he did n't know , and when asked if it related to the succession to George Hilliard as Deputy Commissioner of Excise , answered that the new deputy had not been decided upon . ? Questioned as to whether he favored the re-election of Superintendent Charles R. Skinner of Jefferson County as head of the Department of , Public Instruction , Senator Platt had nothing to say .                     