@@781388

txt Soon after the Legislature convenes John Raines , President pro tern . of the Senate , will introduce a bill ' entitled . " An act to create and establish a uniform police system for cities throughout the St/Ate . " This measure will be a new and sligraly revised edition of the Platt State Constabulary bill , which provoked such bitter opposition , especielly in the City of New York , when it was presented 10 the Legislature in lilul Scaator Raines . On that occasion it was permitted to die in the Senate Cities Committee . The Republican organization was not willing to assume responsibility for it . Odell was Governor . end it was too strong even for him . Then , it involved financial obligations which , in the opinion of the Republican leaders . no Republican Legislature deleted 3 lines against the bill . Senator Raines will try to push it through by having it made a. party measure . It should be stated , however , that there is nothing bearing on the subject In the Republican platform adopted at Saratoga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill with slight revisions printed to-day and left a copy with GOV . ' Hughes for his perusal The Senator said he did not know how the Governor would feel with regard to the ina.ugura lion of a State . pollee system , hut there is a lingering impression in some Republican minds that in one of his resent speeches the Governor bad ' said something to the effect that the State night with perfect propriety and without encroachment on the home rule principle assume larger supervisory powers in regard to police matters . deleted 2 paragraphs In connection with the further organization of the department . it iS Provided that the Commissioner shall appoint a Deputy , removable by him , but with the right of appeal to the Governor , whose salary shall he $4000 , with $ , 1,200 for expenses . ' Coe other officials of the State Police Department would be a Secretary and a Treasurer and Deputy Treasurer . The Commissioner of State Police , under the Raines bill , would appoint a city Chief of State Police in every city throughout the state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties and powers of the present head of the Police Department in the various municipalities . The City Chief shall serve during good behavior or until retired for age or physical disability . It is provided that In all cities divided into boroughs there shall be a Deputy Chief for every borough , who shall be a. resident , of that borough . just as the City Chief must be a resident of the city in which he is serving . The rules and reguhitiOnS win be made by the State Commissioner , who also will have power " to reverse , set aside . or modify any act of any City Chief or Deputy City Chief . state Commissioner 's Duties . The duties of the State Commissioner are defined to . the bill as fellows : - " It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to exercise general supervision of the police of the cities throughout the State , to secure co-operation in the prevention . detection , and punishment of crime throughout sues cities , and'to those ends to re'ceive and transmit information from and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police Headquarters would be at Albany . The Treasurer of the Department of State Police has power under the bill to appoint a DeputylTreasure ? in every city to handle the funds set aside for the maintenance , of the Police Department . The salary of the Treasurer . and of the Secretary is fixed at 1.000 . A City Treasurer of the State Police will have to he satisfied with less , but It is stipulated that . no such official in a city of the first class shall be paid less than $1,500 a year . The salaries of City Chiefs and other members of the uniformed force , the bill provides , shall be exactly what the salaries of the corresponding officials are before the bill goes jet ? effect , and the State Poliee:CommissiOner , in making the transiers to the State Constabulary fordo of members of the municipal Police Departments has . laid down for him in the bill a system which would make their rank under the new : regime as nearly as possible identical with the rank they occupy when the transfer is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police force , while it takes over all other pollee powers ) shall . nit supersede:any of the functionaries now concerned - with the enforcement of the election law . it is provided , however . that at least one member of the State Police force must be detailed to every polling place in a city on election day .. Enjoined rfront political Activity . In Section 41. of the bill any person or employe in the State Police is enjoined from using either directly or indirectly his power and authority for or against any political party or organization . and it is provided also that no member shall be appointed or transferred or retired or punished " because or with reference to any party membership or affiliation , or for or on the request , direct or indirect , of any political party , organization , asapdeleted 2 paragraphs The city chiefs of State police shall he jointly , severally , and individually responsible for obedience to the provisions of this settlon their respective cities by the deputy city chiefs of State pollee and the officers and members of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of any city chief of State police of any duty or obligation imposed on them or either of them by this act , or any failure on the part of any of said officers to perform any such duty or obligation shall be cause for the removal of such officer from office . Senator Raines 's Views . Senator , Raines , in discussing the merits of his bill with THE TIMES correspondent this evening said : " I do n't know what this Legislature will do the bill . but it is certain that some Legislature not many years ' hence ' will be compelled to pass a bill drafted on these lines in deference to public opinion . It is the only method by which the police in our pig cities may be taken out of politics , and ' to do this has been the aim of civic reformers for a generatioa , only they have - gone the wrong way about it . " I have found a whole lot of sound sentiment in favor of a measure like mine throughout the State . I suppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . but I know that the discussion of it will bring to the front a great num-her of substantial men looked up to in the community , who will rally to its support . Thr irrunibipalities will hear the expense of their own police force just as now , with the difference that the moneys will he paid - into the State Treasury and be disbursed and distributed according to requirements by the Treasurer of the State Police Department at Albany . The Municipal Councils will still have a whole lot to say about appropriations for police purposes , as for instance in regard to increases in the local forte .                     