@@781438

txt With the first quiet day after the opening of the Hudson-Fulton Celebration , New York found itself with hotels overflowing , streets and public places thronged With visitors , and seats for the pageants still to come at premium prices . As an indication of the extent to which the hotels are doing business this week it may be mentioned that from thirty to forty persons asked the watchman on the first , floor of the Times Building yesterday to direct them to a hotel where they could find accommodations , the hostelries they had already rSought having been unable to care for them . As for the streets , the throng in Fifth Avenue passing between the half-completed stands for the land parades was as large as an Easter Day parade . In RiNersido Drive there were almost as many thousands as were to be seen there on Saturday , when the water pageant was on view . Upper and lower Broadway  --  the latter usually a desert on Sunday  --  looked as though a civilian army in Sunday attire was on the march . Between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Art was open , 12,000 sightseers entered there . Almost an equal number visited the Museum of Natural History . The Aquarium . in Battery Park. ; the Bronz Zoo , an i Central Park were equally thronged . Fleet Illumination to be Repeated . With everybody loud in praise of the beautiful spectacle presented by Saturday night 's illumination of the fleet , there came out the news that this will be repeated next Saturday night . The announcement was made by an officer of the battleship Connecticut , the flagship of the Atlantic fleet , yesterday afternoon . Officers of both the American and foreign vessels were kept busy yesterday expressing thanks for the compliments they received on Saturday 's electrical display , and so many requests were made for a second illumination that it was practically decided to grant them . As on Saturday night , the illumination will include every ship in the line from the Mayflower at anchor off Forty-fourth Street to the scout cruiser Birmingham , the northernmost vessel in the column , at anchor off Spuyten Duyvil . Moreover , while there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probable that there will be sixty-one4rin the illuminated column this week , as the tender Yankton , the auxiliary cruisers Dixie and Prairie , and the gunboat Machias , the last named having arrived from Boston yesterday , may join the Atlantic , fleet for the rest of the celebration . Peary 's Ship , to be in the Parade , It was also announced on authority that Commander Robert E. Peary 's arctic ship , the Roosevelt , will undoubtedly take part in the naval parade on Friday . The Roosevelt stopped at Eagle Island , Commander Peary 's home at Portland , Me .. yesterday . She sailed last night for New York . She is expected on Tuesday . Commander Peary is to come by train in time to take charge of the Roosevelt in the parade , and will be in command during her triumphal progress up the rivet . ' Rain Feared for Tuesday . Bad news , however , for to-morrow 's street pageant , came from the lVeather Bureau last night . The forecast to-day is for rain  --  and possibly , said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day of the historical pageant , will mean much to the hundreds who have Planned to view the parade . It will not make much difference to those having sands , for most of these were sold out yesterday , with ho saving clause for the return of the purchase money if it rains . The threat of rain is based upon the fact that two atmospheric disturbances ? one traveling up from Florida and the other coming down from New England way  --  ought to meet somewhere near thin part of the country . Storm warnings have been ordered up from Nurfulk to Hatteras . The temperature will continue cool . To-night 's forecast , however . may tell a brighter story . What Is to Be Seen To-Day . Though to-day ig to be much less strenuous from the sightseeing point of view than Saturday was and to-morrow is scheduled to be , much entertainment and instruction has been provided for visitor and New Yorker . To the public the most attractive feature will be the probable aeroplane flight from Governors Island by Wilbur Wright . With his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions are favorable Mr. Wright will give the American metropolis its first view of an aeroplane soaring around the deleted 3 paragraphs ' Metropolitan Museum of Art  --  Exhibition of more than 130 , works of old Dutch masters and of the industrial arts of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . American Society of Mechanical Engineers at West Thirty-first Street  --  A Robert Fulton exhibit , including paintings , drawing books , decoratioth , and furniture . Brooklyn Institute , Pastern Parkway  --  Objects and relies showing the past and present life of the Indians on Long Island . Children 's Museum . ( Brooklyn Institute . ) Bedford Park  --  Fauna of Long Island . National Arts Club , Twentieth Street , near Irving Place  --  Paintings illustrative of the period from Hudson 's time to the present . The Aquarium  --  Fish indigenous to the Hudson River . The Botanical Garden . Bronx Park  --  All the plants growing here when Hudson arrived , marked with the letter H. Genealogical and Biographical Society , 226 West Fifty-eighth Street  --  Old deeds and manuscriats . New York Historical Society , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Fulton , and models pertaining to early steam navigation . New York Public Library. ? Prints and books relating to Henry Hudson and Robert Fulton . City Historical Club of New York . 17 West Forty-fourth Street  --  A special volume will be issued describing historical sites . City College Charts , views , and manuscripts illustrating old New York . Fraunces 's Tavern . 54 Pearl Street. ? Revo , lutionary relics exhibited by the State Society of the Sons of the Revolution . Long Island Historical Society . Pierrepont and Clinton Streets , Brooklyn. ? General exhibition . Zoological Garden in Bronx Park. ? Attenlion to the fauna of the Hudson River Valley will be directed by the flag of the Hudson-Fulton Celebration Commission. - van Cortlandt House Museum . Van Cortlandt Park. ? Pictures and medallions of men prominent in public life before the Devolution , cartoons , and caricatures . Washington Headquarters . the Jumel Man-sion , Edgecombe Avenue and 160th Street ? Colonial furnishings and Revolutionary relics . Park and Monument Dedications . New Jerseyites will have their first bite of the celebration on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the beautiful Inter-State Palisades Park . stretching thirteen miles along the west bank of the Hudson from Fort Lee , will be formally dedicated . The exercises will be held at Alpine Landing , with Gov . Hughes of New York and Gov . Fort of New Jersey as the principal speakers . An early afternoon ceremony will be the dedication of a monument to Hudson on Spuyten Duyvil Hill at 2 o'clock . Gen. Woodford , President of the commission ; Cleveland H. Dodge , George W. Perkins , Mayor McClellan , Gov . Hughes , Dr. James Douglas , and Warren Higley are among the speakers Archbishop Farley will pronounce the benediction . Salutes will be fired by warships anchored off shore at this point , with a salute from the land by the First Battalion of Field Artillery , N. G. N. Y. An interesting feature of this dedication will be the presence of the Half Moon , which will sail up the river to an anchor-age as near as it is possible to determine where Hudson anchored on Sept. 9 , 1609 . Following the exercises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guests will be held at the historic Johnson homestead near by . A reception will be given this after-noon at the headquarters of the Department of the East . U. S. A. on Governors Leonard Island . with Major Gen. eonard Wood as chief host , particularly for the navy officers here on the warships . This will be followed to-night by the first of the large social events of the celebration , an official reception for the foreign and other distinguished visitors at the Metropolitan Opera House . Musical festivals will be held in each of the other boroughs to-night , with a historical parade at Stony Brook , S. I. The United German Singers will give a concert at the , Thirteenth Regiment Armoty , Brooklyn . The Apollo Club will sing at the Brooklyn Academy of Music . The United German Singers of Long Island are scheduled to sing at the Astoria Schueten Park in Queens . Richmond will have a concert by the Staten Island German Singers at Happy Land Park . South Beach . The Bronx will have a musical by its German singing societies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , . Visitors Still Arriving  --  Help Scarce ? Corridors Thronged . Sunday , coming after the strenuous day , or the naval parades , brought a period of relief to most of the official guests of the Hudson-Fulton Celebration Commission . ' They paid a few unofficial visits , and some of them undertook short automo1:11e trips around the city , but most of the celebrated foreigners were glad enough to rest in their hotels and have their luncheons and dinners en famine . The unofficial visitors , of whom-.thousands from all over the United States have flooded . the hotels , did not give up their sightseeing . Fifth Avenue was crowded , as was Central Park , and points like the Aquarium , the Bronx Zoo , and the Metropolitan Museum of Art were packed to straining point , and the restaurants did a booming business . Some people found themselves eatinig luncheon along about 4 o'clock in the afternoon because it had been impossible to get a table before then . This made the dinner hour later . Service Problem Serious . The problem of feeding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solve . The restaurants in any one of the hotels do not begin to accommodate all the guests at a time , and when it is considered that more than half the tables may be used by people who do not live in the house , the problem becomes even greater . The . Waldorf-Astoria turns one of its corridors into a luncheon room on busy days . Yesterday the Hotel Knickerbocker put dining tables in the south tearoom . The hotel men were prime movers in the work of starting off the celebration , but they have n't found the task of caring for the multitude of strangers who have come as a result an easy one . The dining rooms and kitchens are running more or less like clockwork , following the regular order of things , but the additional tables which it has proved necessary to set have made it necessary to increase the number of waiters . And this was a new source of trouble . Waiters were scarce and demanding wages of $5 a day . But they had to be engaged . The hotel clerks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundreds of foolish questions they are asked daily . If many occupants of hotels went out yesterday , many who did not live in hotels came in . The corridors of the big hostelries were full of persons curious to see the interiors of these famous buildings . In many cases attendants were provided to take the strangers about , and show them the rooms . Some of the strangers , evidently fearing that they would not be welcome , resorted to subterfuges to look around . : They would approach the desk and ask if Mr. Smith or Mr. Jones was in . The clerk , of course , said . that the particular Smith or Jones was not staying there . Whereupon the visitor from Oshkosh would wander up and down the corridor , admiring the interior of the hotel at his leisure . It is curious how many people do that , " said the manager of one of the largest of the Fifth ' Avenue hotels . " We are always glag to show the public rooms to any one who asks to see them , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The manager of one of the Broadway hotels said that never in his experience had so many people wanted to have checks cashed . When a man comes to the to have a check cashed , " he said , " and he is under twenty-five I simply refuse . I say , If you can give me any good reason why I should cash your check and let you I use the hotel money I may consider it . I Otherwise I will not ' You see in most cases the young man simply wants to entertain friends . He may have a few dollars in the bank , and , becoming excited , overdraw his account . I do n't want to encourage him to spend his money that way . " Guests Praise the Show . The official guests of the hotels are all of them loud in their praises of the naval fete . Jules Darboux , the special representative of the French Government , who is a member of the Institut de France and Perpetual Secretary of the Academy of Sciences in Paris , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had never seen anything like it . " C'etait une f  --  te extraordinaire , une Feerie ! " he exclaimed . " I have seen many fetes at Versailles and elsewhere , but nothing to approach this in brilliancy . New Yorkers should be proud of themselves for having arranged such a splendid celebration . " The representative from the Netherlands , Mr. Cremer , and the Marquis of Villalobar , were loud in their praises of Saturday evening 's festivities . Yesterday 's arrivals at the Hotel St. Regis included W. A. F. Ekengren , Swedish Charge d'Affaires at Washington , and Mrs. Ekengren ; Mr. and Mrs. Archie Pell ; Mr. and Mrs. Newell Tilton of Tuxedo , Mr. and Mrs. John G. Elliott of Tuxedo Park , the Rev. and Mrs : Ernest Id . Stires , and M. Pescatore , a member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg . At the Astor a wireless message was received asking that rooms be reserved for two special representatives of the Sultan of Morocco , who are due to arrive on Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that it will be difficult for the Astor to arrange for them at this late day . However , it will be managed . In the matter of decoration for the parades the hotels have gone almost beyond the point of rivalry . Some of those particularly noticeable for electrical displays are the Plaza , the Astor , and the Knickerbocker.                     