@@676791

txt S. Clarkson , Surveyor of the Port of New York , after a visit of two weeks here , has left for his home , leaving politicians much excited over the report that before his departure he agreed to urge on President Roosevelt the wisdom of supporting Senator Smoot in the contest for his seat in exchange for Mormon assistance in carrying the States of Idaho and Wyoming for Mr. Roosevelt and a more or less direct pledge of Utah 's Electoral vote . Gen. Clarkscn came to Salt Lake two weeks ago with his son , Grosvenor Clarkson . The General has for years been regarded as one of the best friends the Mormons have in the Nation . He was one of the Republican leaders who were charged at the time of the State 's admission with having made a political deal with the heads of the Church by which the State was to send Republican Representatives to both branches of Congress in return for Statehood . The best information is that Clarkson came to Utah at the request of the Smoot faction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have been engaged in a struggle for control of the parts machinery . Smoot has been signally victorious . IKearns attributes his opponent 's success to the fact that he is an Apostle of the Mormon Church , and hence able to utilize the organization of the Church in the political struggle . ' umoot 's candidate , Cutler , was nominated for Governor in the State Convention . Kearns , who owns The I Salt Lake Tribune , the organ of the Republican Party , has declined personally and in his newspaper to support the State ticket named at this convention . It was to get Kearns and his newspaper into line Lau . Clarkson was originally sent for . Since his coming new complications have arisen . A new party has been organized by opponents of the Mormon Church 's dictation in politics , and Senator Kearn 's support and the support of his newspaper have been pledged to this movement . HE STOOD STILL 28 HOURS . Man on Bowery Probably Has Muscular Catalepsy , Doctor Says . A. fairly well-dressed man about fifty years old walked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Henry Miner 's restaurant at arid Bowery , at 8 o'clock Friday evening , and stood looking in . Not a muscle did-he move , but stood rigidly looking almost blankly into the restaurant . At midnight , when Mr. Miner was leaving , he thought that the man might be hungry , and told him if such was the case he was welcome to go in and get a meal . The man mumbled a. few unintelligible words , and Mr. Miner went ' away and left him standing there . - When he came back at 7 o'clock yesterday morning the man was in the same condition and the night clerk at the Planters ' I:Hotelsnelit doorPlitid that the man had not moved a particle all night , though at one - time it was raining . At about noon yesterday Mr. Miner called the , attention of a policeman to the man , but the bluecoat said that as he had done nothing he ? ad no right to interfere with him . The man kept standing still . Finally , shortly before midnight last night , Mr. Miner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's peculiar lack of action and Flynn summoned an ambulance and the man was sent to St. Vincent 's Hospital . Dr. L. Nlynn , the ambulance surgeon , said that in his opinion the man was suffering from muscular catalepsy , a malady which , he said , is not often encountered by the medical profession . In such cases , he added , it was not unusual for the afflicted ' person 's muscles to remain perfectly rigid for ten daYs or two weeks , but that it was unusual for a person to remain on his feet for more than twenty-four hours . A card marked " Epileptic Colony , Sonyea , New York , " was found in the man 's pocket . This seemed to bear out the diagnosis of the physician . The man was sent to Bellevue Hospital . Nothing else in the shape of letters or papers which might assist in determining his identity was found on him .                     