@@676443

txt Much attention has been attracted of late to the increasing weakness of iron and steel prices . Its significance , however , is somewhat different from what is commonly supposed . It does not mean that the great consuming industries are entering the condition of incipient paralysis or that general prosperity has received a check from which recovery is doubtful . What it does mean is that consumers are satisfied that for some time the range of prices for crude forms of iron and steel have been too high and that during the Summer months purchases beyond immediate requirements would subject the purchaser to risk of loss from shrinkage before consumption . Whatever contraction there has been in actual consumption is probably due chiefly to the labor troubles which have interfered with normal activity in many industries , but the gradual increase in production has tended to the establishment of conditions which favor a readjustment of prices . The output of pig iron continues at a record-breaking rate , and there is a slight increase in unsold stocks , which indicates that for the moment production is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output was maintained at an average of over 57,300 gross tons per day , against a daily average of about 56,000 in May . As a consequence of a restricted consumption in the face of such a production , prices are settling , and within the past week have dropped 50 cents to a dollar per net ton . The gradual settling of prices for steel is attributable chiefly to the fact that specifications for orders which should now be in hand are being held back . The general suspension of building operations in New York has postponed a great deal of business with the steel mills of the Pittsburg district , and the same is true of business for Chicago and - Cincinnati . Some improvement in the situation is looked for during the present month , but the large buying movement is not expected much before Aug. 15 . It is known to all concerned that a great deal of business is being held back at the moment , and that the conditions which render this good business policy are essentially temporary . Some readjustment in prices will be favorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not likely to be sensational , since production during the hot weather is not likely to be maintained at the breaking point . Of the general situation and outlook we can only say as we said some weeks ago , that one must at the moment look in other quarters for the " danger signal " for which so many are industriously scanning the horizon .                     