@@675968

txt Prince Henry of Prussia went up Lookout Mountain today , and after viewing the ground where the Union and Confederate armies met in conflict and hearing afresh the story of the battles , resumed his journey to the north and west . Leaving Chattanooga over the Nashville . Chattanooga and St Louis Railread the Prince 's train ran through a'corner of Alabama , and then , turning to the north , hurried across Tennessee , with a short stop at Nashville , through Kentucky , with brief stays at Louisville and Bowling Green , and into Indiana , with another brief halt at Indianapolis . At Indianapolis the course was changed to the westward again , and on the tracks of the Vandalia line the train to-night is on the reach to St. Louis . There was a great crowd at Chattanooga. and the people presented to the Prince a handsome souvenir of his visit . Nashville also made a demonstration of friendliness . as did Louisville and Indianapolis . At every station along the route the people gathered to salute the Prince with cheers . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at several points , after they had seen and cheered the Prince , the people called for the Admiral . Brief though it was . Prince Henry was delighted with his Southern tour , and as he was leaving Nashville he said : " The people have been very kind to me . Everywhere they have received me in the kindliest manner , and I very deeply appreciate it . I wish they might all know how thankful I am . " It was 8 o'clock when the special-pulled into the station at Chattanooga , and the local reception committee , headed by Newell Sanders and accompanied by Pension Commissioner H. Clay Evans and- Gen. H. V. Boynton , came forward formally to greet the Prince . There was a great throng in and about the station . and it broke into hearty cheers when the Prince appeared at the rear of the car Columbia . He wore the uniform of an Admiral and saluted when he faced the crowd . He and his party were taken by special electric train to the inclined railway that climbs the rugged face of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the Prince escorted by Gen. Boynton . The morning was fairly clear when the cars began the . ascent . and the splendid panorama quickly came into vision . As the Prince reached the crest of the mountain the sun broke through the clouds and for a short time the view was excellent . lifissionary Ridge . Orchard Knob , and Raccoon Mountain were outlined clearly , and below the Tennessee River could be traced for miles . Gen. Boynton , who participated in the Chattanooga operation with Sherman 's army , and is Chairman of the ChickaPutpga. - National Park Association , accomPaniad the Prince down along the ridge of the mountain , and briefly related the story of the campaign . He pointed to the Cumberland Mountains . beyond which RoseCrans began the movement , traced out the feint to deceive Bragg , and graphically told the story of Chickamauga and the assaults on Missionary Ridge and Lookout Mountain . Prince Henry followed the recital with the keenest interest , and , with map before him , studied out the strategy and progress , of the campaign . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lieut . Commander von Egidy. noted down figures as to the number of men engaged and the losses on either side . and other information as to the battles and campaign . As Prince Henry stood at Rock Point and looked across the valley of the Tennessee he exclaimed : This is magnificent . There is nothing in all Europe that is finer . I have never seen such a battlefield . " The party was photographed at the peak , and one of the photographers , a local man . was sharply rebuked by the Prince . The photographer did not like the way the Prince stood ? and in rather loud tones repeatedly asked him to change his position . The Prince changed it several times . but finally said : " I have changed five times . I think . You wi:I take me right here if you care to You have had several photographs alreadv. - Later the Prince told one of the President 's delegates that he was sorry he had shown any spirit . but he was assured that he had ample cause to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either regret or apology . The Prince returned to the city by the electric line over which he had gone to the mountain , and at the depot , under guard of mounted police took a carriage for a short drive through the city . He returned to the depot at 10 o'clock , and the local committee , with Newell Sanders as spokesman , presented to him a silver-bound album . the gift of the citizens . The outer cover of the album bears a finely executed relief map in silver , showing the battlefields . The Prince , in accepting it . said : " I thank you very much for this beautiful souvenir . I shall keep it always as a remembrance of my day here with you in this interesting , historic locality . Please express my thanks to the citizens . " The Prince then boarded his train , and at 10:30 o'clock , amid loud cheers , the special departed . The Prince invited Gen. Boynton and Commissioner Evans to accompany him to Nashville , and they were his guests ? at luncheon . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tirpritz , Gen. ' von Plessen. and Lieut . Commander von Egidy . At the table the Prince again expressed his pleasure at having seen Lookout Mountain and the battlefields . and thanked Gen. Boynton for his description of the campaign . At Chattanooga Lieut . Commander von Grumme lost his sword . It was a handsome weapon . and the local police were asked to search for it . It was thought that it was left somewhere by accident rather than that it was stolen . Prince Henry addressed a telegram to Mr. and Mrs. Ogden Mills , accepting an invitation to breakfast with them at their home in New York next Saturday . The Prince had a day of sightseeing , and . - when not otherwise engaged , kept up an animated conversation of questioning and comment with Admiral Evans and others . The reception at Bowling Green pleased him fully as much as the more elaborate receptions at other places . Judge Simms , a venerable citizen . mounted the rear platform of the Columbia , and . in the name of Kentucky . presented to the Prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince gravely accepted the gift , and faithfully promised the Judge that he would drink some of it the first time he was thirsty . It was a sentiment that pleased the Judge and his fellow-citizens. and they cheered enthusiastically as the Prince . from the moving train , waved them farewell .                     