@@677637

txt In his capacity of " attorney for the people , " Gov . HUGHES respectfully but firmly urges the Legislature to do its duty . While the five measures which ' he made the subject of an emergency message yesterday are not of the first order of importance , he deems them to be in the public interest , and desires their passage . One of them authorizes him to make a needed investigation into the administrative departments . Another amends the primary election law , and would provide an official ballot in the primaries in this city . Any reform that gives greater dignity to the primaries and that tends to impress voters of all parties with their importance is salutary . The amendment of the Corrupt Practices act naturally excited no enthusiasm in the Legislature . The Governor 1has not lost sight of it , however . Practice has shown that the limitation of the accounting requirement to contributions of 5200 or over affords much too large an opportunity for the continuance of old abuses . The bill providing for an inquiry into the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their development under State control and regulation was naturally looked on with great disfavor by the advocates of the Adirondack ? . " grab , " and the measure was defeated in the Senate last week . The Governor Informs the Legislature that he would like to have the bill passed , and as he has demonstrated that he possesses great influence with that body , we presume he will have his way . The other bill mentioned in the message makes the Special Franchise Tax law applicable to rights of way crossing streets , highways , or public places in cities and incorporated villages . It would add 010,000,000 of assessable franchise values to the tax list , thus enlarging the corporation tribute to the State Treasury , and by so much  --  lightening the burdens of the farmers , who are always the subject of the Legislature 's tender solicitude . The interest in this emergency message arises , not so much from the projects of law mentioned , as from the assumption it creates that the Legislature will hear and obey . The Governor got the Public Utilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is assumed at Albany that he will get these bills through . The Legislature is in a hurry to adjourn , but It would dislike exceedingly to be recalled In extraordinary session . Therefore it is likely to give the Governor- what he wants . It is a very remarkable exhibition of Mr. Huosms 's power . The only contemporaneous parallel is the attitude of the President toward Congress . Mt . ROOS75. - vELT openly declared that if Congress would not pass the Rate bill he would appeal to the people over its head . Mr. Huanzs made no such threat , but actually did the thing . He marshaled public opinion behind him , and his triumph is complete and conspicuous . Such a system of lawmaking has its libvlous dangers . Public opinion is never well informed as to the details of legislation ; oftentimes it is profoundly Ignorant as to principles . An able and upright Governor with the best intentions in the world may be *taken . It is the intent of the Constitution , as it is beyond all question the spirit of our Governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of the people , ihould be the judge of what laws are required by the pubic welfare . - Pressure from the Executive , even when it merely transmits and makes effective pressure from the people themselves , may work mischief . Manifestly it is an encroachment upon the field of an independent department . The only justification is evidence of an evil disposition on the part of a Legislature . That evidence has not been lacking this Winter , and the general belief that the Democrats and Republicans , particularly - In the Senate , had formed a coalition to defeat worthy legislation has given the Governor very much greater power than he could have exercised over a body of lawmakers more worthy of confidence -                     