@@675948

txt The heaviest snowstorm yet experienced this Winter began here early this afternoon and continued until dark , covering the streets of the city to a depth- of several inches , seriously impeding traffic and forcing the electric street cars to suspend service . The snowstorms continue at many points in the provinces , especially in the South and in the Riviera . The carnival at Cannes , which should have begun to-day , has been postponed on account of the weather . The violent gales prevailing along the coasts of France have caused numerous minor shipping casualties . Much snow has fallen at Madrid and elsewhere in Spain , accompanied by great cold . Five degrees of frost have been recorded at Seville . The Alps in the neighborhood of Simplon are covered with snow to the depth of seven feet , and many Alpine villages have been isolated . New York experienced an abrupt change in weather conditions yesterday afternoon . The misty rain which on Saturday had superseded the snow and descended steadily throughout the night ceased with a shift of the wind that began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence until at 6 o'clock in the evening ft attained its maximum velocity of seventy-two miles an hour . Thereafter it gradually abated until at midnight it was sweeping through the city at a sixty-mile clip . With the increase in the wind came a drop in the temperature . The sidewalks and streets where the contractor had cleared off the snow were soon dry , but in the outlying portions of the city the slush and water turned to ice and made the sidewalks very slippery . Apart from this slipperiness , pedestrians everywhere had trouble at times in maintaining their equilibrium owing to the force of the wind , and were otherwise kept fully occupied in looking after their headgear , for the fierce gusts played the wildest pranks with hats , while they set every movable sign in the city creaking and clattering , and in not a few instances tore them rudely from their fastenings to the alarm and peril of passers-by . Zinc chimney pots went down like ninepins on many houses . A particularly strong gust blew in a large window in the second story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sign blown from its fastenings crashed into a showcase in front of the haberdashery establishment owned by W. R. Roagalin , in the same building . As the store was closed on account ' Of it being Sunday , the police took the contents of the case to the West Thirtieth Street Station for safekeeping . A plate glass window in the florist store attached to Bloomingdale 's , at 141 East Fifty-ninth Street , was also blown in . While walking along Ninth Avenue , Mrs. Mary Malone , seventy-five years old , of 355 West Forty-seventh Street , was struck on the head by a sign which fell from the second floor of the four-story factory building of Charles Trisvjer &; Co. , at No. 694 and was rendered unconscious . Her skull was fractured , she was hurt internally , and removed to Roosevelt Hospital , where the surgeons say she may die . The wind was the cause of another jam on the bridge when the gale was at its height . An express wagon , drawn by ? one horse , started across , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gust lifted it up and threw it on its side across the trolley tracks . It took the efforts of the driver and several guards and motormen from the stalled trolley cars a quarter of an hour to right the vehicle and get it off the tracks . Along Riverside Drive the caretakers in unfinished buildings became alarmed at the fury of the gale and many telephone calls were received at the Building Department and Superintendent Stewart was notified . He made a personal inspection of the buildings where most fears were entertained , and found that there was no ground ford anxiety .                     