@@677132

txt To the representatives of the great labor organizations of railroad employes who called upon him yesterday President ROOSEVELT made the astonishing statement that in his opinion the rate-making legislation which he has so persistently urged " would not mean a reduction , necessarily , in railroad rates , " and he assured the delegation of representatives of organized labor who had called upon him that they " were proceeding on a wrong under-Standing of the situation . " This , at least , is what the press dispatches report the President as saying . ' Where must be something the matter With the railroad rates or the President would not with such iteration and pertinacity discourse to his country , men upon the vital necessity of the legislation he urges . Would he be so persistent if the rates were too low , if the railroads were doing themselves an injustice , and if the shippers of the country were enjoying undeserved fa . vors at the hands of the transporta ? tion corporations ? We do not think so . : Would the President so earnestly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fix rates if rates were neither toQ low nor too high , but were just right ? The proposition is so senseless as to be unthinkable . ' ' 11r . BACON and those who have joined him in the agitation for a rate-making law say that freight charges are too high . The statistics of complaints filed with the Inter-State Commerc , Commission do not by any means support the contention that freight rates are , either in general or in any considerable number of instances , unreasonably high ; unfair discriminations and such abuses as rebates are the subject of most of the complaints . But the country has understood that the agitation led by the President has had for its object the vesting of a Federal body with the power to curb the railroads and protect the shipper by ordering reasonable rates to be substituted for thos : which were unreasonably high . if the rate-making agitation does not mean this , it does not mean anything . it is purposeless , without end or aim or justification , and altogether sterile . Had the i ; eople @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's many eloquent utterances cn the subject of rate legislation had no m:rE .. , serious purpose than the enactment of a law tat " would not mean a reduction necessarily in railroad rates , " they would have given him no support and the subject no attention . The President 's visitors have been giving the subject some attention . Perhaps he was surprised when the representatives of the five great organizations of railroad employes , engineers , firemen , conductors , switchmen , and trainmen coming from twelve different States and representing the chief railroad systems of the country , submitted their it ( rgument against the legislation he favors . Railroad rate legislation , they said , logically meant the lowering of rates . Lower rates would mean less earning power , and eventually the change would involve a reduction in the wages of railroad employes . The importance of the Interests represented by the labor men who called upon the President yesterday may be judged from the fact that in the year lital the railroads of the United States paid 41. per cent . of their gross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to capital . The English railroads in that year paid 40 per cent . to capital , and only 23 per cent . to labor . In 1903 the wages paid by the railroads to their employ ? s amounted to $775,321,000 . If the labor involved in producing the supplies used by railways , such as fuel , iron , steel , oil , and so forth , be taken into account it is the opinion of experts that fully SO per cent . of the operating expenses of the railroads of the country goes to labor . A reduction in income that would not injuriously affect a cost factor of SO per cent . of the total outgo could be accomplished only by some mysterious and magical process of which we are afraid Congress , even with the aid of the Administration , could not make itself the master . ' The railway employes are right . The ' new laws the President asks for , if they were good for anything , if they had any force or validity , would well- ' nigh inevitably result in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all railway property , not Only by directly affecting its income , but by impairing the COntrOl of its owners over their possessions . The Presi- dent 's answer to his visitors may Puzzle and mystify , it will not satisfy them . Even in the House of Representatives , where many Members have felt free to vote for a rate-fixing bill , well knowing that the Senate would never pass it , there will be , we imagine , some notable changes of heart when labor 's opposition to the President 's ideas begins to make itself felt .                     