@@678049

txt A report that the American Government may not grant China 's hospitable request for a visit from the battleship fleet is being circulated all through the Far East by the Japanese press agencies . If this report is not promptly contradicted its continued circulation may entirely destroy the good effects of Secretary Taft 's visit , and undermine the good relations between China and America which he re-established . The manner in which this report is being handled indicates the existence of a Japanese intrigue designed for the purpose of preventing a visit of the fleet to China and of thereby emphasizing the political significance of the fleet 's visit to Japan . The report is causing uneasiness and resentment in theminds of the Chinese of all classes , who feel it would be an insult to their country for the fleet to stay away from China . This matter having become the sub- . ject of discussion in the public prints , I feel it is desirable to give some Important details which wilt show what ground there is for the report that the fleet is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exerted to keep it from coming here . Rockhill Opposed Fleet 's Visit . It seems that when Minister Rockbill recently reached China he began to talk against the proposed visit of the fleet . He argued that if the battleships should come to China the people . of this country might misconstrue the ' purpose of the American Government in sending it here and draw the conclusion - that America was bent on making demonstration in favor of the open door in China and of indicating her inten " ' tion to support the open-door , belie ; with physical force if necessary . Immediately on his arrival at Peking Mr. Rockhill cabled to Washington:ad , vising that the fleet be kept away froti China . The Chinese , the Americans , and the other foreigners residing in China ' were making plans for an enthusiastic reception for the fleet . Mr. Rockhill 's attitude damped their enthusiasm and put a stop to the preparations they had begun making . Much importance is attached to Mr. Rockhill 's attitude by the Chinese because they know he has just returned from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . A certain significance also attaches to his opinions in the minds of the Chinese on account of his recent visit to Japan . Chinese Puzzled and Resentful . The situation brought about by Mr. Rockhill is considered here to be of great international importance . It was the understanding in China that the invitation she had extended to the fleet had been accepted , and now she is quite ? , unable to understand the sudden reversal of the American Government 's decision . Her officials draw the inference that Japan has " squared " America with ' respect to Manchuria and Korea , ' so that America will not oppose Japan 's ' policies in those countries , and that her reconsideration of her decision to send the battleship fleet here is the result of Japan 's intrigue and diplomacy . It follows that the Chinese Government is not only puzzled by the action of the American authorities , but is also alarmed and dismayed by it . China Would Not Misunderstand . Yuan-Shih Kai and other high officials told me they are delighted at the prospect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many foreign nations , " said Yuan , " which have not been invited to send fleets to China . The in- , . vitation to the American fleet is indeed : , the first of its kind ever extended by2 , my country , and the invitation is ' an : earnest and sincere expression of my , country 's regard for America . All classes of the Chinese people come your ships , officers , and sailors . " The ignoring of China by our battleships will undo all the work that had to be done to restore the conditions that existed prior to the boycott . Regarding the theory that it would be unwise for America to take any action that would tend to encourage China in her opposition to the encroachments of Japan , and possibly lead her to adopt such an aggressive attitude that would provoke Japan Into attacking her , a prominent Chinese official said to me : " China 's experience of the disposition of Western nations to regard faithfully their solemn treaty obligations has been such that we Chinese are in no danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration which will not differ in kind from those accorded by other nations . "                     