@@773559

txt GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND of about four years.l Of these judges one is made president of the court , directs the work of his colleagues , and has himself an individual jurisdiction over certain police matters and small suits which might come before a justice of the peace . Above this court stands the Kantonsgcriclet as a forum of last resort within the state . This also is a plural tribunal , the number of judges varying from seven to thirteen , and the length of term from one to eight years . Besides hearing appeals from the lower courts , this Cantonal Court exercises a certain supervision over the administration of justice throughout the whole canton , and in many states makes an annual report to the legislature on the condition of that branch of government . It is a distinction worthy of notice that the superior court is usually elected by the legislature , while the district tribunal is chosen by popular vote . Criminal matters arc not brought before the civil courts , but special tribunals are provided for each district.2 Appeals , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can be carried up to the Cantonal Court , where usually a committee or chamber of judges acts as a criminal court of last resort . Juries are employed in the lower criminal courts in some of the states , but they do not bear the familiar American and THE CANTONAL JUDICIARY English aspect ; they resemble those of France . Trial before a body of one 's peers is customary only for crime , not for the settlement of civil disputes , and the number of men in a panel is apt to be six or nine oftener than twelve . The functions of the Grand Jury , as found in English and American practice , are performed by special " courts of instruction , " or by committees of one or more judges of the higher courts acting as such . This court of inquiry informs the public prosecutor , Staatsanwalt , of the criminal matters which should be tried , and the latter conducts the cases for the state according to regulations which vary in different cantons . At first sight there appears to be a lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all classes of trials , civil as well as criminal , seems to bring the administration of justice out of the realm of books into that of everyday life and common sense . When more closely considered , however , it becomes apparent that the courts of Switzerland are in reality strongly democratic institutions . When one begins to count one finds that the lower courts contain , ordinarily , about half as many judges as there are members of an English jury ; that they are elected by popular vote every few years , and thus do not get out of touch with common feeling ; having , moreover , an advantage in legal training and forensic experience which the average jury may never hope to obtain . These are distinct improvements in the settlement // of civil questions . Judicial offices share with others the effect of opposition to life tenure . The people seem unwilling to surrender the opportunity to recall a public servant , even though willing to keep him in service . Practice is , however , better than precept in Switzerland , for judges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The position of the inferior judiciary in respect to the interpretation of the constitutionality of law is similar to that established for the Federal Tribunal . Contrary to the practice of American courts , the Swiss cantonal tribunal does not try the acts of legislature . No court can set aside a statute because of disagreement with the state constitution , because the legislature is regarded as the final authority upon its own act . The advisability of this principle is commented upon in connection with federal legislation , ' so that no further expression of opinion is necessary , except to observe that in the canton the facilities for changing law are even greater than in the confederation , it being possible to remodel the constitution on demand , and by a process occupying but a few months at most . Hence it would seem that popular rights would be better served if the interpretation of law were taken out of the hands of the assembly and left to a tribunal which is accustomed to weigh well the meaning and intent of words . It may be said , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the work of their legislators THE CANTONAL JUDICIARY that all laws become in a sense a part of the constitution . If this were absolutely true there would be less need of judicial review of legislation by representatives , yet it might not be a bad thing to permit the courts to decide whether the people themselves had kept within the general principles established by their own act in a written constitution . Special courts for commercial suits ( Handelsgerichte , tribunaux de commerce ) are to be found in Zurich , Aargau , and Geneva . These are composed of one or two regular judges , assisted by two to five merchants , who are supposed to have expert knowledge of such questions . Under given conditions appeal may be carried to the regular courts . In the other cantons commercial controversies are tried in the ordinary civil courts . In all cases due respect must be paid to the national bankruptcy act by which uniform principles and procedure have been introduced . Tribunals of Industry ( Gewerbcgerichte ) are established in nine cantons for the settlement of disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both classes and are remarkable for the rapidity and cheapness with which they act . Only a few days are necessary between citation and judgment , and the regular costs are either reduced or made entirely free to both parties ) . I07 CHAPTER VIII THE PUBLIC SERVICE IN GENERAL IN more than half of the cantonal constitutions a prominent place is given to the statement that " the legislative , the executive , and the judicial powers are , as such , to be kept separate . " Sometimes the expression is more emphatic , but the fulfilment of the law is everywhere equally peculiar . So far as the persons who serve the state are concerned , the separation of departments is , to a large degree , consistently carried out ; judges do not act as governors , nor do legislators actually execute their own decrees ; but we have seen how frequently the executive department , as such , takes a hand in the formulation of law , and how the legislature often elects the administrative and judicial officers , and persistently inquires into their conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also in certain cases a court of law , and the executive council is likewise a forum for administrative disputes , if for no other . No average statement can be given as to the amount of separation of powers , or as to the extent to which they assist each other in the various cantons . We can , how-io8 THE PUBLIC SERVICE IN GENERAL ever , see that these inconsistencies are , for the most part , in favor of , rather than against good government . We may demur at the mixing of legislative and judicial functions in the same body , but must admit the usefulness of the work of the administration in the formulation of law . It would have been better , perhaps , not to put so broad a statement in the constitutions , and to have declared definitely where the lines should not cross . Another Swiss view of the question of " incompatibility " which is rather striking to the foreigner , is the prejudice against the admission of relatives to the same councils or boards of authority . It is somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father and son or son-in-law , no brothers or brothers-in-law , no uncle and nephew , nor even , in some cases , more distant relatives , shall be elected at the same time to the executive council of the state or to the village board of aldermen . The historical reasons for this sentiment are discussed in the chapters on Federal Government . In canton or nation the practice is a survival for which there is probably at present little reason . There was a time when such prohibitions were vitally necessary to prevent the formation of family oligarchies . The greatest injury that cumulation of offices in the same family could now bring to a community would be some temporary advantage in the use of the common lands or some small jobbery in contracts . Of the public service of the cantons , it may be 109 GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND said , in general , that it is well performed . Owing to the short intervals within which officials must submit to reelection , such a thing as bureaucracy is almost impossible . Yet , while a popular control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faithful servants is the rule . Rotation is apt to take place in the higher administrative offices , and in the lower , long-continued service . The salaries paid are small , and members of many local boards must serve gratis , receiving their satisfaction in the esteem of their fellow-citizens . There seems to be a proper estimate of the relative value of the different branches of administration , for , in general , the judiciary remains by law in office longer than political officials . In practice , also , clergymen and teachers are given permanent tenure , though only one cantonal constitution directs that these functionaries shall be appointed for life . Civil service pensions are granted in Geneva and Basel-City . In Geneva this is practically a system of old age insurance , obligatory upon all officials and sustained partly by their own contributions and partly by the state treasury . Compulsory life insurance on a similar plan is supported by four other cantonal governments . In many cantons , acceptance of certain offices , usually local , is obligatory . For instance , the constitution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound to accept those offices which are filled THE PUBLIC SERVICE IN GENERAL by direct popular election , the duty , however , being limited to one term of service , with exemptions for age and disability . " Compulsory service , " says the Local Government Act of Zurich , " is maintained principally for the benefit of the smaller communities , which , without this means , would find it impossible to fill their offices acceptably. " l Responsibility for the conduct of office is provided for , in the first place , by taking oath on entering upon its duties , and , secondly , by liability to suit for damages . This liability is shared by the state when it accepts the action of the official as its own . Defalcations are extremely rare . Switzerland is so small that serious corruption is almost out of the question . Every public man is so well known to everybody that , even if the desire existed , the misuse of funds or the acceptance of bribes could scarcely go unnoticed . . III CHAPTER IX CANTONAL FINANCE IT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration of the Swiss cantons and communities which would prove true in all cases . So manifold are the methods employed and so various are the conceptions of the duty of the state , that a view of the whole subject could be gained only by giving a full description of the financial situation of each canton and village ; but it must suffice here to describe a few of these , and to point out certain principles and tendencies which have more or less general applicability . As in the United States , there is a division of the burden of taxation and of management of expenditure between the federal , the state , and the local governments , but the relations of state and local finance differ from the usual American system , in that there is no territorial division having financial functions between the canton and the village . Except in one canton , the J3cvirk has neither taxing power nor public funds , as in the case of the county in the United States . The state and its smallest units divide between themselves the responsibilities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined . Sometimes the can-II2 CANTONAL , FINANCE ton and the confederation join hands in the support of an institution or public work , as , for instance , the Polytechnic School at Zurich ; sometimes the confederation and the community share the burden , as in the maintenance of a military parade-ground ; and again the canton assists the towns , as in the matter of public roads and pauperism.i The sources of public income are equally various and complex . While the same items may appear as resources in many or all of the states , the beneficiaries may be widely different . As in the case of water privileges , or hunting and fishing licenses , sometimes the income accrues to the state and sometimes to the community ; hence any general inferences as to the results of a given class of taxes would be difficult to draw . Common sources of revenue , however , found in some form in almost every canton , are : I. State property , domains , or funds . 2 . Royalties and monopolies . 3 . Miscellaneous indirect taxes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation of property and income . Domains may consist of forests , cultivated lands , or city property , and are of importance both in state and local finance . The income from such resources sometimes takes the form of rents , at others accrues indirectly as a public utility ; sometimes , in small communities , it ministers to the private comfort of citizens in the right to free firewood and pasture . Historically speaking , the GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND domains are the basis of existing public property in Switzerland , for in the beginning the Mark , or common land , was the sum and substance of state and village economy ; later on , other sources of revenue , tolls , privileges , or tributes , created surpluses which became cantonal funds . In the middle ages , flourishing cities , like Zurich and Bern , not only gained sufficient revenue to pay current expenses , but piled up huge treasures , and enlarged their territories by purchase or the forfeiture of mortgages . Under the regime of the Helvetic Republic and during the supremacy of Napoleon much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states were obliged to begin their accumulations again . At present the combined Staatsverrogen , or public fortune , domains and funds together , is a considerable factor in the financial system of every canton.l The total amount of state property in the whole confederation , omitting federal funds , has an estimated value of many hundred millions of francs . Beside this there are , especially in the northern cantons , many special funds , administered for public or charitable purposes , which in reality should be considered available resources in the general economy of the states . In Schaffhausen // these amount to ten millions of francs , and in Zurich exceed twenty millions.l Among monopolies , the spirit industry stands foremost in respect to the extent of its application and magnitude of financial results . This will be described in connection with Federal Finance , but it must be kept in mind that notwithstanding the centralized system of administration it is essentially a state revenue , and in each canton a most important financial factor . Now that the expenses of assuming the monopoly and the various indemnifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry will probably grow larger and larger . The sale of salt is a government monopoly in every canton in the confederation , whether the production be domestic or foreign . The manufacture is in all cases undertaken by private companies , but distribution is carried out by the state . The general principle upon which this monopoly rests is , that all mining operations are Staatsregalien , privileges of the sovereign , and subject to royalty . In earlier days one or two states operated salt mines and wells on their own account , but these were afterwards assumed by companies , and now the actual mining is in all cases performed by private enterprise , under state charters or concessions . Only three cantons , Aargau , Basel-Land , and Vaud , have within their own territory salt-bearing wells of any account , the natural formation of other regions not being suitable . Hence the monopoly is a different matter in the various parts of the country ; states having no wells standing in quite another economic relation to the subject from that occupied by producing cantons . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenues derived from the sale , and various prices might consequently be expected to rule in different states ; but the chief causes of variance are the different ideas of the duty of the state toward the salt-consuming public . In some cantons the matter is viewed entirely from the fiscal standpoint , and as much revenue is derived from salt as ' the traffic will bear ; in others the monopoly is regarded simply as a means of cheapening the commodity , while still other states expect moderate prices and moderate revenues . Aargau , being favored by nature with salt-formations , exacts from the manufacturers the whole supply needed in the state , gratis , and in addition a money payment of 45,000 francs.I In other words , the company may make and sell all the salt it wishes after it has given the government enough to supply the state demand and a liberal cash bonus . Basel-Land receives one-tenth of the production of its wells , or , if this exceeds the amount needed for home consumption , all the salt it wants and the balance in cash.2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies in part , in one case wholly , from foreign countries ; all the rest obtain salt from the Rhine wells , so that companies of Aargau and Basel-Land have nearly a monopoly of the Swiss supply . This condition of the market is brought about by an understanding with foreign manufacturers , according to which the Swiss members of the ring agree not to sell in German or French territory , provided they are let alone in Switzerland . These agreements , however , are terminable at comparatively short intervals , and the nearness of foreign wells does not permit much unjustifiable increase of price . As a financial expedient , the salt monopoly is a question of difference between cost-price to the state and selling-price to the public . To all states outside the producing cantons the price is uniformly 5 to 6.5 francs per loo kilogrammes , but the selling-price varies from 10 to 20 francs per hundred . ' Where the monopoly is regarded as a tax the prices are higher . In Bern , the largest consumer of salt , the price in 1896 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 795,359 francs , or 1.45 francs per inhabitant . Zurich consumed about one-half as much as Bern , and sold salt to the public one-third cheaper . The result to the state was a far smaller profit , but the people were taxed only 5o centimes a head . Uri is one of the smallest cantons , but the citizens paid a profit to the state of 2.40 francs each . Taking the whole confederation together , the net returns to the cantonal governments amounted , in 1896 , to 3,553,298 francs , or an average taxation of 1.12 francs per inhabitant . The salt is distributed at wholesale from state magazines located at convenient intervals , while household supplies are obtained through specially appointed grocers , or through the ordinary channels of retail trade at a very slight advance . In comparison with salt , the other state monopolies are meagre sources of income . The mineral products of Switzerland are few , and found only in small quantities . There is but one coal mine in the whole confederation which is productive of royalties . This is in Zurich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few hundred francs . A cement factory , however , in connection with the mine showed itself capable of a respectable industrial profit to the canton . The canton of Glarus is the owner of a slate mine , but this is more of a convenience than a source of revenue.l Fallowing the example of the confederation as wholesale monopolist of spirituous liquors , the city of Basel has assumed the monopoly of retail distribution.2 This covers the high grades of alcoholic beverages , but not alcohol for use in the arts , nor the weaker spirituous and malt liquors , the sale of I18 CANTONAL FINANCE the latter being regulated by a system of licenses . For the fine distillations there are government stores , which are to he established according to the demand , but which may not exceed twenty in number . These are furnished by the cantonal finance department with liquors obtained from the federal administration , and at a price somewhat in advance of that paid to the confederation . The further preparation of liquors for drinking purposes lies in the hands of the storekeeper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government officer , but gets his profit by selling at market prices , and gives bond to the state that the place will be properly conducted . Statistics are not at hand sufficient to show the permanent results of this experiment , but the attempt to carry the monopoly into the details of distribution will be well worthy of study in the future , especially from the sociological standpoint . The list of cantonal monopolies should include railways , but not enough of them exist to affect the finances of the country to any great degree . Bern was at one time a large railway owner , but her lines , after falling back into private hands , have now come into possession of the confederation , leaving only two small lines in Neuchatel and the street railways in Basel to represent the state idea . Royalties from fishing and hunting privileges I19 GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND are sometimes demanded by the canton , sometimes by the community , hence their place is somewhat difficult to fix . Water-power , or the use of public streams for mills and factories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the benefit of the state treasury ) . The total revenue derived from the use or taxation of natural privileges , except from the production of salt , is but a small item in the cantonal budget . From mining , water-power , forestry , hunting , and fishing , less than 500,000 francs is received in the whole confederation . As an item of taxation , or perhaps as a public convenience , rather than a source of income , the subject of State Fire Insurance ought to be mentioned here . In eighteen cantons , government takes the place of private insurance companies , receiving premiums and paying losses resulting from fire.2 This system began in Switzerland in 18o8 , and nearly all of the states which accept fire-risks adopted the idea during the first four decades of this century . In most cases insurance in the state company is obligatory ; all buildings above a certain small value , except those involving extraordinary risks , such as chemical factories , powdermills , and the like , being subject to enrolment // and taxation with the government premium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In certain cantons , especially those where vineyards are abundant , insurance against damage by hail storm is assumed by the state . Participation in this has been quite general , and the results satisfactory both to the governments and to the protected . Personal service in fire companies is a form of taxation which is obligatory in the majority of communities . It is surprising to find in cities of the size of Zurich and Basel that all citizens between the ages of 32 and 44 years must be enrolled in the fire brigades and are held responsible for at least six years of service . These cities are divided into districts , and the voters are obliged either to accept active service or pay a tax instead . This gives the poorer citizen an opportunity to work out his fire tax , but the efficiency of the service must be feeble in comparison with a paid department . The towns are , however , so solidly built that fires are comparatively infrequent , and the voluntary system may be sufficient for a time . Government banks are maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both as financial enterprises and as social conveniences for the benefit of the borrowing class . Most of them are managed on state account , yet others are stock corporations , sustained by government guaranty . There are also many small banks , chiefly for savings deposit , which are operated I 2 I under the guarantee of the communities in which they are situated . Banking , under the present . federal constitution , can not be made a government monopoly , for the article prohibiting the confederation from assuming the sole right to issue bank notes has been held to prevent also any state from monopolizing the issue of paper money within its own limits . Consequently the state goes into banking as a business enterprise rather than as an exercise of its sovereign taxing powers . The miscellaneous taxes which are laid upon the small transactions of life display a wide variety of principles as well as practical applications . The canton is sometimes the beneficiary of a given tax , sometimes the community , the large cities being especially apt to multiply these financial rivulets . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the taxes upon exchanges of property are the most productive , but are closely followed by the market and peddling licenses . In regard to fees and fines , three different methods obtain . In a few states all court and administrative fees fall into the public treasury . In other cantons there is partial adoption of this rule , particularly in regard to judicial and notarial fees . In certain others the fees are retained by the officials in place of fixed salaries . An enumeration of the various taxes of this class would exhibit a curious mixture of sumptuary and fiscal expedients , but would not allow us to draw any safe general conclusions as to their extent or effect . CANTONAL FINANCE DIRECT TAXATION Behind all these indirect sources of revenue stands the power to call upon the citizens to contribute directly from their wealth for the good of the state . Some of the old community laws used to say that if the revenues from the common property did not suffice for schools and public purposes , the deficit would be made up by taxation.l Perhaps this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but at present this so-called deficit is usually larger than the other portion . It is , at all events , the most conspicuous in the minds of lawmakers and taxpayers . As to the various methods of taxation , it is to be observed that a Property Tax exists in every canton ; that is to say , an assessment in some form or another upon the total estate , real and personal , may be found in all parts of Switzerland . In a very few states there is a Land Tax ( Grundsteuer , Impot Fancier ) , under which the soil pays a tax fixed by exact survey and appraisement according to productivity . Income taxes are imposed by various methods , side by side with the property tax , in the great majority of cantons . Poll taxes find a place in about half of the states , and the same may be said for the tax upon inheritances . A study of the list shows that the succession tax is . // employed especially in those cantons which contain the important cities and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property and income taxes , because of its regular and uniform recurrence , is the Military Exemption tax , of which one-half accrues to the confederation and one half to the canton . But , caving this to be described under the subject of Federal Finance , l we shall find on further examination of these forms of direct taxation that in a large number of states the progressive system of assessment has been adopted to greater or less extent . In many cases both income and estate are taxed progressively , while in others property pays its simple proportion , and income is assessed according to an increasing ratio . Zurich , Basel , Vaud , Glarus , and Graubunden exhibit characteristic developments of the progressive system ; the fundamental principles which govern its employment , as viewed by these democracies , being well expressed in the constitution of Zurich : 2 " All persons liable to taxation must contribute to the support of state and community in proportion to the means at their disposal . The property and income tax is to be arranged according to classes on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value belonging to persons unable to work , as well as that part of all incomes which is absolutely necessary to life , is exempt . The progression shall not exceed five times the simple rate in the case of CANTONAL FINANCE income , nor double the simple rate in the case of property . For local purposes , property can be assessed only proportionately . " Though not always expressed in constitutions , the other progressive states have followed similar principles , with variable regulations for exemption and assessment . In Graubunden , for instance , property-owners are divided into eleven classes , the first including all persons owning estates from 1000 up to 20,000 francs , the others following at intervals of thirty thousands . The tax on the first class is the first , or simple assessment ; that on the second , one-tenth greater for every thousand , and so on upward . ' Private properties below loon francs are exempt . The income tax is laid upon all earnings above 200 francs per year , except where the person owns taxable property , and earns less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The greater the income the higher is the rate of assessment , receipts from all sources except from agricultural pursuits being brought under the law . It is beyond the scope of this chapter to attempt a detailed comparison of the methods of direct taxation employed throughout the confederation , or to explain the various economic effects . In regard to the progressive system , it is safe to say that it has met with the approval of the people wherever adopted , and is gradually gaining wider acceptance . This popularity is doubtless largely due to the fact that by this method a large number of GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND small taxpayers can make a minority of rich men carry a great part of the burden . There is , however , a principle of justice in the idea that the wealthy man ought to contribute not only in proportion to his goods , but in increasing proportion as he becomes wealthier ; but no system of taxation has yet been invented which works perfectly , nor is there one which satisfies both government and people . Swiss finances suffer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undervaluation , or , plainly speaking , tax-dodging . The principle of self-assessment , or the listing of property by the taxpayer himself , is vigorously insisted upon , as if it were a natural right of man ; but , although the detection of fraud and punishment of obstinacy are placed in the hands of tax commissioners , the temptations to under-assessment are too great . Consequently , in many places rates are high , and in reality the pressure of taxation is heavy . This is especially true of the great industrial centres , where much more public money is expended than in the agricultural states . Hence there is more or less casting about for new financial expedients of an indirect kind , now that the alcohol monopoly has proved to be fruitful . ' Indeed , an eye is turned upon the federal tariff to see if that can not be stiffened somewhat for the benefit of the taxpayer . The burden of direct taxation per capita of population CANTONAL FINANCE is not excessive , but this does not altogether reveal the weight laid on the persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical point , the questions of taxation are causing earnest consideration on the part of Swiss economists . The support of local government is found chiefly in direct taxation . Many communities have funds and domains , but the income from these must be supplemented by contributions from the pockets of the citizens . Elaborate laws in many cases mark out the field to be occupied by town taxation , procedure and rates being made uniform by cantonal enactment . In Zurich , for instance , no progressive tax can be laid for local purposes , and the direct tax must everywhere be made in the proportion of one franc in the thousand of property , one franc on every household , and one franc for every voter . Towns and cities assist themselves further by means of indirect taxes , other than those levied for state purposes . Fees from public scales , slaughter-houses , baths , hacks , water-rates , funerals , and other minor matters contribute something to the general fund , but form , in proportion to the direct taxes , an unimportant source of revenue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficiently inferred from what has been said in previous chapters concerning the functions of state government , and from what follows in respect to local administration . Wide differences will be found , however , in the ideas prevailing in the various cantons as to what the duties of the // state are in the matter of public expenditure . In the quiet agricultural states the wants of the people are fewer than in the active industrial centres.l On the whole , the expenditures of Switzerland are proportionately much less than those of neighboring states . This may be ascribed in part to the lighter military burden , in part to the fact that no monarchs and courts must be supported , and further , to the inclinations of the Swiss people for practical rather than ornamental matters . As in all other civilized countries the cities require large expenditures for sewers , lighting , paving , parks , quays , and so on up to the borders of luxury . These things are not obtained out of the annual budgets , but covered by loans . In Zurich the outstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ francs per capita . Even the little canton of Inner Appenzell had its debt of 11 francs per inhabitant . The figures , as a whole , look rather formidable until I28 CANTONAL FINANCE they are reduced to dollars for comparison , and the further fact is noted that the rate of interest rarely goes above 3 per cent or 4 per cent . The rugged nature of the country in certain parts requires extraordinary expenditure for roads . On through lines of communication the confederation lends its aid , but everywhere the Swiss have provided themselves with excellent roads and keep them in fine condition . Hundreds of small towns are now lighted by electricity . The abundant water-power in the mountains is utilized for this purpose , and one is often astonished to find an obscure hamlet , hardly out of the age of tallow candles , brilliantly illuminated with incandescent or arc lights , fed by a public power house . It must be admitted that local expenditures are prudent and sensible . CIIAPTER X COMMUNITY AND CITIZENSHIP LOCAL government in Switzerland strikes root so deeply into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to a proper understanding of its present , and once we begin to trace back the course of institutional growth we shall discover that two lines of development have been followed , or better , perhaps , two points of departure have determined the direction of community evolution . ' In portions of the country the agricultural community was the germ which grew in time to be the township and sometimes the state ; in other places , it was the fortified castle.2 The neighborhood association of farmers in the old German Mark was governed by very simple 13o COMMUNITY AND CITIZENSHIP laws . At the stage of development at which we may begin with confidence to study the rural hamlet in Switzerland , each household probably owned a home , a garden spot close by , and a share in the cultivated fields and surrounding woodlands corresponding to its needs . Neither the arable lands nor the wild pasture and woods were permanently divided into individual shares . The fields were allotted to the families year by year , subject to rules of cultivation established by the community ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one year fallow , in regular rotation . The woods and pastures were not divided even so much as this , but each householder cut as much timber as he needed , and pastured as many cattle as he happened to have , without regarding any particular part as his own . Even under these simple conditions some kind of community government would be necessary , and would gradually expand as population grew . The time of sowing and reaping must be fixed , the time for pasturing the stubble determined , roads mended , disputes settled , and many other matters , at first simple , but later more important and complex , resolved upon . As time passed , the ownership of cultivated fields became fixed in private hands , but the common lands remained , as before , the common property of the village , and even to this day the Alhncnd , or public pasture and woodland , is a feature of many Swiss communities . The question as to // who was a citizen and who might become such was not at first a serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was doubtless little difficulty in providing for new settlers , whether springing from the natural increase of population or coining in from outside . But there came a time when the citizen found that to admit new members to the community was to decrease appreciably his share of the common benefits , and barriers began to be placed against admission . A price , corresponding to benefits received , must be paid before membership in the village could be obtained , and this entrance fee became relatively very high . Participation in the government of the community also depended on the question of shareholding , and those who had been admitted by birth or by purchase to the benefits of the common lands were alone competent to vote on village matters . Others were allowed to settle without full admission , but their position was strictly subordinate . As laborers and tradesmen such were tolerated , but they could have no share in the revenues or privileges of the common lands nor voice in administration . Later still it came to be a custom also for settlers to purchase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common lands or common revenues , and thus a status of citizenship was engendered , independent of the community proper , but giving voice in some part of its administration . These modern Metics formed the so-called Hin-I32 COMMUNITY AND CITIZENSHIP tesassen and Niedergelassenen . So the result of growth to the old agricultural village was to superimpose through increase of population a complex , stratified citizenship upon what had been before a simple , almost private corporation . The other point of departure in community development was the fortified castle , or Burg , which grew more easily than the country village into a municipality . About the strongholds of the feudal magnates there gathered the houses of their subordinates ; soldiers ' families , artisans , agricultural laborers and others , until these forts became centres of towns of considerable size . Endowed with rights of self-government and many other privileges by kings and barons , in return for loans , or for their allegiance in times of difficulty , they rapidly gained in population and wealth . The inhabitants of the Burg became the burgenses , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rights and duties of citizenship , that in time the name came to be applied toall citizens , whether dwellers in towns or open villages . For the control of a walled town there must of course be maintained a stricter discipline than for a community of farmers . Regulations for the call of the militia , sentry duty , fire watch , street patrol , markets , and a multitude of other matters would need the attention of the citizen , and these demands increasing in extent and intricacy , would teach perforce the art of municipal government . Hence , when we come down to modern times and // see rural communities leave the primitive agricultural condition and adopt more uniform and improved systems of administration , we find that the old Burgs have been a long way in advance , and furnish the ideas which are followed by their neighbors . Although we are at this point concerned only with the development of the community , it will be well to observe that , in the more sparsely settled districts , the ancient Markgcnossenschaft became the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territorial community , or Landesgcmc nde . On the other hand , the Barg developed first into the city and then into the sovereign state . Thus Bern , Zurich , and Luzern , especially during the oligarchical period , while possessing large outlying territories , were essentially city governments . Only in modern times have these relations been adjusted . We need not follow step by step the long line of changes which have little by little overtaken the Swiss community . The prevailing characteristic was always local independence , with very slight interference on the part of the state . The passage of the Ilelvetic Republic left very little permanent trace of itself on community government . The cantons became for the time departments , and the cities and villages sub-prefectures , all ruled from above ; but as soon as the pressure of France was removed , the old state of things returned . Gradually , under the impulse of the new political ideas // which brought about the constitutional reforms of 1830 and later , the modern form of community government has emerged from the shell of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be thus summarily dismissed , if we desire to understand the present conditions . Switzerland is , in some respects , unique in its regulations respecting the domicile and civil capacity of its subjects . First , the citizen is a member of a certain community , no matter whether he lives in it at the time or not . Secondly , he can never lose this citizenship without the consent of his native state . Voluntary abandonment counts for nothing unless this consent has been obtained . There is a general citizenship of the canton or confederation , distinct from local citizenship , but it can not exist by itself . Membership in the state depends on membership in a community . We are obliged to glance at the history of the country to explain these phenomena , and , strange to say , we find these peculiarities due largely to the methods adopted in the sixteenth century to eradicate vagrancy . In other words , the tramp question at that early day determined the citizenship question of our own time.l During the middle ages the poor had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecclesiastical foundations had furnished shelter and food , sometimes 135 GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND temporarily , sometimes permanently , at all times indiscriminately , for the unfortunate and shiftless . The Reformation , however , by the secularization and abandonment of many of these institutions , caused for a time great confusion in the matter of poor relief , and the consequence in Switzerland was that the country was filled with a horde of vagrants , some deserving , some unworthy , who gained their living at the expense of the well disposed . They naturally flocked to those cantons where the cloisters were still maintained , and these , not being in a mood to bear the double burden of both Catholic and Protestant tramps , attempted to drive off the latter , and , in general , to shift the pauper class from one canton to another . This , however , led only to recrimination , and the vagrancy question was as far from settlement as ever . Foreign beggars also were a source of great vexation , since they stole the bread out of the mouths of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the matter in earnest , and passed a law to the effect " that every town , also every village and parish , should sustain its own poor people according to its ability . " As a means of getting rid of the foreign vagrants it was resolved to give them no licenses to beg , and as for the native poor , they were to be distributed pro rata among the states and communities . Following the lines laid down by the Federal Diet , the various cantons from time to time enacted laws insisting upon local support of paupers , until // it became very important to know where a man belonged , and the question as to who should maintain a person when he fell into poverty became completely fused with the question of citizenship . Great jealousy was exhibited by communities toward new arrivals . Persons who moved from one place to another were for a long time obliged to give bond that they would never become a charity burden in the parish of their adoption , and when they did reach this unfortunate condition they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by it . These regulations passed through many phases in the course of three centuries , the constant aim being to establish every person in some locality which he must regard as his " home , " Heirnath . Yet notwithstanding these efforts there grew up a class whom no place would acknowledge as its own ? the Heimatlalosen . They wandered about from place to place , sometimes in great bands , as tinkers , or basket-weavers , or gypsies pure and simple , until they became in the early part of this century a matter of serious concern to the confederation . They were , however , at last taken hold of , the vagrants assigned to some definite community as citizens and compelled to look there for support . But it is manifestly impossible , even if it were not unjust , to keep people for any great length of time in one place . Occupation and desire for improvement cause population to change constantly . Modern industrial life demands it , and comparatively // few people live all their lives in one town . Hence in Switzerland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been so far removed that no good citizen can be prevented from adopting any community whatever as his place of abode . The federal constitution guarantees to every Swiss " the right to settle in any place within Swiss territory if he possess a certificate of domicile ( Hcimathschein ) or testimonial of like import . " i In exceptional cases this certificate can be refused to persons who have lost their civil rights through sentence of a criminal court , and can be taken away from persons frequently subject to conviction of crime , or who persistently require poor relief which the community of origin refuses to furnish . In cantons where parish poor relief obtains it may be required that the newcomer be able to work and that he has not been in any continuous way dependent on charity , but no bond or other special burden shall be demanded , nor can he be taxed differently from other citizens . A federal law establishes the maximum payment for admission , which is a moderate notarial fee . Nevertheless the regulation holds good that the " home " canton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself a new He/math at considerable cost , the citizen must get his poor relief at the town of his nativity , no matter where he spends his days of affluence . l Art . 45. // Hence there are to be found in every community different classes of citizens living side by side . Burger are those who by nativity or by purchase have acquired the right to vote on all matters which come under the control of the community , and are entitled to support when reduced to poverty.1 Niedergelassenen are those who have moved from other places and have been duly accepted as residents . These have a voice in all matters except those touching the common lands and poor funds , and obtain no use or dividends arising therefrom . They exercise the rights of cantonal and federal citizenship equally with the Biirger but have fewer privileges in the commune . Being born in a certain village does not necessarily make one a full citizen of it . The parents must have been also full citizens . The children of Niedergelassenen , as a rule , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share in the close corporation.2 In case they need poor relief they must look to the community where their fathers or grandfathers were citizens . ' Wenthalter are persons who have simply the privilege of residing in the community without political rights . Upon this basis , therefore , the framework of local government has been built . Community life expresses itself in terms of citizenship , and allow- // ing for a multitude of variations in minor details , exhibits the following classification : ? The Political Community , variously known also as the Resident Community ( Einwohnergemeinde ) , Municipality , or Parish ( Kirchgemeinde ) , but always with the political idea uppermost , is a territorial unit which corresponds to the American township . It is a convenient subdivision for the exercise of suffrage and of those local rights which are guaranteed to every citizen . Its membership includes every qualified voter residing within its limits . The Burgher Community ( Biirgergemeinde , commune bourgeoise ) is usually bounded by the same lines as the Political Community , but includes as participants only full citizens . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residing there , having the additional advantages of Heimathrecht ; but many members of the Burgher Community may not live in the place at all . They may never have even seen it , but may , if they choose , claim a voice in its administration , the duties of which include the management of the poor funds , and frequently the guardianship of orphans . Within these same limits there is another community which no longer has a public character as a subdivision of the state . This is what we may call the Commons-Corporation , i or the people who have the right to the use and management of common pastures and woods . This is now simply a COMMUNITY AND CITIZENSHIP private corporation enjoying hereditary rights , and in most places is all that remains of the original Maskgenossenschaft . The Political Community is the most conspicuous unit of civic life , but it is also the most recent . As modern industrial life began to make itself felt in Switzerland , and transportation and communication became more rapid and easy , the character of population in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large part of every community came to be residents ( Niedergelassenen ) instead of citizens . It was found that an important class would be deprived of political rights unless provided with some means of local government in which they could participate . Hence came about gradually the institution of the inhabitant , or political community . The organization of the Burgher Community remained intact within this political community for the benefit of those who by inheritance or purchase were entitled to the privileges of the common lands , and for the purpose of maintaining the fixity of poor relief . The administration of this portion of the community included at first all the common lands , the regulation of their use , and the division of profits ; but as villages grew , a three-sided conflict became more and more evident between the interests of the old original families , the adopted full citizens , and the political residents . The first would find their dividends diminished by too frequent admission of new shareholders . I4I GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND The larger the place became the more evident was it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses , especially poor relief , and when additions were made to the domains it might be difficult to decide whether these were to be used for general or private gain . Residents , on their side , would naturally want to see the dividends expended upon as many public interests as possible . So in quite recent times a division has been going on between the old vested rights of the Allzzzczu enzossen , or time-honored shareholders in the Mark , and the less ancient Burgher Community , which represents the side of poor relief . It will be understood that the former are still included in the Barger class , but the confusion of private and public rights has been settled by a division of property . The Allmenagenossen are now as a rule simply corporations of private citizens whose rights are recognized and guaranteed by the constitution . The Burgher Community also possesses funds and domains , but these arc destined primarily for the support of the poor , and the rule is sometimes laid down that there shall be no division of proceeds so long as taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commune there also exist one or more School Communities , or School Districts . These also , within the limits of law and constitution , are self-governing corporations on all matters relating to local education . The Parish , or ecclesiastical // district , as a territorial division varies in extent , sometimes including more than one political community , sometimes forming only a part of one . This church community includes all persons of the same confession residing in its limits , the only differences in faith recognized being Catholic , Protestant , and Israelitish . There may be , accordingly , three different Kirclzgemeinden in the same place . The Catholics may meet together to manage their own affairs as one body , the Protestants as another , and the Hebrews as another ; no person having a vote in a communion other than his own . ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMUNITY The highest authority in local affairs is the town-meeting , the Gemeindeversammlung . For the Political Community this consists of all the resident citizens , Burger and Niedergelassenen , who meet together on stated occasions , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine questions of importance . Within the competence of the Political Community lie all matters relating to local police , sanitation , fire extinction , roads , pavements , and the like . Upon such questions the town-meeting forms resolutions , votes , and hears reports . Into matters touching the adoption of citizens , the management of the purely corporative domains and funds , or other questions belonging to the full citizens , this assembly does not enter . These are duties of the Biirgergemeinde . But // the political or inhabitant assembly already includes the full citizens , hence it is usually the custom for this body simply to resolve itself into a Biira ergcmcindc by not allowing the Niedergelassenen citizens to vote on matters which belong exclusively to the inner circle . Still the political assembly has by far the more important role to play . In it take place the elections federal , state , and local ; it is the local unit of state government and the residuary legatee of all powers not granted to other authorities . Its procedure is simple and highly democratic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own election , or in pursuance of adjournment , and , as a rule , on a Sunday or holiday . Its presiding officer is sometimes the mayor , sometimes a special chairman ( Gemeindcpresident ) . Care is taken that only voters shall sit in the body of the assembly , it being a rule in Zurich that the register of citizens shall lie on the desk for inspection . Tellers are appointed by vote , and must be persons who do not belong to the village council , since that is the local cabinet which proposes measures for consideration . Any member of the assembly may offer motions or amendments , but usually these are brought forward by the town council , or at least referred to that body before being finally voted upon . A careful record of proceedings is kept by the town clerk . The Gemeindeversammlung of the Political Community elects the principal town officials . These // are the village mayor ( Gemeindeammann , Gemeinde Hazrptmann , Syndic , Moire ) , the council ( Gemeinderath , Conseil Municipal ) , the town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left to the choice of the town council . Practice differs respecting the election of administrative officers for the Burgher Community . Choice is given between the election of a separate council and the turning over of Burger matters to the council of the Political Community . The latter method is more frequently used , and care is taken that a fair representation of full citizens is elected to the council . Thus one feature of what might seem a complicated matter is put aside by simply giving double functions to one body . The parish meeting or Kirchgemeinde , as stated above , is the assembly of all the members of the same confession living within the boundaries of the community or precinct . In Zurich the presiding officer of this assembly is the village mayor , or , where he does not belong to the same confession , his deputy ; but practice differs widely . In some places the manager of church property ( Kirchenvogt ) is leader of this assembly . Here all matters respecting the church are considered : election of pastors ; building and repair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about as would be done in a single church in the United States , except that the state has a certain oversight , of things . The rights of voters and methods of procedure are regulated and guaranteed by law and con- GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND stitution I in both countries , but in Switzerland the parish is regarded as an administrative division , while in the United States the church society is a private corporation . The School District Assembly may include all the voters of a community , or a village may include a number of such districts . However this may be , the assembly , Schulgemcinde , is a meeting of all the voters of the precinct for action upon school matters . Here a Board of Education is elected , taxes voted for school buildings and similar purposes , and a general supervision exercised over all educational matters . Sometimes the teachers are elected by this assembly . COMMUNITY ADMINISTRATION The Gemeindeammann 2 is the chief executive officer of the community . He executes the decrees and ordinances of the popular assembly and Council , and maintains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the agent of the cantonal government for the local execution of state laws . This doubtless accounts for the fact that in Freiburg the Syndic ? as the chief executive is there called ? is appointed by the Council of State instead of by popular election . He is often a police judge , with varying degrees of competence , and // executes decrees of courts in matters of debt , forced sale , and the like . The term of office is usually several years , but varies widely . The Communal Councils is a board associated with the mayor in the administration of local affairs . Its duties are but in a small degree legislative , since most matters of weight are referred to the town-meeting . Constant supervision is expected of the Council in all matters touching the maintenance of order , sanitation , the management of domains and funds , fire extinction , lights , pavements , as well as general oversight of educational and religious endowments . The Council prepares and presents to the Community Assembly drafts of laws and ordinances which may have originated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been referred to them for opinion . They estimate the revenues and expenses of the community , and propose each year a budget for the consideration of the town-meeting . They provide for the levy and collection of taxes , including state as well as local . In addition to this , the Council is in many places an Orphans Court , and attends to matters of guardianship . As a rule the members are elected for three years or more , subject to the laws of kinship mentioned above in connection with the state executive.2 Practice varies in the matter of payment for attendance . Sometimes it is by stated salary , 3 sometimes by fees , 4 and GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND again in other cases service is gratuitous and coupled with compulsory acceptance of office . Space does not permit the writer to go into all the details of city and village government , nor to point out the varieties of officials and names by which they are designated . Enough , perhaps , has been said to show that as much local autonomy prevails as is compatible with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as it pleases for improvements , and its spending powers are limited only by some such general provision as that the existing domains shall not be sold or diminished in amount without the consent of the state government . Compare this with the arrangement so prevalent in the United States , under which a township must go to the state legislature for permission to tax itself for the smallest kind of a sums beyond a // fixed constitutional limit . This limit is usually so small as to cover only the bare necessities of government and poor relief , and subjects all effort for public improvement to the sanction of a distant assembly . The consent of this body is usually given through indifference , or hostility is displayed for corrupt purposes . At best it is the perversion of independence . Connection with the state is maintained in most of the cantons , not by interfering in local matters in which the general public has no interest , but by exercising powers of administrative inspection which bring about uniformity in the execution of the general laws . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the community is in constant communication with the central government , and thus becomes a member of the body politic without being held in tutelage . The practice of certain Romance cantons should be noted here as indicating somewhat the different political instincts of the two sections.l In the Germanic community the final source of power and authority is the popular assembly . That body elects the officials , votes the taxes , undertakes new enterprises , and supervises its administrative agents . In Freiburg , Vaud , Neuchatel , especially in the larger municipalities , and in Geneva City , an intermediate authority is established to which many of these functions are delegated . The Assemblee Generale elects a Conseil Ginerale or GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND Conseil Communal , varying in number according to the size of the commune , ' to which are referred many questions which would in the German villages be laid before the whole body . In Vaud the constitution provides that in all the town councils , the general council as well as the smaller executive council , there shall be a majority of full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality a legislature which acts for the people , the citizens becoming simply a body of electors . The councils discuss and vote upon the annual budget , supervise the administration of the public domain and funds , the various departments of government , construction of public works , and in general all matters which pertain to the interests of the community . In Geneva the deliberations of the councils are sent to the Council of State , and ought not to be put into execution without the approval of the latter , particularly when relating to finance , the sale or division of real estate and judicial decisions pertaining thereto , legacies or donations for definite purposes , opening and closing of streets , changes of alignment , or the condemnation of property for public uses.3 Thus a real control is exerted from above , more evident than in the Germanic states , where supervision does not extend to such a degree of detail . // Two advantages are gained by this system . Where councils are established , the life of the community is less liable to be directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the residents . Members of the council , elected for three or four years , even if not full citizens , as required by law in some places , would act less heedlessly than a larger assembly of less permanent inhabitants . The power of state inspection brings about a certain uniformity which may be less conspicuous in German cantons . The actions of all communities being submitted to one central authority , a likeness would necessarily follow from the supervision of such a court.l These results , however , are obtained at a certain sacrifice of freedom and originality . The Teutonic communities present a varied picture of social life and organization , all of which is chiefly the result of local initiative . What is done is accomplished by self-government , with the participation of every citizen . The French communes are fully as far advanced in civilization , but their progress is less a product of democracy . They exhibit traits characteristic of their neighbors of France : a liking for order and uniformity , and the logical application of any established regulation.2 CHAPTER XI CHURCH AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worship and provide that freedom of conscience which by law prevails throughout the whole confederation , are under the guardianship of the federal government and are explained in a later chapter . ' The practical application of these fundamental rules belongs , however , not to the union , but to the cantons , and just as in respect to political institutions , so in religious matters , there is wide variety in the form of church government and in the actual amount of personal liberty . The relations of church and state bear traces of the historical experiences through which they have passed , and their present condition has been largely determined by natural characteristics of race and locality , moulded into form by events which have occurred chiefly since the beginning of the sixteenth century . Previously to the great religious revolution which we call the Reformation , the allegiance of both people and government was unhesitatingly given to a single church , the Roman Catholic . Government , as everywhere customary at that period , was CHURCH AND STATE the sword-arm of religion in maintaining discipline and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of course that the management of religious affairs should be included among the duties of ordinary civil authorities , and taxes were laid upon all for the support of a common worship . Although the Swiss had been somewhat independent in their relations to the Papal See , there was no other religious authority , nor system of belief , which received any recognition , or even toleration , in that country . The preaching of the reformers , however , soon changed this uniform condition of affairs . Certain parts of the population adhered to the new doctrine , and , wherever the converts were strong enough , they proceeded to make a place for the new form of worship . Owing to the completeness of state-sovereignty in the old confederation , every canton could regulate religious affairs entirely to suit itself , and wherever the Reformation gained a foothold this right was exercised in its behalf . The new worship , in such cases , supplanted the old and became the exclusive religion of state . Toleration of sects was as yet unknown , and animosity went so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself into two parts , in one of which only Catholics , in the other only Protestants , might dwell . Much unpleasantness , even war , grew out of this condition of things ; but the states , finding themselves about equally balanced between the two parties , finally agreed not to combine against // each other to force the adoption of any belief . This caused more or less cessation of hostilities across state borders , but within each canton exclusiveness reigned , whichever party happened to be at the helm . There were certain territories , however , which were not independent , but owned and governed in common 1 by partnerships of Catholic and Protestant states . The people of these districts were divided in their religious convictions , and some method of satisfying their demands and some compromise between the ruling cantons had to be found . It was here that the entering wedge of religious liberty for the whole confederation was inserted , for , although individual liberty was long held in abeyance , the states were obliged to recognize community choice in the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself whether it would worship under Catholic or Protestant forms , and the minority must conform to the vote . The sects were thus put on an equality , and the principle of " parity " ( Paritat ) , which still plays something of a role in religious matters , took its beginning . Outside of the territories , equality was a question for states , not for communities . In a few cantons some local freedom was allowed , but personal liberty and the quieting of denominational animosity were brought about only by the lapse of long periods of time . Four interstate treaties , called Landfrieden , dat- CHURCH AND STATE ing from 1529 , 1531 , 1656 , and 1712 , mark the slow steps of religious liberty through all those centuries . None of these acts established more than territorial freedom of worship . The Helvetic Republic afforded a short breathing-space for unobstructed liberty of conscience , but gave way , under the Act of Mediation , to simple liberty of worship for Catholics and Protestants . The Pact of 1815 failed to determine the status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inviolability of monasteries and their property , thereby leaving an opening for misunderstandings which culminated in the civil war of 1847 . Even the constitution of 1848 recognized only the " Christian confessions , " and guaranteed the right of domicile and of worship only to adherents of these . It is to the revision of 1874 that we must look for the religious rights now enjoyed by the Swiss citizen . As of old , the regulation of worship lies within the province of the canton , but not as formally under the eye of a nerveless confederation , but according to the directions of a central government whose rules are few but firmly administered . These rules affect the individual and society in general , rather than the constitution of religious bodies . The freedom of belief and of conscience is inviolable , choice of worship shall not be constrained , religion shall not interfere with marriage nor the legitimacy of children ; religious doctrine shall not be forced upon the young in educational // systems , and , finally , religious contention shall at least stop at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever his belief may have been . All these are uniform laws for the confederation , but for each state there is a different system for giving expression to the more particular religious needs of communities and individuals . In some parts , government does all things , in others , more is left to private initiative ; hence it is difficult to present an exact picture of the state of religious institutions for the whole country . Federal and state constitutions must be studied side by side . The two grand divisions of religious belief are the Protestant and Roman Catholic Churches , the former being somewhat more numerous than the latter . In nine cantons Catholics preponderate to such a degree that the Roman Church is the only established religion ; in six , both the Catholic and the Fvangelical Churches are supported by the state ; in five others there are three state churches , the Old Catholic being added to the former two . In Bern , Geneva , and Basel-City , Evangelical and Old Catholic are established ; in Outer Appenzell the Protestant Church is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in addition to the three Christian sects.l Thus in all of the states , one or more denominations are supported by the public treasury , but there are also numerous independent churches supported by the voluntary contributions CHURCH AND STATE of their members . In addition to congregations of Methodists , Baptists , Irvingites , Darbyites , and Swedenborgians , there is , especially in Vaud , Neuchatel , and Geneva , a considerable religious body known as the Free Church . This latter denomination sprang from an endeavor to gain freedom from state interference , and at the same time maintain a stricter confession of faith . It was , in reality , a protest within the Protestant Church , and in Geneva and Vaud dates from 1835 , but began in the early part of the century . In Neuchatel it was a result of the ecclesiastical law of 1873 which made every citizen , ipso facto , a member of the church and abolished all theological tests for ministers . The Roman Catholic Church of Switzerland is governed by the same forms and authorities that are usually found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to confirm appointments to ecclesiastical office , and exercises a general supervision over the management of church affairs . The confederation is divided into five bishoprics , Chur , St. Gallen , Basel , Lausanne , and Sitten . At present the canton of Ticino is outside of any recognized episcopal jurisdiction , as the federal government refuses to have it made a part of adjoining Italian bishoprics . This is one of those cases mentioned before , ' where the state endeavors to prevent divided allegiance in case difficulty should arise with foreign GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND countries . The bishopric Sitten ( Sion ) is governed in ecclesiastical matters entirely by canon law , as no state laws have as yet attempted to change the ancient order of things . The Old Catholics ( die christiatholische Kirche der Schzvci. , ) are a body of seceders from the Roman Church who separated during the agitation caused by the proclamation of the doctrine of Papal infallibility . They were sufficiently numerous in 1873 to organize into separate churches , and soon commanded recognition on the part of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formerly given to Roman Catholics is now turned over to the Old Catholic denomination . One bishop stands at the head of all Old Catholics in Switzerland , and the general interests of this religious body are governed by a synod of all priests in active service , assisted by lay delegates from the churches . A Synodal Council , consisting of five laymen and four ecclesiastics , acts as chief executive committee . The Evangelical Church , as the established reformed body is usually called , being independent of any foreign hierarchy , displays the most complete forms of local and state self-government . There is no chief person , or persons , whose jurisdiction in religious matters extends over the whole confederation , or even passes over the borders of states . General conventions upon church affairs may be called , but they are without final authority , the ecclesiastical government of each canton being // the highest power within its own territory . Hence it is in this branch that we shall find the relations of the church to the civil state most fully exemplified . The general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that in purely ecclesiastical matters , such as the regulation of church service , choice of hymnals , forms of liturgy , or the instruction of candidates for confirmation , the church authorities shall decide , sometimes with , sometimes without , the assent of the state . Ofi the other hand , affairs of a mixed nature , such as the management of church property , payment of salaries , regulation of parish boundaries , and the like , are ordered by the state , on the recommendation of the ecclesiastical authorities . But no exact statement of these relations can well be made , for in some cantons the church , in others the civil authority , preponderates . ' The central church authority in each canton is the Synod.2 This consists , in some cases , of all of the evangelical clergy , with deputies of the civil government ; in other states it is a variable number of clergy and laity together . As a rule the Synod meets annually to consider the prosperity and discipline of the church . A central executive committee , known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , prepares the business and executes the orders of the Synod . Sometimes this council is elected by the Synod , // sometimes only in part ; and practice varies as to giving the state authorities a place in it . Its duties include the regulation of admission of candidates for the ministry , oversight of pastoral work , decision of cases of discipline which have been sent up on appeal , and , in some states , general supervision of church property . Representing the general assembly of the church , the Synodal Commission is the chief organ of Protestant religious life in the states where it exists . In a few states an intermediate church authority is established in the district . Only in Zurich and Vaud is this a standing committee ; more frequently the pastors of the district act as a minor assembly for the regulation of affairs within their territory , and suggest improvements to the state Synod . Local religious life finds expression in the parish ( Kirchgemeindc ) , which , as we have seen in the study of the community , covers a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and includes all voters within its precincts who belong to the same denomination . The government of the parish is eminently democratic . As a rule the societies choose their own pastors , though practice varies as to the process of nomination and as to the consent of the civil authorities . The members also elect the church officers , and control expenditures and administration by periodical votes and approval of accounts . These local officials , known by different names ( Kirchenrath , Stillstand , Ehegaurner , etc. ) , administer the 16o CHURCH AND STATE affairs of the society , supervise the work of the pastor , the instruction of the young , and in general keep an oversight of the moral condition of the parish . In some cantons the church committee is also the regular local board of overseers of the poor , and the channel of pauper and orphan relief . In some cases , also , entire independence is granted to each congregation in more spiritual matters , as in the choice of an order of worship , hymnal , or liturgy ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Synod . Under these conditions , the pastor becomes in reality an officer of state , drawing his salary , usually , from the cantonal treasury , though sometimes from the parish . The support is very modest , the stated salaries ranging upward from one thousand to five thousand francs a year , but these amounts are sometimes supplemented by the congregation . The term of service in five states is for life , in others it varies from three to eight years , yet there are means by which unpleasant pastoral relations can be changed at any time for cause . Under all circumstances , however , long periods of continuous service are usual , the power of election being a safeguard held more in reserve than in use . The suspension and dismissal of delinquent clergy is accomplished by church boards and synods , under conditions which vary according to the relations of civil and ecclesiastical authorities in the different cantons . In Bern , dismissal can take place only through judgment of court . GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND Once elected , the pastor is comparatively free to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in civil institutions , so also in Protestant religious life there will be found a large measure of local independence in spiritual matters . The clergy are in every state expected to have had a university training and be able to show a diploma from a theological faculty , but the test of theological belief is limited to some form of oath , of which the import is that the subscriber will observe the Bible as the highest rule of faith and practice . In none of the established churches is the minister bound by articles , nor by an official confession of faith , other than the oath of allegiance . In Neuchatel and Geneva the responsibility for doctrine rests entirely upon the conscience of the minister . " The liberty of the conscience of the ecclesiastic is inviolable ; it shall be restrained neither by regulations , nor by oaths , nor by engagements , nor by disciplinary punishments , nor by the articles of a creed , nor by any other measure whatever . " 1 " Every pastor teaches and preaches freely upon his own responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith nor by forms of liturgy. " 2 In the free churches and self-supporting congregations of all denominations restrictions may be imposed upon the minister , or not , as may suit the convictions of the sect , but these do not come into a consideration of the constitutional aspect of church and state . Neuchatel. 2 Geneva , Constitution , Art . 123 , as amended 1874. // It would be impertinent to attempt to sum up in a few sentences the religious life of a numerous people of diversified nationalities , and living under different forms of government . It must suffice to recall to mind that in the religious history of Switzerland we have to do with a country which on account of its moral earnestness has always been peculiarly favored by the Roman Papacy , and at the same time has given birth to two of the greatest movements of the Protestant Reformation . Among its citizens were enrolled two of the most prominent figures in the history of the church ? Zwingli and Calvin . Life does not now present the sombre aspect of the period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against pictures , statuary , and the comforts of household life . Since the fifteenth century the population has multiplied itself by twenty , and material wealth and complexities of existence have more than kept pace with this growth . Many of the churches of to-day stand just as they were three hundred years ago , and worship still goes on , but the religious life of the people can not be measured altogether like Xerxes ' army , by the churchful . New activities , new charities , and in general the social well-being of the communities , must be weighed with the devotion and the preaching . If improvements may be here suggested , they would begin with an increase of salaries for the clergy . Under the best of circumstances the pastor // is obliged to be imbued with the spirit of self-sacrifice , but if he is of any value he is worth more than the meagre salaries now paid . The number of theological students has fallen to a very low point . It would not be necessary to compete with the inducements of more worldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standard of pastoral existence up to a modern basis . People who arc accustomed to complete separation of church and state might insist that disestablishment would be the best means of infusing new life into the church . This may be true , but the Swiss have grown up so long in the old way that it would be a great while before they understood a church supported by voluntary contributions . It will be for some time yet a question of making the old system work better . In 1897 a bill was proposed in Geneva which would have abolished the ecclesiastical budget , or , in other words , would have accomplished the separation of church and state . When submitted to popular vote the project was rejected by a majority of two to one.l // EDUCATION THE fundamental principles upon which the school systems of Switzerland are built are , that the rudiments of knowledge shall be freely given to every child , and that every child shall be compelled to receive them . " Primary education is , compulsory , and in the public schools free , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and constitutions of the cantons are framed in the same spirit . Beyond this point there is no general law to which the states feel obliged to render obedience , hence secondary and higher education is carried on according to the various ideas and desires of the several states , and a wide divergence is exhibited . Primary education is also interpreted differently in different states , the amount of training due to a child being considered in some cantons far greater than in others . Yet everywhere it is the law , that for a certain portion of the year the child must go to school ; consequently schoolhouses and teachers must be provided , and the machinery of instruction kept in motion by the same power that made the law . It is this connection between government and education , rather than the pedagogical or moral GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND result , that is intended to be brought out in this brief summary . The local authorities for the management of schools were mentioned in connection with community governments In every township are to be found one or more school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly of voters belonging thereto . This assembly decides the larger questions of local school economy , and usually elects , for nearer management and oversight , a Schulzath or school-board , which varies in size in different states . This body is , almost without exception , independent of the political government of the community , for , even where originating as a committee of the regular town council , it manages separately the details of school business . The school council occupies a position very similar to the Boards of Education in the United States . Except in two states 2 of small area , there stands above the local board an intermediate school authority for the district . In Zurich this consists of a body of representatives chosen from the town school committees and from the teaching force of the district . St. Gallen has a similar district board appointed by the state educational commission , but usually the district authority is an inspector , like the American county superintendent , or may consist of several coordinated supervisors whose collective duty is to see that instruction is given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cantonal supervision of schools prevails throughout the confederation , but in widely different forms . In all of the cantons there are state boards chosen for fixed terms of office and given various names , but in some of the small democracies this body is elected by the people and is independent of any other executive authority , except , perhaps , so far as to render to the cabinet an annual report . In other states there is more or less organic connection ; the cabinet will have a representative in the state board of education , or the executive authority will either have the final decision upon school matters , or be called upon to approve the action of the school council . In any event there is complete connection between the lowest units and the highest powers of state in educational affairs , and in a few cantons the state associations of teachers and inspectors are assured a legal influence upon the management of the school system . The burden of primary education is divided between the state and the community , but in different degrees . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predominantly agricultural states , the duty falls chiefly upon the community , but with assurance of state assistance . On the other hand , in Basel-City the state government is almost wholly responsible for the maintenance of schools , while in other places the canton may bear one-half or one-fourth of the expense . The average for the whole confederation is estimated at two-sevenths for the canton , against five-sevenths X67 i GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND for the community . In most of the states , communities are obliged to maintain permanent funds , from the increase of which the schools are to be , so far as possible , supported . We may see here a reason for the cantonal inspection of local government mentioned before , l since the state is , above all things , interested in the education of its youth , and could not suffer the possible greed or short-sightedness of a town to deprive the children of proper school privileges , or throw more of the burden upon the general public . Several states also possess cantonal educational funds distinct from those of the communities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is large , and the annual expenditures for education , though not large in comparison with foreign budgets , are greater than many in proportion to population.2 The period of obligatory attendance covers from six to nine years of the child 's life , beginning at the age of six or seven , 3 the gradations of instruc- EDUCATION tion varying greatly according to the advancement of the educational system in the canton in question . Frequently the school programme for all grades is the subject of elaborate cantonal laws , and at least the minimum amount of instruction in the elements of knowledge is made uniform for the whole canton . The federal factory law regulates the employment of child-labor in establishments of a certain class , hence the cantons are still further assisted in getting all children into the schools , up to the age of fifteen . The primary school leads up to higher grades which are supported by the state , but these may be classed as optional , so far as attendance is concerned . The first step is the Fortbildun scliule , Ecole complementaire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue studies for general culture , for special instruction needed in their future vocation , or to bring themselves up to the legal educational qualification for citizenship demanded by the annual examination of recruits . These schools are usually arranged to meet evenings or Sundays , so that persons in active business may get the benefit ; the support coming in the first place from associations , unions , or societies , with assistance from the canton . In the case of technical Fortbildungsciculen assistance is given by the confederation , provided the state and community give at least twice as much . In some cantons attendance at such a school is made obligatory for certain classes of scholars who have // not properly obtained their primary education , or who need to review for military examination . More strictly in line with a progressive scheme of education are the secondary and so-called " middle schools , " which receive the pupil at the completion of the primary period 1 and carry him forward three to seven years longer . Like the high schools in the United States their object is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , for such as desire it , for advancement to the universities and professional schools . In this class of institutions the state calls upon the parent to bear part of the burden of support . In two cantons 2 even these schools are free , but in all other states an annual tuition fee , ranging from twenty to fifty francs , must be paid . Private schools of all these grades also exist , but they are always subject to state inspection . The test of educational advancement , however , and perhaps of social condition in general , in a given country , is the state of higher education and the amount of support given to universities and scientific research . In this respect Switzerland does not lag behind , for beside several advanced colleges and professional schools there are six fully equipped universities , situated at Basel , Zurich , Bern , Geneva , Lausanne and Freiburg . To these add the Federal Polytechnicum at Zurich , which has a greater attendance than any one of // the universities . It is not necessary to call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for in most cases that is international . The point of interest in this connection is the fact that they are supported by the treasury of the states in which they are located , and are the products of democratic government . They do not , it is true , rival the great institutions of Berlin and Vienna , but the scientific schools of Zurich taken together offer advantages inferior to few German universities . In the case of Zurich the central government does the larger part , but Geneva , with a population of about i i8,000 , maintains out of its own resources a university with a faculty of a hundred professors . It has been alleged that only monarchical governments and princes are favorable to the highest development of education , science , and the arts . It is true that in European history , monarchs and even despots have been largely responsible for the great institutions of learning which have depended upon foundations for their support , but it will also be remembered that in the beginning universities were themselves democracies , T in which the students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government and discipline . In the days when professors as well as students were nomadic , there was no such thing as a closed " aristocracy of letters . " One can hardly allege r7T GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND that popular government has been detrimental to education in the Swiss republic . Of the democracies of Switzerland , which have thus set for themselves a high standard of primary and secondary instruction , Zurich is doubtless the best example , though the cities of Bern and Basel might not be willing to admit as much , for the quality is good in all of the large towns . In the rural cantons , such as Uri , Schwyz , Unterwalden , and others , the sums expended are comparatively small , but , as a whole , Switzerland is said to have , relatively to the population , more public schools than any other European nation . Adding together what the cantons and the confederation do for culture , art , and science , the showing made by this one small country is noteworthy. ) // THE Swiss Confederation is provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacts laws , a federal cabinet admin. isters these ordinances , and a supreme court adju. dicates questions arising under them . Assuming that the Swiss people have adopted a constitution we may consider next the methods of statute legislation . THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ( Nationalrath ) The law-making powers of the general government are intrusted to Federal Assembly , composed of two chambers which are distinguished as the National Council and the Council of States The National Council is the more numerous body and occupies a position similar to that of the American House of Representatives . Each mem ber represents ordinarily a district containing 20,00C inhabitants , apportioned according to a decennia. census . These districts can not overlap the border : of two cantons , consequently it may happen that thc division will leave here and there a district wia less than 20,000 . If the inhabitants number more than 10,000 , they also may have one representative . // and thus the rights of all sections are duly regarded in the law . Yet election jugglery is not unknown , even in Switzerland . The cutting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Election-district Geometry " ( IVahlkrcisgeomctrie ) , but this procedure has been tried only to a limited extent in national affairs . In cantonal politics a remedy has been found in proportional representation . ) Since 185o the number of delegates has increased from 120 to 150 , yet , as might be expected , there is the widest difference between the states with regard to representation . Bern sends twenty-seven deputies , while Uri , Zug , the half-cantons Obwalden and Nidwalden and Appenzell Interior have but one each.2 The election is direct and by secret ballot , and any Swiss citizen who is twenty years of age and otherwise in possession of his civil rights , according to the laws of the canton of his residence , can take part . To be a candidate requires no further qualifications than to be able to vote , except that clergymen are debarred . Any Swiss citizen , not of the clerical profession , may sit in the National Council . This exceptional provision remained over from the constitution of 1848 and was originally aimed at the Jesuit order , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sonderbund had rendered them , for a time , obnoxious. // The term of office is three years , and the whole body is subject to reelection at the end of that time . Elections for the National Council must take place in all districts at once , on the last Sunday in October . The members receive payment for their services out of federal funds according to the amount of attendance , the rate at present being twenty francs per diem with mileage ) . The compactness of the country and the facility with which the legislature may be assembled is seen when we observe that the most distant community is only 221 miles from the capital . A president and vice-president of the National Council are chosen at every session , but neither of these offices can be filled by the same person during two consecutive sessions . The president votes on a measure of legislation only when the house is equally divided , but in the election of officers he may vote regularly like any other member . The house also elects from its own number four tellers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the Bureau . To this Bureau is intrusted the nomination of most of the committees , the business of looking after the absentees GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND and their excuses , beside the counting of votes and certain other matters . Two ordinary sessions are held every year , beginning on the first Monday of June and the first Monday of December , the summons proceeding from the Federal Council ( cabinet ) , or , if this should fail , from a demand of one-fourth of the members of the house itself , or that of five cantons . THE COUNCIL OF STATES ( Stknderath , Conseil des Etats ) When the evils of the old system of government by a diet of special delegates finally became unendurable , it was resolved to adopt the bi-cameral system which had been so long in operation in England and America , and for longer or shorter periods in other countries of Europe . The basis for such a division could not be the same as that in England , because the constitution at the same time declared that there should be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , title , or privilege . Hence the American plan of representing the states in an independent house conformed more nearly to historic conditions in Switzerland . The cantons are represented by two delegates each , making forty-four in all ; the manner of election , the term of office , and the amount of compensation being determined entirely by the states themselves . Thus a great diversity of methods obtains in these particulars . In some cantons the // delegates are elected by general popular vote , in others by the legislature . The term of office varies in length , from one to three years , and as the cantons differ in regard to reelecting the same men , there is liability of continual change in the personal make-up of the upper house . Thus , an assembly which fully represents the state-rights idea has been established , but without the regularity of construction , the facility in conduct of business , and the dignity with which long tenure and experience in legislation naturally clothe a senate . Owing to this fact , the best talent in political life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequently , the centre of gravity in federal affairs is to be found in the lower house . The organization of the Council of States is similar to that of the National Council , having a president and vice-president chosen at every session . FUNCTIONS OF THE FEDERAL ASSEMBLY In general terms , the Federal Assembly takes into consideration all matters which lie within the province of federal government . When the particulars are inquired into , it will be seen that in addition to legislative duties it has also certain administrative and judicial functions . The Assembly not only maintains an oversight of these other branches of government , but elects the officials who carry on the work . The federal cabinet , the // judges of the Supreme Court , the Chancellor or Secretary of State , and the General-in-chief of the army , all owe their positions to the vote of the legislature . It acts as a judicial body as a last resort in deciding on complaints against the federal executive , and on questions of competence between different departments of the government . Its properly legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials , their emoluments , treaties with foreign powers and ratifications of agreements among cantons , the annual financial appropriations , and , more fundamental than all , the power to act as a constitutional convention when it so desires , or when a popular vote demands it . When acting in a legislative capacity , the houses deliberate apart , and measures must obtain a majority of votes in each to become laws ; but when electing federal officials , or sitting as a court of justice , the chambers meet together and matters are decided by a majority of all the members combined . Freedom of speech and liberty of action in voting arc guaranteed . No positive instructions can be forced upon a representative in either house by his constituents ) . Inviolability of person and freedom Igo FEDERAL LEGISLATION from arrest , except for crime , during his term of office , are further safeguards placed about the legislator . THE CONDUCT OF BUSINESS At the beginning of each session , the Federal Council sends to the presidents of each house a list of the matters which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with comments , showing the stage at which each measure has arrived . These may be subjects which have been previously referred to the Council for opinion , or new matters brought to the attention of the Assembly by state governments or by private individuals . The presidents then consult together as to which house shall first deliberate upon each measure , and having come to an understanding , each lays before his own house , at its first or second sitting , the result of this division . It is also the duty of the president of the lower house to call together one or more committees previously to the beginning of each session , so that their reports may be ready for discussion as soon as the legislature has assembled . ) When bills are under discussion , the presence of a majority of members is necessary to form a quorum , and a majority of all votes cast is necessary to enactment . When passed by one house , they are signed by the president and secretary and GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND sent to the other chamber . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to the first chamber which enacted it , and by that given to the Federal Council for promulgation . If amendments occur , the measure is referred back and forth between the houses until agreement is reached or the matter dropped . When an amended bill is brought up for discussion , the points upon which an agreement has been reached fall out of consideration and further debate is confined to matters still in dispute . Members of the Federal Council have a right to speak in either branch of the Assembly , and to make motions upon any subject at the time under consideration . They are also subject to interpellation as to the conduct of affairs , and must answer at the same or at the following sitting . The daily sessions begin in summer at eight o'clock in the morning , and in winter at nine , and continue as a rule five hours . Members are required to appear in black clothing , ' and to answer to their names at roll-call or furnish an excuse to the president . The absentees are noted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour , or are absent without excuse , they lose their pay for the day . Business can come before the houses either in form of ( I ) motion , bill , or report from the Federal Council ; ( 2 ) a communication from the other FEDERAL LEGISLATION house ; ( 3 ) report of a committee ; ( 4 ) motion of a member ; or ( 5 ) apetition . The president having fixed the order of the clay beforehand , precedence takes place according to the calendar . The motion or report is then read in two official languages , German and French . Members of the committee have at this time a right to add explanations or note their dissent from the report , and thereupon the debate opens . Members address the house from their places , and may speak to the question not more than three times . ' Those who desire to take part give their names to the president after the debate has opened , and he is required to keep a list of these in the order in which enrolled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use either the French , German , or Italian language , as educated Swiss are apt to know at least two of these ; but if any one so requests , the translator , a functionary who assists the secretary , must give the substance of addresses made . When a bill is brought up for discussion , the ordinary procedure is first to decide whether the subject ought to be entertained , then , if decided affirmatively , whether to discuss it at once , either as a whole , or article by article . Having entered entered into a subject , and then after discussion having voted to take certain measures , the resolutions are GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND referred to the Federal Council , who must present a final bill adapted to the condition of existing statutes . Thus the confusion in which a measure often finds itself after a long debate , and the conflicts which may in haste be overlooked , can be corrected by a body of men who are engaged in the administration of all classes of law , and can place the demands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider business of all kinds , but bills are referred to them , not of necessity , but by vote of the house in each case . These committees may be chosen by the chamber by open or secret vote , or the appointment may be left to the Bureau , mentioned above , which consists of the president and the four tellers . According to a rule of the Council of States , all committees in that house on certain groups of business , as railways , military , etc. , must be newly appointed every year ; a practice which , one would think , would add to the weakness of that body . The sessions of the legislature are so brief that the time must be put to the best possible use . The presidents of the two houses are required to call meetings of certain committees before each session , in order to have business ripe for immediate discussion . The rules of the Council of States do not differ essentially from those of the lower house . Both are characterized by a desire to have matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion . The chambers are not so large as to demand a rigorous cloture for the expedition of business , and obstruction does not seem to be much in vogue . The rules allow debate to be brought to a close by a vote of two-thirds of the members present , but this can not take place so long as any member who has not yet spoken desires to offer an amendment and to explain it. l The sessions are as a rule open to the public , but visitors must refrain from any expression of approval or dissent . Secret sessions may be ordered if the motion is seconded by ten members , or on request of the Federal Council . The record of legislative proceedings is kept by an officer known as the Federal Chancellor . He is elected by the Federal Assembly at the same time that the Federal Council is chosen , and serves et also for three years , but is not a cabinet officer . A deputy , called Vice-chancellor , is appointed by the Federal Council . His special duty is to keep the minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the records of the more numerous house , but with responsibility for both . Clerical assistance will , of course , be understood as necessary . Formerly these records were kept only in condensed form ; the practice in both houses being substantially identical in requiring simply a statement of the business brought forward , and when divisions were taken , the names of voters for and GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND against . But in recent years , stenographic reports have been introduced in the lower house . The record of each day 's proceedings is signed by the respective presidents and secretaries of the houses . Laws and resolutions also receive the same attestations . ) But the Chancellor is not solely an officer of the legislature . He is a general master of records , having duties similar to those of the Secretary of State in American commonwealths , with supervision of the publication and distribution of laws . When the legislature is not in session he is secretary to the federal cabinet , attends its meetings , and prepares its communications and orders . Hence we find the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chancellor ( " Protokollfiihrer " ) in this capacity.2 The signatures of both the President and of the Chancellor of the confederation are merely attestations of genuineness . The President has no right FEDERAL LEGISLATION to withhold his assent to any document legally enacted , nor has he any veto power like that of the President of the United States . This belongs to another element in the state , which we must next consider . // THE LAW AND THE PEOPLE THE REFERENDUM BILLS which have been passed by both houses are promulgated by the Federal Council . In most other countries such acts become laws at once on the date appointed in the publication , but in Switzerland there is another power to be heard from before a measure can be considered to have been enacted . For ninety days the law may be said to be on probation , for if within that time a sufficiently numerous body of citizens so demand , a popular vote must be ordered , and acceptance or rejection decided by that . This procedure , known as the Referendum , was for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its origin and growth has been more fully treated under the head of cantonal government , because the institution has had larger development there than in the confederation . The methods of taking the federal plebiscite only will here be noted . All laws subject to the Referendum are published immediately after passage , a sufficient number of copies sent to the government of each // canton , and for ninety days submitted to inspection . Exceptions to this rule are acts which are of an " urgent nature " and resolutions which are not of general application . The question as to whether a bill is urgent or not is decided by the federal legislature itself , and if so declared , the Federal Council is ordered to put the same in force at once . Urgency has been variously interpreted and practice has not always been consistent in defining laws of general application . For evident reasons of public policy the federal budget and international treaties are not submitted to vote of the people , but definitions have at times been strained in withholding bills for the subvention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not of a general nature . If the law comes under the rule and during the period of probation thirty thousand citizens petition for a popular vote , the bill must be submitted to that ordeal . If the request comes from the governments of eight cantons the effect is the same . Here again both the democratic and the federal idea may be represented in an expression of opinion . The thirty thousand citizens , being about one-hundredth part of the whole population , or about one-twentieth of the voters , stand for the democratic principle , while the states may speak as sovereign bodies . No canton , however , has as yet used this privilege , the demand always arising from popular , agitation . The request for Referendum takes the form of a written petition addressed to the Federal Council . Id9 GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND The petitioners must sign the paper with their own hands , and the signing of any name but his own subjects the voter to the penalties of the criminal law . It is not necessary that the document should be signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualification of all names on the petition must be attested by the signature of the chief officer of the commune.1 To make an expression of opinion as free as possible , the authorities are forbidden to take any fees for the witnessing of signatures . If , after careful examination of the returns , the Federal Council finds that the request is supported by the required number of citizens or cantons , it orders a general vote , notifies the various state governments , and provides for a generous publication of the bill or resolution . The date of the vote can not be less than four weeks after the announcement , and must be the same day for the whole confederation . The voting takes place under the charge of the cantonal and communal authorities according to these general regulations ; every Swiss citizen who is in full possession of his civil rights having the privilege of participation . If a majority of all votes cast in the required number of states is in favor of the project , it is accepted , and the Federal Council orders it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts a stop to its execution , but in case no petition is submitted , the Federal Council announces this fact THE LAW AND THE PEOPLE at the expiration of the ninety days , and the bill becomes a law . It will he seen that this petition is no ordinary expression of sentiment gathered at haphazard from all sorts of people . It is a serious act of sovereignty in which only voters participate , and is guarded by many of the precautions of an election.l When signed the petition can not be laid aside , or deferred , at the pleasure of the administration , but is a command on the part of citizens to submit a law to vote . The legislature can not consider its work done until the constituents have been heard from either by an actual vote or by tacit acceptance of the new statute . The people are not obliged to suffer unpalatable legislation until a new set of lawmakers is elected . This institution has been the cause of a great amount of discussion both in and out of Switzerland . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had been gradually coming into the cantons since 1831 , yet the principle has not been accepted without question . It is a realization of democracy which surpasses the fondest hopes of the revolutionary theorists , yet there is a conservative element about it which surprised its early sponsors . Introduced as a democratic and progressist weapon , the Liberals found after a time that the people would not move so fast as they wished , and could use the Referendum to cut both GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND ways . The Swiss have at times rejected laws which , in all reasonableness , would seem to have been for their own good ; yet , on the other hand , they have not made an excessive use of the veto power , and have corrected , at later elections , mistakes of other days . About ten per cent of the laws coming under the rule have been subjected to popular vote . It would seem as if most of these were called out only to be rejected . Yet it would not be just to draw inferences from the percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put to vote , but the whole body of legislation , those referred and those allowed to pass in silence , must be taken into consideration before any certain veto tendency can be assumed . Between 1874 and 1893 the Federal Assembly passed 164 laws and decrees which were subject to the Referendum . A vote was demanded on eighteen of these , and twelve were rejected . Of these twelve , four were afterward slightly revised , and accepted without a call for ratification . ) It must be conceded that legislation has been advancing slowly but steadily upward since the formation of the present confederation . The tendency toward centralization has not gone on as fast as the law-makers would have liked , and the common voters have made themselves felt in curious ways . The old instinct of sectionalism has been hard to lay aside , but , notwithstanding fretful political breezes , this same people has continued 192 by this very process of the Referendum to m its federal government more and more effectict The federal constitution is established for no definite period of time . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and can at any time be amended or totally renewed . Total revision is undertaken by the Federal Assembly , when both houses agree that such procedure is necessary , or when 50,000 voters demand it . When one house of the legislature votes for complete revision and the other fails to agree to it , or in case 50,000 voters demand a change and the Assembly does not act upon it , the question must be submitted to popular vote , and if a majority of citizens agree to have the constitution amended , both National Council and Council of States undergo reelection , and the revision is undertaken by this new body . The actual work of revision takes place according to the usual process of law-making . The constitution of 1 874 was laid before the Assembly in the form of a motion of the Federal Council . This was referred to committees in each house , and finally voted on , article by article , by those bodies in full session . The document , as finally passed by both houses , must then be submitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of all the people , and at the same time a majority of GOVERNMENT IN SWITZERLAND all the cantons , the revision becomes law , and goes into effect as soon as promulgated by the Federal Council . In determining the majority , those cantons which arc divided count as two half-votes , and the result of the popular vote in each canton counts as the voice of that state . Partial revision of the constitution of 1874 began very soon after its adoption . The first amendment restored to the cantons the right to inflict capital punishment for crime . Some of the cantons have placed this punishment in their statutes , but up to this time no use has been made of it . The next successful amendment gave the federal government the monopoly of alcoholic liquors , and in 189o the power to establish public accident and sickness insurance systems was also conferred upon the central authority . In the meanwhile , numerous other changes had been agitated and demanded by popular petition , and some had been presented by the federal legislature and voted down by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constitution which showed that under the existing law partial revision could be undertaken by the Federal Assembly alone . That is to say , an amendment could be passed by the national legislature and this could be ratified by vote of the people , but there was no obligation laid upon the Assembly to obey a petition , even of 50,000 voters , when it demanded anything less than total revision . If specific points were called in question , and the Assembly was not disposed to x94 THE LAW AND THE PEOPLE take the initiative , the only way to advance was to submit the matter to the people as a whole : " Shall the constitution be revised ? " If affirmed , it would be necessary to reelect the houses and proceed to revise , changing only the few points demanded . By this method of voting on the whole constitution in order to obtain partial changes the very framework of the state would have to be put in jeopardy every time an additional clause might be suggested . In order to defeat an objectionable amendment it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in the contest the nation might be put to such a strain by agitators that it might not easily recover . Fortunately , no such serious crisis was ever reached . The legislature usually met the rational demands of public sentiment , but the simultaneous advance of democracy and centralization in the confederation made the system cumbrous and a cause of discontent . The plan was changed in 1891 by the introduction of the so-called Popular Initiative . Direct legislation had been for some time in operation in many of the cantons , so it was not a new experiment to add the Initiative to the federal constitution . According to this plan , which we have discussed more at length under the subject of cantonal government , it is no longer necessary to wait for the legislature to take the lead in offering amendments . If 50,000 citizens request the adoption of an article , the Federal Assembly must take the matter into consideration . // If the request is made only in general terms , and the Assembly is in sympathy with the project , the legislature will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote . If not in favor of the idea , the bare question as to whether the constitution shall be revised will be submitted , and if adopted by the people , an article will be worked out afterward . If a formulated amendment is presented in the petition , the Assembly may agree to it , or may submit at the same time a different form of the project , or may offer a counter proposition to reject . The voter will then make his choice at the polls . The legislature must move in the matter within the limits of one year from the receipt of the petition . If at the end of that time nothing has been done , the Federal Council must submit the amendment as offered in the petition . To sum . up , there are five ways in which the constitution may be amended : complete revision on the initiative of the Assembly or on petition of sufficient citizens ; partial revision at the suggestion of the legislature as before , or on petition of voters , with or without exact wording of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be noted that the initiative in federal matters applies only to . constitutional amendment , not to the enactment statute law . Although this prevails in many cantons , the motion to adopt the imperative petition for ordinary federal law was voted down in the Assembly . Yet the boundary line between these two forms of law is frequently overstepped , // as we shall have occasion to discuss elsewhere , and as may be seen also in the use made of the federal initiative as soon as it was adopted . Since 1891 several important changes in the constitution have been attempted by this method . The first and only successful amendment was voted in 1893 after considerable agitation . This forbade the slaughter of animals by the Jewish method . The movement was started by the society for the prevention of cruelty to animals , but was aided by antisemitic sentiment in general , and by trade rivalry under the pretext of humanitarianism . The Federal Council had appointed an expert commission which reported in favor of the Jewish form of killing animals by cutting the throat and bleeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against it , and sustained appeals in behalf of the Jews , yet a petition of 83,000 signers was formed , and by a vote of 191,527 against 127,000 Article 25bis was added to the constitution , which now states that animals must be benumbed before bleeding in any method of slaughter . That there is anything so fundamental in slaughter-house methods that regulations must be put in the national constitution can not be seriously advocated . It is a case of popular prejudice carried into the constitution because its agitators failed to move the legislature to accept their views . The result might cause uneasiness for the future . of Swiss government , were it not for the fact , which has been proved , that the people as a // whole are conservative , and in no sense given to socialism . This has been shown by several votes before and since the slaughter-house amendment , In 1892 , the government proposed an additional article giving the confederation the right to legislate in the matter of trades . The socialistic party saw in this an opportunity to introduce compulsory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both houses of the Federal Assembly expressed themselves in favor of the amendment , but against compulsory trades-unions , and when the question came to a vote the people defeated the amendment by a substantial majority . Another change in the constitution was proposed in 1893-94 , to the effect that " the right to have sufficient remunerative labor is guaranteed to every Swiss citizen . " Federal law should also shorten the hours of labor , provide free bureaus of information , protect laborers against unjust discharge , provide insurance against lack of work , and authorize several other matters , including the democratic organization of labor in factories . The federal legislature recommended the rejection of this proposition and over 300,000 voters followed their advice against 73,000 in favor . In the same manner a proposal to pay to the cantons two francs per capita out of the federal custom house receipts was defeated by a majority of more than two to one . So likewise a federal monopoly of the manufacture of matches was voted // down , not to mention various socialistic proposals which did not receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this that the federal constitution of Switzerland is brought nearer to the people than that of the United States , which is adopted solely by the legislatures of the various states ; also that it is not so difficult to change , by reason of the fact that the voting is all done on one day , and agitation can be carried on in one campaign , as it were . Instead of forty-five legislatures to be dealt with separately , bodies which may be influenced by the votes of other states , a whole people is called upon to express its opinion at one time , and the result by states is determined by analysis of that vote . There is a remote possibility that one-third of the cantons , containing a majority of the citizens , might be overruled by a minority in the remaining states , but such a conflict is highly improbable , as it would require the electors of these cantons to vote solidly on one side , allowing for little or no division of opinion . In all the votes hitherto taken on constitutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coincident with a popular majority.l // CANTONAL LAWS BY TREATY . CONCORDATS Another matter which should be mentioned in this connection is the method by which the lack of national laws in certain directions is gotten over by means of interstate agreements . When Switzerland was a loose confederation of states , this was the only way by which any approach to uniformity in private law could be reached , and when the new government was formed , some of these agreements were carried over , and served a useful purpose in filling gaps not covered by federal enactment . A few others have been added ; some have been superseded in whole or in part by national law . The federal constitution distinctly forbids separate alliances with foreign states and all treaties of a political character between the cantons , but the right is reserved to make conventions among themselves upon legislative , administrative , or judicial subjects.l The central government maintains control over these agreements , and the federal officials are authorized to prevent their execution if they contain anything contrary to the national constitution or any infringement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorized to invoke the federal government in carrying out these agreements , and in case of dispute respecting the application of the rules , appeal may be had to the federal supreme court .                     