@@773752

txt // whether of marble or tiling , combined brilliancy and harmony of color with the perplexing beauty of interlaced star-and-polygon patterns of marvellous intricacy . Stained glass added to the interior color-effect , the patterns being perforated in plaster , with a bit of colored glass set into each perforation ? a device not very durable , perhaps , but singularly decorative . OTHER WORKS . Few of the medieval Arabic palaces have remained to our time . That they were adorned with a splendid prodigality appears from contemporary accounts . This splendor was internal rather than external ; the palace , like all the larger and richer dwellings in the East , surrounded one or more courts , and presented externally an almost unbroken wall . The fountain in the chief court , the ( a great , vaulted reception-chamber opening upon the court and raised slightly above it ) , the dk'r , or men 's court , rigidly separated from the hareem for the women , were and are universal elements in these great dwellings . The more common city-houses show as their most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with lattice-screens covering single windows , or almost a whole facade , composed of turned work ( inaslirabiyya ) , in designs of great beauty . The fountains , gates , and minor works of the Arabs display the same beauty in decoration and color , the same general forms and details which characterize the larger works , but it is impossible here to particularize further with regard to them . MORESQUE . Elsewhere in Northern Africa the Arabs produced no such important works as in Egypt , nor is the architecture of the other Moslem states so well preserved or so well known . Constructive design would appear to have been there even more completely subordinated to decoration ; tiling and plaster-relief took the place of more architectural elements and materials , while horseshoe and cusped arches were substituted for the simpler and more architectural pointed arch ( Fig. 82 ) . The courts of palaces and public buildings were surrounded by ranges of horseshoe arches on slender columns ; these last being provided with capitals of a form rarely seen in Cairo . Towers were built of much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ square , almost solid shaft and a more open lantern at the top , sometimes in several diminishing stories . HISPANO-MORESQUE . The most splendid phase of this branch of Arabic architecture is found not in Africa but in Spain , which was overrun in 710 ? 713 by the Moors , who established there the independent Khalifate of Cordova . This was later split up into petty kingdoms , of which the most important were Granada , Seville , Toledo , and Valencia . This dismemberment of the Khalifate led in time to the loss of these cities , which were one by one recovered by the Christians during the fourteenth and fifteenth cen-142 turies ; the capture of Granada , in 1492 , finally destroying the Moorish rule . The dominion of the Moors in Spain was marked by a high civilization and an extraordinary activity in building . The style they introduced became the national style in the regions they occupied , and even after the expulsion of the Moors was used in buildings erected by Christians and by Jews . The " House of Pilate , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general use of the Moorish style in Jewish synagogues , down to our own day , both in Spain and abroad , originated in the erection of synagogues for the Jews in Spain by Moorish artisans and in Moorish style , both during and after the period of Moslem supremacy . Besides innumerable mosques , castles , bridges , aqueducts , gates , and fountains , the Moors erected several monuments of remarkable size and magnificence . Specially worthy of notice among them are the Great Mosque at Cordova , the Alcazars of Seville and Malaga , the Giralda at Seville , and the Alhambra at Granada . The Mosque at Cordova , begun in 786 by ' Abd-er-Rahman , enlarged in 876 , and again by El Mansour in 976 , is a vast arcaded hall 375 feet x 420 feet in extent , but only 3o // feet high ( Fig. 83 ) . The rich wooden ceiling rests upon seventeen rows of thirty to thirty-three columns each , and two intersecting rows of piers , all carrying horseshoe arches in two superposed ranges , a large portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain , except for the alternation of color in the voussoirs . The rihra niche is particularly rich in its minutely carved incrustations and mosaics , and a dome ingeniously formed by intersecting ribs covers the sanctuary before it . This form of dome occurs frequently in Spain . The Aleazars at Seville and Malaga , which have been restored in recent years , present to-day a fairly correct counterpart of the castle-palaces of the thirteenth century . They display the same general conceptions and decorative features as the Alhambra , which they antedate . The Giralda at Seville is , on the other hand , unique . It is a lofty rectangular tower , its exterior panelled and covered with a species of quarry-ornament in relief ; it terminated originally in two or three diminishing stages or lanterns , which were replaced in the sixteenth century by the present Renaissance belfry . The Alhambra is universally considered to be the masterpiece of Hispano-Moresque art , partly no doubt on account of its excellent preservation . It is most interesting as an example of the splendid citadel-palaces built by the Moorish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minute quarry-ornament stamped or moulded in the wet plaster wherever the walls are not wainscoted with tiles . It was begun in 1248 by Mohammed-ben-Al-Hamar , enlarged in 1279 by his successor , and again in 1306 , when its mosque was built . Its plan ( Fig. 84 ) shows two large courts and a smaller one next the mosque , with three great square chambers and many of minor importance . Light arcades surround the Court of the Lions with its fountain , and adorn the ends of the other chief court ; and the stalactite // pendentive , rare in Moorish work , appears in the " Hall of Ambassadors " and some other parts of the edifice . But its chief glory is its ornamentation , less durable , less architectural than that of the Cairene buildings , but making up for this in delicacy and richness . Minute vine. - patterns and Arabic inscriptions are interwoven with waving intersecting lines , forming a net-like framework , to all of which deep red , blue , black , and gold give an indescribable richness of effect . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while their architecture there profoundly influenced that of the Christians who recovered Sicily in 1090 , and copied the style of the conquered Moslems , there is too little of the original Moorish architecture remaining to claim mention here . SASSANIAN . The Sassanian empire , which during the four centuries from 226 to 641 A.D. had withstood Rome and extended its own sway almost to India , left on Persian soil a number of interesting monuments which powerfully influenced the Mohammedan style of that region . The Sassanian buildings appear to have been principally palaces , and were all vaulted . With their long barrel-vaulted halls , combined with square domical chambers , as in Firouz-Abad and Serbistan , they exhibit reminiscences of antique Assyrian traSASSANIAN // dition . The ancient Persian use of columns was almost entirely abandoned , but doors and windows were still treated with the banded frames and cavetto-cornices of Persepolis and Susa . The Sassanians employed with these exterior details others derived perhaps from Syrian and Byzantine sources . A sort of engaged buttress-column and blind arches repeated somewhat aimlessly over a whole facade were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elliptical or horse-shoe shaped , which formed the entrances to these palaces , as in the Tak-Kesra at Ctesiphon . Ornamental details of a debased Roman type appear , mingled with more gracefully flowing leaf-patterns resembling early Christian Syrian carving . The last great monument of this style was the palace at Mashita in Moab , begun by the last Chosroes ( 627 ) , but never finished , an imposing and richly ornamented structure about 500 X 170 feet , occupying the centre of a great court . PERSIAN-MOSLEM ARCHITECTURE . These Sassanian palaces must have strongly influenced Persian architecture after the Arab conquest in 641 . For although the architecture of the first six centuries after that date suffered almost absolute extinction at the hands of the Mongols under Genghis Khan , the traces of Sassanian influence are still perceptible in the monuments that rose in the following centuries . The dome and vault , the colossal portal-arches , and the use of brick and tile are evidences of this influence , bearing no resemblance to Byzantine or Arabic types . The Moslem monuments of Persia , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1200 , unless tradition is correct in assigning to the time of Haroun Ar Rashid ( 786 ) certain curious tombs near Bagdad with singular pyramidal roofs . The ruined mosque at Tabriz ( 1300 ) , and the beautiful domical Tomb at Sultaniyeh ( 1313 ) belong to the Mogul period . They show all the essential features of the later architecture of the Sufis 10 ( 1499-1694 ) , during whose dynastic period were built the still more splendid and more celebrated Meidan or square , the great mosque of Mesjid Shah , the Bazaar and the College or Medress of Hussein Shah , all at Ispahan , and many other important monuments at Ispahan , Bagdad , and Teheran . In these structures four elements especially claim attention ; the pointed bulbous dome , the round minaret , the portal-arch rising above the adjacent portions of the building , and the use of enamelled terra-cotta tiles as an external decoration . To these may be added the ogee arch ( ogee = double-reversed curve ) , as an occasional feature , The vaulting is most ingenious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in plaster , are sufficiently varied without resort to the perplexing complications of stalactite work . In Persian decoration the most striking qualities are the harmony of blended color , broken up into minute patterns and more subdued in tone than in the Hispano-Moresque , and the preference of flowing lines and floral ornament to the geometric puzzles of Arabic design . Persian architecture influenced both Turkish and IndoMoslem art , which owe to it a large part of their decorative charm . INDO-MOSLEM . The Mohammedan architecture of India is so distinct from all the native Indian styles and so related to the art of Persia , if not to that of the Arabs , that it properly belongs here rather than in the later chapter on Oriental styles . It was in the eleventh century that the states of India first began to fall before Mohammedan invaders , but not until the end of the fifteenth century that the great Mogul dynasty was established in Hindostan as the dominant power . During the intervening period local schools of Moslem architecture were developing in the Pathan country of Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1396-1572 ) , in Scinde , where Persian influence predominated ; in Kalburgah and Bidar ( 1347-1426 ) . These schools differed considerably in spirit and detail ; but under the Moguls ( 1494 ? 1706 ) there was less diversity , and to this dynasty we owe many of the most magnificent mosques and tombs of India , among which those of Bijapur retain a marked and distinct style of their own . The Mohammedan monuments of India are characterized by a grandeur and amplitude of disposition , a symmetry and monumental dignity of design which distinguishes them widely from the picturesque but sometimes trivial buildings of the Arabs and Moors . Less dependent on color than the Moorish or Persian structures , they are usually built of marble , or of marble and sandstone , giving them an air of permanence and solidity wanting in other Moslem styles except the Turkish . The dome , the round minaret , the pointed arch , and the colossal portal-arch , are universal , as in Persia , and enamelled tiles are also used , but chiefly for interior decoration . Externally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used , in patterns of minute and graceful scrolls , leaf forms , and Arabic inscriptions covering large surfaces . The Arabic stalactite pendentive star-panelling and geometrical interlace are rarely if ever seen . The dome on the square plan is almost universal , but neither the Byzantine nor the Arabic pendentive is used , striking and original combinations of vaulting surfaces , of corner squinches , of corbelling and ribs , being used in its place . Many of the Pathan domes and arches at Delhi , Ajmir , Ahmedabad , Shepree , etc. , are built in horizontal or corbelled courses supported on slender columns , and exert no thrust at all , so that they are vaults only in form , like the dome of the Tholos of Atreus ( Fig. 24 ) . The most imposing and original of all Indian domes are those of the Jumma Musjid and of the Tomb of Mahmud , both at Bijapur , the latter 137 feet in span ( Fig. 85 ) . These two monuments , indeed , with the Mogul Taj Mahal at Agra , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructive science combined with noble proportions and exquisite beauty are hardly , if at all , surpassed by the greatest triumphs of western art . The Indo-Moslem architects , moreover , especially those of the Mogul period , excelled in providing artistic settings for their monuments . Immense platforms , superb courts , imposing flights of steps , noble gateways , minarets to mark the angles of enclosures , and landscape gardening of a high order , enhance greatly the effect of the great mosques , tombs , and palaces of Agra , Delhi , Futtehpore Sikhri , Allahabad , Secundra , etc . The most notable monuments of the Moguls are the Mosque of Akbar ( 1556 ? 16o5 ) at Futtehpore Sikhri , the tomb of that sultan at Secundra , and his palace at Allahabad ; the Pearl Mosque at Agra and the Jumma Musjid at Delhi , one of the largest and noblest of Indian mosques , both built by Shah Jehan about 165o ; his immense but now ruined palace in the same city ; and finally the unrivalled mausoleum , the Taj Mahal at Agra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve as his tomb after death ( Fig . S6 ) . This last is the pearl of Indian architecture , though it is said to have been designed by a European architect , French or Italian . It is a white marble structure 185 feet square , centred in a court 313 feet square , forming a platform 18 feet high . The corners of this court are marked by elegant minarets , and the whole is dominated by the exquisite white marble dome , 58 feet in diameter , 8o feet high , internally rising over four domical corner chapels , and covered externally by a lofty marble bulb-dome on a high drum . The rich materials , beautiful execution , and exquisite inlaying of this mausoleum are worthy of its majestic design . On the whole , in the architecture of the Moguls in Bijapur , Agra , and Delhi , Mohammedan architecture reaches its highest expression in the totality and balance of its qualities of construction , composition , detail , ornament , and settings . The later monuments show the decline of the style , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refinement and originality . TURKISH . The Ottoman Turks , who began their conquering career under Osman I. in Bithynia in 1299 , had for a century been occupying the fairest portions of the Byzantine empire when , in 1453 , they became masters of Constantinople . Hagia Sophia was at once occupied as their chief mosque , and such of the other churches as were spared , were divided between the victors and the vanquished . The conqueror , Mehmet II. , at the same time set about the building of a new mosque , entrusting the design to a Byzantine , Christodoulos , whom he directed to reproduce , with some modifications , the design of the " Great Church " ? Hagia Sophia . The type thus officially adopted has ever since remained the controlling model of Turkish mosque design , so far , at least , as general plan and constructive principles are concerned . Thus the conquering Turks , educated by a century of study and imitation of Byzantine models in Brusa , Nicomedia , Smyrna , Adrianople , and other cities earlier subjugated , did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do . The noble idea first expressed by Anthemius and Isidorus in the Church of Hagia Sophia had remained undeveloped , unimitated by later architects . It was the Turk who first seized upon its possibilities , and developed therefrom a style of architecture less sumptuous in color and decoration than the sister styles of Persia , Cairo , or India , but of great nobility and dignity , notwithstanding . The low-curved dome with its crown of buttressed windows , the plain spherical pendentives , the great apses at each end , covered by half-domes and penetrated by smaller niches , the four massive piers with their projecting buttress-masses extending across the broad lateral aisles , the narthex and the arcaded atrium in front ? all these appear in the great Turkish mosques of Constantinople . In the Conqueror 's mosque , however , two apses with half-domes replace the lateral galleries and clearstory of Hagia Sophia , making a perfectly quadripartite plan , destitute of the emphasis and significance of a plan drawn on one main axis ( Fig. 87 ) . The same treatment occurs in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fig. 88 ) , and the Yeni Djami ( " New Mosque " ) at the port ( 1665 ) . In the mosque of Osman III . ( 1755 ) the reverse change was effected ; the mosque has no great apses , four clearstories filling the four arches under the dome , as also in several of the later and smaller mosques . The greatest and noblest of the Turkish mosques , the Suleimaniyeh , built in 1553 by Soliman the Magnificent , returned to the Byzantine combination of two half-domes with two clearstories ( Fig. 89 ) . In none of these monuments is there the internal magnificence of marble and mosaic of the Byzantine churches . These are only in a measure replaced by Persian tile-wainscoting and stained - glass w i n - dows of the Arabic type . The division into stories and the treatment of s c a l e are less well managed than in the Hagia Sophia ; on the other hand , the proportion of height to width is generally admirable . The exterior treatment is unique and effective , far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and half-domes and roofs is more artistically arranged ; and while there is little of that minute carved detail found in Egypt and India , the composition of the lateral arcades , the simple but impressive domical peristyles of the courts , and the graceful forms of the pointed arches , with alternating voussoirs of white and black marble , are artistic in a high degree . The minarets are , however , inferior to those of Indian , Persian , and Arabic art , though graceful in their proportions . Nearly all the great mosques are accompanied by the domical tombs ( turbeh ) of their imperial founders . Some of these are of noble size and great beauty of proportion and decoration . The Tomb of Roxelana ( Khourrem ) , the favorite wife of Soliman the Magnificent ( 1553 ) , is the most beautiful of all , and perhaps the most perfect gem of Turkish architecture , with its elegant arcade surrounding the octagonal domical mausoleum-chamber . The monumental fountains of Constantinople also deserve mention . Of these , the one erected by Ahmet III . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beautiful . They usually consist of a rectangular marble reservoir with pagoda-like roof and broad eaves , the four faces of the fountain adorned each with a niche and basin , and covered with relief carving and gilded inscriptions . PALACES . In t h i s department the Turks have done little of importance . The buildings in the Seraglio gardens are low and insignificant . The Tchinli Kiosque , now the Imperial Museum , is however , a simple but graceful two-storied edifice , consisting of f o u r vaulted chambers in the angles of a fine cruciform hall , with domes treated like those of Bijapur on a small scale ; the tiling and the veranda in front are particularly elegant ; the design suggests Persian handiwork . The later palaces , designed by Armenians , are picturesque white marble and stucco buildings on the water 's edge ; they possess richly decorated halls , but the details are of a debased European rococo style , quite unworthy of an Oriental monarch . EARLY MEDIEVAL EUROPE . The fall of the Western Empire in 476 A.D. marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Byzantine Empire . The socalled Dark Ages which followed this event constituted the formative period of the new Western civilization , during which the Celtic and Germanic races were being Christianized and subjected to the authority and to the educative influences of the Church . Under these conditions a new architecture was developed , founded upon the traditions of the early Christian builders , modified in different regions by Roman or Byzantine influences . For Rome recovered early her antique prestige , and Roman monuments covering the soil of Southern Europe , were a constant object lesson to the builders of that time . To this new architecture of the West , which in the tenth and eleventh centuries first began to achieve worthy and monumental results , the generic name of Romanesque has been commonly given , in spite of the great diversity of its manifestations in different countries . CHARACTER OF THE ARCHITECTURE . Romanesque architecture was pre-eminently ecclesiastical . Civilization and culture emanated from the Church , and her requirements and discipline gave form to the builder 's art . But the basilican style , which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on classic soil , was ill-suited to the new conditions . Corinthian columns , marble incrustations , and splendid mosaics were not to be had for the asking in the forests of Gaul or Germany , nor could the Lombards and Ostrogoths in Italy or their descendants reproduce them . The basilican style was complete in itself , possessing no seeds of further growth . The priests and monks of Italy and Western Europe sought to rear with unskilled labor churches of stone in which the general dispositions of the basilica should reappear in simpler , more massive dress , and , as far as possible , in a fireproof construction with vaults of stone . This problem underlies all the varied phases of Romanesque architecture ; its final solution was not , however , reached until the Gothic period , to which the Romanesque forms the transition and stepping-stone . MEDIEVAL ITALY . Italy in the Dark Ages stood midway between the civilization of the Eastern Empire and the semi-barbarism of the West . Rome , Ravenna , and Venice early became centres of culture and maintained continuous commercial relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspiration or the means for advancing on new lines . But its advance was by no means the same everywhere . The unifying influence of the church was counterbalanced by the provincialism and the local diversities of the various Italian states , resulting in a wide variety of styles . These , however , may be broadly grouped in four divisions : the Lombard , the Tuscan - Romanesque , the Italo-Byzantine , and the unchanged Basilican or Early Christian , which last , as was shown in Chapter X. , continued to be practised in Rome throughout the Middle Ages . LOMBARD STYLE . Owing to the general rebuilding of ancient churches under the more settled social conditions of the eleventh and twelfth centuries , little remains to us of the architecture of the three preceding centuries in Italy , except the Roman basilicas and a few baptisteries and circular churches , already mentioned in Chapter X. The socalled Lombard monuments belong mainly to the eleventh and twelfth centuries . They are found not only in Lombardy , but also in Venetia and the " Emilia . Milan , Pavia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of development of this style . The churches were nearly all vaulted , but the plans were basilican , with such variations as resulted from efforts to meet the exigencies of vaulted construction . The nave was narrowed , and instead of rows of columns carrying a thin clearstory wall , a few massive piers of masonry , connected by broad pier-arches , supported the heavy ribs of the groined vaulting , as in S. Ambrogio , Milan ( Fig. 90 ) . To resist the thrust of the main vault , the clearstory was sometimes suppressed , the side aisle carried up in two stories forming galleries , and rows of chapels added at the sides , their partitions forming buttresses . The piers were often of clustered section , the better to receive the various arches and ribs they supported . The vaulting was in square divisions or vaulting-bays , each embracing two pierarches which met upon an intermediate pier lighter than the others . Thus the whole aspect of the interior was revolutionized . The lightness , spaciousness , anti decorative elegance of the basilicas were here exchanged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The choir was sometimes raised a few feet above the nave , to allow of a crypt and tonfessio beneath , reached by broad flights of steps from the nave . Sta . Maria della Pieve at Arezzo ( 9th ? iith century ) , S. Michele at Pavia ( late 1th century ) , the Cathedral of Piacenza ( 1122 ) , S. Ambrogio at Milan ( 1zth century ) , and S. Zeno at Verona ( 1139 ) are notable monuments of this style . LOMBARD EXTERIORS . The few architectural embellishments employed on the simple exteriors of the Lombard churches were usually effective and well composed . Slender columnettes or long pilasters , blind arcades , and open arcaded galleries under the eaves gave light and shade to these exteriors . The facades were mere frontispieces with a single broad gable , the three aisles of the church being merely suggested by flat or round pilasters dividing the front ( Fig 91 ) . Gabled porches , with columns resting on the backs of lions or monsters , adorned the doorways . The carving was often of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjoined many of these churches ; square and simple in mass , but with well-distributed openings and well-proportioned belfries ( Piacenza S. Zeno at Verona , etc. ) . * THE TUSCAN ROMANESQUE . The churches of this style ( sometimes called the Pisan ) were less vigorous but more elegant and artistic in design than the Lombard . They were basilicas in plan , with timber ceilings and high clearstories on columnar arcades . In their decoration , both internal and external , they betray the influence of Byzantine traditions , especially in the use of white and colored marble in alternating bands or in panelled veneering . Still more striking is the external decorative application of wall-arcades , sometimes occupying the whole height of the wall and carried on flat pilasters , sometimes in superposed stages of small arches on slender columns standing free of the wall . In general the decorative element prevailed over the constructive in the design of these picturesquely beautiful churches , some of which are of noble size . The Duomo ( cathedral ) of Pisa , built 1063-1118 , is the finest monument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is 312 feet long and rib wide , with long transepts and an elliptical dome of later date over the crossing ( the intersection of nave and transepts ) . Its richly arcaded front and banded flanks strikingly exemplify the illogical and unconstructive but highly decorative methods of the Tuscan Romanesque builders The circular Baptistery ( 1153 ) , with its lofty domicil central hall surrounded by an aisle , an imposing development of the type established by Constantine ( p . Ili ) , and the famous Leaning Tower ( 1174 ) , both designed with external arcading , combine with the Duomo to form the most re-markable group of ecclesiastical buildings in Italy , if not in Europe ( Fig. 92 ) . The same style appears in more flamboyant shape in // some of the churches of Lucca . The cathedral S. Martino ( 1o6o ; facade , 1204 ; nave altered in fourteenth century ) is the finest and largest of these ; S. Michele ( facade , 1288 ) and S. Frediano ( twelfth century ) have the most elaborately decorated facades . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other churches in Pistoia and Prato ; but these belong , for the most part , to the Gothic period . FLORENCE . The church of S. Miniato , in the suburbs of Florence , is a beautiful example of a modification of the Pisan style . It is in plan a basilica with two piers interrupting the colonnade on each side of the nave and supporting powerful transverse arches . The interior is embellished with bands and patterns in black and white , and the woodwork of the open-timber roof is elegantly decorated with fine patterns in red , green , blue , and gold ? a treatment common in early medi ( ( val churches , as at Messina , Orvieto , etc . The exterior is adorned with wall-arches of 11 classic design and with panelled veneering in white and dark marble , instead of the horizontal bands of the Pisan churches . This system of external decoration , a blending of Pisan and Italo-Byzantine methods , became the established practice in Florence , lasting through the whole Gothic period . The Baptistery of Florence , originally the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , presents externally one of the most admirable examples of this practice . Its marble veneering in black and white , with pilasters and arches of excellent design , is attributed by Vasari to Arnolfo di Cambio , but is by many considered to be much older , although restored by that architect in 1294 . Suggestions of the Pisan arcade system are found in widely scattered examples in the east and south of Italy , . mingled with features of Lombard and Byzantine design . In Apulia , as at Bari , Caserta Vecchia ( 1100 ) , Molfetta ( 1192 ) , and in Sicily , the Byzantine influence is conspicuous in the use of domes and in many of the decorative details . Particularly is this the case at Palermo and Monreale , where the churches erected after the Norman conquest ? some of them domical , some basilican ? show a strange but picturesque and beautiful mixture of Romanesque , Byzantine , and Arabic forms . The Cathedral of Monreale and the churches of the Eremiti and La Martorana at Palermo are the most important . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of Chapter XI . Venice and Ravenna were its chief centres ; while the influence , both of the parent style and of its Italian offshoot was , as we have just shown , very widespread . WESTERN ROMANESQUE ARCHITECTURE . In Western Europe the unrest and lawlessness which attended the unsettled relations of society under the feudal system long retarded the establishment of that social order without which architectural progress is impossible . With the eleventh century there began , however , a great activity in building , principally among the monasteries , which represented all that there was of culture and stability amid the prevailing disorder . Undisturbed by war , the only abodes of peaceful labor , learning , and piety , they had become rich and powerful , both in men and land . Probably the more or less general apprehension of the supposed impending end of the world in the year rood contributed to this result by driving unquiet consciences to seek refuge in the monasteries , or to endow them richly . The monastic builders , with little technical training , but with plenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet their special needs . Remote from classic and Byzantine models , and mainly dependent on their own resources , they often failed to realize the intended results . But skill came with experience , and with advancing civilization and a surer mastery of construction came a finer taste and greater elegance of design . Meanwhile military architecture developed a new science of building , and covered Europe with imposing castles , admirably constructed and often artistic in design as far as military exigencies would permit . CHARACTER OF THE STYLE . The Romanesque architecture of the eleventh and twelfth centuries in Western Europe ( sometimes called the Round-Arched Gothic ) was thus predominantly though not exclusively monastic . This gave it a certain unity of character in spite of national and local variations . The problem which the wealthy orders set themselves was , like that of the Lombard church-builders in Italy , to adapt the ' basilica plan to the exigencies of vaulted construction . Massive walls , round arches stepped or recessed to lighten their appearance , heavy mouldings richly carved , clustered piers and jamb-shafts , capitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and strong and effective carving ? all these are features alike of French , German , English , and Spanish Romanesque architecture . THE FRENCH ROMANESQUE Though monasticism produced remarkable results in France , architecture there did not wholly depend upon the monasteries . Southern Gaul ( Provence ) was full of classic remains and classic traditions while at the same time it maintained close trade relations with Venice and the East. * The church of St. Front at Perigueux , built in 1120 , reproduced the plan of St. Mark 's with singular fidelity , but without its rich decoration , and with pointed instead of round arches ( Figs. 94 , 95 ) . The domical cathedral of Cahors ( 1050-11oo ) , an obvious imitation of S. Irene at Constantinople , and the later and more Gothic Cathedral of Angouleme display a notable advance in architectural skill outside of the monasteries . Among the abbeys , Fontevrault ( liol ? 1119 ) closely resembles Angouleme , but surpasses it in the elegance of its choir and chapels . In these and a number of other domical churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Latin cross in the plan for the Greek cross used in St. Front , evinces the Gallic tendency to work out to their logical end new ideas or new applications of old ones . These striking variations on Byzantine themes might have developed into an independent local style but for the overwhelming tide of Gothic influence which later poured in from the North . Meanwhile , farther south ( at Arles , Avignon , etc. ) , classic models strongly influenced the details , if not the plans , of an interesting series of churches remarkable especially for their porches rich with figure sculpture and for their elaborately carved details . The classic archivolt , the Corinthian capital , the Roman forms of enriched mouldings , are evident at a glance in the porches of Notre Dame des Doms atAvignon , of the church of St. Gilles , and of St. Trophime at Arles . DEVELOPMENT OF VAULTING . It was in Central France , and mainly along the Loire , that the systematic development of vaulted church architecture began . Naves covered with barrel-vaults appear in a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with apsidal and transeptal chapels and aisles carried around the apse , as in St. Etienne , Nevers , Notre Dame du Port at Cler ? mont-Ferrand ( Fig. 96 ) , and St. Paul at Issoire . The thrust of these ponderous vaults was clumsily resisted by halfbarrel vaults over the side-aisles , transmitting the strain to massive side-walls ( Fig. 97 ) , or by high side-aisles with transverse barrel or groined vaults over each bay . In either case the clearstory was suppressed ? a fact which mattered little in the sunny southern provinces . In the more cloudy North , in Normandy , Picardy , and the Royal Domain , the nave-vault was raised higher to admit of clearstory windows , and its section was in some cases made like a pointed arch , to diminish its thrust , as at Autun . But these eleventh-century vaults nearly all fell in , and had to be reconstructed on new principles . In this work the Clunisians seem to have led the way , as at Cluny ( ro8g ) and Vezelay ( I 1oo ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most interesting French edifices of the twelfth century , a groined vault replaced the barrel-vault , though the oblong plan of the vaulting-bays , due to the nave being wider than the pier-arches , led to somewhat awkward twisted surfaces in the vaulting . But even here the vaults had insufficient lateral buttressing , and began to crack and settle ; so that in the great ante - chapel , built thirty years later , the side-aisles were made in two stories , the better to resist the thrust , and the groined vaults themselves were constructed of pointed section . These seem to be the earliest pointed groined vaults in France . It was not till the second half of that century , however ( 1150-1200 ) , that the flying buttress was combined with such vaults , so as to permit of high clearstories for the better lighting of the nave ; and the problem of satisfactorily vaulting an oblong space with a groined vault was not solved until the following century . ONE-AISLED CHURCHES . In the Franco-Byzantine churches already described ( p. 164 ) this difficulty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of sideaisles and pier-arches . Following this conception of churchplanning , a number of interesting parish churches and a few cathedrals were built in various parts of France in which side-recesses or chapels took the place of side-aisles . The partitions separating them served as abutments for the groined or barrel-vaults of the nave . The cathedrals of Autun ( 115o ) and Langres ( 116o ) , and in the fourteenth century that of Alby , employed this arrangement , common in many earlier Provencal churches which have disappeared . SIX-PART VAULTING . In the Royal Domain great architectural activity does not appear to have begun until the beginning of the Gothic period in the middle of the twelfth century . But in Normandy , and especially at Caen and Mont St. Michel , there were produced , between 1046 and 1120 , some remarkable churches , in which a high clearstory was secured in conjunction with a vaulted nave , by the use of " six-part " vaulting ( Fig. 98 ) . This was an awkward expedient , by which a square vaulting-bay was divided into six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , necessitating two narrow skew vaults meeting at the centre . This unsatisfactory device was retained for over a century , and was common in early Gothic churches both in France and Great Britain . It made it possible to resist the thrust by high side-aisles , and yet to open windows above these under the cross-vaults . The abbey churches of St. Etienne ( the Abbaye aux Hommes ) and Ste. Trinite ( Abbaye aux Dames ) , at Caen , built in the time of William the Conqueror , were among the most magnificent churches of their time , both in size and in the excellence and ingenuity of their construction . The great abbey church of Mont St. Michel ( much altered in later times ) should also be mentioned here . At the same time these and other Norman churches showed a great advance in their internal composition . A well-developed triforium or subordinate gallery was introduced between the pier-arches and clearstory , and all the structural membering of the edifice was better proportioned and more logically expressed than in most contemporary work . ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several provinces , according as classic , Byzantine , or local influences prevailed . Except in a few of the Aquitanian churches , the round arch was universal . The walls were heavy and built of rubble between facings of stones of moderate size dressed with the axe . Windows and doors were widely splayed to diminish the obstruction of the massive walls , and were treated with jamb - shafts and recessed arches . These were usually formed with large cylindrical mouldings , richly carved with leaf ornaments , zigzags , billets , and grotesques . Figure-sculpture was more generally used in the South than in the North . The interior piers were sometimes cylindrical , but more often clustered , and where square bays of four-part or six-part vaulting were employed , the piers were alternately lighter and heavier . Each shaft had its independent capital either of the block type or of a form resembling somewhat that of the Corinthian order . During the eleventh century it became customary to carry up to the main vaulting one or more shafts of the compound pier to support the vaulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was accentuated , while at the same time the horizontal three-fold division of the height by a well-defined trifarium between the pier-arches and clearstory began to be likewise emphasized . VAULTING . The vaulting was also divided into bays by transverse ribs , and where it was groined the groins themselves began in the twelfth century to be marked by groin ribs . These were constructed independently of the vaulting , and the four or six compartments of each vaulting-bay were then built in , the ribs serving , in part at least , to support the centrings for this purpose . This far-reaching principle , already applied by the Romans in their concrete vaults ( see p. 84 ) , appears as a re-discovery , or rather an independent invention , of the builders of Normandy at the close of the eleventh century . The flying buttress was a later invention ; in the round-arched buildings of the eleventh and twelfth centuries the buttressing was mainly internal , and was incomplete and timid in its arrangement . EXTERIORS . The exteriors were on this account plain and flat . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were rarely combined with the body of the church until after the beginning of the twelfth century . Then they appeared as mere belfries of moderate height , with pyramidal roofs and effectively arranged openings , the germs of the noble Gothic spires of later times . Externally the western porches and portals were the most important features of the design , producing an imposing effect by their massive arches , clustered piers , richly carved mouldings , and deep shadows . CLOISTERS , ETC . Mention should be made of the other monastic buildings which were grouped around the abbey churches of this period . These comprised refectories , chapter-halls , cloistered courts surrounded by the conventual cells , and a large number of accessory structures for kitchens , infirmaries , stores , etc . The whole formed an elaborate and complex aggregation of connected buildings , often of great size and beauty , especially the refectories and cloisters . Most of these conventual buildings have disappeared , many of them having been demolished during the Gothic period to make way for more elegant structures in the new style . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts in their original form , especially in Southern France . Among the most remarkable of these are those of Moissae , Elne , and Montmajour . MEDIEEVAL GERMANY . Architecture developed less rapidly and symmetrically in Germany than in France , notwithstanding the strong centralized government of the empire . The early churches were of wood , and the substitution of stone for wood proceeded slowly . During the Carolingian epoch ( 8o0-919 ) , however , a few important buildings were erected , embodying Byzantine and classic traditions . Among these the most notable was the Minster or palatine chapel of Charlemagne at Aix-la-Chapelle , an obvious imitation of San Vitale at Ravenna . It consisted of an octagonal domed hall surrounded by a vaulted aisle in two stories , but without the eight niches of the Ravenna plan . It was preceded by a porch flanked by turrets . The Byzantine type thus introduced was repeated in later churches , as in the Nuns ' Choir at Essen ( 947 ) and at Ottmarsheim ( io5o ) . In the great monastery at Fulda a basilica with transepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 803 . These choirs were raised above the level of the nave , to admit of crypts beneath them , as in many Lombard churches ; a practice which , with the reduplication of the choir and apse just mentioned , became very common in German Romanesque architecture . EARLY CHURCHES . It was in Saxony that this architecture first entered upon a truly national development . The early churches of this province and of Hildesheim ( where archi-tecture flourished under the favor of the bishops , as else-where under the royal influence ) were of basilican plan and destitute of vaulting , except in the crypts . They were built with massive piers , sometimes rectangular , sometimes clustered , the two kinds often alternating in the same nave . Short columns were , however , sometimes used instead of piers , either alone , as at Paulinzelle and Limburg-on-the-Hardt ( 1024-39 ) , or alternating with piers , as at Hecklin-gen , Gernrode ( 958-1050 ) , and St. Godehard at Hildesheim ( 1133 ) . A triple eastern apse , with apsidal chapels projecting eastward from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a second apse , choir , and crypt at the west end were not infrequent . Externally the most striking feature was the association of two , four , or even six square or circular towers with the mass of the church , and the elevation of square or polygonal turrets or cupolas over the crossing . These adjuncts gave a very picturesque aspect to edifices otherwise somewhat wanting in artistic interest . RHENISH CHURCHES . It was in the Rhine provinces that vaulting was first applied to the naves of German churches , nearly a half century after its general adoption in France . Cologne possesses an interesting trio of churches in which the Byzantine dome on squinches or on pendentives , with three apses or niches opening into the central area , was associated with a long three aisled nave ( St. Mary-in-the-Capitol , begun in 9th century ; Great St. Martin 's , 1150 ? 7o ; Apostles ' Church , l i 6o ? 99 : the naves vaulted later ) . The double chapel at SchwarzRheindorf , near Bonn ( 1151 ) , also has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nave itself was developed in another series of edifices of imposing size , the cathedrals of Mayence ( 1036 ) , Spires ( Speyer ) , and Worms , and the Abbey of Laach , all built in the 11th century and vaulted early in the 12th . In the first three the main vaulting is in square bays , each covering two bays of the nave , the piers of which are alternately lighter and heavier ( Figs. 99 , 100 ) . At Laach the vaulting-bays are oblong , both in nave and aisles . There was no triforium gallery , and stability was secured only by excessive thickness in the piers and clearstory walls , and by bringing down the main vault as near to the side-aisle roofs as possible . RHENISH EXTERIORS . These great churches , together with those of Bonn and Limburgon-the-Lahn and the cathedral of Treves ( Trier , 1047 ) , are interesting , not only by their size and dignity of plan and the somewhat rude massiveness of their construction , but even more so by the picturesqueness of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the massing of the large and small turrets with the lofty naveroof and with the apses at one or both ends . The systematic use of arcading to decorate the exterior walls , and the introduction of open arcaded dwarf galleries under the cornices of the apses , gables , and dome - turrets , gave to these Rhenish churches an external beauty hardly equalled in other contemporary edifices . This method of exterior design , and the system of vaulting in square bays over double bays of the nave , were probably derived from the Lombard churches of Northern Italy , with which the Hohenstauffen emperors had many political relations . The Italian influence is also encountered in a number of circular churches of early date , as at Fulda ( 9thrith century ) , Drugelte , Bonn ( baptistery , demolished ) , and in facades like that at Rosheim , which is a copy in little of San Zeno at Verona . Elsewhere in Germany architecture was in a backward state , especially in the southern provinces . Outside of Saxony , Franconia , and the Rhine provinces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirteenth SECULAR ARCHITECTURE . Little remains to us of the secular architecture of this period in Germany , if we except the great feudal castles , especially those of the Rhine , which were , after all , rather works of military engineering than of architectural art . The palace of Charlemagne at Aix ( the chapel of which was mentioned on p. 172 ) is known to have been a vast and splendid group of buildings , partly , at least of marble ; but hardly a vestige of it remains . Of the ex tensive Palace of Henry III . at Goslar there remain well-defined ruins of an imposing hall of assembly in two aisles with triple-arched windows . At Brunswick the east wing of the Burg Dankwargerode displays , in spite of modern alterations , the arrangement of the chapel , great hall , two fortified towers , and part of the residence of Henry the Lion . The Wartburg palace ( Ludwig III. , cir. 115o ) is more generally known ? a rectangular hall in three stories , with windows effectively grouped to form arcades ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings . A few of the Romanesque monasteries of Germany have left partial remains , as at Maulbronn , which was almost entirely rebuilt in the Gothic period , and isolated buildings in Cologne and elsewhere . There remain also in Cologne a number of Romanesque private houses with coupled windows and stepped gables . GREAT BRITAIN . Previous to the Norman conquest ( io66 ) there was in the British Isles little or no architecture worthy of mention . The few extant remains of Saxon and Celtic buildings reveal a singular poverty of ideas and want of technical skill . These scanty remains are mostly of towers ( those in Ireland nearly all round and tapering , with conical tops , their use and date being the subjects of much controversy ) and crypts . The tower of Earl 's Barton is the most important and best preserved of those in England . With the Norman conquest , however , began an extraordinary activity in the building of churches and abbeys . William the Conqueror himself founded a number of these , and his Norman ecclesiastics endeavored to surpass on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches differed somewhat from their French prototypes ; they were narrower and lower , but much longer , especially as to the choir and transepts . The cathedrals of Durham ( 1o96 ? 1133 ) and Norwich ( same date ) are important examples ( Fig. 102 ) . They also differed from the French churches in two important particulars externally ; a huge tower rose usually over the crossing , and the western portals were small and insignificant . Lateral entrances near the west end were given greater importance and called Galilces . At Durham a Galilee chapel ( not shown in the plan ) , takes the place of a porch at the west end , like the ante-churches of St. Benoit-sur-Loire and Vezelay . THE NORMAN STYLE . The AngloNorman builders employed the same general features as the Romanesque builders of Normandy , but with more of picturesqueness and less of refinement and technical elegance . Heavy walls , recessed arches , round mouldings , cubic cushion-caps , clustered piers , and in doorways a jamb-shaft for each stepping of the arch were common to both styles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its place being taken by simpler forms . NORMAN INTERIORS . The interior design of the larger churches of this period shows a close general analogy to contemporaneous French Norman churches , as appears by comparing the nave of Waltham or Peterboro ' with that of Cerisy-la-Foret , in Normandy . Although the massiveness of the Anglo-Norman piers and walls plainly suggests the intention of vaulting the nave , this intention seems never to have been carried out except in small churches and crypts . All the existing abbeys and cathedrals of this period had wooden ceilings or were , like Durham , Norwich , and Gloucester , vaulted at a later date . Completed as they were with wooden nave-roofs , the clearstory was , without danger , made quite lofty and furnished with windows of considerable size . These were placed near the outside of the thick wall , and a passage was left between them and a triple arch on the inner face of the wall ? a device imitated from the abbeys at Caen . The vaulted side-aisles were low , with disproportionately wide pier-arches , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - roofs . Thus a nearly equal height was assigned to each of the three stories of the bay , disregarding that subordination of minor to major parts which gives interest to an architectural composition . The piers were quite often round , as at Gloucester , Hereford , and Bristol . Sometimes round piers alternated with clustered piers , as at Durham and Waltham ; and in some cases clustered piers alone were employed , as at Peterboro ' and in the transepts of Winchester ( Fig. 103 ) . FACADES AND DOORWAYS . All the details were of the simplest character , except in the doorways . These were richly adorned with clustered jamb-shafts and elaborately carved mouldings , but there was little variety in the details of this carving . The zigzag was the most common feature , though birds ' heads with the beaks pointing toward the centre of the arch were not uncommon . In the smaller churches ( Fig. 104 ) the doorways were better proportioned to the whole facade than in the larger ones , in which they appear as relatively insignificant features . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their original form , nearly all of these having been altered after the round arch was displaced by the pointed arch in the latter part of the twelfth century . Iffley church ( Fig. 104 ) is a good example of the style . SPAIN . During the Romanesque period a large part of Spain was under Moorish dominion . The capture of Toledo , in io6z , by the Christians , began the gradual emancipation of the country from Moslem rule , and in the northern provinces a number of important churches were erected under the influence of French Romanesque models . The use of domical pendentives ( as in the Panteon of S. Isidoro , at Leon , and in the cimborio or dome over the choir at the intersection of nave and transepts in old Salamanca cathedral ) was probably derived from the domical churches of Aquitania and Anjou . Elsewhere the north-ern Romanesque type prevailed under various modifica-tions , with long nave and transepts , a short choir , and a // . complete chevet with apsidal chapels . The church of St. Iago at Compostella ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churches nearly all had groined vaulting over the side-aisles and barrel-vaults over the nave , the con-structive system being substantially that of the churches of Auvergne and the Loire Valley ( p. 165 ) . They differed , however , in the treatment of the crossing of nave and tran-septs , over which was usually erected a dome or cupola or pendentives or squinches , covered externally by an impos ing square lantern or tower , as in the Old Cathedral at Sal arnanca , already mentioned ( 112o ? 78 ) and the Collegi-ate Church at Toro . Occasional exceptions to these types are met with , as in the basilican wooden-roofed church of S. Milian at Segovia ; in S. Isidoro at Leon , with chapels and a later-added square eastern end , and the circular church of the Templars at Segovia . The architectural details of these Spanish churches did not differ radically from contemporary French work . As in France and England , the doorways were the most ornate parts of the design , the mouldings being carved with ex-treme richness and the jambs frequently adorned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no such logical and reasoned-out system of external design as in France , and there is consequently greater variety in the facades . Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the architecture of this period is its apparent exemption from the influence of the Moorish monuments which abounded on every hand . This may be explained by the hatred which was felt by the Christians for the Moslems and all their works . INTRODUCTORY . The architectural styles which were developed in Western Europe during the period extending from about 1150 to 1450 or 1500 , received in an unscientific age the wholly erroneous and inept name of Gothic . This name has , however , become so fixed in common usage that it is hardly possible to substitute for it any more scientific designation . In reality the architecture to which it is applied was nothing more than the sequel and outgrowth of the Romanesque , which we have already studied . Its fundamental principles were the same ; it was concerned with the same problems . Theseit took up where the Romanesque builders left them , and worked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the simple and massive models of the early twelfth century the splendid cathedrals of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries in England , France , Germany , the Low Countries and Spain . THE CHURCH AND ARCHITECTURE . The twelfth century was an era of transition in society , as in architecture . The ideas of Church and State were becoming more clearly defined in the common mind . In the conflict between feudalism and royalty the monarchy was steadily gaining ground . The problem of human right was beginning to present itself alongside of the problem of human might . The relations between the crown , the feudal barons , the pope , bishops , and abbots , differed widely in France , Germany , England , and other countries . The struggle among them for supremacy presented itself , therefore , in varied aspects ; but the general outcome was essentially the same . The church began to appear as something behind and above abbots , bishops , kings , and barons . The supremacy of the papal authority gained increasing recognition , and the episcopacy began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but especially in France , as the champions of popular rights . The prerogatives of the crown became more firmly established , and thus the Church and the State emerged from the social confusion as the two institutions divinely appointed for the government of men . Under these in-fluences ecclesiastical architecture advanced with rapid strides . No longer hampered by monastic restrictions , it called into its service the laity , whose guilds of masons and builders carried from one diocese to another their constantly increasing stores of constructive knowledge . By a wise division of labor , each man wrought only such parts as he was specially trained to undertake . The master-builder ? bishop , abbot , or mason ? seems to have planned only the general arrange-ment and scheme of the building , leav-ing the precise form of each detail to be determined as the work advanced , according to the skill and fancy of the artisan to whom it was intrusted . Thus was produced that remarkable variety in unity of the Gothic cathedrals ; thus , also , those singular irregularities and makeshifts , those discrepancies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every great work of medival architecture . Gothic architecture was constantly changing , attack-ing new problems or devising new solutions of old ones . In this char-acter of constant flux and develop-ment it contrasts strongly with the classic styles , in which the scheme and the principles were early fixed and remained substantially unchanged for centuries . STRUCTURAL PRINCIPLES . The pointed arch , so commonly regarded as the most characteristic feature of the Gothic styles , was merely an incidental feature of their develop-ment . What really distinguished them most strikingly was the systematic application of two principles which the Roman and Byzantine builders had recognized and applied , but which seem to have been afterward forgotten until they were revived by the later Romanesque architects . The first of these was . the concentration of strains upon isolated pointsof support , made possible by the substitution of groined for barrel vaults . This led to a corresponding concentration o - es of masonry at these points ; the building was constructed as if upon legs ( Fig. 105 ) . The wall became a mere filling-in between the piers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically suppressed , immense windows filled with stained glass taking its place . This is well illustrated in the Sainte Chapelle at Paris , built 1242 ? 47 ( Figs. io6 , 122 ) . In this remarkable edifice , a series of groined vaults spring from slender shafts built against deep buttresses which receive and resist all the thrusts . The wall-spaces between them are wholly occupied by superb windows filled with stone tracery and stained glass . It would be impossible to combine the materials used more scientifically or effectively . The cathedrals of Gerona ( Spain ) and of Alby ( France ; Fig. 123 ) illustrate the same principle , though in them the buttresses are internal and serve to separate the flanking chapels . The second distinctive prin ciple of Gothic architecture ' was that of balanced thrusts . In ( ) man buildings the thrust of the vaulting was resisted wholly by the inertia of mass in the abutments . In Gothic architecture thrusts were , as far as possible resisted by counter-thrusts and the final resu tant pressure was transmitted by flying half-arches across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at convenient points . This combination of flying half-arches and buttresses is called the flying-buttress ( Fig. 107 ) . It reached its highest development in the thir-teenth and fourteenth centuries in the cathedrals of central and northern France . RIBBED VAULTING . These two principles formed the structural basis of the Gothic styles . Their application led to the introduction of two other elements , second only to them in importance , ribbed vaulting and the pointed arch . The first of these resulted from the effort to overcome certain practical difficulties encountered in the building of large groined vaults . As ordinarily constructed , a groined vault like that in Fig. 47 , must be built as one structure , upon wooden centrings supporting its whole extent . The Romanesque architects conceived the idea of constructing an independent skeleton of ribs . Two of these were built against the wall ( wall-ribs ) , two across the nave ( transverse ribs ) ; and two others were made to coincide with the groins ( Figs. 98 , 1o8 ) . The groinribs , intersecting at the centre of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or compartments , each of which was really an independent vault which could be separately constructed upon light cen-trings supported by the groin-ribs themselves . This principle , though identical in essence with the Roman system of brick skeleton-ribs for concrete vaults , was , in applica-tion and detail , superior to it , both from the scientific and artistic point of view . The ribs , richly moulded , became , in the hands of the Gothic architects , important decorative features . In practice the builder gave to each set of ribs independently the curvature he desired . The vaulting-sur-faces were then easily twisted or warped so as to fit the various ribs , which , being already in place , served as guides for their construction . THE POINTED ARCH was adopted to remedy the difficulties encountered in the construction of oblong vaults . It is obvious that where a narrow semi-cylindrical vault inter sects a wide one , it produces either what are called penetrations , as at a ( Fig. 109 ) , or intersections like that at b , both of which are awkward in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or both vaults be given a pointed section , the narrow vault may be made as high as the wide one . It is then possible , with but little warping of the vaulting surfaces , to make them intersect in groins c , which arc vertical plane curves instead of wavy loops like a and b . The Gothic architects availed themselves to the full of these two devices . They built their groin-ribs of semi-circular or pointed form , but the wall-ribs and the transverse ribs were , without exception , pointed arches of such curvature as would bring the apex of each nearly or quite to the level of the groin intersection . The pointed arch , thus introduced as the most convenient form for the vaulting-ribs , was soon applied to other parts of the structure This was a necessity with the windows and pier-arches , which would not otherwise fit well the wallspaces under the wall-ribs of the nave and aisle vaulting . TRACERY AND GLASS . With the growth in the size of the windows and the progressive suppression of the lateral walls of vaulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use . Its introduction not only resulted in a notable heightening and enriching of the colors and scheme of the interior decoration , but reacted on the architecture , intensifying the very causes which led to its introduction . It stimulated the increase in the size of windows , and the suppression of the walls , and contributed greatly to the de-velopment of tracery . This latter feature was an absolute necessity for the support of the glass . Its evolution can be traced ( Figs. i to , III , 112 ) from the simple coupling of twin windows under a single hood-mould , or discharging arch , to the florid net-work of the fifteenth century . In its earlier forms it consisted merely of decorative openings , circles , and quatrefoils , pierced through slabs of stone ( platetracely ) , filling the windowheads over coupled windows . Later attention was bestowed upon the form of the stonework , which was made lighter and richly moulded ( bar-traceiy ) , rather than upon that of the openings ( Fig . I I I ) . Then the circular and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designs ( Flamboyant tracery , Fig. 112 ) or ( in England ) for more rigid and rectangular arrangements ( Perpendicular , Fig. 134 ) . It will be shown later that the periods and styles of Gothic architecture are more easily identified by the tracery than by any other feature . CHURCH PLANS . The original basilica - plan underwent radical modifications during the Izth ? 15th centuries . These resulted in part from the changes in construction which have been described , and in part from altered ecclesiastical conditions and requirements . Gothic church architecture was based on cathedral design ; and the requirements of the cathedral differed in many respects from those of the monastic churches of the preceding period . The most important alterations in the plan were in the choir and transepts . The choir was greatly lengthened , the transepts often shortened . The choir was provided with two and often four sideaisles , and one or both of these was commonly carried entirely around the apsidal termination of the choir , forming a single or double ambulatory . This combination of choir , apse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chevet . Another advance upon Romanesque models was the multiplication of chapels ? a natural consequence of the more popular character of the cathedral as compared with the abbey . Frequently lateral chapels were built at each bay of the side-aisles , filling up the space between the deep buttresses , flanking the nave as well as the choir . They were also carried around the chevet in most of the French cathedrals ( Paris , Bourges , Reims , Amiens , Beauvais , and many others ) ; in many of those in Germany ( Magdeburg , Cologne , Frauenkirche at Treves ) , Spain ( Toledo , Leon , Barcelona , Segovia , etc. ) , and Belgium ( Tournay , Antwerp ) . In England the choir had more commonly a square eastward termination . Secondary transepts occur frequently , and these peculiarities , together with the narrowness and great length of most of the plans , make of the English cathedrals a class by themselves . PROPORTIONS AND COMPOSITION . Along with these modifications of the basilican plan should be noticed a great increase in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The lofty clearstory , the arcaded triforium-passage or gallery beneath it , the high pointed pier-arches , the multiplication of slender clustered shafts , and the reduction in the area of the piers , gave to the Gothic churches an interior aspect wholly different from that of the simpler , lower , and more massive Romanesque edifices . The perspective effects of the plans thus modified , especially of the complex choir and chevet with their lateral and radial chapels , were remarkably enriched and varied . The exterior was even more radically transformed by these changes , and by the addition of towers and spires to the fronts , and sometimes to the transepts and to their intersection with the nave . The deep buttresses , terminating in pinnacles , the rich traceries of the great lateral windows , the triple portals profusely sculptured , rose-windows of great size under the front and transept gables , combined to produce effects of marvellously varied light and shadow , and of complex and elaborate structural beauty , totally unlike the broad simplicity of the Romanesque exteriors . DECORATIVE DETAIL . The medieval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective play of lights and shades , and to embody in the decorative detail the greatest possible amount of allegory and symbolism , and sometimes of humor besides . The deep jambs and soffits of doors and pier - arches were moulded with a rich succession of hollow and convex members , and adorned with carvings of saints , apostles , martyrs , and angels . Virtues and vices , allegories of reward and punishment , and an extraordinary world of monstrous and grotesque beasts , devils , and goblins filled the capitals and door-arches , peeped over tower - parapets , or leered and grinned from gargoyles and corbels . Another source of decorative detail was the application of tracery like that of the windows to wall-panelling , to balustrades , to open-work gables , to spires , to choir-screens , and other features , especially in the late fourteenth and fifteenth centuries ( cathedrals of York , Rouen , Cologne ; Henry VII . ' s Chapel , Westminster ) . And finally in the carving of capitals and the ornamentation of mouldings the artists of the thirteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which still survived in the early twelfth century . The later monastic builders began to look directly to nature for suggestions of decorative form . The lay builders who sculptured the capitals and crockets and finials of the early Gothic cathedrals adopted and followed to its finality this principle of recourse to nature , especially to plant life . At first the budding shoots of early spring were freely imitated or skilfully conventionalized , as being by their thick and vigorous forms the best adapted for translation into stone ( Fig . I14 ) . During the thirteenth century the more advanced stages of plant growth , and leaves more complex and detailed , furnished the models for the carver , who displayed his skill in a closer and more literal imitation of their minute veinings and indentations ( Fig. 115 ) . This artistic adaptation of natural forms to architectural decoration degenerated later into a minutely realistic copying of natural foliage , in which cleverness of execution took the place of original invention . The spirit of dis play is characteristic of all late Gothic work . Slenderness , minuteness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unrestrained profusion of decoration covering every surface , a lack of largeness and vigor in the conceptions , are conspicuous traits of Gothic design in the fifteenth century , alike in France , England , ' Germany , Spain , and the Low Countries . Having worked out to their conclusion the structural principles bequeathed to them by the preceding centuries , the authors of these later works seemed to have devoted themselves to the elaboration of mere decorative detail , and in technical finish surpassed all that had gone before ( Fig. 113 ) . CHARACTERISTICS SUMMARIZED . In the light of the preceding explanations Gothic architecture may be defined as that system of structural design and decoration which grew up out of the effort to combine , in one harmonious and organic conception , the basilican plan with a complete and systematic construction of groined vaulting . Its development was controlled throughout by considerations of stability and structural propriety , but in the application of these considerations the artistic spirit was allowed full scope for its exercise . Refinement , good taste , and great fertility of imagination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Greeks in harmonizing the requirements of utility and beauty in architecture approached the problem from the aesthetic side , the Gothic architects did the same from the structural side . Their admirably reasoned structures express as perfectly the idea of vastness , mystery , and complexity as do the Greek temples that of simplicity and monumental repose . The excellence of Gothic architecture lay not so much in its individual details as in its perfect adaptation to the purposes for which it was developed ? its triumphs were achieved in the building of cathedrals and large churches , In the domain of civil and domestic architecture it produced nothing comparable with its ecclesiastical edifices , because it was the requirements of the cathedral and not of the palace , town-hall , or dwelling , that gave it its form and character . PERIODS . The history of Gothic architecture is commonly divided into three periods , which are most readily distinguished by the character of the window-tracery . These periods were not by any means synchronous in the different countries ; but the order of sequence was everywhere the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the characteristics of each . EARLY POINTED PERIOD . Early French ; Early English or lancet Period in England ; Early German , etc . Simple groined vaults ; general simplicity and vigor of design and detail ; conventionalized foliage of small plants ; plate tracery , and narrow windows coupled under pointed arch with circular foiled openings in the window-head . ( In France , 116o to 1275 . ) MIDDLE POINTED PERIOD . Rayozzzzaznt in France ; Decorated or Geometric in England . Vaults more perfect ; in England multiple ribs and liernes ; greater slenderness and loftiness of proportions ; decoration much richer , less vigorous ; more naturalistic carving of mature foliage ; walls nearly suppressed , windows of great size , bar tracery with slender moulded or columnar mullions and geometric combinations ( circles and cusps ) in window-heads , circular ( rose ) windows . ( In France , 1275 to 1375 . ) FLORID GOTHIC PERIOD . Flamboyant in France ; Pezpendiczzlar in England . Vaults of varied and richly decorated design ; fan-vaulting and pendants in England , vault-ribs curved into fanciful patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleverness of technical execution substituted for dignity of design ; highly realistic carving and sculpture , flowing or flamboyant tracery in France ; perpendicular bars with horizontal transoms and four-centred arches in England " branch-tracery " in Germany . ( In France , 1375 to 1525 . ) CATHEDRAL-BUILDING IN FRANCE . In the development of the principles outlined in the foregoing chapter the churchbuilders of France led the way . They surpassed all their contemporaries in readiness of invention , in quickness and directness of reasoning , and in artistic refinement . These qualities were especially manifested in the extraordinary architectural activity which marked the second half of the twelfth century and the first half of the thirteenth . This was the great age of cathedral-building in France . The adhesion of the bishops to the royal cause , and their position in popular estimation as the champions of justice and human rights , led to the rapid advance of the episcopacy in power and influence . The cathedral , as the throne-church of the bishop , became a truly popular institution . New cathedrals were founded on every side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CATHADRALE , CHAPELLE , CONSTRUCTION , EGLISE , MAISON , VOUTE . Royal Domain and the adjoining provinces of Normandy , Burgundy , and Champagne , and their construction was warmly seconded by the people , the communes , and the municipalities . " Nothing to-day , " says Viollet-le-Uuc , * " unless it be the commercial movement which has covered Europe with railway lines , can give an idea of the zeal with which the urban populations set about building cathedrals ; . . . a necessity at the end of the twelfth century because it was an energetic protest against feudalism . " The collapse of the unscientific Romanesque vaulting of some of the earlier cathedrals and the destruction by fire of others stimulated this movement by the necessity for their immediate rebuilding . The entire reconstruction of the cathedrals of Bayeux , Bayonne , Cambray , Evreux , Laon , Lisieux , Le Mans , Noyon , Poitiers , Senlis , Soissons , and Troyes was begun between I130 and 1200 . E The cathedrals of Bourges , Chartres , Paris , and Tours , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were begun during the same period , and during the next quarter-century those of Amiens , Auxerre , Rouen , Reims , Seez , and many others . After 1250 the movement slackened and finally ceased . Few important cathedrals were erected ( luring the latter half of the thirteenth century , the chief among them being at Beauvais ( actively begun 1247 ) , Clermont , Coutances , Limoges , Narbonne , and Rodez . During this period , and through the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries , French architecture was concerned rather with the completion and remodelling of existing cathedrals than the founding of new ones . There were , however , many important parish churches and civil or domestic edifices erected within this period . STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT : VAULTING . By the middle of the twelfth century the use of barrel-vaulting over the nave had been generally abandoned and groined vaulting with its isolated points of support and resistance had taken its place . The timid experiments of the Clunisian architects at Vezelay in the use of the pointed arch and vault-ribs also led , in the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The builders of the great Abbey Church of St. Denis , near Paris , begun in 1I40 by the Abbot Suger , appear to have been the first to develop these tentative devices into a system . In the original choir of this noble church all the arches , alike of the vault-ribs ( except the groin-ribs , which were semi-circles ) and of the openings , were pointed and the vaults were throughout constructed with cross-ribs , wall-ribs , and groin-ribs . Of this early work only the chapels remain . In other contemporary monuments , as for instance in the cathedral of Sens , the adoption of these devices was only partial and hesitating . NOTRE DAME AT PARIS . The next great step in advance was taken in the cathedral of Notre Dame* at Paris ( Figs. 116 , 117 , 125 ) . This was begun , under Maurice de Sully in 1163 , on the site of the twin cathedrals of Ste. Marie and St. Etienne , and the choir was , as usual , the first portion erected . By 1196 the choir , transepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially finished . The completeness , harmony , and vigor of conception of this remarkable church contrast strikingly with the makeshifts and hesitancy displayed in many contemporary monuments in other provinces . The difficult vaulting over the radiating bays of the double ambulatory was here treated with great elegance . By doubling the number of supports in the exterior circuit of each aisle ( Fig. 116 ) each trapezoidal bay of the vaulting was divided into three easily managed triangular compartments . Circular shafts were used between the central and side aisles . The side aisles were doubled and those next the centre were built in two stories , providing ample galleries behind a very open triforium . The nave was unusually lofty and covered with six-part vaults of admirable execution . The vault-ribs were vigorously moulded and each made to spring from a distinct vaulting-shaft , of which three rested upon the cap of each of the massive piers below ( Fig. 117 ) . The Cathedral of Bourges , begun 1190 , closely resembled that of Paris in plan . Both were designed to accommodate vast throngs in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bourges has no side-aisle galleries , though the inner aisles are much loftier than the outer ones . Though later in date the vaulting of Bourges is inferior to that of Notre Dame , especially in the treatment of the trapezoidal bays of the ambulatory . The masterly examples set by the vault-builders of St. Denis and Notre Dame were not at once generally followed . Noyon , Senlis , and Soissons , contemporary with these , are far less completely Gothic in style . At Le Mans the groined vaulting which in 1158 was substituted for the original barrel-vault of the cathedral is of very primitive design , singularly heavy and awkward , although nearly contemporary with that of Notre Dame ( Fig. 118 ) . DOMICAL GROINED VAULTING . The builders of the South and , West , influenced by Aquitanian models , adhered to the square plan and domical form of vaulting-bay , even after they had begun to employ groin-ribs . The latter , as at first used by them in imitation of Northern examples , had no organic function in the vault , which was still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cathedral of St. Maurice at Angers was vaulted with square , groin-ribbed vaults , domical in form but not in construction . The joints no longer described horizontal circles as in a dome , but oblique lines perpendicular to the groins and meeting in zigzag lines at the ridge ( Fig. 119 ) . This method became common in the West and was afterward generally adopted by the English architects . The Cathedrals of Poitiers ( 1162 ) and Laval ( La Trinite , 118o ? rr85 ) are examples of this system , which at Le Mans met with the Northern system and produced in the cathedral the awkward compromise described above . THIRTEENTH-CENTURY VAULTING . Early in the thirteenth century the church-builders of Northern France abandoned the use of square vaulting - bays and sixpart vaults . By the adoption of groin-ribs and the pointed arch , the building of vaults in oblong bays was greatly simplified . Each bay of the nave could now be covered with its own vaulting-bay , thus doing away with all necessity for alternately light and heavy piers . It is not quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the complete vaulting of a church . It is , however , probable that the Cathedral of Chartres , begun in 1194 and completed before 1240 , deserves this distinction , although it is possible that the vaults of Soissons and Noyon may slightly antedate it . Troyes ( 1170-1267 ) , Rouen ( 1202-1220 ) , Reims ( 1212-1242 ) , Auxerre ( 1215-1234 , nave fourteenth century ) , Amiens ( 1220-1288 ) , and nearly all the great churches and chapels begun after 1200 , employ the fully developed oblong vault . BUTTRESSING . Meanwhile the increasing height of the clearstories and the use of double aisles compelled the bestowal of especial attention upon the buttressing . The nave and choir of Chartres , the choirs of Notre Dame , Bourges , Rouen , and Reims , the chevet and later the choir of St. Denis , afford early examples of the flying-buttress ( Fig. 107 ) . These were at first simple and of moderate height . Single half-arches spanned the side aisles ; in Notre Dame they crossed the double aisles in a single leap . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight of lofty pinnacles . An intermediate range of buttresses and pinnacles was built over the intermediate piers where double aisles flanked the nave and choir , thus dividing the single flying arch into two arches . At the same time a careful observation of statical defects in the earlier examples led to the introduction of subordinate arches and of other devices to stiffen and to beautify the whole system . At Reims and Amiens these features received their highest development , though later examples are frequently much more ornate . INTERIOR DESIGN . The progressive change outlined in the last chapter , by which the wall was practically suppressed , the windows correspondingly enlarged , and every part of the structure made loftier and more slender , resulted in the evolution of a system of interior design well represented by the nave of Amiens . The second story or gallery over the side aisle disappeared , but the aisle itself was very high . The triforiurn was no longer a gallery , but a richly arcaded passage in the thickness of the wall , corresponding to the roofing-space over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clearstory . Nearly the whole space above it was occupied in each bay by the vast clearstory window filled with simple but effective geometric tracery over slender mullions . The side aisles were lighted by windows which , like those in the clearstory , occupied nearly the whole available wall-space under the vaulting . The piers and shafts were all clustered and remarkably slender . The whole construction of this vast edifice , which covers nearly eighty thousand square feet , ' is a marvel of lightness , of scientific combinations , and of fine execution . Its great vault rises to a height of one hundred and forty feet . The nave of St. Denis , though less lofty , resembles it closely in style ( Fig. 120 ) . Earlier cathedrals show less of the harmony of proportion , the perfect working out of the relation of all parts of the composition of each bay , so conspicuous in the Amiens type , which was followed in most of the later churches . WINDOWS : TRACERY . The clearstory windows of Noyon , Soissons , Sens , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openings arranged singly , in pairs , or in threes . In the cathedral of Chartres ( 1194 ? 122o ) they consist of two arched windows with a circle above them , forming a sort of plate tracery under a single arch . In the chapel windows of the choir at Reims ( 1215 ) the tracery of mullions and circles was moulded inside and out , and the intermediate triangular spaces all pierced and glazed . Rose windows were early used in front and transept facades . During the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries they were made of vast size and great lightness of tracery , as in the transepts of Notre Dame ( 1257 ) and the west front of Amiens ( 1288 ) . From the design of these windows is derived the name Rayonnant , often applied to the French Gothic style of the period 1275-1375 . THE SAINTE CHAPELLE . In this beautiful royal chapel at Paris , built 1242 ? 47 , Gothic design was admirably exemplified in the noble windows 15 by 50 feet in size , which perhaps furnished the models for those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slender mullions into four lancet-like lights gathered under the rich tracery of the window - head . They were filled with stained glass of the most brilliant but harmonious hues . They occupy the whole available wallspace , so that the ribbed vault internally seems almost to rest on walls of glass , so slender are the visible supports and so effaced by the glow of color in the windows . Certainly lightness of construction and the suppression of the wall-masonry could hardly be carried further than here ( Fig. 121 ) . Among other chapels of the same type are those in the palace of St. Germain-en-Laye ( 1240 ) , and a later example in the chateau of Vincennes , begun by Charles VI. , but not finished till 1525 . PLANS . The most radical change from the primitive basilican type was , as already explained in the last chapter , the continuation " ef th-e- side isles around , , the apse to form a chevet ; and later , the addition of chapels between the external buttresses . Radiating chapels , usually semi-octagons or semi-decagons in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fig. 122 ) . These may have originated in the apsidal chapels of Romanesque churches in Auvergne and the South , as at Issoire , Clermont - Ferrand , Le Puy , and Toulouse . They generally superseded the transept-chapels of earlier churches , and added greatly to the beauty of the interior perspective , especially when the encircling aisles of the chevet were doubled . Notre Dame , as at first erected , had a double ambulatory , but no chapels . Bourges has only five very small semicircular chapels . Chartres ( choir 1220 ) and Le Mans , as reconstructed about the same date , have double ambulatories and radial chapels . After 1220 the second ambulatory no longer appears . Noyon , Soissons , Reims , Amiens , Troyes , and Beauvais , Tours , Bayeux , and Coutances , Clermont , Limoges , and Narbonne all have the single ambulatory and radiating chevet-chapels . The Ladychapel in the axis of the church was often made longer and more important than the other chapels , as at Amiens , Le Mans , Rouen , Bayeux , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cathedrals named above , and Notre Dame and Tours also have side chapels to the nave . The only cathedrals with complete double side aisles alike to nave , choir , and chevet , were Notre Dame and Bourges . It is somewhat singular that the German cathedral of Cologne is the only one in which all these various characteristic French features were united in one design ( see Fig. 140 ) . Local considerations had full sway in France , in spite of the tendency toward unity of type . Thus Doi , Laon , and Poitiers have square eastward terminations ; Chalons has no ambulatory ; Bourges no transept . In Notre Dame the transept was almost suppressed . At Soissons one transept , at Noyon both , had semicircular ends . Alby , a late cathedral of brick , founded in 128o , but mostly built during the fourteenth century , has neither side aisles nor transepts , its wide nave being flanked by chapels separated by internal buttresses ( Fig. 123 ) . SCALE . The French cathedrals were nearly all of imposing dimensions . Noyon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Sens measures 354 ? Laon , Bourges , Troyes , Notre Dame , Le Mans , Rouen , and Chartres vary from 396 to 437 feet in extreme length ; Reims measures 483 , and Amiens , the longest of all , 521 feet . Notre Dame is 124 feet wide across the five aisles of the nave ; Bourges , somewhat wider . The central aisles of these two cathedrals , and of Laon , Amiens , and Beauvais , have a span of not far from 40 feet from centre to centre of the piers ; while the ridge of the vaulting , which in Notre Dame is io8 feet above the pavement , and in Bourges 125 , reaches in Amiens a height of 140 feet , and of nearly 16o in Beauvais . This emphasis of the height , from 3 to 3z times the clear width of the nave or choir , is one of the most striking features of the French cathedrals . It produces an impressive effect , but tends to dwarf the great width of the central aisle . EXTERIOR DESIGN . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its constructive raison d'ctre , and the total effect was determined by the fundamental structural scheme . This was especially true of the lateral elevations , in which the pinnacled buttresses , the flying arches , and the traceried windows of the side aisle and clearstory , repeated uniformly at each bay , were the principal elements of the design . The transept facades and main front allowed greater scope for invention and fancy , but even here the interior membering gave the key to the composition . Strong buttresses marked the division of the aisles and resisted the thrust of the terminal pier arches , and rose windows filled the greater part of the wall space under the end of the lofty vaulting . The whole structure was crowned by a steep-pitched roof of wood , covered with lead , copper , or tiles , to protect the vault from damage by snow and moisture . This roof occasioned the steep gables which crowned the transept and main facades . The main front was frequentlyadorned , above the triple portal , with a gallery of niches or tabernacles filled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Chartres , Notre Dame , Amiens , Reims , and Rouen , of which Notre Dame ( Fig. 124 ) and Reims are perhaps the finest . Notre Dame is especially remarkable for its stately simplicity and the even balancing of horizontal and vertical elements . PORCHES . In most French church facades the porches were the most striking features , with their deep shadows and sculptured arches . The Romanesque porches were usually limited in depth to the thickness of the front wall . The Gothic builders secured increased depth by projecting the portals out beyond the wall , and crowned them with elaborate gables . The vast central door was divided in two by a pier adorned with a niche and statue . Over this the tympanum of the arch was carved with scriptural reliefs ; the jambs and arches were profusely adorned with figures of saints , apostles , martyrs , and angels , under elaborate canopies . The porches of Laon , Bourges , Amiens , and Reims are especially deep and majestic in effect , the lastnamed ( built 138o ) being the richest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portals . The of Chartres ( 1210 ? 1245 ) rank among the finest works of Gothic decorative architecture , the south porch in some respects surpassing that of the north transept . The portals of the fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries were remarkable for the extraordinary richness and minuteness of their tracery and sculpture , as at Abbeville , Alencon , the cathedral and St. Maclou at Rouen ( Fig. 125 ) , Tours , Troyes , Vendome , etc . TOWERS AND SPIRES . The emphasizing of vertical elements reached its fullest expression in the towers and spires of the churches . What had been at first merely a lofty belfry roof was rapidly developed into the spire , rising three hundred feet or more into the air . This development had already made progress in the Romanesque period , and the south spire of Chartres is a notable example of late twelfth-century steeple design . The transition from the square tower to the slender octagonal pyramid was skilfully effected by means of corner pinnacles and dormers . During and after the thirteenth century the development was almost wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not of radical constructive modification . The northern spire of Chartres ( 1515 ) and the spires of Bordeaux , Coutances , Senlis , and the Flamboyant church of St. Maclou at Rouen , illustrate this development . In Normandy central spires were common , rising over the crossing of nave and transepts . In some cases the designers of cathedrals contemplated a group of towers ; this is evident at Chartres , Coutances , and Reims . This intention was , however , never realized ; it demanded resources beyond even the enthusiasm of the thirteenth century . Only in rare instances were the spires of any of the towers completed , and the majority of the French towers have square terminations , with low-pitched wooden roofs , generally invisible from below . In general , French towers are marked by their strong buttresses , solid lower stories , twin windows in each side of the belfry proper ? these windows being usually of great size ? and a skilful management of the transition to an octagonal plan for the belfry or the spire. 14 CARVING AND SCULPTURE . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its decorative details . Especially fine is the figure sculpture , which in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries attained true nobility of expression , combined with great truthfulness and delicacy of execution . Some of its finest productions are found in the great doorway jambs of the west portals of the cathedrals , and in the ranks of throned and adoring angels which adorned their deep arches . These reach their highest beauty in the portals of Reims ( 138o ) . The tabernacles or carved niches in which such statues were set were important elements in the decoration of the exteriors of churches . Foliage forms were used for nearly all the minor carved ornaments , though grotesque and human figures sometimes took their place . The gargoyles through which the roofwater was discharged clear of the building , were almost always composed in the form of hideous monsters ; and symbolic beasts , like the oxen in the towers of Laon , or monsters like those which peer from the tower balustrades of Notre Dame , were employed with some mystical significance in various parts of the building . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were mostly composed of floral or foliage forms . Those of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries were for the most part simple in mass , and crisp and vigorous in design , imitating the strong shoots of early spring . The capitals were tall and slender , concave in profile , with heavy square or octagonal abaci . With the close of the thirteenth century this simple and forcible style of detail disappeared . The carving became more realistic ; the leaves , larger and more mature , were treated as if applied to the capital or moulding , not as if they grew out of it . The execution and detail were finer and more delicate , in harmony with the increasing slenderness and lightness of the architecture ( Fig. 126 a , b ) . Tracery forms now began to be profusely applied to all manner of surfaces , and open-work gables , wholly unnecessary from the structural point of view , but highly effective as decorations , adorned the portals and crowned the windows . LATE GOTHIC MONUMENTS . So far our attention has been mainly occupied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , relatively few in number , whose construction is referable to the second half of the century , that of Beauvais stands first in importance . Designed on a colossal scale , its foundations were laid in 1225 , but it was never completed , and the portion built ? the choir and chapels ? belonged really to the second half of the century , having been completed in 1270 . But the collapse in 1284 of the central tower and vaulting of this incomplete cathedral , owing to the excessive loftiness and slenderness of its supports , compelled its entire reconstruction , the number of the piers being doubled and the span of the pier arches correspondingly reduced . As thus rebuilt , the cathedral aisle was 47 feet wide from centre to centre of opposite piers , and 163 feet high to the top of the vault . Transepts were added after 1500 . Limoges and Narbonne , begun in 1272 on a large scale ( though not equal in size to Beauvais ) , were likewise never completed . Both had choirs of admirable plan , with well-designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed only after long delays , as , for instance , Meaux , Rodez ( 1277 ) , Toulouse ( 1272 ) , and Alby ( 1282 ) , finished in the sixteenth century , and Clermont ( 1248 ) , completed under Napoleon III . But between 126o or 1275 and 1350 , work was actively prosecuted on many still incomplete cathedrals . The choirs of Beauvais ( rebuilding ) , Limoges , and Narbonne were finished after 1330 ; and towers , transeptfacades , portals , and chapels added to many others of earlier date . The style of this period is sometimes designated as Rayonnant , from the characteristic wheel tracery of the rosewindows , and the prevalence of circular forms in the lateral arched windows , of the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries . The great rose windows in the transepts of Notre Dame , dating from 1257 , are typical examples of the style . Those of Rouen cathedral belong to the same category , though of later date . The facade of Amiens , completed by 1288 , is one of the finest works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elaborate parish church of St. Urbain at Troyes . THE FLAMBOYANT STYLE . The geometric treatment of the tracery and the minute and profuse decoration of this period gradually merged into the fantastic and unrestrained extravagances of the Flamboyant style , which prevailed until the advent of the Renaissance ? say 1525 . The continuous logical development of forms ceased , and in its place caprice and display controlled the arts of design . The finest monument of this long period is the fifteenth-century nave and central tower of the church of St. Onen at Rouen , a parish church of the first rank , begun in 1318 , but not finished until 1515 . The tracery of the lateral windows is still chiefly geometric , but the western rose window ( Fig. 112 ) and the magnificent central tower or lantern , exhibit in their tracery the florid decoration and wavy , flame-like lines of this style . Slenderness of supports and the suppression of horizontal lines are here carried to an extreme ; and the church , in spite of its great elegance of detail , lacks the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cathedral of Alencon and the church of St. Maclou at Rouen , have portals with unusually elaborate detail of tracery and carving ; while the facade of Rouen cathedral ( 1509 ) surpasses all other examples in the lace-like minute . ness of its open-work and its profusion of ornament . The churches of St. Jacques at Dieppe , and of St. Wulfrand at Abbeville , the facades of Tours and Troyes , are among the masterpieces of the style . The upper part of the facade of Reims ( 1380 ? 1428 ) belongs to the transition from the Rayonnant to the Flamboyant . While some works of this period are conspicuous for the richness of their ornamentation , others are noticeably bare and poor in design , like St. Merri and St. Severin in Paris . SECULAR AND MONASTIC ARCHITECTURE . The building of cathedrals did not absorb all the architectural activity of the French during the Gothic period , nor did it by any means put an end to monastic building . While there are few Gothic cloisters to equal the Romanesque cloisters of Puy-en-Velay , Montmajour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either rebuilt their churches in the Gothic style after 115o , or extended and remodelled their conventual buildings . The cloisters of Fontfroide , Chaise-Dieu , and the Mont St. Michel rival those of Romanesque times , while many new refectories and chapels were built in the same style with the cathedrals . The most complete of these Gothic monastic establishments , that of the Mont St. Michel in Normandy , presented a remarkable aggregation of buildings clustering around the steep isolated rock on which stands the abbey church . This was built in the eleventh century , and the choir and chapels remodelled in the sixteenth . The great refectory and dormitory , the cloisters , lodgings , and chapels , built in several vaulted stories against the cliffs , are admirable examples of the vigorous pointed-arch design of the early thirteenth century . Hospitals like that of St. Jean at Angers ( late twelfth century ) , or those of Chartres , Ourscamps , Tonnerre , and Beaune , illustrate how skilfully the French could modify and adapt the details of their architecture to the special requirements of civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the middle ages ? asylums , hospitals , refuges , and the like ? but very few of those in France are now extant . Town halls were built in the fifteenth century in some places where a certain amount of popular independence had been secured . The florid fifteenth-century Palais de Justice at Rouen ( 1499 ? 1508 ) is an example of another branch of secular Gothic architecture . In all these monuments the adaptation of means to ends is admirable . Wooden ceilings and roofs replaced stone , wherever required by great width of span or economy of construction . There was little sculpture ; the wall-spaces were not suppressed in favor of stained glass and tracery ; while the roofs were usually emphasized and adorned with elaborate crestings and finials in lead or terra-cotta . DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE . These same principles controlled the designing of houses , farm buildings , barns , granaries , and the like . The common closely-built French city house of the twelfth and thirteenth century is illustrated by many extant examples at Cluny , Provins , and other towns . A shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow stairway , and two or three stories of rooms lighted by clustered , pointed-arched windows , constituted the common type . The street front was usually gabled and the roof steep . In the fourteenth or fifteenth century halftimbered construction began to supersede stone for town houses , as it permitted of encroaching upon the street by projecting the upper stories . Many of the half-timbered houses of the fifteenth century were of elaborate design . The heavy oaken uprights were carved with slender colonnettes ; the horizontal sills , bracketed out over the street , were richly moulded ; picturesque dormers broke the skyline , and the masonry filling between the beams was frequently faced with enamelled tiles . The more considerable houses or palaces of royalty , nobles , and wealthy citizens rivalled , and in time surpassed , the monastic buildings in richness and splendor . The earlier examples retain the military aspect , with moat and donjon , as in the Louvre of Charles V. , demolished in the sixteenth century . The finest palaces are of late date , and the type is well represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hotel de Cluny ( 1485 ) at Paris , the Hotel Jacques Coeur at Bourges ( Fig. 127 ) , and the east wing of Blois ( 1498-1515 ) . These palaces are not only excellently and liberally planned , with large halls , many staircases , and handsome courts ; they are also extremely picturesque with their square and circular towers , slender turrets , elaborate dormers , and rich carved detail . GENERAL CHARACTER . Gothic architecture was developed in England under a strongly established royal power , with an episcopate in no sense hostile to the abbots or in arms against the barons . Many of the cathedrals had monastic chapters , and not infrequently abbots were invested with the episcopal rank . English Gothic architecture was thus by no means predominantly an architecture of cathedrals . If architectural activity in England was on this account less intense and widespread in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries than in France , it was not , on the other hand , so soon exhausted . Fewer new cathedrals were built , but the progressive rebuilding of those already existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fifteenth century . Architect ure in England developed more slowly , but more uniformly , than in France . It contented itself with simpler problems ; and if it failed to rival Amiens in boldness of construction , and in lofty majesty , it at least never perpetrated a folly like Beauvais . In richness of internal decoration , especially in the mouldings and ribbed vaulting , and in the picturesque grouping of simple masses externally , the British builders went far toward atoning for their structural timidity . EARLY GOTHIC BUILDINGS . The pointed arch and ribbed vault were importations from France . Early examples appear in the Cistercian abbeys of Furness and Kirkstall , and in the Temple Church at London ( 1185 ) . But it was in the Choir of Canterbury , as rebuilt by William of Sens , after the destruction by fire in 1170 of Anselm 's Norman choir , that these French Gothic features were first applied in a thoroughgoing manner . In plan this choir resembled that of the cathedral of Sens ; and its coupled round piers , with capitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vaulting , and its chevet , were distinctly French . The Gothic details thus introduced slowly supplanted the round arch and other Norman features . For fifty years the styles were more or less mingled in many buildings , though Lincoln Cathedral , as rebuilt in 1185 ? 1200 , retained nothing of the earlier roundarched style . But the first church to be designed and built from the foundations in the new style was the cathedral of Salisbury ( 1220 ? 1258 ; Fig. 128 ) . Contemporary with Amiens , it is a homogeneous and typical example of the                     