@@773407

txt in killing others . The concept of the ' emotionless ' human or non-human creature is a standard of horror , inspiring fear and loathing : In the tradition of horror , lacking a soul , in the manner of a golem or a zombie , means that the creature will he incapable of compassion and will he deaf to your pleas . Machines inspire a similar response .... Robots , androids and cyborgs all can create genuine horror effects in part because they can be supposed to behave soullessly , like Cartesian animals , and hence act without pity or compassion . ( Wilson , 1995 : 246 ) The contemporary emphasis on the humanizing nature of feeling appears also to be part of a generalized sense , which began to be dominant in the early twentieth century , that living in a ( particularly urban ) society is alienating , cutting one off from personal ties and distorting selfhood . In this discourse , society is represented as stifling human feeling and repressing self-autonomy and preventing the achievement of ' true ' individuality ( Baumeister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourse in the Romantic approach to the emotions is obvious ? indeed , Solomon ( 1976 ) has called it the ' New Romanticism ' . He argues , however , that unlike the original Romanticism , the New Romanticism does not separate emotion and reason , or view emotion as irrational , but rather positions it as the proper and most penetrating basis of judgement about one 's self and about other people . Solomon himself supports this perspective , claiming that ' The passions are the very soul of our existence ; it is not they who require the controls and rationalizations of reason . Rather , it is reason that requires the anchorage and earthy wisdom of the passions ' ( 1976 : xvii ) . The New Romantic approach to emotion can also be seen in the discourses of several contemporary social movements , such as feminists , right-to-life activists , members of the ' green ' or environmental movement , gay and lesbian activists and animal liberationists . These movements have competing and often clashing interests with each other . What unites them , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join such movements is typically represented in the discourses of the movements as evidence of appropriate feeling , of allowing the sterility and rationality imposed by society to be overcome by emotion based on empathy and compassion for others or for nonhuman living creatures and anger for what is seen to be abuses of human power . Maffesoli ( 1996 ) has referred to the late modern age as the ' time of the tribes ' , asserting that the personal and the affective have become viewed as the appropriate basis for ethical and moral judgement . He draws attention to the emergence of affinity- and identity-based political groups as examples of these ' neo-tribes ' which are often based on lifestyle preferences . Maffesoli argues that emotional forces are what brings individuals together to form these groups and uses several terms to refer to this energy : ' puissance ' , or the vital force of the people ( as opposed to the power of institutions ) , ' multiple explosions of vitalism ' , ' emotional glue ' , ' the social divine ' and the Durkheimian ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Romantic thought represents the ' emotional personality ' as comparatively more refined , more sensitive than those who are ' unemotional ' . Those individuals who are seen to be ' emotional ' ( also referred to as ' nervy ' or ' high strung ' ) are believed to be ' closer ' to their emotions , to live a life that is wrought with emotional highs and lows . There is the implication in this discourse that people are born with a personality that may predispose them to heightened sensitivity , or else have a more stolid disposition which means that they approach life with equanimity , experiencing neither the transports of anxiety nor those of joy that more ' sensitive ' types encounter . These meanings were evident in the words of a psychiatrist quoted in a magazine article about anxiety attacks . He commented that : ' On the one side of the scale are the stoics , those who live on a fairly level plane . On the other side are the emotional , sensitive , more vulnerable types ? creative , sensitive , complicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of peaks and valleys ' ( quoted in Hawley , 1997 : 18 ) . There is a suggestion in this discourse that people who are ' emotional ' somehow gain more from life because of their predisposition to respond to events at the extreme edges of emotion . There are echoes here with the discourse of ' nerves ' that was evident in eighteenth-century Britain ( discussed above ) . Working on the Emotions : The Importance of the ' Psy ' Disciplines As an outcome of the association that is commonly made between emotions and authentic selfhood , we often use our perceptions of the emotional self as rationales for explaining why we behave in certain ways . In this discourse , the unruliness of emotions , the difficulty we have in taming and repressing them ; may still be considered problematic , but also serve a useful purpose . In contexts in which our behaviour may be otherwise inexplicable , identifying the emotions we feel provide reasons and sometimes even justification . We do things because we ' ca n't help it ' , impelled by emotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see ourselves as possessing specific emotional characteristics or an ' emotional identity ' ? for example , describing ourselves as either ' emotional ' or ' unemotional ' , as ' hot-tempered ' , ' prone to jealousy ' or ' softhearted ' ? and claim that these attributes shape our responses to events and people . There is a sense that such characteristics persist as part of our personalities throughout our lifespan unless something happens to change them , such as life experiences or via working upon the self . As suggested by some of the interviewees described in Chapter 2 , one may become ' more emotional ' as one gets older , or through effort of will , by deliberately attempting to express one 's emotions more openly . Alternatively , we may seek to suppress or reject aspects of our emotional self that we consider undesirable , such as a tendency to depression , anger or jealous behaviour . Another dominant feature of late modern understandings of the self and the body is that they have become viewed as ' projects ' , or endeavours to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In their writings on relationships in late modern societies , BeckGernsheim and Beck ( Beck , 1992 ; Beck and Beck-Gernsheim , 1995 ) discuss the process of individualization , or the movement in postindustrial societies away from traditional social ties , systems of belief and relationships . This involves not only more flexibility but also new demands and obligations , particularly in relation to choices about such matters as sexual identity , work , family and romantic relationships . Such planning requires a high and continuing exertion of reflexivity upon the ontology and future of one 's life course . People are understood to engage in ethical practices that are directed towards the regulation of the self in the interests of ' proper ' social deportment and the achievement of life goals . Where once , in pre-industrial society , it was expected that one 's destiny was pre-structured through the chance of one 's station in life at birth , the life course is now conceptualized as far more flexibly and open , albeit through individuals ' endeavours rather than the vagaries of fortune . It is through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emotions . Emotional management and regulation , paying constant attention to how best to deport oneself emotionally , is an integral aspect of reflexive work upon the self . Individuals in contemporary western societies are encouraged continually to examine , and to work upon , their emotional selves . As the interviewees quoted in Chapter 2 observed , it is important to regulate your emotions , to control them as well as express them as the situation permits . It is not socially appropriate simply to display one 's emotions as one feels them at all times , but nor is it desirable to maintain too tight a hold over them . As suggested above , however , emotional ' work ' is not just about emotional management , but about improving the character of the emotional self , seeking to change it . American psychologist Daniel Coleman 's Emotional Intelligence : Why It Can Matter More than IQ ( 1995 ) was a best-selling book in countries such as the USA , Britain and Australia in the mid-1990s . Coleman 's argument in this book served to underline the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' emotions is an essential part of successful modern living . He claims that there are two forms of ' personal intelligence ' that contribute to success : interpersonal intelligence , or the ability to understand other people 's feelings and actions , and intrapersonal intelligence , the ability to understand one 's self . Both contribute to ' emotional intelligence ' , which includes the ability to control one 's impulses , delay gratification , motivate oneself , handle relationships with others well and empathize with others . Coleman argues that people who score highly on conventional IQ tests may fail to achieve their potential if they lack emotional intelligence . People who lack the skills of emotional intelligence , Coleman asserts , are more likely to fall victim to depression , stress-related illnesses , drug abuse and eating disorders and to behave violently towards others , and are less likely to find success in employment and personal relationships . He locates contemporary social problems among young people such as mass unemployment , illicit drug use and violence as resulting from a general lack of emotional intelligence . Coleman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literacy ' for both men and women , involving working upon the self in relation to the emotions and learning ways of identifying emotions in oneself and in others and of managing one 's emotions appropriately to achieve social success . The notion of the ' true ' or the ' authentic ' self supports endeavours of self-regulation and improvement . It is through the practices directed at self-knowledge , it is believed , that the ' truth ' of the self may emerge . It is expected that individuals seek self-knowledge and engage in reflection throughout their lives so as to achieve the ' best self ' they possibly can : ' What this calls for is the ability to take an instrumental stance to one 's given properties , desires , inclinations , tendencies , habits of thought and feeling , so that they can be worked on , doing away with some and strengthening others , until one meets the desired specifications ' ( Taylor , 1989 : 159-60 , original emphasis ) . As actor William Hurt commented in an interview in late 1995 : ' Everyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . Life 's a gift , given to you to witness , a remarkable thing . Yourself is something that takes a lifetime to achieve ' ( quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald , 25 November 1995 ) . To define and deal with the project of the self , a new ' expertise of subjectivity ' has developed , in which numerous professions ( for example , psychologists , psychiatrists , social workers , counsellors , probation officers ) have established themselves as expert in ' measuring the psyche , in predicting its vicissitudes , in diagnosing the causes of its troubles and prescribing remedies ' ( Rose , 1990 : 3 ) . The observation and monitoring practices of the human sciences construct the notion of the ' normal ' self against which people are urged to measure themselves . If they are found to be deficient , individuals are encouraged to work towards achieving ' normality ' . The discourses of humanistic psychology and psychoanalysis , in particular , have had an increasing influence on the ways in which self and the emotions are conceptualized in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximization of human happiness , using the language of self-actualization and self-acceptance . This approach repeatedly asserts that goodness lies within , as an Inherent property of the person , and that any badness comes from outside , as ' imposed ' upon the individual and ' distorting ' her or his ' true ' self ( Richards , 1989 : 115 ) . Hollway ( 1989 : 26 ) has described the changes that took place in academic psychology in the 1960s , in which the ' humanist ' approach became an alternative to the rationalist perspective offered by positivist psychology . The humanist approach led to such phenomena as encounter groups , in which participants were encouraged to reveal their feelings to other members as a therapeutic exercise : I remember sitting in endless encounter groups where the best intervention to make was supposedly to ask someone , ' Yes , but what do you feel ? ' If some people had difficulty in getting in touch with their feelings , it was because they were hidden under layers of socialization which could be peeled off in the climate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing . The idea of a core individual , an essence prior to socialization , is central to this model . Feelings then became products of nature and not of culture ; bearers of truth about the individual . ( Hollway , 1989 : 26-7 ) This approach is itself based on the Freudian ' talking cure ' and the notion of repression , which views nervous or psychological disorders such as hysteria , phobias and obsessions as produced by the repression of threatening or painful impulses , desires or memories of experiences , often related to sexuality , that are stored in the unconscious because they are unacceptable to the conscious mind . The language and concepts of psychoanalysis , particularly in its therapeutic form , had , by the midtwentieth century , entered everyday life . Such terms as repression and frustration and the key concept of the unconscious had become frequently used by members of the lay public ( Berger , 1966 ) . The dam metaphor , which as noted in Chapter 2 is commonly employed in lay accounts of the emotions , was strong in Freud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggling with his bourgeois neurotics , was their sense of the forceful flow of their inner desires as they began to burst the dams . . . the consequence of the resulting flood would be the overcoming of intellect by emotion , masculine order by feminine anarchy , rationality by irrationality , reason by desire ' ( Frosh , 1991 : 34 ) . For Freud , it was the individual 's struggle to maintain order in the face of this threatening chaos that characterized life in modern society : ' Through the power of these metaphors of nature - dams bursting and volcanos erupting - the unconscious emerges as a primeval entity , full of energy , held back only by the controlling exigencies of nature ' ( Frosh , 1991 : 40 ) . The point of psychoanalytic therapy was to facilitate the release of unconscious emotions through talking to the therapist , thus relieving the pressure . This therapeutic approach to the confessing of the emotions to others has also successfully moved into current popular discourse on the emotions . The removal of ' repression ' has come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referring to individuals ' rights to express their needs , desires and feelings ( Craib , 1994 : 7 ) . In a widely publicized interview conducted with the late Diana , Princess of Wales , for the British Panorama documentary television series in late 1995 , the Princess revealed that she had received therapy and counselling for her problems with bulimia , self-mutilation and post-natal depression . In the interview she stressed the importance of being ' open ' about one 's feelings , of being able to discuss them . She demonstrated approval , for instance , that her estranged husband , Prince Charles , had chosen not to hide his relationship with his mistress : ' I admired the honesty . To be honest about a relationship with someone else , in his position , that 's quite something . ' Princess Diana 's emphasis on the importance of ' honesty ' and ' openness ' in revealing one 's emotions underlines the commonplace that we should articulate our emotional states , both to ourselves and to others , rendering our feelings into language . Craib argues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly around their management and making them ' safe ' ( 1994 : 86-7 ) . He claims that seeking counselling or psychotherapy , speculating about emotions and talking about them are now seen as signs of status , particularly in relation to sexuality ( 1994 : 89 ) . He has observed among his patients individuals who come to him to learn to ' be in touch with ' , talk about and express their emotions . Based on his experiences , Craib contends that there are ' fashions ' in emotions . Currently , he argues , vulnerability and fear seem to be ' in ' for men and anger for women ( 1994 : 89-90 ) . He has also noticed in his trainees and patients in psychotherapy the belief that voicing feelings and understanding them will mean that they disappear . The assumption is that ' we can talk about the feelings instead of having them , that the talking itself solves emotional conflicts and leaves us at ease and peace with ourselves and others ' ( 1994 : 104 ) . The understanding of the self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deal with themselves in the technical , calculated and rational way that is privileged in industrial production ( Berger , 1966 : 363 ; Craib , 1994 : 102-3 ) . Seeking expert ' technical ' assistance , identifying ' causes ' of difficulties so that these might be addressed , becoming more ' organized ' and better ' managed ' , are viewed as solving the ' problem ' . According to Craib ( 1994 : 104 ) , in this process there is a denial of the inevitability of disappointment , loss , grief , mourning , death and suffering . Through obsessive discussion , these feelings are often turned into ' positive ' things or a ' creative ' experience . The positioning of the self through psychological therapeutic discourses also brings together the contradictory desires for soberness , rationality and science with the mystery and magic that was part of religion 's appeal . Instead of the ' other world ' of religion being ' out there ' , in psychological thought it is ' inside ' the individual , awaiting discovery ( Berger , 1966 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only with ' experts ' that people are expected to be ' open ' about their innermost feelings . To deal with what is seen to be the increasing complexity of society and social relationships , the semantic field of friendship and love has emerged , involving a proliferation of discourse around intimacy ( Luhmann , 1986 ) . Personal relationships are believed to bolster us from ' external ' dangers , providing supportive intimacy . They have become represented as a site where one can ' be oneself ' , express one 's emotions openly without fear of recrimination , and withdraw from the demands of ' false ' self-presentation required of people in the ' public sphere ' ( Sennett , 1977 ; Stearns and Stearns , 1986 ) . Individuals in close relationships are expected to achieve and maintain intimacy by sharing their emotions with each other , even if these are negative . It is generally believed that trust can only be achieved by selfdisclosure , the ' " opening out " of the self to the other ' ( Giddens , 1990 : 124 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as resulting from this need to work on trust : erotic involvement particularly calls for self-disclosure . To know the other , one must know oneself ( 1990 : 122 ) . Luhmann similarly sees ' intimacy ' as involving a high degree of ' interpersonal interpenetration ' , ' meaning that in relation to each other , people lower their relevance thresholds with the result that what one regards as relevant almost always is also held relevant by the other . ... Lovers can talk incessantly with each other because everything they experience is worth sharing and meets with resonance ' ( 1986 : 158 ) . He notes that other personal relationships are burdened with the expectation that the other will ' know ' one intimately , which makes them difficult to sustain and in turn renders the quest for the ideal personal relationship more intense ( 1986 : 162 ) . The confession of one 's innermost feelings , dreams and fantasies to others is , therefore , a major part of the strategies of attaining selfknowledge , directed at the ' showing forth ' of the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious ritual for the production of ' truth ' , a mechanism in Catholicism by which one was encouraged to reveal one 's sins in private to a priest , who then prescribed means of absolution . Foucault suggests that in contemporary times we have become a ' singularly confessing society ' : The confession has spread its effects far and wide . It plays a part in justice , medicine , education , family relationships , and love relations , in the most ordinary affairs of everyday life , and in the most solemn rites ; one confesses one 's crimes , one 's sins , one 's thoughts and desires , one 's illnesses and troubles ; one goes about telling , with the greatest precision , whatever is most difficult to tell . One confesses in public and in private , to one 's parents , one 's educators , one 's doctor , to those one loves ; one admits to oneself , in pleasure and in pain , things it would be impossible to tell anyone else , the things people write books about . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1978 : 59 ) The confession Is deemed to be a difficult but rewarding process . The ' truth ' which emerge ? from the confession is corroborated by the difficulties and obstacles it has surmounted in order to be formulated . Whether in church or in the counselling session or disclosing oneself to a friend or sexual partner , the confessor is rendered purified through the process . Simply bringing the ' truth ' out in the open becomes almost an end in itself , a cathartic experience of the release of what are seen to be ' pent up ' thoughts and feelings . Sexual and intimate behaviour in contemporary western societies , thus , are regulated through less overtly coercive or moralistic restraints than in the past . They are shaped through negotiation between relatively equal parties rather than relations of authority and command , requiring new forms of self-control : ' Intimacy requires a degree of insistence and sincerity in voicing one 's demands ( now called " assertiveness " ) , the surrender of means of physical or economic compulsion , and it requires a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , along with a degree of patience and inventiveness to cope with them ' ( de Swaan , 1990 : 156 ) . Intimacy presupposes a distinction between behaviour in public and in private , requiring the ability and capacity to shift from one to the other , and involves constant self-monitoring ( 1990 : 193 ) . This renders personal relationships more complex , compelling each person to speak up but also to be ready to abandon his or her longings or desires should they impinge upon those of others ( de Swaan , 1990 ; Beck and Beck-Gernsheim , 1995 ) . The high pitch of emotional intensity invested in love , however , and the degree of expectations surrounding love relationships , has resulted in the ideal of love becoming more and more difficult to attain : ' Love is pleasure , trust , affection and equally their opposites ? boredom , anger , habit , treason , loneliness , intimidation , despair and laughter ' ( Beck and Beck-Gernsheim , 1995 : 12-13 ) . The trust that one invests in an intimate other can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the intimate other becomes a stranger . Therefore , the ' opening up ' of oneself to another is characterized by ambivalence and anxiety : ' Torment and frustration interweave themselves with the need to trust in the other as the provider of care and support ' ( Giddens , 1990 : 144 ) . It is difficult to achieve a balance between autonomy and dependence upon another ( Giddens , 1992 : 140 ) . The ' shared ' nature of an intimate relationship may provide a sense of security , but may also be regarded as ' holding back ' individuals , becoming a burden ( Craib , 1994 : 169 ) . It has been suggested that personal relationships are therefore the site of profound insecurity at the same time as they hold out the promise of ontological security ( Giddens , 1990 , 1992 ; Craib , 1994 ; Beck and Beck-Gernsheim , 1995 ) . There is evidence of an anxiety around the depth of feeling and emotional ties with others . Such newly discovered psychological conditions as ' co-dependency ' and ' sex or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an intense need for intimacy and emotional closeness , representing this need as inappropriate and evidence of individual inadequacy and lack of sell-control ( see Irvine ( ! WS ) for a discussion of the phenomenon of ' sex addiction ' ) . Many popular self-help books on relationships have focused on the problematic of people ( usually portrayed as women rather than men ) ' who love too much ' or who see themselves as ' nothing without a partner ' , seemingly unable to deport themselves as autonomous individuals . Two studies of the ways in which intimate relationships have been represented in popular magazines and self-help books have found that there has been an increasing emphasis both on ' emotional communication ' between partners and on the need for individuals to avoid overdependence on another . Treacher ( 1989 ) traced the representation of the self from 1950 to 1985 in the British Woman magazine . She notes that in the 1950s , the magazine emphasized the rules of good behaviour towards others , advising women to think of others before oneself . The advice given to women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control one 's emotions , not to let one 's heart rule one 's head , or to brood upon the self , to forget the past and look to the future , to avoid selfindulgence and self-pity . By the 1970s , noted Treacher , the advice column was actively encouraging the expression of emotions , understanding the self through expressing emotions . Honesty was represented as the new moral virtue , to oneself and to others , through expressing thoughts and feelings rather than repressing or ignoring them . ' Talking things over ' was frequently advised as a solution for problems . Rather than represent women 's interests as based solely on their families and husbands , it became recognized that they had a need for self-identity and autonomy separate from marriage and the family as well as in the context of the family . Dependency was represented as a malign force , choking self-autonomy , and other people were represented as invariably prone to letting one down , not being able to meet one 's expectations and needs . Hochschild ( 1994 ) has similarly drawn attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in concepts of emotional management , this time identified in American popular self-help books . This ' cooling ' relates to the ways in which readers , particularly women , are invited to manage their emotional needs in intimate relationships and to protect themselves from too great an emotional dependency upon others ; that is , from becoming the emotional ' victims ' of others . According to Hochschild , while readers of these books are encouraged to communicate their feelings to their intimate others , they are also exhorted to engage in ' cool ' emotional strategies , maintaining some degree of emotional distance from others as a self-protective mechanism . Readers are encouraged to be cautious in their dealings with intimate others , to maintain some degree of distrust so as to avoid disappointment and to maintain a balance between engaging in ' healthy communication ' of one 's feelings and needs and revealing too much to others : ' The postmodern cowgirl has sculpted herself to adjust to a paradigm of distrust . She devotes herself to the ascetic practices of emotional control , and expects to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Hochschild , 1994 : I I ) . It may be argued , therefore , that while there appears to be more freedom and flexibility to ' choose ' how one should behave in an intimate relationship , this very flexibility brings with it added burdens and uncertainties . To engage in the continuing project of the emotional self with respect to intimate relationships is to juggle one 's need for autonomy with a desire for relatedness , to consider the pros and cons of revealing one 's innermost thoughts to an intimate other , to risk vulnerability and loss of emotional control . ' Healthy ' and ' Unhealthy ' Emotion It is not only in the interests of self-authenticity that the ' open ' expression of emotion is championed in western societies . As argued in Chapter 2 , many people also hold the strong belief that repressing emotions is detrimental to one 's mental and physiological health . It was noted in that chapter that the mechanical metaphor , incorporating concepts of the body as a hydraulic system and emotions as fluid or steamlike entities flowing around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relationship between ill health , the body and emotion . The dam metaphor is also commonly employed to describe the potential illeffects of emotional containment . Emotions are conceptualized as ' building-up ' within the body , as subsequently creating tension and pressure which may lead to internal damage if they are not released . The influence of earlier , pre-industrial understandings of the body and health states , discussed earlier in this chapter , can also be traced in such contemporary understandings . These include the humoral model of the body and the linking of emotional states with the varying intensities and temperature of humours and other fluids within the body . The notion that evil spirits or demons may enter the body 's orifices and cause ill health or bad temper , and thus need to be ' let out ' again , also underpins ideas supporting the release of disruptive phenomena from ' inside ' into the external world . We may no longer refer directly to humours or demons in our concepts of the body , but we retain the view that keeping bad feelings within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotions to oneself , to suppress such negative emotions as anger , frustration and guilt , has commonly been represented as pathological . Far more ' natural ' and ' healthy ' , it is argued , is the free and ' open ' expression of emotion . These ideas have received a great deal of attention over the past few decades in both expert forums and in popular culture . Popular notions about the relationship between health and the emotions are strongly influenced by changes in merlico-scientific understandings . The contemporary psychosomatic approach in medicine represents emotion as dysfunctional in terms of promoting ill health . Emotion is seen to exaggerate the effects of physical causes in such conditions as asthma , skin disease , digestive disorders , high blood pressure , and heart and circulatory disease ( Wingate , 1988 : 392 ) . The argument supporting the psychosomatic approach is that attempts to control or suppress the ' natural ' , reflex expression of internal emotional states may lead to a disturbance in the equilibrium of the body : ' If , for example , a man is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together " may stop him from running away , that is from behaving fearfully . But it does not always stop him from being afraid , and it is the internal and uncontrollable effects of fear that make him ill ' ( Wingate , 1988 : 166 , original emphasis ) . For researchers in the relatively new interdisciplinary field of psychoneuroimmunology , developed to address questions of how mind , body and health states are interrelated , the emotions are also treated as internal agents having various effects on bodily function ( or dysfunction ) . They argue that the immune system may be weakened or bolstered by various emotions : negative emotions , for instance , serve to produce certain hormones which undermine the functioning and effectiveness of the immune system , leading to greater susceptibility to illness and disease ( Lyon , 1993 ) . The psychoneuroimmunology perspective , in emphasizing the control that people should exercise over their emotions so as to boost their immune system and thus avoid illness , has supported a view on illness and disease which locates the ' cause ' of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The preliminary findings of this research has generated interest in ways of training patients to engage in exercises involving ' positive thinking ' as a way of overcoming their illness to supplement or supersede conventional medical therapy . In the discourse of psychoneuroimmunology , therefore , unlike that of psychosomatic medicine , emotions are regarded as potentially subject to the will of the individual , and such control is viewed as having possible beneficial effects for immune functioning and consequent health states . Responsibility for good health is directed at individuals in terms of their ability to manage their emotions . Ideas of personality and emotional types have featured in understandings of the links between emotion and health since the humoral model first gained currency , and remain dominant today . As a popular book on meditation asserted : ' Consider how a relaxed , happy , easy-going person always seems to have fewer medical complaints than his/her counterpart who is neurotic , bitter and anxious ' ( Wilson , 1985 : 19 ) . Sontag ( 1989 : 20 ? 1 ) points out that both tuberculosis and cancer have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteenthcentury tubercular personality was popularly portrayed as particularly sensitive and prone to emotional excess . Tuberculosis was thought to be a disease of thwarted passion , particularly romantic love , affecting the reckless and the sensual : ' Fever in 113 was a sign of an inward burning : the tubercular is someone " consumed " by ardour , that ardour leading to the dissolution of the body ' ( Sontag , 1989 : 20 ) . By contrast , cancer is conceptualized in contemporary western societies as a disease of insufficient passion or of the steady repression of emotion , afflicting those who are unable to express sexuality or spontaneous violent emotions such as anger . The contemporary ' cancer personality ' is portrayed as an isolated and lonely individual who denies her or his negative feelings and does not share them with others because she or he lacks meaningful relationships ( 1989 : 51 ) . The categorization of ' Type A ' and ' Type B ' personalities , first developed in 1959 but becoming common in popular discourses in the 1970s and 1980s , is another way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . People demonstrating a ' Type A behavioural pattern ' are described as impatient , anxious , ambitious , competitive over-achievers , always hurrying to complete tasks and never satisfied with their lot . In terms of their physical demeanour , they are characterized as agitated , fidgety , displaying tense muscles and speaking quickly . Those with a ' Type B behavioural pattern ' , by contrast , are described as relaxed , friendly , non-competitive , easy-going and underachievers . People who are categorized into the former type of personality are believed to be at greater risk of stress-related illnesses such as coronary heart disease because of their inability to ' slow down ' and relax and to engage in emotionally satisfying interactions with others . There is the suggestion in the literature on ' Type A behaviour pattern ' that such ' anti-social ' traits and emotions as impatience , hostility , anger , competitiveness , greed , selfishness , egotism and ' unbridled ambition ' are undesirable and almost deservedly punished by illnesses such as coronary heart disease . This behaviour pattern is regarded as ' over-conformity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a threat to social ties even as it accords with social norms valuing achievement and hard work . Such individuals are seen to ' bring illness on themselves ' , to almost invite heart disease by refusing to ' slow down ' ( Helman , 1987 : 97 ) . The trend towards ' holistic ' notions of health emerging over the past three decades in western societies has also supported the idea that the emotions and personality types are implicated in health states . Advocates of holism reject the ' mind ? body split ' they consider to dominate biomedical understandings of health and illness . Instead , they argue , mind and body should be considered as one entity , with each affecting the other in relation to health . Taking up the approach to health that is evident in the ancient humoral model , supporters of holistic health see illness as an imbalance between individuals and their environment , including their relationships with others and their emotional states . As such , illness and disease should not be treated as if they were localized in only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is the case in biomedical treatment ) , but the whole body/self should be treated . This philosophy underpins such alternative therapies as naturopathy , homeopathy , Bach flower remedies and aromatherapy . In these therapies it is considered important to document and treat each patient 's individual personality profile , including her or his emotional state . In homeopathy , for example , remedies are directed towards certain types of personality . The ' physical makeup ' of the patient is directly associated with her or his temperament and the medicines themselves are described in terms of their emotional profiles ( Coward , 1989 : 72-3 ) . Contemporary understandings of the relationship between physical and psychological health and the emotions tend to employ the notion of ' stress ' , a term which has become very common in the expert literature . Thoits ( 1995 : 53 ) noted that over the previous decade , over 3,000 papers on ' stress and health ' had been published in psychological and sociological journals . The discourse of social stress assumes that distress is necessarily pathogenic , rather than , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will or a test of moral fibre . Distress is viewed as abnormal , something that must be alleviated or removed rather than borne stoically ( Pollock , 1988 : 381 ) . The psychologization of stress has meant that there is a myriad of potential sources of stress ? almost anything can cause stress , if the individual perceives or responds to it in a way thatcreates stress . It is not the stressor per se , therefore , that causes illness , but the individual 's perception of it ( 1988 : 387 ) . Taking up the Romantic viewpoint , the meanings underpinning the discourse of stress point to concern about the alienation and pressures of modern living . Stress is represented as a disease emerging from the maladaption , the disjuncture of the human-made social and built environment ( usually urban rather than rural ) with humans ' biological dispositions . In both popular and ' expert ' discourses on stress , it is often contended that the conditions of modern life have served to alienate people from their ' authentic selves ' , encouraging negative emotions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off from their ' natural ' biological rhythms and interactions with others , developed thousands of years ago when in a more ' primitive ' stage of sociocultural development , the hunter-gatherer stage , and feel alienated and frustrated with living in modern urban environments . Technologies and built environments are particularly singled out as potentially causing distress because of the clash between ' nature ' and ' culture ' . The notion that stress is always ' bad ' has become widely accepted in both popular and medical forums . In one interview study conducted in the English city of Nottingham , it was found that the great majority of respondents ' felt that the experience of stress was an inevitable and ubiquitous condition of modern living , and that stress could be the direct cause of illness ' ( Pollock , 1988 : 382 ) . ' Heart attacks ' and ' nervous breakdowns ' were particularly identified as caused by stress . The respondents tended to invoke the stereotype of the harried executive or businessman ( this stereotype is nearly always identified as male ) who succumbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nervous breakdowns were thought to be produced through such unfortunate life experiences as disrupted personal relationships . When it came to articulating how it is that stress causes physical illness , the respondents in Pollock 's study were rather vague and uncertain . Some evoked the idea that stress in some way forces the speeding up of physiological processes , which eventually becomes too much for the body to cope with . As a result , they suggested , one of the parts of the body ( such as the heart ) ' breaks down ' . Stress was thought by some to cause a nervous breakdown by ' irritating ' or ' jangling ' the nerves , putting the nervous system out of alignment . It was thought to attack the ' weakest ' point in the system . There was evidence of moral judgement in these accounts concerning the ways in which different individuals respond to stress . It was argued , for example , that some people succumb to illness because they can not ' bear the stress ' , because they can not exert ' mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' constitution ( Pollock , 1988 : 382-3 ) . As I noted in Chapter 2 , moral judgements concerning people 's capacity to ' deal ' with their emotions were also apparent in the views of the interviewees in my study when they were discussing the relationship between emotion and health . These moral meanings are very common in contemporary discourses on health and illness generally . The increasing focus placed in medical and health promotional discourses on self-control , taking responsibility for one 's health status , monitoring aspects of one 's ' lifestyle ' , such as one 's diet , intake of drugs such as cigarettes and alcohol , and exercise , so as to prevent disease , has tended to support and reinforce the notion that ill health is a sign that individuals have failed to engage in the appropriate preventive strategies and thus are responsible for their illness ( see Lupton ( 1995 ) for further elaboration of these points ) . Dominant discourses on emotion and health , therefore , fit into the general notion of the self/body as an unfinished project , requiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and behavioural regulation so as to maximize one 's potential and health status . While it is often argued in discourses on health and the emotions that interrelations with others or environmental factors ( such as conditions at work or living in a city ) may instigate negative emotional states , the responsibility for dealing with these states is frequently turned back upon the individual . Concluding Comments I have argued in this chapter that contemporary discourses on emotions , embodiment and subjectivity evince a continual oscillation between acknowledging the importance of carefully regulating anti controlling the highly fluid and volatile emotions , and the need to express them , to allow them to ' escape ' from the body . Both concepts of the emotions draw upon a culturally specific model of the self which sees it as residing within a ' body-container ' filled with intensities and flows and surrounded with borders that require constant vigilance to police , allowing certain phenomena ' in ' and others the passage ' out ' . The progressive ' closing ' off of the body since medieval times , it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that privileges autonomy and individualism . Certain bodies/selves , as part of this process , have been identified as less contained , less able to control the flux of fluid emotions into the external world and therefore as less ' civilized ' . In the context of western cultures , these include members of disadvantaged social groups such as the poor , the working class , nonwhites and women . Their positioning as less ' civilized ' and as the repositories of fears and anxieties about the ' grotesque ' nature of the body/self , has contributed to their social disadvantage compared with those bodies/selves that have been represented as most closely conforming to the ' civilized ' ideal : principally bourgeois men of British or northern European ethnicity . The next chapter takes up the issue of gender and explores in detail the ways in which discourses on the emotions have contributed to the sociocultural meanings of femininities and masculinities. 4 The ' Emotional Woman ' and the ' Unemotional Man ' It has become common for social theorists writing on gender to point out the performative nature of femininity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connell , 1995 ) . From this perspective , not only is gender seen as an outcome of socialization rather than as inscribed in the genes , but it is also viewed as a dynamic project of the self , something that must be constantly made and re-made as part of everyday life . This emphasis on the dynamic nature of gender allows for a degree of shifting practices of gender within one individual 's life course and even within the context of a single day . It is not simply a matter of adopting a male or female ' sex role ' and adhering to it throughout one 's life span , but rather that of a project of constantly taking up different masculinities and femininities . We perform gender as part of our techniques of the self and the body , including at the most obvious level our dress and hairstyle , our ways of walking and speaking and of otherwise moving and decorating our bodies . The ways in which we experience and express emotions may also be considered part of the performative practices of the gendered self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self have routinely been gendered . One of the pivotal concerns around which gendered notions of emotions are structured is that of the importance of mastery and self-control . As noted in the previous chapter , the ideal of self-control and self-containment has emerged as dominant in late modernity . Mastery of the body/self , as well as mastery over others , has traditionally been constructed as an ideal to which all individuals should aspire but which men rather than women are more likely to achieve . This difference is located in the meanings ascribed to feminine versus masculine bodies . Strong distinctions are routinely made between the ways in which women feel and express emotions compared with men 's styles of emotional expression . A major binary opposition in discourses on emotion is that of the ' emotional woman ' and the ' unemotional man ' . The distinction that is routinely drawn between the ' private ' and the ' public ' spheres is also an integral dimension of the ways in which emotion is gendered . The sphere of work is constructed as opposite to the private sphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I noted in Chapter 3 , ' open ' emotional expression and the supposed relaxation of emotional management are seen as more appropriate , even as necessary for individuals ' well-being . The ' home ' has been dominantly portrayed as the sphere of women rather than men , as the domain where they exercise power and hold major responsibility . It has been considered to Ix . women 's role , in particular , to maintain emotional equilibrium within the home for their partner and children . This chapter begins by reviewing the antecedents and meanings of the binary opposition of the ' emotional woman ' and the ' unemotional man ' . The discussion then focuses on the symbolic and psychodynamic aspects associated with representations of the feminine body as more fluid and less contained than that of the masculine body . Then follows an analysis of the gendered aspects of emotional labour in the context of intimate relationships . As was evident in the accounts of the interviewees described in Chapter 2 , there appears to be a change in contemporary concepts of masculinity and emotion . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become a dominant trend in current concepts of emotion . As this suggests , while there may be a set of hegemonic discourses on gender operating at any one time , these discourses are open to contestation , and indeed may compete and clash with each other . The chapter ends with a discussion of this trend and its implications for assumptions about gender and emotion . The ' Emotional Woman ' While it may be accepted that all individuals may feel the full range of emotions , in Anglophone and north European cultures in recent times it has been seen as typical and more appropriate for women rather than men to express such emotions as grief , fear , sentimentality , vulnerability , envy and jealousy . Emotions such as anger , rage , aggressiveness or triumph are less expected or condoned in women compared with men : ' Anger in a woman is n't " nice " . A woman who , seethes with anger is " unattractive " . An angry woman is hard , mean and nasty : she is unreliably , unprettily out of control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1996 : 62 ) notes that a woman who murders is regarded with far more suspicion and fear than a man , because such an act confounds assumptions about gendered behaviour . Men are often expected to kill in certain situations ( such as war ) : it seems part of an inherent masculinity to have the potential to kill . This is not the case for women , who appear to engage in a perversion of their nature as women when they kill , particularly when they murder their children . A female murderer therefore appears more evil and terrifying , even more out of control , than a male murderer , unless his crime is seen as particularly pathological . Emotion or emotionality themselves at a general level of meaning tend to be culturally coded as feminine , while rationality or lack of emotionality are dominantly represented as masculine . Brownmiller ( 1984 : 207 ) refers to a landmark study carried out with a group of professional psychologists ( published in 1970 ) , in which such personality traits as ' Cries very easily ' , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Very easily influenced ' , ' Very subjective ' and ' Unable to separate feelings from ideas ' were rated by the psychologists as highly feminine traits . Traits that were rated by the group as highly masculine included ' Very direct ' , ' Very logical ' and ' Never cries ' . This gendering of emotion has conveyed a series of paradoxical meanings . In general , women are expected to display gentleness , to be willing and able to express tender feelings to others and be aware of and empathetic to the feelings of others . These attributes are considered to be an important aspect of dominant forms of ideal femininity . Indeed , women who appear emotionally inexpressive or lacking such traits as tenderness and caring may be viewed as lacking appropriate femininity ( Jaggar , 1989 : 157 ) . Such expressions of sensitivity or caring have not been demanded of men to the same extent or considered as a vital component of ideal masculinity . Men have typically been considered ' blunter ' or ' rougher ' in their emotional styles and as less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a strong symbolic link between femininity and emotionality , women are regarded as being ' naturally ' good at dealing with other people 's emotions because they are believed themselves to be inherently emotional and emotionally expressive , while men , on the whole , are not . As some of the interviewees in Chapter 2 noted , women ' wear their heart on their sleeves ' more than do men . There is a continuing representation of women as closer to their emotional states , and as the guardians of civility , in charge of promoting emotional management : women as ' keepers of the heart , keepers of the sentimental memory ' ( Brownmiller , 1984 : 215 ) . These ' feminine ' emotional attributes are often seen as desirable and appropriate , demonstrating a woman 's capacity for emotional sensitivity and caring for others . As discussed in Chapters 2 and 3 , these features are in general linked to humanity and refinement of feeling , and represent a major dimension of the positive meanings given to emotion and emotionality . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and emotional expression and their emotional lability also bear highly negative meanings , particularly in regard to understandings about women 's inferiority compared with men . Emotionality , as noted in the previous chapter , is associated with weakness of will , insufficient capacity for reasoned thought and loss of control . Jaggar has pointed to the complex association of a number of binary oppositions linking femininity with emotionality : ' not only has reason been contrasted with emotion , but it has also been associated with the mental , the cultural , the universal , the public , and the male , whereas emotion has been associated with the irrational , the physical , the natural , the particular , the private , and , of course , the female ' ( 1989 : 145 ) . The continual association of emotion and emotionality with femininity , therefore , associates femininity with the other negative meanings associated with emotion , such as irrationality , the chaotic nature of the ' grotesque ' body , lack of reason and cultivation and membership of lower orders . There is a clear metaphorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Women In general are associated with the body , whereas men have been represented as less ' weighed ' down by the flesh , as more of the mind : it is commonly agreed that women are tossed and buffeted on the high seas of emotion , while men have the tough mental fiber , the intellectual muscle , to stay in control ' ( Brownmiller , 1984 : 208 ) . The binary opposition that positions women with the body and men with the mind denotes a view of femininity that incorporates the negative meanings associated with the body : ' if , whatever the specific historical content of the duality , the body is the negative term , and if woman is the body , then women are that negativity , whatever it may be : distraction from knowledge , seduction away from God , capitulation to sexual desire , violence or aggression , failure of will , even death ' ( Bordo , 1993 : 4 , original emphases ) . The association of femininity with ' the private ' and ' the home ' has also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including the domain of paid employment . The professional and bureaucratic workplace in particular is culturally associated with masculinity , rationality and self-control , including tight rein over the emotions , which are seen to be destabilizing to efficient production and management . Emotionality is regarded as being out of place in such an environment ( Davies , 1996 ) . Bureaucracy , for example , champions ' rationality ' and order against what is seen as the disorderly state of emotions , basing authority on tradition , social status or technical competence rather than on emotional ties ( Putnam and Mumby , 1993 : 41 ) . The antecedents of the interrelated binary oppositions linking reason with masculinity and emotion with femininity , and positioning the first pair as superior over the second , are rooted in ancient times . Genevieve Lloyd 's Man of Reason ( 1984 ) traced the provenancf of these oppositions in western philosophy , in which the construction of dualisms that represented women negatively was a common part of thought : ' From the beginning of philosophical thought , femaleness was symbolically associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth goddesses , immersion in unknown forces associated with mysterious female powers ' ( Lloyd , 1984 : 2 ) . It was argued by the ancients that to achieve reason , femaleness and its associated disorder had to be expunged , driven out . Lloyd gives as an example Pythagorean philosophy , dating from the sixth century BC , where maleness was explicitly linked with the orderly , the bounded , the precise , while femaleness was joined to their opposites ? disorder , lack of boundaries , the indeterminate ( 1984 : 3 ) . Similarly , for Plato maleness was associated with knowable form , accessible to the human mind , femaleness with unknowable matter that must be transcended in the quest for rational knowledge . Related to this distinction was Plato 's scorn for the body , which he saw as intruding into and disrupting rational thought ( Lloyd , 1984 : 4 ? 6 ) . Aristotle , for his part , wrote that ' Woman Is more compassionate than man , more easily moved to tears . At the same time , she is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to strike . She is , furthermore , more prone to despondency and less hopeful than man ' ( quoted in Brownmiller , 1984 : 208 ) . In the thirteenth-century writings of St Thomas Aquinas , a philosopher who attempted to synthesize Greek and Christian thought , women were portrayed as deficient and inferior in the capacity to reason compared with men , as unstable , easily led and too ready to follow their passions ( Synnott , 1993 : 46 ) . His view is perhaps not surprising , as his teacher , Albert the Great , once wrote that ' Woman is less qualified than man for moral behaviour . . . . Her feelings drive woman towards every evil , just as reason impels man toward all good ' ( quoted in Synnott , 1993 : 45 ) . These portrayals of women as far more manipulated by their emotions than men , and therefore as inferior , continued into the early modern period , when , as noted in Chapter 3 , the imperative towards order , selfcontrol and reason again became priorities . Part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries was the common representation of women as more duplicitous than men in their emotions . Women were regarded as more easily able to convey a false emotional state , in their efforts to bewitch or betray unsuspecting men . Because women were seen as closer to nature , it was believed that their sensuality and sexuality ruled them and led them to tempt men into losing their reason . As the well-known English writer Robert Burton wrote of women in his Anatomy of Melancholy ( first published in 1621 ) , women are faithless and display false emotions in the calculated attempt to deceive men . He advised other men that when women protest their love , ' believe them not . Thou thinkest peradventure because of her vows , tears , smiles and protestations , she is solely thine , thou hast her heart , hand and affection , when as indeed there is no such matter , she will have one sweetheart in bed , another in the gate , a third sighing at home , a fourth , etc ' ( quoted in Rojek , 1993 : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Rousseau , both championed what they saw as women 's closeness to nature , and thus to virtue and truth , and were critical of the disorderliness that was associated with nature , seeing it as requiring some taming and ordering by reason . Women were viewed as being naturally close to nature , while men were seen as requiring reason to see the virtues and truth offered by nature , thus achieving a closeness to nature through reason ( Lloyd , 1984 : 58-64 ) . A developing separation of home and work in the wake of industrialization in western societies has been associated in many writers ' work with the linking of femininity with the ' private ' and ' emotionality ' and masculinity with the ' public ' and ' rationality ' . Part of this distinction between the ' private ' and the ' public ' spheres was an increasing feminization of the ' domestic ' , or ' the home ' , and of the family . The separation of home and work positioned these spaces as sites for the different use and expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contractual relations among self-interested individuals dominated as the mode of interaction , the feminized site of the family was seen to have an entirely different dynamic , involving relationships based on affection , love and intimacy ( Fraser and Gordon , 1994 : 100 ) . The economic sphere was commonly represented as a site in which personal relationships were impersonal and cold , characterized by competitiveness , calculation , uncertainty and individualism in comparison to the warm , supportive private sphere . The home was seen as the dominant private domain , allowing the expression of ' freer ' emotional expression ( as long as those emotions were deemed to be positive ) . By the nineteenth century , the family had become idealized as an intimate refuge with a higher moral value than the public realm ( Sennett , 1977 : 20 ) . Family relationships were expected to provide enduring and continuing emotional support . Love and family relationships were viewed as central human fulfilments and the expression of emotion was valorized as part of maintaining affective bonds ( Taylor , 1989 : 293 ) . The growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sphere of the home in this century , in concert with the growth of industrial capitalism , encouraged men to take on a harder , cooler persona , particularly in the late Victorian era . The masculine ideal was to be independent , self-possessed , dynamic and disciplined . This new ideal , espoused in such texts as Tom Brown 's Schooldays ( 1857 ) , was supported by the ideals of courage , unemotionality , physical prowess and audacity . Public schooling for middle-class boys attempted to develop these attributes in the young men through such strategies as team games , coldwater washing and spartan accommodation ( Segal , 1990 : 105 ? 11 ) . The home was represented as an oasis of calm , a place where men could retire from the chaotic nature of public life and seek peace and rest . Cancian quotes , for example , the words of a N6w England minister , who asserted in 1827 that ' it is at home , where man . . . seeks a refuge from the vexations and embarrassment of business , an enchanting repose from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affection ' ( 1987 : 19 ) . The increasing focus into the nineteenth century on the home and family as havens for the bourgeois man from the pressures of the commercial world had implications for how women were represented . According to Lasch , the bourgeois family system ' simultaneously degraded and exalted women ' ( 1977 : 6 ) . Women were encouraged to succour their men and children with their warm feminine qualities ( Cancian , 1987 : 21 ) . This role was generally valorized , supporting women 's claim for moral authority in the private sphere ( BarkerBenfield , 1992 : 37 ) . Women were represented as possessing the appropriate innate capacities ? gentleness , attention to others , empathy , lack of aggression , tenderness , love ? for playing this role that men did not have . Even the ways in which women decorated and furnished the home were viewed an important to maintaining it as a place of comfort , order , softness and warmth , designed to encourage dissociation from the chaos and hardness of the world of commerce ( Rojek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to position women well within the home context , for they were viewed as lacking the appropriate emotional capacities for participating in the ' public ' sphere . Such characteristics as aggressiveness , coldhearted rationality and competitiveness , seen as vital to success in the world of commerce , were split from femininity and positioned as innately and appropriately masculine . Women 's proper role in economic production and the ' public ' sphere , therefore , particularly for members of the bourgeoisie , was seen to be in preparing others ( husbands and sons ) for their work and supporting their endeavours through emotional comfort ( working-class women often could not attain this ideal even if they wanted to , forced as they were to engage in paid labour outside the home to support themselves or their families ) . Mothers were expected to regulate their male children and produce them as rational , dispassionate citizens , even as they themselves were portrayed as irrational and emotional . The knowledge system of scientific medicine has also played an important part in constructing , disseminating and legitimizing the notion that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience emotion . From this perspective , gender differences are principally founded upon anatomical differences between men and women , particularly in relation to their reproductive organs . In medicoscientific discourses , the relationship between women and emotionality has generally been uncritically accepted as a fact , and research within this field has been devoted to proving this ' truth ' . For example , doctors , philosophers and novelists in eighteenth-century Britain insisted that women had far more sensitive and delicate ' nerves ' and ' passions ' than men and that their nervous systems were ' finer textured ' ( BarkerBenfield , 1992 : 26-7 ) . By the last third of that century , tenderness became viewed as a characteristic of well-bred women 's sensibility and a high value was placed on this refinement , even though it was associated with a greater susceptibility to nervous disorders ( 1992 : 28 ) . While this linking of a finer sensibility to women suggested their moral superiority , civilized deportment and intensity of imagination , it was also linked to the meanings of physical and mental inferiority ( 1992 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between gendered notions of sexuality and those associated with the emotions . The patriarchal Victorian approach to feminine sexuality , for example , saw women as chaste , delicate and loving , but considered these attributes to be the socially-refined thin veneer over the wildness and chaotic nature of the female reproductive organs , which were regarded as controlling women both physically and emotionally . As Smith-Rosenberg has observed , the Victorians portrayed women as ' being both higher and lower , both innocent and animal , pure yet quintessentially sexual ' ( 1985 : 183 ) . Women undergoing puberty and during menstruation , pregnancy , and menopause were particularly singled out for their lack of sell-control over their moods , and during such times were advised by doctors to avoid the display of strong emotions or engaging in stimulating activities ( Smith-Rosenberg , 1985 : 186-8 ) . Men , in contrast , were seen as possessing far more control over their sexual impulses . Shuttleworth ( 1990 ) notes that in Victorian England , popular medical advertisements and the medical literature itself appeared obsessed with female secretions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature of the day , women were described as needing medical help to regulate the flow of their bodily secretions , while men were exhorted to deploy their own internal resources to bring about selfcontrol . Physicians claimed that mental effort could cause a stoppage in the menstrual flow , and therefore women were advised to dull their minds , reducing excitement and stimulation , whether intellectual or emotional , so as to allow their bodies to regulate themselves . Women were also warned against strong emotional states while pregnant , for fear of damaging their infants . It was thought that the child 's physical and mental condition would be ' a legible transcript of the mother 's condition and feelings during pregnancy ' ( Shuttleworth , 1993/1994 : 38 ) . Some medical authorities considered even breast-feeding to be a route by which mothers could pass on their emotional states to their nursing children . For example , one ( male ) physician to a woman 's hospital cautioned in 1860 against women suckling their infants after recently experiencing strong emotion , employing an anecdote in support of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by breast-feeding it soon after she had helped to defend her husband against a violent attack ( Wright , 1988 : 311 ) . During the Victorian period , diagnoses of hysteria were common for women aged between 15 and 40 in the urban middle and upper-middle classes . Doctors assumed that hysteria affected only women , because it was seen to originate from a disorder of the uterus . The most characteristic symptom of hysteria was a ' fit ' , similar to an epileptic seizure , often involving the victim alternately laughing and sobbing violently and perhaps experiencing hallucinations or losing the powers of hearing and speech , followed by a moribund state of passivity ( Smith-Rosenberg , 1985 : 200-1 ) . By the end of the nineteenth century , the model of the ' hysterical female character ' had developed in the medical literature , involving disposition and personality traits rather than physical symptoms : ' Doctors commonly described hysterical women as highly impressionable , suggestible , and narcissistic . They were highly labile , their moods changing suddenly , dramatically , and for seeming inconsequential reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hysteria is no longer considered to be a discrete medical condition , or is associated with the uterus , it has its modern-day equivalents . Contemporary discourses on pre-menstrual syndrome and menopause , both medical and popular , commonly portray women as subject to rule by their hormones , including responding in highly emotional ways . The term ' pre-menstrual syndrome ' is used to describe a collection of bodily disturbances occurring in the days following ovulation . Like hysteria , pre-menstrual syndrome is seen to include not only bodily symptoms ( such as swollen breasts ) , but also extreme emotional lability , a tendency towards emotional disorders such as depression or panic attacks and generally irrational behaviour . Women suffering from premenstrual syndrome are commonly described as regularly becoming animal-like in their loss of control of their emotions , prone to outbursts of temper for no apparent reason ( Chrisler and Levy , 1990 ) . Menopausal women are similarly represented as under the sway of their unruly , erratic hormones and are commonly described as experiencing ' brain fogging ' , forgetfulness , emotional swings , moodiness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen to have little selfcontrol ( Lupton , 1996b ) . The ' Unemotional Man ' At the end of the twentieth century , the archetype of the ' unemotional man ' ( which always gains its meaning by being set in a binary opposition against the archetype of the ' emotional woman ' ) has both positive and negative associations . On the one hand , it represents men as more rational , more of the mind and reason , better controlled and therefore better suited to the public sphere . On the other hand , the increasing attention paid to the importance of emotional expression for both men and women , the privileging of emotional sensitivity and ' being in touch ' with one 's own emotions ( see discussion of this in Chapters 2 and 3 ) has meant that the ' unemotional man ' is also often portrayed as emotionally sterile , lacking self-awareness and putting himself at risk of emotional breakdown or physical illness because of his inability to express emotion . While it is still considered appropriate for men to keep their emotions to themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many other contexts ? and particularly the sphere of intimate relationships ? men are encouraged to reveal their emotions , to resist and challenge what is seen to be the damaging and unhelpful archetype of the ' unemotional ' man for their own sake as well as that of their partners , other family members and friends . There is , therefore , no single dominant representation of masculinity that defines how men should behave in emotional terms . Books on masculinity , both popular and academic , routinely describe men 's emotional lives as ' stunted ' . Men are described as ' strangers ' to themselves , cut off from their real emotions , unable to articulate what , why or how they are feeling . The language of emotions is often used in discussions on the social position of men in contemporary western societies . Much of this writing has taken up a ' personal is political ' approach that has been often used in feminist writings by incorporating discussion of personal experience with theoretical analysis . Men writing about their responses to social changes , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings of inadequacy , shame , fear , anxiety , stress and vulnerability , and argue that it is important for men not to hide such feelings . Men 's oppression and disempowerment is frequently equated with their inability to speak out about their emotions ( Yudice , 1995 ) . Victor Seidler , an academic writer on masculinity , argues , for example , that even if men attempt to be ' more in touch ' with their emotions , their acculturation into dominant forms of masculinity makes this difficult : ' We were brought up to kill our feelings at an early age , so that we could survive as men . Often this means that as men we do not know what we feel . We do not have the words to express what is happening to us , nor a sense of how our emotional and personal lives have been disorganized ' ( 1991 : 37 ) . While men may feel ' inside ' the emotions of fear , frustration , insecurity and anxiety , writers such as Seidler argue that they deny these feelings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Horrocks , a psychotherapist , similarly argues that ' men are , in general , emotionally impotent and inarticulate . Men find emotions dangerous things , they fear them and shun them ' ( 1994 : 30 ) . Horrocks uses the term ' emotional autism ' to refer to men who do not know how to feel , respond to the world intellectually and withdraw from intimacy with others . He contends that this leads to emotional problems for such men , because they feel unable to express their vulnerability , despair , anxiety , fear and dependence on others . Writers on masculinity have often contended that what they see as the ' feminine ' mode of emotional expression is superior to the ' masculine ' mode . In his recent writings on love and intimacy , the sociologist Anthony Giddens ( 1992 , 1994 ) draws a strong distinction between the emotional styles of men and women , championing the latter 's approach . He argues that over the previous few decades , women have ' pioneered changes of great , and generalisable , importance ' in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' pure relationship ' is the ideal to which women have been working . The ' pure relationship ' , according to Giddens , is a ' relationship of equals ' and a ' social relation entered into for its own sake ' , for each person to derive benefits from the other and the relationship ( 1992 : 58 ) . Giddens argues that when the pure relationship is achieved , ' a relation of equals , organized through emotional communication coupled to self-understanding , becomes possible . . . . Individuals who are at home with their own emotions , and able to sympathize with those of others , are likely to be more effective and engaged citizens than those who lack such qualities ' ( Giddens , 1994 : 193 ) . According to Giddens ( 1992 , 1994 ) , men lag behind in working towards the achievement of these ideals compared with women . Men have been influenced , as have women , by the notion of the romantic relationship that has emerged over the past two centuries ( see the discussion in Chapter 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in romantic love with a woman , but do not see women as their equals . They have generally excluded themselves from the domain of the intimate , interested predominantly in romantic love as it is related to sexual conquest and satisfaction . Rather than develop self-identity through love relationships , men have done so through work achievements . Giddens argues that the role of men in the paid workforce has traditionally meant that they became cut off from their ' emotional lives ' , while women , confined to the domestic sphere , have became ' specialists in love ' . Men are typically represented in such writings , therefore , as denying the ' true self ' in presenting to others the image of the strong , powerful , invulnerable male . In his book Being a Man ( 1990 ) , David Cohen observes that while some emotions , such as triumph and anger , are acceptable for men to express , it is the more negative feelings related to feelings of powerlessness that men find difficult to acknowledge and express openly : It is n't that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain feelings are shameful . Triumph and success are splendid . If you have cause for any other feelings ? misery , fear , worry ? it 's best to hide them . Put on the mask . Assume the stiff upper lip . How will other people , how will women like and respect you , if you show you 're not a man ? ( Cohen , 1990 : 85 ) As these words suggest , the latter-day archetype of the ' unemotional man ' operating in the ' public ' sphere with a cool , hard , self-controlled demeanour fails to acknowledge the emotions of fear , misery and anxiety that men may often feel , even if they do not openly display them . The historical literature would suggest that men have not always been enjoined to contain their emotions , including those of love and affection as well as anger , and that the archetype of the ' unemotional ' man is a more recent construct than is generally acknowledged . For example , the Romantic approach ( described in Chapter 3 ) emerged from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privileging of emotional expression as evidence of fine sensibility was supported largely by men . While the emergence of the ' public sphere ' of commerce and industry may have encouraged a ' hard ' demeanour among men , well into the nineteenth century there remained the capacity for men to demonstrate loving feelings openly towards each other . Richards ( 1987 ) notes that in Victorian society , at least until the 1880s when there was greater concern about the evils of homosexuality , manly love was valued rather than mocked . Documents of the time included great outpourings of emotionality between boys at school and men at universities and descriptions of schooldays in particular portrayed them as a romanticized golden idyll of affection and comradeship between boys , conforming to the model of the pure ideals of ancient Greece . Yacovone ( 1990 ) also argues that the history of masculinity has been distorted by focusing only on discourses encouraging boys and men to present an unemotional , cool demeanour . In his study of the social and intellectual history of the anti-slavery community in the USA , Yacovone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era friendships among the middle-class men involved were as intensely affectionate as those among some women . There was thus a range of masculinities that were considered acceptable , some of which blurred gender distinctions . However , Yacovone argues that by the end of the nineteenth century even these outlets of love and affection became marginalized . The rejection of sentimentality , rapid industrialization , massive immigration , economic transformation and dislocation ' produced a culture that worshipped muscle and might ' ( 1990 : 95 ) . Nor is it the case , as some contemporary commentators have assumed , that men were seen as outsiders to the emotional world of the family since the industrial revolution . While the movement of men into the sphere of paid labour may have reduced the time they spent at home with their families , this was not necessarily viewed as desirable by men themselves or by ' experts ' on family health and welfare . There have been regular commentaries in the child-raising literature since the nineteenth century on the importance of men as fathers playing an important role in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men had available to fulfil their duties ( Lupton and Barclay , 1997 : Chapter 2 ) . In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , for example , there is evidence of an increasing emphasis on men , as husbands and fathers , having more emotional responsibilities within the home setting . This was partly a result of growing concern about the ' absent father ' and the possibility that male children were being feminized through too much exposure to their mothers and not enough to their fathers . There were calls on the part of experts in countries such as Britain and the United States for men to participate more in child-rearing and to provide an appropriate ' masculine role model ' . Middle-class fathers , in particular , were encouraged to spend more time with their children and to show them affection for mutual emotional enrichment , rather than acting solely as stern authoritarians . Fatherhood was represented as a possible means of self-expression for men , a way of deriving satisfaction and fulfilment through emotional expression ( Marsh , 1990 ; Griswold , 1993 ; Tosh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also ignores the frequent occurrence of such emotions as anger , aggression , jealousy , frustration and rage , leading in some cases to violence , on the part of men in both the public and the private spheres . As several of the interviewees ' accounts in Chapter 2 made clear , men who have disdain for displaying loving emotions may not feel quite so restrained when it comes to anger , rage and violence . Jeff Hearn argues for an alternative construction of men as ' unemotional ' . He contends rather that they are ' too emotional , too much out of control ( or indeed , too much in control ) , especially when it comes to anger , sexuality and violence ' ( Hearn , 1993 : 143 ) and points out that dominance of others can itself be a profoundly emotional experience . Nonetheless , Hearn argues , men often employ the discourse of emotion as something external to the sell when attempting to avoid responsibility for behaving violently or angrily . They may represent themselves as ' overcome ' or ' swept away ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . I learn likens this discourse to the ' hydraulic ' model of male sexuality , which represents men as being overcome by lust or desire , unable to control their urges despite their best efforts to maintain control ( 1993 : 147-8 ) . While this discourse may represent men as emotionally volatile , it also tends to suggest that such loss of control is either exceptional or is justified in some way . The justification for emotional outbursts is often related to women 's behaviour , including the temptations offered by their sexuality or the loss of face resulting from their faithlessness . Harris ( 1989 ) notes that in France during the fin-de-siecle era ( the final decades of the nineteenth century ) , in almost half the murder cases committed by men passion was claimed by the defendants as the motive for killing their wives , lovers or rivals . Men on trial for murder often referred to the need to defend their masculine honour against the disloyalty of their female partner or a public affront by another man as the justification for the crime . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary insanity or a degeneration to a beast-like state , removing moral awareness and allowing them to commit the crime . The duel was a formalized means of satisfying wounded pride and anger , rationalized by the belief that private honour could not be properly avenged through the litigation system . So too , the crime of passion against a lover or rival was presented as an active means of restoring honour and dealing with rage and jealousy . In the courts of fin-de-siecle France , distinctions were still drawn between the passions of men and those of women . Men were far more likely to be exonerated by the courts for resorting to physical brutality in the case of a crime of passion than were the far fewer numbers of women charged with violent crimes . Harris notes that ' The rare exceptions of " husband-beating " produced horrified reactions from investigating magistrate , judge , jury and neighbours , a universal condemnation which suggests that some fundamental norm , almost a taboo , had been transgressed ' ( 1989 : 294 ) . Women accused of violent crimes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influenced by the bodily states of menstruation , pregnancy or lactation , causing their faculties of reason to be impaired , and therefore as being inherently unstable and emotionally volatile . In contrast , men were portrayed as suffering from only a temporary state of loss of reason , often viewed as being incited by justifiable and legitimate emotional responses to their partner 's infidelity . In the contemporary era , it certainly is the case that most major violent actions and crimes in western countries are committed by men ( Connell , 1995 : 83 ; Alder and Polk , 1996 : 3%1 , Those crime that include murder often involve rage initiated by feelings of possessive jealousy in relation to a female partner or despair at being left by that partner . Those crimes involving child abuse or child homicides are associated with anger and loss of control , as well as sometimes with vindictiveness and hate towards the man 's female partner . Other such crimes , however , are associated with feelings of powerlessness , loss , sadness and hopelessness on the part of the man ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominant forms of masculinity in western societies , particularly in relation to working-class men and younger men , privilege or at least tolerate expressions of violence as part of masculinity . Tolson ( 1977 : 43 ) has argued that for the British working-class boy , aggression often dominates as ' the universal currency ' , the basis of ' style ' and protecting oneself . More recently , Connell ( 1995 : 98 ? 103 ) observed among his case studies of young Australian unemployed men from working-class backgrounds that violence was a dominant part of their lives . Canaan ( 1996 : 114 ) has described her ' horror and fascination ' at the stories told her by predominantly white , English working-class young men about their gleeful participation in violence against other young men , often involving the use of a broken bottle to attack them . These young men set out to become drunk so as to lose control and engage in outrageous acts of ' hardness ' with their peers . Getting angry while fighting was valued as a means of gathering courage and avoiding feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintaining control over the situation . Fighting was also regarded by these young men as a way of getting frustrations or anger over other issues ' out of your system ' . Both drug use and violence serve as ways to ' let go ' , to escape the realities of a harsh existence and to construct and perform valued forms of masculinity ( Collison , 1996 ) . Other dominant forms of masculinity , however , tend to position violence as inappropriate . This is particularly the case for men in the privileged classes , who are expected not to express feelings of anger , frustration , fear or loss in violent acts unless they take place in carefully prescribed and controlled places such as the sporting arena . Men in bourgeois organizational contexts , for example , are not encouraged to behave in overtly emotional ways , except perhaps for expressing emotions such as anger and related aggressiveness verbally ( through angry or sarcastic words ) ( Hearn , 1993 ) . This is not to argue , however , that the bourgeois work context is free from strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is itself a form of emotional management , as is dealing with others ' emotions in the workplace . As critics such as Roper ( 1996 ) have noted , far from emotions being excluded from the masculine persona in the workplace , they are central to it . While the ideal of work organizations may be that of dispassionate rationality , both men and women engage in relationships with others in the workplace in ways that invariably involve emotion , including the desire , friendship and mutual attraction that men may experience in their relationships with other men as well as with women ( see Roper ( 1996 ) for an account of unacknowledged homoerotic desire and strategies of seduction in male management relations ) . luidity and the Abject As discussed in Chapter 3 , the contemporary western ideal of the body is that which is contained , dry , set apart from others ' bodies , able to police its boundaries effectively . I also contended in that chapter that the fluidity of emotion is one source of the contemporary anxiety around emotionality and emotional expression , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or control and constantly threatens to breach the boundaries of the body/self . Fluidity or liquidity are also characteristics that are frequently related to femininity . The archetypal female body is culturally represented as more permeable and as less contained from the outside world than are men 's bodies . It is conceptualized as inevitably and uncontrollably leaky , prone to seepage ( Grosz , 1994 : 203 ) . As Grosz has put it : ' the female body has been constructed not only as a lack or absence but with more complexity , as a leaking , uncontrollable , seeping liquid ; as formless flow ; as viscosity , entrapping , secreting ; as lacking not so much of simply the phallus but self-containment ' ( 1994 : 203 ) . This lack of containment is seen to reside not only in the fluids emitted by the female body but in its fleshiness . In contemporary times , where thinness and tightness of bodily flesh are privileged , the plump , rounded female body , with its soft , fleshy protuberances that are not tightly ' held down ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its apparent unruly nature , its lack of selfdiscipline ( Bordo , 1993 ) . Fluidities of emotion are often associated with embodied feminine emotional response and heat and fire with masculine response . For instance , in a study by Patthey-Chavez et al . ( 1996 ) of contemporary erotic fiction written for women , gender differences were noted in the ways women and men were described as responding to passion . Both female and male protagonists were portrayed as struggling against the forces of passion . For men , it was their desire for the woman 's body against which they struggled , while for women , it was their own bodies that become an opponent . Characters of both sexes found themselves unable to think clearly , behaving as if drugged . Men were commonly portrayed as experiencing hot , fiery passion , while women responded more passively in terms of fluidities : ' Like fire , wetness courses through the bodies of romance protagonists like a bodily sensation and often becomes a force ( for example , a flood ) that overwhelms them . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions and words ' ( Patthey-Chavez et al. , 1996 : 88 ? 9 ; original emphases ) . Men 's bodies , real or imaginary , are generally viewed as conforming more to the ideal of the hard , dry body than are women 's bodies . The muscular , invulnerable bodies of male fictional screen characters , such as those played by Arnold Schwarzenegger in the 7i.rminalor films or those of elite sportsmen , represent the apotheosis of this ideal . As Jones has observed : ' such phrases as " bottling it all up inside " , " letting it all out " and " holding the tears in " are all metaphors for the masculine ideal of a tight , leakage free , impenetrable body where the body boundary allows no involuntary transference of substances from inside to outside ' ( 1993 : 89 ? 90 ) . Sporting activities are a route by which men from all social backgrounds have traditionally expressed emotions such as anger , aggressiveness , triumph and joy , whether as a participant or as a spectator . They may also serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be controlled or vented ' productively ' by the participant through the exercise of self-discipline . Sports such as boxing , traditionally one of the few means by which men from working-class and black backgrounds have been able to achieve fame and fortune , particularly value the controlled release of aggression , the ability of the fighter both to act violently against his opponent and to demonstrate coolness in doing so , including stoically withstanding pain inflicted by the other . Physical activities such as bodybuilding , in their more autonomous , self-centred mode and their focus on self-discipline rather than emotional expression , are a means by which men may seek to achieve transcendence over the body and the emotions through the exertion of will . The pumped-up muscular development that is the outcome of successful bodybuilding both acts as a testament to a man 's masculinity and is a tangible sign of his ability to control and discipline his body . The hard , powerful , muscular body , therefore , is also the idealized contained , restrained body , which nothing , including emotions , can disrupt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 102 ? 3 ) claims that women 's bodies evoke both horror and desire on the part of men , not only because they are conceptualized as ' gaping maws ' or because they secrete viscous fluids , but because they are the receptacle of the most highly polluting bodily fluid produced by men 's bodies ? semen . Semen , he argues , ' makes the vagina the site of rank fecundity and generation that assimilates it to the constellation of images that makes teeming , moist , swampy ooze a source of disgust ' ( 1997 : 103 ) . According to Miller , men find semen particularly disgusting and shame-making , not only because it is emitted from the same orifice from which urine comes or because it has a viscous , slimy texture that repulses , but because it is culturally associated with a man 's loss of bodily control ( 1997 : 103 ? 4 ) . As argued in Chapter 3 , loss of control over bodily fluids is associated with the emotions of disgust , embarrassment , humiliation and horror . At its most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both substances and emotions at the moment of birth , in the form of the foetus which expels itself from the female body in a scene of pain , uncontrolled physical writhing , shouting , moaning , crying and screaming , a scene of high emotion accompanied by floods of fluid : blood , amniotic fluid , mucous , all ejected together with sound from the labouring body . The menstruating or labouring body inhabits the border between civilized and grotesque , between nature and culture , inside and outside , adulthood and infancy , rational being and irrational animal . Menstruation and labour may begin without warning , ' ruled ' as they are by the hormones and ' natural ' bodily cycles . The embarrassment and disgust generated by menstruation is related again to the lack of control over bodily fluids . Menstruation is not simply loss of control , it represents an absence of control through its sheer unpredictability : ' for the girl , menstruation , associated as it is with blood , with injury and the wound , with a mess that does not dry invisibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in dreams , but whenever it occurs , indicates the beginning of an out-ofcontrol status that she was led to believe ends with childhood ' ( Grosz , 1994 : 205 ) . Documentary evidence would suggest that men position women as both inferior and dangerous because of their perception of women 's lack of emotional and bodily containment . For example , Theweleit 's ( 1987 ) examination of the writings of and about men in the Freikorps in Germany , organized by officers returning from the First World War to maintain order and withstand revolution in post-war Germany , reveals the ambivalence that these soldiers held towards women : ' They vacillate between intense interest and cool indifference , aggressiveness and veneration , hatred , anxiety , alienation , and desire ' ( Theweleit , 1987 : 24 ) . Theweleit notes that the metaphor of flood was used to denote the communist threat and the threat posed by women , both of which were conceptualized as having the potential to engulf the body of the soldier . In Freikorps writings , the ' mire ' of revolution and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' are described in bodily terms , displaying extreme negativity towards bodily secretions , particularly those believed to emanate from women 's bodies ( floods , red tides , slime ) . Such substances are hybrid and viscous , absorptive , alive , autonomous , capable of swallowing and engulfing , leaving no traces behind and therefore deceptive ( 1987 : 409 ) . The soldiers saw themselves as needing to prevent the entry or exit of these fluids into or from their bodies by stiffening , hardening and closing themselves off . Theweleit notes that ' For the soldier ? male dam , none of the streams we 've mentioned can be allowed to flow . He is out to prevent all of them from flowing : " imaginary " and real streams , streams of sperm and desire . . . . All of these flows are shut off ; more important , not a single drop can be allowed to seep through the shell of the body ' ( 1987 : 260 . In a more contemporary piece of writing , the self-help hook for men entitled Wrestling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Children , Parents and Each Other ( 1992 ) , the language tied by American psychologist Samuel Osherson makes frequent reference to the shame that intimacy is believed to cause men by using metaphors of fluidity . He argues that yearnings for connection and contact are experienced as unmanly and counter to how a man should feel and behave . Osherson describes the shame provoked by men 's needs for intimacy as ' a visceral feeling ? we feel " disgusting " , " slimy " , " pathetic " , " smaller than a piece of dust " , or " mortified , like I wanted to die " ' ( 1992 : 31 ) . He uses the term ' emotional flooding ' throughout his book to describe the experience of being overwhelmed by their feelings that men experience and dislike . He contends that : ' Intimacy not only leaves us feeling exposed or inadequate , it can also disorganize us . We may be flooded with anger , sorrow , hope , or despair , and then feel as if something is wrong with us for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fragmenting or falling apart under the pressure of feelings that overwhelm our capacity to contain them ' ( 1992 : 32 ) . When this happens , he argues : ' We feel the slimy finger of shame pointing at us ' ( 1992 : 40 ) . Osherson goes on to claim that : ' Many men have spent much of their childhood trying to master and get in control of their feelings . Being flooded by them brings a shameful sense of falling apart , of being a " sissy " , " wimp " , or " faggot " ' ( 1992 : 41 ) . In the discourses and metaphors used in this writing can be seen the same kind of fear , anxiety and horror concerning the fluidity ( and sliminess ) of emotion , and the coding of this fluidity/sliminess as feminine , as was evident in the Freikorps texts analysed by Theweleit . In both the Freikorps texts and Osherson 's writing it is suggested that the fluid , leaky body , the body that is ' flooded ' with emotion , is somehow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its liquidity , it lack of containment and its associated femininity . Some theorists have sought a psychodynamic explanation for why men may approach emotional expression and intimate relationships differently from women . They have contended that at the base of men 's positioning of women as overly emotional or uncontrolled is their own fear about becoming too close to others . The project of masculinity , it is argued , is far more tenuous at the psychodynamic level than is that of femininity . As a result , men are more insecure than women about their gender , requiring constant affirmation of their masculine subjectivity , and tend to engage in defensive strategies in the attempt to represent themselves as impenetrable , independent and autonomous . While both men and women may find the emotional dependency that is part of intimacy unsettling and challenging to their sense of self-mastery and autonomy , men in particular are more likely to find this confronting and to deal with their resultant anxiety and feelings of inferiority at the psychodynamic level by splitting them off and projecting them on to the feminine Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the mother and the process of individuation is the font of strong emotions , including not only love , hate , frustration , loss and fear , but also disgust . Kristeva 's concept of the allied , which she describes as that which ' disturbs identity , system , order ' ( 1982 : 2 ) , she locates as originating in the liminality between bodies that first occurs in the mother ? infant relationship . Such liminality , she argues , provokes strong and often conflicting emotions . Kristeva draws not only on psychoanalytic theory but also on the work of the anthropologist Mary Douglas , whose writings on the symbolic nature of boundaries and the fear and revulsion incurred by transgression of these boundaries have been extremely influential in sociocultural theory ( see Chapter 3 ) . Kristeva seeks to locate the origin of the emotions aroused by the transgression of body boundaries in the process of individuation during infancy ( see the discussion of Klein 's work on individuation in Chapter 1 ) . She claims that as the infant comes to construct the mother as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an accompanying sense of sorrow at the loss of oneness with the mother 's comforting , nourishing and powerful body . But it is only through constructing the mother 's body as abject , and thereby rejecting and repelling it , that the infant is able to achieve autonomy . Hence the constant movement between repulsion and attraction of blurring one 's boundaries with others ' bodies that continues into adult life , as well as both the fascination and disgust occasioned by what is seen to be liminal , to lack self-containment or ' proper ' definition between self/other . The abject threatens self-identity and self-containment because of its in-between nature . The feelings inspired by the abject , the loathing and revulsion , the desire and fascination , are very much at the level of the visceral and their provenance can not entirely be explained at the conscious level . As Kristeva describes it : ' There looms , within abjection , one of those violent , dark revolts of being , directed against a threat that seems to emanate from an exorbitant outside or inside , ejected beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinkable ' ( 1982 : 1 ) . Importantly , because of the original link in the unconscious with the mother , the abject is constantly culturally linked to ' the feminine ' . Thus , those bodies , substances or things that are considered to be liminal , to breach the boundaries between self and other , that threaten self-containment , are typically coded as ' feminine ' ( Grosz , 1994 ) . The influential feminist psychoanalytic theorist Nancy Chodorow ( 1978 , 1989 ) has also taken up object relations theory to explore the ways in which men differentiate themselves from women in order to realize self-identity and autonomy . Chodorow builds upon the notion that because women take the primary caregiving role of infants , as part of their development children are forced to break away from their mothers ( rather than their fathers ) and reject the symbiosis with the maternal body that was part of infancy . Boys , in particular , seek to reject their close relationship with their mothers in the quest for masculine autonomy once they come to realize that their mothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Chodorow claims that as a result , boys reject and deny the maternal figure and the feminine attributes associated with her : intimacy , dependence , emotionatlity . Masculinity is defined as that which is not feminine ; it remains precarious , constantly needing to be proven . Hence the abhorrence of femininity and women often shown by young boys and adult men . Chodorow argues that men therefore have a highly ambivalent relationship with their mothers , and by extension , with all women : torn between desire and dread , dependence and autonomy , wanting engulfment with the female body but simultaneously fearing it . In their efforts to maintain strong ego boundaries and defend themselves against relatedness as part of their attempts to take up culturally dominant forms of masculinity , many men have difficulties in engaging in empathetic , close and caring relationships with others . Chodorow argues that girls , on the other hand , are loved narcissistically by their mothers , as like themselves rather than other . Girls are therefore more secure in their gender identity but have a weaker sense of autonomy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not have to go through individuation to the same extent as part of their development of femininity , because they are able to identify with the mother as another female , they tend to have a more related sense of self that is less autonomous and less fraught than men with tension between autonomy and dependence . According to Chodorow , when men attempt to deny their need for emotional closeness , they project these feelings on to the women with whom they are involved or else repress them , becoming intolerant to those who express a need for love . Men both look for and fear an exclusive , intense relationship . Women , on the other hand , are more easily able to express these needs . Chodorow 's earlier work on the reproduction of gender via these psychodynamic processes has been criticized by some for demonstrating too structuralist an approach , for implying that there is little diversity or potential for change in the ways in which individuals develop their gendered sense of selves and relate to others . In her more recent work , Chodorow ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cultural discourses , narratives and fantasies circulating around gender and love , as well as individuals ' own personal experiences of living in their family of origin , as also shaping people 's responses to intimate relationships . In doing so she brings together a psychodynamic focus on the individual 's life experiences and psyche with an awareness that the individual 's social position as gendered and as a member of a certain cultural group at a particular historical moment is also a vital component of her or his emotional self : Gender is an important ingredient in how men and women love , and all men 's and women 's love fantasies , desires , or practices are partially shaped by their sense of gendered self . But this sense of gendered self is itself individually created and particular , a unique fusion of cultural meaning with a personal emotional meaning that is tied to the individual psychobiographical history of any individual ( ( ' hudorow , 19 ) 5 : 1(H) ) Chodorow - emphasizes that people form their emotional responses via a conscious and unconscious appropriation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through their parents and other family members , the mass media , the education system and so on . She acknowledges that there are multiple forms of masculinities and femininities that are available even within the one cultural context and upon which individuals may draw . Some of these are hegemonic over others , however , and thus tend to have more cultural resonance and influence . Nonetheless , even these dominant forms of gender are open to contestation and change . These assertions are supported in Hollway 's work , which involved discussions with British heterosexual men and women about relationships ( see also the discussion of her research in Chapter 1 ) . Like Chodorow , Hollway ( 1984 , 1989 , 1995 ) emphasizes that individuals ' responses to intimacy are structured through the prevailing dominant discourses on emotion and gender as well as through such features of their personal experience as their history of early relationships with their parents and siblings . As a result of the influence of this early individual experience , some people compared with others are able to deal more successfully with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with and dependence on another . Nonetheless , her research suggested that men are more likely than women to find dependency threatening and destabilizing . Hollway found that the men in her study tended to project their need for emotional intimacy on to their female partners and to express their fear of becoming too involved and dependent . As one of Hollway 's male interviewees commented : ' I 'm very frightened of getting in deep ? and then not being able to cope with the demands that the relationship 's making ' ( 1984 : 244 ) . He went on to talk about his need to maintain freedom in a relationship and to avoid responsibility even while professing to love his partner . His fear of ' getting in deep ' , or ' letting go ' , demonstrate the intense vulnerability men feel about trusting another person , because revealing one 's emotions gives power to the other . Another male interviewee similarly commented that ' Once you 've shown the other person that you need them , then you 've made yourself incredibly vulnerable ' ( 1989 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that men feel upon women , Hollway maintains , which is the source of the continuing discourse that ' women need commitment ' while men do not : ' The reproduction of women as subjects of a discourse concerning the desire for intimate and secure relationships protects men from the risk associated with their own need ( and the consequent power it would give women ) ' ( Hollway , 1984 : 245 ? 6 ) . The writings of Grosz , Kristeva , Chodorow and Hollway , therefore , serve to identify the psychodynamic provenance of the horror and disgust that are associated with fluidity And the leaky body whose boundaries are seen to be uncontained It is argued that because the process of individuation from the maternal body that is part of psychic development for both men and women includes the generation of extremely strong emotions - principally love and hate - in relation to this body , women 's bodies are positioned as the repositories of these emotions into adulthood . For men in particular , in their attempts to establish and maintain a masculinity that is positioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more vulnerable , more dependent , more chaotic in their uncontrollable corporeality as part of men 's attempts to deny the fluidity and excessiveness of their own bodies/ selves and the emotional dependency that they perceive within themselves ( Grosz , 1994 : 200 ) . Women themselves may find threatening or disturbing the meanings of fluidity , emotionality and loss of control that combine to represent femininity as inferior . Some women , such as those who engage in stringent dieting and exercising , or who have eating disorders , may participate in these bodily practices as an attempt to discipline their own unruly ( because female ) bodies . The melting away of their ' feminine ' flesh they see as a symbolic move towards the masculine ideal of the contained , hard , dry body ( Bordo , 1993 ; Heywood , 1996 ) . In interviews with 23 anorexic women , Malson and Ussher ( 1996 ) found that they articulated negative attitudes towards both emotionality and the menstruating female body . The women thought of archetypal femininity as involving labile emotionality , which itself was associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that they wanted to separate themselves from what they saw as their ' alien ' menstruating bodies as part of their attempts to overcome the negative meanings of the female body . Controlling their eating was the means they had chosen to work towards this ideal of the contained , disciplined body . Not only does this bodily practice serve to pare the body down , reducing its feminine fleshiness , it also often has the side-effect of amenorrhoea ( the absence of menstruation ) . This was viewed as positive by the anorexic women because it spelt an end to the chaotic emotions and bodily fluidity they associated with menstruation . Even those women who do not suffer from eating disorders may find disturbing the meanings linking femininity with the inability to regulate the self and the body , and thus work to overcome these meanings . In another study , Lutz ( 1990 ) interviewed 15 American men and women and analysed their discourses on emotional control . She noted that the women talked about the control of emotion more than twice as often as did the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the negative meanings attached to both emotional loss of control and femininity . Women therefore may perceive themselves as more susceptible to loss of control over their emotions and as requiring greater conscious control compared with men . According to Lutz , because women are aware of the negative associations with loss of control , they therefore position themselves dually as ' controller ' and ' controllee ' by articulating the importance of maintaining emotional control and dissociating themselves from the stigmatized feminine archetype ( 1990 : 73-4 ) . As described in Chapter 2 , in my own interview study there was evidence of ambivalence among women concerning their positioning as being emotional simply because they were female . Both men and women agreed that being emotionally expressive in some contexts ( particularly the sphere of the intimate ) was important , and that more women than men tended to have the capacity for such expression . However , they also recognized that in some contexts the association of femininity with emotionality worked against women . Some women , for example , demonstrated concern about being positioned as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and engaged in deliberate strategies to avoid this . Other women were aware of the negative meanings given to women who express anger , and struggled with this . Emotional Labour and Intimate Relationships The term ' emotional labour ' has recently been used in relation to gender and intimate relationships . This term is sometimes used interchangeably with the term ' emotion work ' , but has a more specific meaning . ' Emotion work ' , as argued in Chapter 1 , refers to constituting emotion in response to ' feeling rules ' or expectations about what sort of emotion one should feel in particular contexts . ' Emotional labour ' is used more specifically in relation to dealing with other people 's feelings , particularly as part of the goal of maintaining harmony within a social unit or workplace ( see , for example , Hochschild , 1983 ; James , 1989 ; Duncombe and Marsden , 1993 , 1995 , 1998 ) . It has been argued that women engage in emotional labour far more than most men , with the suggestion that this is a feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marsden ( 1993 : 234 ) , for example , call the emotional labour that women perform in the home , ' emotional housework ' and ' invisible domestic labour ' . They contend that many women work a ' triple ' shift if their responsibility for maintaining the emotional aspects of family relationships is taken into account , and claim that : ' The search for intimacy and emotional reciprocity is the last frontier of gender inequality ' ( 1995 : 165 ) . The work involved in emotional labour in the family context includes not only continually noting and responding to others ' emotional states , but also acting to alleviate distress or regulate others ' emotions that are deemed to be ' inappropriate ' for that context . It is part of the selfless ' caring ' that women are expected to demonstrate for others , particularly members of their families ( James , 1989 : 26 ) . The purpose of women 's emotional labour is thus to preserve and reproduce social order and norms from one generation to another . Ironically , such work is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tied to taken-for-granted notions of the ' natural ' roles of women as wives and mothers . As James notes , however , much effort , thought and time must be put into emotional labour : ' When emotions are thought to be " irrational " it is hard to associate them with organization , yet managing them requires anticipation , planning , timetabling and trouble-shooting as does other " work " , paid and unpaid ' ( 1989 : 27 ) . Women 's role as carers in the marital and family context has been critiqued as perpetuating their place in the ' private ' rather than the ' public ' sphere at the same time as they support men 's participation in the ' public ' sphere . It is claimed that men , rather than performing emotional labour in the home , are the recipients of it , allowing them to effectively carry out emotional work at the site of the workplace . As Mulholland asserts , it may be the case that some men ' are emotionally dissociated from domesticity . They refuse to confront and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excuse to evade deeper involvement with problems associated with family life ' ( Mulholland , 1996 : 143 ) . This suggests that the distinction that is commonly drawn between the ' private ' and the ' public ' sphere is somewhat artificial , for in this case the emotional and other labour performed by women in the ' private ' sphere is part of men 's continuing engagement and success in the ' public ' sphere . Mulholland 's ( 1996 ) interviews with British men who were ' workaholic ' entrepreneurs found that they did indeed see their wives as providing them with much-needed emotional succour when they returned home at the end of the day exhausted from long hours of work . A ' good ' wife was seen as relieving men from the burdens of childcare and domestic problems . I commented in Chapter 3 on the increasing importance that has been placed upon the expression and articulation of feelings as part of the projects of finding and working upon the ' true ' self and maintaining close intimate relationships . These activities have been represented as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case that women are seen to be far more competent and willing to engage in them compared with men . Research into women 's and men 's engagement in parenthood supports the notion that women tend to engage far more in caring work and emotional labour , and what is more , are viewed as having a greater capacity for such work . Verheyen 's ( 1987 ) research with Dutch women and men , undertaken in the early 1980s , found that fathers and mothers judge themselves differently , particularly with respect to the relational and affective aspects of parenthood . She found that for both parents the mother was usually considered to be the ' expert ' in the domain of relational and affective aspects of parenthood . Fathers tended to regret their lack of involvement and time to spend with their children . Simultaneously , however , they tended to accept this as inevitable and not subject to change because of their work demands . Verheyen argues that women as mothers are more aware of the relational aspects of all relationships , including those they have with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate , even from their children . As a result , she suggests , mothers are more highly aware and self-critical of their affective relationship and their sensitivity to their children 's needs than are fathers . ( See also the research of Ribbens ( 1994 ) and Walzer ( 1996 ) for similar conclusions . ) Duncombe and Marsden ( 1993 , 1995 , 1998 ) conducted interviews with British long-term married couples about their relationships . Based on these data , they argue that an asymmetry in emotional expression is evident in many modern heterosexual relationships . Women , they contend , perform most of the emotional labour in such relationships and ' do ' intimacy , complaining that men either can not or will not express intimate emotions to a similar degree . The women in their study , for example , wanted their partners to make them feel emotionally ' special ' through the unprompted expression of love and affection , but for the most part they did not feel that their partners offered this . They felt as if men ' deserted ' them by giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( see also some of the comments made by women in my own study in Chapter 2 on this issue ) . For their part , the men in the study appeared not to understand what the problem was , and in some cases found their partners ' demands unreasonable , particularly after a hard day at work . While the men acknowledged that they had feelings , they argued that they preferred not to disclose these feelings to their wives . Critics have argued that women are also typically expected to engage in emotional labour more than men in paid employment and are overrepresented in the ' caring ' or ' service ' industries that involve dealing sensitively with clients or customers ( for example , sales clerks , nurses and flight attendants ) ( Hochschild , 1983 ; James , 1989 ) . Women in secretarial positions are often expected to ' care ' for the person for whom they work almost like a wife or a mother , maintaining the superior 's emotional equilibrium and performing the ' back-stage ' work that allows their superior to appear in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotional states ( Pringle , 1989 ) . Such emotional labour , which tends to be regarded as ' trivial ' and is often unacknowledged , serve% to support what is seen to be the more important intellectual or revenue . producing activities in the professional or bureaucratic workplaCe ( Davies , 1996 ) . Parkin ( 1993 ) also points to the spatial dimension ul IM expression or containment of emotions in the paid work setting w IMI are often gendered . In universities , for example , secretarial and istrative staff generally work in ' public ' areas that are constantly IOW by others , allowing them very little , if any , privacy and requiring be on ' show ' throughout the working day , while permanurnt staff have their own offices to which no one can gain admittance unless invited . The former group of workers are predominantly women , while the latter are predominantly male . It is important to recognize , however , that emotional labour need not be about inciting emotional expression , calming people down or making them feel happy . It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of activity more than men in the paid workplace and the home . But men engage in other types of emotional labour , such as suppressing their feelings for what they see to be the good of the workplace or their intimate relationships . In their most recent writings , for example , Duncombe and Marsden ( 1998 ) have pointed out that emotional labour need not be glossed as ' expressing oneself ' . Men 's participation in emotional labour in the family may involve keeping their anxieties and frustrations ( including those related to work ) from their partners , so as not to distress or worry them . In the workplace , attempts to keep one 's frustrations or feelings of anxiety or anger to oneself or to pretend to like people one heartily dislikes , so as to present a professional self or avoid social disharmony , may also be considered to be a form of emotional labour in which both men and women participate . While some feminists have criticized what they see to be the negative associations between femininity and emotionality , seeking to disrupt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different tack by attempting to privilege what they see as women 's more highly developed capacity for emotional sensitivity and expression . Emotionality , in this reading , is endowed with the meanings of superiority , and not as being directly opposed to intellectual activity or rationality . It is particularly represented as being related to positive rather than negative emotions ; to love , empathy and tenderness , for example , rather than to anger or hate . This feminist discourse also tends to equate emotionality with the capacity for relating to and caring for others in unselfish ways . Emotional labour is represented as a worthwhile activity that has its own rewards . Exponents of this perspective argue for an understanding of human life as essentially interdependent , lived in emotional relationships to others , and for the privileging of mutuality , relatedness , the ethnic of caretaking and empathy as they are demonstrated by women , particularly mothers . Inherent in their arguments is a disdain for what they see as the masculinized notion of the autonomous , individuated , nonrelational self , a model of being they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' relational being ' ( see , for example , Gilligan and Rogers , 1993 ; Jordan , 1993 ; Ruddick , 1994 ) . This literature suggests that emotion labour as performed by women in intimate relationships need not be considered in negative terms as contributing to women 's disempowerment and socioeconomic disadvantage , but rather as a potential source of women 's power and self-fulfilment . The ' Feminization ' of Masculine Emotionality : Towards Equality ? As I have argued above , new writing about masculinity has tended to reproduce the assumption that men should express their emotions to others , particularly intimate others , to a greater extent than they do currently . So too , the increasing attention paid to the ' new ' father , in conjunction with the writings of feminist critics calling for a greater participation by men in parenting , has begun to problematize the notion that women are ' naturally ' equipped for emotional labour in ways that men are not ( Lupton and Barclay , 1997 ) . In both popular and expert forums this move towards the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive , offering the potential to lead to more equitable relationships between men and women and stronger emotional ties between fathers and their children . In these portrayals , therefore , the ' feminine ' or ' open ' approach is represented as the most appropriate way to engage in emotional behaviour while the ' masculine ' approach is portrayed as stultified , oldfashioned and harmful , both for men and for their intimates . Craib ( 1994 ) has noticed a change in his own lifetime in the way that talking about feelings and emotionality is represented . In his childhood , he claims , this practice was often regarded as feminine and inferior , as something that men should avoid . In present times emotionality is still seen as feminine , but it is often claimed as a superior rather than inferior quality ( Craib , 1994 : 88 ) . An interest in the emotions of people and their relationships with others as represented in the popular media has been traditionally considered as feminine . The soap opera is the archetypal ' feminine ' genre , revolving around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the archetypal ' masculine ' popular entertainment is that which deals with action , physical prowess , political intrigue , crime or sporting activities . Conceptualizing certain media products as ' emotional ' , however , because they focus on intimate and love relationships , ignores the fact that other media products constantly evoke a range of intense emotions . The stock in trade of television drama about crime and violence , for example , such as ' cop shows ' , as well as news reports , are such emotions as fear , anxiety and excitement , and as I noted in the Introduction , the coverage of political and sporting events revolve around emotion . In that sense these media products are no less ' emotional ' than soap opera , but are less often viewed as such because ' emotionality ' tends to have certain meanings that link it to female rather than male interests and behaviours . Nonetheless , in recent mainstream television and film these binary divisions ? between ' feminine ' , ' emotional ' media and ' masculine ' , ' nonemotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very strong cultural linking of femininity and emotionality , there has recently emerged ai focus on what Boscagli calls ' masculine emotionality ' in the popular media : ' The vision of men barely repressing tears , " confessing , " reminiscing about their personal past , and exploring t heir interiority has taken the stage and convinced the audience that a new generation of sensitive men has come of age ' ( Boscagli , 1992/1993 : 64 ) . This is particularly evident in the ways in which male characters are now often represented in terms of their emotional behaviour and interest in the emotions . While the hardened , muscular action hero of few words and cool demeanour may still feature as a dominant archetype in mainstream film ( the Arnold Schwarzenegger Terminator archetype ) , the sensitive , articulate , male character willing to discuss his feelings is also common , in the films of Woody Allen and Hal Hartley , for example . Even action heroes are occasionally represented as able to express tender emotions ; for instance , the Bruce Willis character in Tarantino 's Pulp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violent activities and escaping from dangerous situations in some scenes and in others as cuddling with his lover and exchanging tender words with her . Prime-time American television series such as the late 1980s drama thirtysomething , the contemporary drama Party of Five and the sitcoms Ellen , Seinfeld and Friends , all of which are directed at a male as well as a female audience , portray male characters who are concerned about their personal relationships and interested in talking about them at length with others , both men and women , to seek their advice . So too , in recent years , the archetype of the ' new father ' who is devoted to his children and interested in spending time with them , including discussing and advising upon their personal problems , has become popularized in the mass media , with the ultimate exemplar of the Cliff Huxtable character played by Bill Cosby in his highly successful 1980s comedy The Cosby Show ( see Lupton and Barclay ( 1997 : Chapter 3 ) for a discussion of media representations of fathers ) . A colleague and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was very common for the men who were interviewed to have taken up this discourse of the ' new father ' . All the men in the study wanted to ' be there ' for their children and to have a loving and intimate relationship with them . They described their own fathers as emotionally distant , and said that they wanted to avoid this in their own fathering practices . While some men were managing to engage at a profound emotional level with their young children , others found themselves frustrated by their lack of opportunity to engage in caring for them and developing an intimate relationship with them . These difficulties were due to a number of factors , including the demands of their paid work and their partner 's unwillingness to allow them to play more of a role in their children 's care ( Lupton and Barclay , 1997 ) . There is other evidence to suggest that many men are making concerted efforts to express their emotions in response to changing discourses . As I noted in Chapter 2 , most of the men interviewed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressive , and that it was important to demonstrate loving feelings to one 's family members as well as feeling able to express such emotions as grief and anxiety ( rather than ' bottling them up ' ) in the interests of preserving their mental and physical health . Many of the younger men appeared to be comfortable with taking up the discourse of emotional expressivity , finding no difficulty , for example , in weeping in public or describing themselves as ' very emotional ' . Several of the older men , however , found this very difficult to achieve , despite their best efforts . This would suggest that although some men may be aware of changes in the ' feeling rules ' , in which men 's expression of their emotions is now incited rather than discouraged , they may experience difficulties in conforming to them . They appear to lack the skills required to present themselves as emotionally expressive . While in liberal writings on masculinity the notion that men should begin to take up a ' feminine ' approach to their emotions and should confront their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrate an element of hostility to the second-wave feminist movement and the archetype of the ' sensitive new male ' . These critics have asserted that men should not be forced to give up what is seen as the ' traditional ' attributes of masculinity , such as their aggression and capacity for anger . Robert Bly 's mythopoetic writings , such as his well-known Iron John book ( 1990 ) , and the related popular American ' men 's movement ' are examples of this latter perspective . While Bly and his followers conform to the notion that expression of the emotions is ' healthier ' than repressing them , and that therefore men should be allowed to express their emotions to others , they tend to argue for such expression to take place between men as part of men re-establishing their ' deep masculinity ' and defending it against the encroachments of feminism . There is much focus placed on the emotional dimensions of men 's relationships with their fathers and their need to release cathartically the pain , frustration , aggression and anger they feel towards their fathers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's rituals ' involving shouting and screaming , initiation rites and going into forests to beat on drums and carry spears ) , in order to become ' real men ' again . In the mythopoetic men 's movement , the ' feminine ' aspect of emotional expression and the notion that men should become closer to women ( their mothers or their partners ) is marginalized in favour of what is seen to be a more ' authentic ' masculine expression of emotion . Other commentators have been critical of the ways in which some male writers have portrayed themselves as lacking power because of their supposed inability to express emotions . They have drawn attention to the rhetoric of oppression that some men 's groups , academics and writers of self-help books for men are using in the attempt to position men as victims , particularly in relation to the women 's movement , and the subsequent glossing-over of continuing social inequalities between men and women . They assert that the issue of emotional expression becomes used in this literature as an example of how women are advantaged compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , critiques the simplistic ways in which the mythopoetic men 's movement taps into and validates men 's emotions of grief , frustration and anger . The movement promises a solution for these feelings , but fails to confront men with their position of power and social privileges and brings men together at the expense of their relationships with women . Messner is also critical of people who urge men to ' open up ' in the interests of gender equality and better relationships . As he notes : ' A large part of the naivete about the emergent New Man is the belief that if boys and men can learn to " express their feelings , " they will no longer feel a need to dominate women ' ( Messner , 1993 : 731 ) . Boscagli ( 1992/1993 ) contends that in the postmodern era , men 's willingness to display emotions previously stigmatized as ' feminine ' , such as grief , is a symptom of their anxiety in what they see as a period of crisis of the self . The ' sensitive new male ' archetype @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcome of two decades of feminism . Men , it is suggested , have responded to changes in gender relations by allowing themselves to become more ' feminine ' or else are going through a ' crisis of masculinity ' causing them emotional distress . The discourse commonly used by men is that the ' feeling ' individual is the universal human : ' I feel , therefore I am ' is the creed of the new man ( Boscagli , 1992/1993 : 73 ) . Boscagli argues that the tears shed by this ' new man ' are appropriated as a means of survival , a means by which men are reaffirming their mastery . While it may be more culturally acceptable for men in positions of power to cry , as a display of their humanity and sensitivity ( Boscagli uses the example of General Schwarzkopf , the man commanding the American forces in the Gulf War ) , it remains the case that less privileged individuals , such as women and men from marginalized and disadvantaged social groups , are still stigmatized for their displays of emotionality : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a woman who cries is a woman . By crying she loses her humanity only to become gendered and " particular " again ' ( 1992/1993 : 75 ) . The ability for a powerful man to shed a tear in public , therefore , may be considered even greater evidence of his secure and high-status social position rather than destabilizing the traditional sources of men 's authority and privilege ( see also Messner , 1993 : 731-2 ) . This suggestion would seem to be supported by an empirical study cited by Fischer ( 1993 : 311 ) , in which the participants were asked to evaluate the responses of men and women ( crying , laughing or nonemotional ) to watching segments from films . The crying man was evaluated more positively than the laughing and non-emotional man , while the crying woman was evaluated more negatively than the nonemotional one . So too , in his interviews with people involved in the animal rights movement , Groves ( 1995 ) found that the emotions impelling the men to join the movement were considered differently from those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the movement as being involved because of their feelings of sympathy and affection for defenceless animals , and therefore as being sentimental . In contrast , men tended to present themselves as being involved because of ' rational ' , logically derived emotional responses concerning injustice in animal rights , or were admired by others because of their sensitivity and compassion , demonstrating a type of strength in engaging emotionally . Men 's emotions were seen as being more legitimate and rational by both the men and women interviewed by Groves . Concluding Comments The discussion in this chapter has identified the meanings and discourses contributing to the binary opposition of the ' emotional woman ' and the ' unemotional man ' and the implications of these archetypes for gendered experience . It has been contended that while certain long-held assumptions around gender and the emotions remain , there is evidence of a blurring of former distinctions between hegemonic notions of masculinity and femininity . In the wake of second-wave feminism , women are now expected to participate in the sphere of paid labour as well as engaging actively in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen to be more difficult for women to achieve the ideal of the contained , autonomous self because of their assumed inherent tendency towards emotionality , it is still expected that they aspire towards this ideal . Conversely , even though men may be thought to be less capable of ' opening up ' and revealing their emotions in the intimate sphere compared with women , they are now encouraged ( and indeed , expected ) to have a strong emotional presence in the family , and to attempt to express their emotions to intimate others . There is a convergence , therefore , between ( particularly bourgeois ) notions of ideal masculinities and femininities in relation to emotionality . A ' developed ' person now tends to be described as ' someone who combines feminine intimacy and emotional expression with masculine independence and competence ' ( Cancian , 1987 : 8 ) . There is a point , however , at which this convergence halts . Women who take on a highly rationalist , dispassionate or aggressive approach in the workplace , are often considered to go too far and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man ' , and women who choose not to have children or to leave most of the child care to their partner are still viewed with some suspicion . So too , the man who appears to have little interest in work , preferring to care for his children , or who goes too far in adopting the ' sensitive new man ' persona is often the butt of ridicule and allegation , of effeminacy . There is also evidence to suggest that the latest emphasis                     