@@749943

txt A History of Science , Volume 1 , by Henry Smith WilliamsScanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software A HISTORY OF SCIENCEBYHENRY SMITH WILLIAMS , M.D. , LL . D.ASSISTED BYEDWARD H. WILLIAMS , M.D.IN FIVE VOLUMESVOLUME IV . MODERN DEVELOPMENT OF THECHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES A HISTORY OF SCIENCEBOOK IVMODERN DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL SCIENCESAS regards chronology , the epoch covered in the present volume isidentical with that viewed in the preceding one . But now asregards subject matter we pass on to those diverse phases of the physical world which are the field of the chemist , and to thoseyet more intricate processes which have to do with livingorganisms . So radical are the changes here that we seem to beentering new worlds ; and yet , here as before , there areintimations of the new discoveries away back in the Greek days . The solution of the problem of respiration will remind us thatAnaxagoras half guessed the secret ; and in those diversifiedstudies which tell us of the Daltonian atom in its wonderfultransmutations , we shall be reminded again of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the analogy much too far were we to intimatethat the Greek of the elder day or any thinker of a more recentperiod had penetrated , even in the vaguest way , all of themysteries that the nineteenth century has revealed in the fieldsof chemistry and biology . At the very most the insight of thosegreat Greeks and of the wonderful **31;0;TOOLONG who so often seemed on the verge of our laterdiscoveries did no more than vaguely anticipate their successorsof this later century . To gain an accurate , really specificknowledge of the properties of elementary bodies was reserved forthe chemists of a recent epoch . The vague Greek questionings as to organic evolution were world-wide from the precise inductionsof a Darwin . If the mediaeval Arabian endeavored to dull theknife of the surgeon with the use of drugs , his results hardlymerit to be termed even an anticipation of modern anaesthesia . And when we speak of preventive medicine  --  of bacteriology in allits phases  --  we have to do with a marvellous field of which noprevious generation of men had even the slightest inkling . All in all , then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most fascinating of all the fields of science . As the chapters of the preceding book carried us out into amacrocosm of inconceivable magnitude , our present studies are toreveal a microcosm of equally inconceivable smallness . As thestudies of the physicist attempted to reveal the very nature ofmatter and of energy , we have now to seek the solution of the yetmore inscrutable problems of life and of mind . I. THE PHLOGISTON THEORY IN CHEMISTRYThe development of the science of chemistry from the " science " ofalchemy is a striking example of the complete revolution in theattitude of observers in the field of science . As has beenpointed out in a preceding chapter , the alchemist , having apreconceived idea of how things should be , made all his experiments to prove his preconceived theory ; while the chemistreverses this attitude of mind and bases his conceptions on theresults of his laboratory experiments . In short , chemistry iswhat alchemy never could be , an inductive science . But thistransition from one point of view to an exactly opposite one wasnecessarily a very slow process . Ideas that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ofyears can not be overthrown in a moment , unless the agent of suchan overthrow be so obvious that it can not be challenged . Therudimentary chemistry that overthrew alchemy had nothing soobvious and palpable . The great first step was the substitution of the one principle , phlogiston , for the three principles , salt , sulphur , and mercury . We have seen how the experiment of burning or calcining such ametal as lead " destroyed " the lead as such , leaving an entirely different substance in its place , and how the original metalcould be restored by the addition of wheat to the calcinedproduct . To the alchemist this was " mortification " and " revivification " of the metal . For , as pointed out byParacelsus , " anything that could be killed by man could also berevivified by him , although this was not possible to the thingskilled by God . " The burning of such substances as wood , wax , oil , etc. , was also looked upon as the same " killing " process , and the fact that the alchemist was unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his part , and in no wiseaffecting the theory itself . But the iconoclastic spirit , if not the acceptance of all theteachings , of the great Paracelsus had been gradually taking rootamong the better class of alchemists , and about the middle of theseventeenth century Robert Boyle ( 1626-1691 ) called attention tothe possibility of making a wrong deduction from the phenomenonof the calcination of the metals , because of a very importantfactor , the action of the air , which was generally overlooked . And he urged his colleagues of the laboratories to give greaterheed to certain other phenomena that might pass unnoticed in theordinary calcinating process . In his work , The Sceptical Chemist , he showed the reasons for doubting the threefold constitution ofmatter ; and in his General History of the Air advanced some noveland carefully studied theories as to the composition of theatmosphere . This was an important step , and although Boyle is notdirectly responsible for the phlogiston theory , it is probablethat his experiments on the atmosphere influenced considerablythe real founders , Becker and Stahl . Boyle gave very definitely his idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conjecture that the atmospherical air consists ofthree different kinds of corpuscles , " he says ; " the first , thosenumberless particles which , in the form of vapors or dryexhalations , ascend from the earth , water , minerals , vegetables , animals , etc. ; in a word , whatever substances are elevated by thecelestial or subterraneal heat , and thence diffused into theatmosphere . The second may be yet more subtle , and consist ofthose exceedingly minute atoms , the magnetical effluvia of theearth , with other innumerable particles sent out from the bodiesof the celestial luminaries , and causing , by their influence , theidea of light in us . The third sort is its characteristic andessential property , I mean permanently elastic parts . Varioushypotheses may be framed relating to the structure of these laterparticles of the air . They might be resembled to the springs ofwatches , coiled up and endeavoring to restore themselves ; towool , which , being compressed , has an elastic force ; to slenderwires of different substances , consistencies , lengths , andthickness ; in greater curls or less , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet all continuing springy , expansible , andcompressible . Lastly , they may also be compared to the thinshavings of different kinds of wood , various in their lengths , breadth , and thickness . And this , perhaps , will seem the mosteligible hypothesis , because it , in some measure , illustrates theproduction of the elastic particles we are considering . For noart or curious instruments are required to make these shavingswhose curls are in no wise uniform , but seemingly casual ; andwhat is more remarkable , bodies that before seemed un-elastic , asbeams and blocks , will afford them. " 1Although this explanation of the composition of the air is mostcrude , it had the effect of directing attention to the fact thatthe atmosphere is not " mere nothingness , " but a " something " witha definite composition , and this served as a good foundation forfuture investigations . To be sure , Boyle was neither the firstnor the only chemist who had suspected that the air was a mixture of gases , and not a simple one , and that only certain of thesegases take part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physician , and John Mayow , an Englishman , had preformedexperiments which showed conclusively that the air was not asimple substance ; but Boyle ' s work was better known , and in itseffect probably more important . But with all Boyle ' s explanationsof the composition of air , he still believed that there was aninexplicable something , a " vital substance , " which he was unable to fathom , and which later became the basis of Stahl ' s phlogistontheory . Commenting on this mysterious substance , Boyle says : " The , difficulty we find in keeping flame and fire alive , thoughbut for a little time , without air , renders it suspicious thatthere be dispersed through the rest of the atmosphere some oddsubstance , either of a solar , astral , or other foreign nature ; onaccount of which the air is so necessary to the substance offlame ! " It was this idea that attracted the attention of GeorgeErnst Stahl ( 1660-1734 ) , a professor of medicine in theUniversity of Halle , who later founded his new theory upon it . Stahl ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Becker ( 1635-1682 ) , in whose footsteps he followed andwhose experiments he carried further . In many experiments Stahl had been struck with the fact thatcertain substances , while differing widely , from one another inmany respects , were alike in combustibility . From this he argued that all combustible substances must contain a common principle , and this principle he named phlogiston . This phlogiston hebelieved to be intimately associated in combination with othersubstances in nature , and in that condition not perceivable bythe senses ; but it was supposed to escape as a substance burned , and become apparent to the senses as fire or flame . In otherwords , phlogiston was something imprisoned in a combustiblestructure ( itself forming part of the structure ) , and onlyliberated when this structure was destroyed . Fire , or flame , wasFREE phlogiston , while the imprisoned phlogiston was calledCOMBINED PHLOGISTON , or combined fire . The peculiar quality ofthis strange substance was that it disliked freedom and was always striving to conceal itself in some combustible substance . Boyle ' s tentative suggestion that heat was simply motion wasapparently not accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to the phlogistic theory , the part remaining after asubstance was burned was simply the original substance deprivedof phlogiston . To restore the original combustible substance , itwas necessary to heat the residue of the combustion withsomething that burned easily , so that the freed phlogiston mightagain combine with the ashes . This was explained by thesupposition that the more combustible a substance was the morephlogiston it contained , and since free phlogiston sought always to combine with some suitable substance , it was only necessary tomix the phlogisticating agents , such as charcoal , phosphorus , oils , fats , etc. , with the ashes of the original substance , andheat the mixture , the phlogiston thus freed uniting at once withthe ashes . This theory fitted very nicely as applied to thecalcined lead revivified by the grains of wheat , although withsome other products of calcination it did not seem to apply atall . It will be seen from this that the phlogistic theory was a steptowards chemistry and away from alchemy . It led away from theidea of a " spirit " in metals that could not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and substituted for it aprinciple which , although a falsely conceived one , was still much more tangible than the " spirit , " since it could be seen and feltas free phlogiston and weighed and measured as combinedphlogiston . The definiteness of the statement that a metal , forexample , was composed of phlogiston and an element was much lessenigmatic , even if wrong , than the statement of the alchemistthat " metals are produced by the spiritual action of the threeprinciples , salt , mercury , sulphur "  --  particularly when it isexplained that salt , mercury , and sulphur were really not whattheir names implied , and that there was no universally acceptedbelief as to what they really were . The metals , which are now regarded as elementary bodies , wereconsidered compounds by the phlogistians , and they believed thatthe calcining of a metal was a process of simplification . Theynoted , however , that the remains of calcination weighed more thanthe original product , and the natural inference from this wouldbe that the metal must have taken in some substance rather thanhave given off anything . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their explanation of variation in weight was either that such gain or loss was anunimportant " accident " at best , or that phlogiston , being light , tended to lighten any substance containing it , so that driving itout of the metal by calcination naturally left the residueheavier . At first the phlogiston theory seemed to explain in anindisputable way all the known chemical phenomena . Gradually , however , as experiments multiplied , it became evident that theplain theory as stated by Stahl and his followers failed toexplain satisfactorily certain laboratory reactions . To meetthese new conditions , certain modifications were introduced fromtime to time , giving the theory a flexibility that would allow itto cover all cases . But as the number of inexplicable experimentscontinued to increase , and new modifications to the theory becamenecessary , it was found that some of these modifications weredirectly contradictory to others , and thus the simple theorybecame too cumbersome from the number of its modifications . Itssupporters disagreed among themselves , first as to theexplanation of certain phenomena that did not seem to accord withthe phlogistic theory , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no satisfactory substitute for thistheory , which , even if unsatisfactory , seemed better thananything that had gone before or could be suggested . But the good effects of the era of experimental research , towhich the theory of Stahl had given such an impetus , were showingin the attitude of the experimenters . The works of some of theolder writers , such as Boyle and Hooke , were again sought out intheir dusty corners and consulted , and their surmises as to thepossible mixture of various gases in the air were more carefullyconsidered . Still the phlogiston theory was firmly grounded inthe minds of the philosophers , who can hardly be censured foradhering to it , at least until some satisfactory substitute wasoffered . The foundation for such a theory was finally laid , aswe shall see presently , by the work of Black , Priestley , Cavendish , and Lavoisier , in the eighteenth century , but thephlogiston theory can not be said to have finally succumbed untilthe opening years of the nineteenth century . II . THE BEGINNINGS OF MODERN CHEMISTRYTHE " PNEUMATIC " CHEMISTSModern chemistry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stephen Hales ( 1677-1761 ) , who early in the eighteenth centurybegan his important study of the elasticity of air . Departingfrom the point of view of most of the scientists of the time , beconsidered air to be " a fine elastic fluid , with particles ofvery different nature floating in it " ; and he showed that these " particles " could be separated . He pointed out , also , thatvarious gases , or " airs , " as he called them , were contained inmany solid substances . The importance of his work , however , liesin the fact that his general studies were along lines leadingaway from the accepted doctrines of the time , and that they gavethe impetus to the investigation of the properties of gases bysuch chemists as Black , Priestley , Cavendish , and Lavoisier , whose specific discoveries are the foundation-stones of modernchemistry . JOSEPH BLACKThe careful studies of Hales were continued by his youngerconfrere , Dr. Joseph Black ( 1728-1799 ) , whose experiments in theweights of gases and other chemicals were first steps inquantitative chemistry . But even more important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the properties of carbonic-acid gas . Black had been educated for the medical profession in theUniversity of Glasgow , being a friend and pupil of the famous Dr.William Cullen . But his liking was for the chemical laboratoryrather than for the practice of medicine . Within three yearsafter completing his medical course , and when only twenty-threeyears of age , he made the discovery of the properties of carbonicacid , which he called by the name of " fixed air . " Afterdiscovering this gas , Black made a long series of experiments , bywhich he was able to show how widely it was distributedthroughout nature . Thus , in 1757 , be discovered that the bubblesgiven off in the process of brewing , where there was vegetablefermentation , were composed of it . To prove this , he collected the contents of these bubbles in a bottle containing lime-water . When this bottle was shaken violently , so that the lime-water andthe carbonic acid became thoroughly mixed , an insoluble whitepowder was precipitated from the solution , the carbonic acidhaving combined chemically with the lime to form the insolublecalcium carbonate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of burning charcoal in the end of a bellows , hearranged a tube so that the gas coming from the charcoal wouldpass through the lime-water , and , as in the case of the bubblesfrom the brewer ' s vat , he found that the white precipitate wasthrown down ; in short , that carbonic acid was given off incombustion . Shortly after , Black discovered that by blowingthrough a glass tube inserted into lime-water , chalk wasprecipitated , thus proving that carbonic acid was beingconstantly thrown off in respiration . The effect of Black ' s discoveries was revolutionary , and theattitude of mind of the chemists towards gases , or " airs , " waschanged from that time forward . Most of the chemists , however , attempted to harmonize the new facts with the older theories  --  toexplain all the phenomena on the basis of the phlogiston theory , which was still dominant . But while many of Black ' s discoveriescould not be made to harmonize with that theory , they did notdirectly overthrow it . It required the additional discoveries of some of Black ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HENRY CAVENDISHThis work of Black ' s was followed by the equally important workof his former pupil , Henry Cavendish ( 1731-1810 ) , whose discovery of the composition of many substances , notably of nitric acid andof water , was of great importance , adding another link to theimportant chain of evidence against the phlogiston theory . Cavendish is one of the most eccentric figures in the history ofscience , being widely known in his own time for his immensewealth and brilliant intellect , and also for his peculiaritiesand his morbid sensibility , which made him dread society , andprobably did much in determining his career . Fortunately for him , and incidentally for the cause of science , he was able to pursuelaboratory investigations without being obliged to mingle withhis dreaded fellow-mortals , his every want being provided for bythe immense fortune inherited from his father and an uncle . When a young man , as a pupil of Dr. Black , he had become imbuedwith the enthusiasm of his teacher , continuing Black ' sinvestigations as to the properties of carbonic-acid gas whenfree and in combination . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Royal Society his experiments for ascertaining the properties of carbonic-acid andhydrogen gas , in which he first showed the possibility ofweighing permanently elastic fluids , although Torricelli hadbefore this shown the relative weights of a column of air and acolumn of mercury . Other important experiments were continued byCavendish , and in 1784 he announced his discovery of thecomposition of water , thus robbing it of its time-honoredposition as an " element . " But his claim to priority in thisdiscovery was at once disputed by his fellow-countryman JamesWatt and by the Frenchman Lavoisier . Lavoisier ' s claim was soondisallowed even by his own countrymen , but for many years abitter controversy was carried on by the partisans of Watt andCavendish . The two principals , however , seem. never to haveentered into this controversy with anything like the same ardoras some of their successors , as they remained on the best ofterms. 1 It is certain , at any rate , that Cavendish announced his discovery officially before Watt claimed that theannouncement had been previously made by him , " and , whether rightor wrong , the honor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first publishes a demonstration of his discovery . " Englishmen very generally admit the justnessof Cavendish ' s claim , although the French scientist Arago , afterreviewing the evidence carefully in 1833 , decided in favor ofWatt . It appears that something like a year before Cavendish made knownhis complete demonstration of the composition of water , Wattcommunicated to the Royal Society a suggestion that water wascomposed of " dephlogisticated air ( oxygen ) and phlogiston(hydrogen) deprived of part of its latent heat . " Cavendish knewof the suggestion , but in his experiments refuted the idea thatthe hydrogen lost any of its latent heat . Furthermore , Wattmerely suggested the possible composition without proving it , although his idea was practically correct , if we can rightlyinterpret the vagaries of the nomenclature then in use . But hadWatt taken the steps to demonstrate his theory , the great " WaterControversy " would have been avoided . Cavendish ' s report of hisdiscovery to the Royal Society covers something like forty pagesof printed matter . In this he shows how , by passing an electricspark through a closed jar containing a mixture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently by the unionof the two gases . The experiment was first tried with hydrogenand common air , the oxygen of the air uniting with the hydrogento form water , leaving the nitrogen of the air still to beaccounted for . With pure oxygen and hydrogen , however , Cavendishfound that pure water was formed , leaving slight traces of anyother , substance which might not be interpreted as being Chemicalimpurities . There was only one possible explanation of thisphenomenon  --  that hydrogen and oxygen , when combined , form water . " By experiments with the globe it appeared , " wrote Cavendish , " that when inflammable and common air are exploded in a properproportion , almost all the inflammable air , and near one-fifththe common air , lose their elasticity and are condensed into dew . And by this experiment it appears that this dew is plain water , and consequently that almost all the inflammable air is turnedinto pure water . " In order to examine the nature of the matter condensed on firinga mixture of dephlogisticated and inflammable air , I took a glassglobe , holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparatus for firing by electricity . This globe was wellexhausted by an air-pump , and then filled with a mixture ofinflammable and dephlogisticated air by shutting the cock , fastening the bent glass tube into its mouth , and letting up theend of it into a glass jar inverted into water and containing amixture of 19 , 500 grain measures of dephlogisticated air , and37 , 000 of inflammable air ; so that , upon opening the cock , someof this mixed air rushed through the bent tube and filled theglobe . The cock was then shut and the included air fired byelectricity , by means of which almost all of it lost itselasticity ( was condensed into water vapors ) . The cock was thenagain opened so as to let in more of the same air to supply the place of that destroyed by the explosion , which was again fired , and the operation continued till almost the whole of the mixturewas let into the globe and exploded . By this means , though theglobe held not more than a sixth part of the mixture , almost the whole of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " At first this condensed matter was " acid to the taste andcontained two grains of nitre , " but Cavendish , suspecting thatthis was due to impurities , tried another experiment that provedconclusively that his opinions were correct . " I therefore madeanother experiment , " he says , " with some more of the same airfrom plants in which the proportion of inflammable air wasgreater , so that the burnt air was almost completelyphlogisticated , its standard being one-tenth . The condensedliquor was then not at all acid , but seemed pure water . " From these experiments he concludes " that when a mixture ofinflammable and dephlogisticated air is exploded , in suchproportions that the burnt air is not much phlogisticated , thecondensed liquor contains a little acid which is always of thenitrous kind , whatever substance the dephlogisticated air isprocured from ; but if the proportion be such that the burnt airis almost entirely phlogisticated , the condensed liquor is not atall acid , but seems pure water , without any additionwhatever. " 2These same experiments , which were undertaken to discover thecomposition of water , led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had observed that , in the combustion of hydrogengas with common air , the water was slightly tinged with acid , butthat this was not the case when pure oxygen gas was used . Actingupon this observation , he devised an experiment to determine the nature of this acid . He constructed an apparatus whereby anelectric spark was passed through a vessel containing common air . After this process had been carried on for several weeks a smallamount of liquid was formed . This liquid combined with a solutionof potash to form common nitre , which " detonated with charcoal , sparkled when paper impregnated with it was burned , and gave outnitrous fumes when sulphuric acid was poured on it . " In otherwords , the liquid was shown to be nitric acid . Now , since nothing but pure air had been used in the initial experiment , and sinceair is composed of nitrogen and oxygen , there seemed no room todoubt that nitric acid is a combination of nitrogen and oxygen . This discovery of the nature of nitric acid seems to have beenabout the last work of importance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hour of his death he wasconstantly occupied with scientific observations . Even in the last moments of his life this habit asserted itself , according toLord Brougham . " He died on March 10 , 1810 , after a shortillness , probably the first , as well as the last , which he eversuffered . His habit of curious observation continued to the end . He was desirous of marking the progress of the disease and thegradual extinction of the vital powers . With these ends in view , that he might not be disturbed , he desired to be left alone . Hisservant , returning sooner than he had wished , was ordered again to leave the chamber of death , and when be came back a second time he found his master had expired. 3 JOSEPH PRIESTLEYWhile the opulent but diffident Cavendish was making hisimportant discoveries , another Englishman , a poor countrypreacher named Joseph Priestley ( 1733-1804 ) was not onlyrivalling him , but , if anything , outstripping him in the pursuitof chemical discoveries . In 1761 this young minister was given aposition as tutor in a nonconformist academy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was able to pursue his studies inchemistry and electricity . In 1766 , while on a visit to London , he met Benjamin Franklin , at whose suggestion he published hisHistory of Electricity . From this time on he made steadyprogress in scientific investigations , keeping up hisecclesiastical duties at the same time . In 1780 he removed toBirmingham , having there for associates such scientists as JamesWatt , Boulton , and Erasmus Darwin . Eleven years later , on the anniversary of the fall of the Bastilein Paris , a fanatical mob , knowing Priestley ' s sympathies withthe French revolutionists , attacked his house and chapel , burningboth and destroying a great number of valuable papers andscientific instruments . Priestley and his family escaped violenceby flight , but his most cherished possessions were destroyed ; andthree years later he quitted England forever , removing to the United States , whose struggle for liberty he had championed . Thelast ten years of his life were spent at Northumberland , Pennsylvania , where he continued his scientific researches . Early in his scientific career Priestley began investigationsupon the " fixed air " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wasstimulated to this by the same thing that had influencedBlack  --  that is , his residence in the immediate neighborhood of abrewery . It was during the course of a series of experiments on this and other gases that he made his greatest discovery , that of oxygen , or " dephlogisticated air , " as he called it . The story ofthis important discovery is probably best told in Priestley ' s ownwords : " There are , I believe , very few maxims in philosophy that havelaid firmer hold upon the mind than that air , meaning atmosphericair , is a simple elementary substance , indestructible andunalterable , at least as much so as water is supposed to be . Inthe course of my inquiries I was , however , soon satisfied thatatmospheric air is not an unalterable thing ; for that , according to my first hypothesis , the phlogiston with which it becomesloaded from bodies burning in it , and the animals breathing it , and various other chemical processes , so far alters and depravesit as to render it altogether unfit for inflammation , respiration , and other purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitation in the water , the process ofvegetation , and probably other natural processes , restore it toits original purity . . . . " Having procured a lens of twelve inches diameter and twentyinches local distance , I proceeded with the greatest alacrity , bythe help of it , to discover what kind of air a great variety ofsubstances would yield , putting them into the vessel , which Ifilled with quicksilver , and kept inverted in a basin of the same . . . . With this apparatus , after a variety of experiments . . . . onthe 1st of August , 1774 , I endeavored to extract air frommercurius calcinatus per se ; and I presently found that , by meansof this lens , air was expelled from it very readily . Having gotabout three or four times as much as the bulk of my materials , Iadmitted water to it , and found that it was not imbibed by it . But what surprised me more than I can express was that a candleburned in this air with a remarkably vigorous flame , very muchlike that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed to iron or liver of sulphur ; but as I had gotnothing like this remarkable appearance from any kind of airbesides this particular modification of vitrous air , and I knewno vitrous acid was used in the preparation of mercuriuscalcinatus , I was utterly at a loss to account for it. " 4 The " new air " was , of course , oxygen . Priestley at onceproceeded to examine it by a long series of careful experiments , in which , as will be seen , he discovered most of the remarkablequalities of this gas . Continuing his description of theseexperiments , he says : " The flame of the candle , besides being larger , burned with moresplendor and heat than in that species of nitrous air ; and apiece of red-hot wood sparkled in it , exactly like paper dippedin a solution of nitre , and it consumed very fast ; an experimentthat I had never thought of trying with dephlogisticated nitrousair . " . . . I had so little suspicion of the air from the mercuriuscalcinatus , etc. , being wholesome , that I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air ; but thinking ( as myreader must imagine I frequently must have done ) on the candleburning in it after long agitation in water , it occurred to me atlast to make the experiment ; and , putting one measure of nitrousair to two measures of this air , I found not only that it wasdiminished , but that it was diminished quite as much as commonair , and that the redness of the mixture was likewise equal to asimilar mixture of nitrous and common air . . . . The next day I wasmore surprised than ever I had been before with finding that , after the above-mentioned mixture of nitrous air and the air frommercurius calcinatus had stood all night , . . . a candle burnedin it , even better than in common air . " A little later Priestley discovered that " dephlogisticated air . . . is a principal element in the composition of acids , and maybe extracted by means of heat from many substances which containthem . . . . It is likewise produced by the action of light upongreen vegetables ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purity of the atmosphere . " This recognition of the important part played by oxygen in theatmosphere led Priestley to make some experiments upon mice andinsects , and finally upon himself , by inhalations of the puregas . " The feeling in my lungs , " he said , " was not sensiblydifferent from that of common air , but I fancied that mybreathing felt peculiarly light and easy for some timeafterwards . Who can tell but that in time this pure air maybecome a fashionable article in luxury ? . . . Perhaps we may fromthese experiments see that though pure dephlogisticated air mightbe useful as a medicine , it might not be so proper for us in theusual healthy state of the body . " This suggestion as to the possible usefulness of oxygen as amedicine was prophetic . A century later the use of oxygen had become a matter of routine practice with many physicians . Even inPriestley ' s own time such men as Dr. John Hunter expressed theirbelief in its efficacy in certain conditions , as we shall see , but its value in medicine was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oxygen Priestley thus summarizedits properties : " It is this ingredient in the atmospheric airthat enables it to support combustion and animal life . By meansof it most intense heat may be produced , and in the purest of itanimals will live nearly five times as long as in an equalquantity of atmospheric air . In respiration , part of this air , passing the membranes of the lungs , unites with the blood andimparts to it its florid color , while the remainder , uniting withphlogiston exhaled from venous blood , forms mixed air . It isdephlogisticated air combined with water that enables fishes tolive in it. " 5 KARL WILHELM SCHEELEThe discovery of oxygen was the last but most important blow tothe tottering phlogiston theory , though Priestley himself wouldnot admit it . But before considering the final steps in theoverthrow of Stahl ' s famous theory and the establishment ofmodern chemistry , we must review the work of another greatchemist , Karl Wilhelm Scheele ( 1742-1786 ) , of Sweden , whodiscovered oxygen quite independently , although later thanPriestley . In the matter of brilliant discoveries in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He had a veritable genius for interpretingchemical reactions and discovering new substances , in thisrespect rivalling Priestley himself . Unlike Priestley , however , he planned all his experiments along the lines of definitetheories from the beginning , the results obtained being thelogical outcome of a predetermined plan . Scheele was the son of a merchant of Stralsund , Pomerania , whichthen belonged to Sweden . As a boy in school he showed so littleaptitude for the study of languages that he was apprenticed to anapothecary at the age of fourteen . In this work he became atonce greatly interested , and , when not attending to his duties inthe dispensary , he was busy day and night making experiments orstudying books on chemistry . In 1775 , still employed as anapothecary , he moved to Stockholm , and soon after he sent toBergman , the leading chemist of Sweden , his first discovery  --  thatof tartaric acid , which he had isolated from cream of tartar . This was the beginning of his career of discovery , and from thattime on until his death he sent forth accounts of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary apothecary , and struggling against poverty . Histreatise upon Air and Fire appeared in 1777 . In this remarkablebook he tells of his discovery of oxygen  --  " empyreal " or " fire-air , " as he calls it  --  which he seems to have madeindependently and without ever having heard of the previousdiscovery by Priestley . In this book , also , he shows that air iscomposed chiefly of oxygen and nitrogen gas . Early in his experimental career Scheele undertook the solution of the composition of black oxide of manganese , a substance that had long puzzled the chemists . He not only succeeded in this , but incidentally in the course of this series of experiments hediscovered oxygen , baryta , and chlorine , the last of far greaterimportance , at least commercially , than the real object of hissearch . In speaking of the experiment in which the discovery was made he says : " When marine ( hydrochloric ) acid stood over manganese in the coldit acquired a dark reddish-brown color . As manganese does notgive any colorless solution without uniting with phlogistonprobably meaning hydrogen , it follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a solution has ablue or red color . The color is here more brown than red , thereason being that the very finest portions of the manganese , which do not sink so easily , swim in the red solution ; forwithout these fine particles the solution is red , and red mixed with black is brown . The manganese has here attached itself soloosely to acidum salis that the water can precipitate it , and this precipitate behaves like ordinary manganese . When , now , themixture of manganese and spiritus salis was set to digest , therearose an effervescence and smell of aqua regis. " 6The " effervescence " he refers to was chlorine , which he proceeded to confine in a suitable vessel and examine more fully . Hedescribed it as having a " quite characteristically suffocatingsmell , " which was very offensive . He very soon noted thedecolorizing or bleaching effects of this now product , findingthat it decolorized flowers , vegetables , and many othersubstances . Commercially this discovery of chlorine was of enormousimportance , and the practical application of this new chemical inbleaching cloth soon supplanted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spreading the cloth upon thegrass . But although Scheele first pointed out the bleachingquality of his newly discovered gas , it was the French savant , Berthollet , who , acting upon Scheele ' s discovery that the new gaswould decolorize vegetables and flowers , was led to suspect thatthis property might be turned to account in destroying the colorof cloth . In 1785 he read a paper before the Academy of Sciencesof Paris , in which he showed that bleaching by chlorine wasentirely satisfactory , the color but not the substance of thecloth being affected . He had experimented previously and found that the chlorine gas was soluble in water and could thus be madepractically available for bleaching purposes . In 1786 James Wattexamined specimens of the bleached cloth made by Berthollet , andupon his return to England first instituted the process ofpractical bleaching . His process , however , was not entirelysatisfactory , and , after undergoing various modifications andimprovements , it was finally made thoroughly practicable by Mr.Tennant , who hit upon a compound of chlorine and lime  --  thechloride of lime  --  which was a comparatively cheap chemicalproduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To appreciate how momentous this discovery was to clothmanufacturers , it should be remembered that the old process ofbleaching consumed an entire summer for the whitening of a singlepiece of linen ; the new process reduced the period to a fewhours . To be sure , lime had been used with fair success previousto Tennant ' s discovery , but successful and practical bleaching bya solution of chloride of lime was first made possible by him andthrough Scheele ' s discovery of chlorine . Until the time of Scheele the great subject of organic chemistryhad remained practically unexplored , but under the touch of hismarvellous inventive genius new methods of isolating and studyinganimal and vegetable products were introduced , and a large numberof acids and other organic compounds prepared that had beenhitherto unknown . His explanations of chemical phenomena werebased on the phlogiston theory , in which , like Priestley , he always , believed . Although in error in this respect , he was , nevertheless , able to make his discoveries with extremelyaccurate interpretations . A brief epitome of the list of some ofhis more important discoveries conveys some idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1780 he discoveredlactic acid , 7 and showed that it was the substance that causedthe acidity of sour milk ; and in the same year he discoveredmucic acid . Next followed the discovery of tungstic acid , and in1783 he added to his list of useful discoveries that ofglycerine . Then in rapid succession came his announcements of thenew vegetable products citric , malic , oxalic , and gallic acids . Scheele not only made the discoveries , but told the world how he had made them  --  how any chemist might have made them if hechose  --  for he never considered that he had really discovered anysubstance until he had made it , decomposed it , and made it again . His experiments on Prussian blue are most interesting , not onlybecause of the enormous amount of work involved and the skill hedisplayed in his experiments , but because all the time thechemist was handling , smelling , and even tasting a compound ofone of the most deadly poisons , ignorant of the fact that thesubstance was a dangerous one to handle . His escape from injuryseems almost miraculous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a considerable period of time , duringwhich he seems to have handled this chemical with impunity . While only forty years of age and just at the zenith of his fame , Scheele was stricken by a fatal illness , probably induced by hisceaseless labor and exposure . It is gratifying to know , however , that during the last eight or nine years of his life he had beenless bound down by pecuniary difficulties than before , as Bergmanhad obtained for him an annual grant from the Academy . But itwas characteristic of the man that , while devoting one-sixth ofthe amount of this grant to his personal wants , the remainingfive-sixths was devoted to the expense of his experiments . LAVOISIER AND THE FOUNDATION OF MODERN CHEMISTRYThe time was ripe for formulating the correct theory of chemicalcomposition : it needed but the master hand to mould the materialsinto the proper shape . The discoveries in chemistry during theeighteenth century had been far-reaching and revolutionary incharacter . A brief review of these discoveries shows howcompletely they had subverted the old ideas of chemical elementsand chemical compounds . Of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for many centuries believed to be elementary bodies , not one has stood the test of the eighteenth-century chemists . Earth had long since ceased to be regarded as an element , andwater and air had suffered the same fate in this century . Andnow at last fire itself , the last of the four " elements " and thekeystone to the phlogiston arch , was shown to be nothing morethan one of the manifestations of the new element , oxygen , andnot " phlogiston " or any other intangible substance . In this epoch of chemical discoveries England had produced suchmental giants and pioneers in science as Black , Priestley , andCavendish ; Sweden had given the world Scheele and Bergman , whosework , added to that of their English confreres , had laid thebroad base of chemistry as a science ; but it was for France to produce a man who gave the final touches to the broad but roughworkmanship of its foundation , and establish it as the science ofmodern chemistry . It was for Antoine Laurent Lavoisier(1743-1794) to gather together , interpret correctly , rename , andclassify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to the world . The attitude of the mother-countries towards these illustrioussons is an interesting piece of history . Sweden honored andrewarded Scheele and Bergman for their efforts ; England receivedthe intellectuality of Cavendish with less appreciation than theContinent , and a fanatical mob drove Priestley out of thecountry ; while France , by sending Lavoisier to the guillotine , demonstrated how dangerous it was , at that time at least , for anintelligent Frenchman to serve his fellowman and his countrywell . " The revolution brought about by Lavoisier in science , " saysHoefer , " coincides by a singular act of destiny with anotherrevolution , much greater indeed , going on then in the political and social world . Both happened on the same soil , at the sameepoch , among the same people ; and both marked the commencement ofa new era in their respective spheres. " 8Lavoisier was born in Paris , and being the son of an opulentfamily , was educated under the instruction of the best teachersof the day . With Lacaille he studied mathematics and astronomy ; with Jussieu , botany ; and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a paper on the practicalillumination of the streets of Paris , for which a prize had beenoffered by M. de Sartine , the chief of police . This prize was notawarded to Lavoisier , but his suggestions were of such importancethat the king directed that a gold medal be bestowed upon theyoung author at the public sitting of the Academy in April , 1776 . Two years later , at the age of thirty-five , Lavoisier wasadmitted a member of the Academy . In this same year he began to devote himself almost exclusively to chemical inquiries , and established a laboratory in his home , fitted with all manner of costly apparatus and chemicals . Here hewas in constant communication with the great men of science ofParis , to all of whom his doors were thrown open . One of hisfirst undertakings in this laboratory was to demonstrate thatwater could not be converted into earth by repeateddistillations , as was generally advocated ; and to show also thatthere was no foundation to the existing belief that it waspossible to convert water into a gas so " elastic " as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallaciousnessof both these theories in 1768-1769 by elaborate experiments , asingle investigation of this series occupying one hundred and onedays . In 1771 he gave the first blow to the phlogiston theory by his experiments on the calcination of metals . It will be recalledthat one basis for the belief in phlogiston was the fact thatwhen a metal was calcined it was converted into an ash , giving upits " phlogiston " in the process . To restore the metal , it wasnecessary to add some substance such as wheat or charcoal to theash . Lavoisier , in examining this process of restoration , found that there was always evolved a great quantity of " air , " which hesupposed to be " fixed air " or carbonic acid  --  the same thatescapes in effervescence of alkalies and calcareous earths , andin the fermentation of liquors . He then examined the process ofcalcination , whereby the phlogiston of the metal was supposed tohave been drawn off . But far from finding that phlogiston or anyother substance had been driven off , he found that something hadbeen taken on : that the metal " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metal corresponded to the amount of air " absorbed . " Meanwhile he was within grasp of two greatdiscoveries , that of oxygen and of the composition of the air , which Priestley made some two years later . The next important inquiry of this great Frenchman was as to thecomposition of diamonds . With the great lens of Tschirnhausenbelonging to the Academy he succeeded in burning up severaldiamonds , regardless of expense , which , thanks to hisinheritance , he could ignore . In this process he found that a gaswas given off which precipitated lime from water , and proved tobe carbonic acid . Observing this , and experimenting with othersubstances known to give off carbonic acid in the same manner , hewas evidently impressed with the now well-known fact that diamondand charcoal are chemically the same . But if he did reallybelieve it , he was cautious in expressing his belief fully . " Weshould never have expected , " he says , " to find any relation between charcoal and diamond , and it would be unreasonable topush this analogy too far ; it only exists because both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies , and because they are of all these bodies the most fixed when keptfrom contact with air . " As we have seen , Priestley , in 1774 , had discovered oxygen , or " dephlogisticated air . " Four years later Lavoisier firstadvanced his theory that this element discovered by Priestley wasthe universal acidifying or oxygenating principle , which , whencombined with charcoal or carbon , formed carbonic acid ; whencombined with sulphur , formed sulphuric ( or vitriolic ) acid ; withnitrogen , formed nitric acid , etc. , and when combined with themetals formed oxides , or calcides . Furthermore , he postulated thetheory that combustion was not due to any such illusive thing as " phlogiston , " since this did not exist , and it seemed to him thatthe phenomena of combustion heretofore attributed to phlogistoncould be explained by the action of the new element oxygen andheat . This was the final blow to the phlogiston theory , which , although it had been tottering for some time , had not beencompletely overthrown . In 1787 Lavoisier , in conjunction with Guyon de Morveau , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which until then had remained practically unchangedsince alchemical days . Such expressions as " dephlogisticated " and " phlogisticated " would obviously have little meaning to ageneration who were no longer to believe in the existence ofphlogiston . It was appropriate that a revolution in chemicalthought should be accompanied by a corresponding revolution inchemical names , and to Lavoisier belongs chiefly the credit ofbringing about this revolution . In his Elements of Chemistry hemade use of this new nomenclature , and it seemed so clearly animprovement over the old that the scientific world hastened toadopt it . In this connection Lavoisier says : " We have , therefore , laid aside the expression metallic calx altogether , and have substituted in its place the word oxide . By this it maybe seen that the language we have adopted is both copious andexpressive . The first or lowest degree of oxygenation in bodiesconverts them into oxides ; a second degree of additionaloxygenation constitutes the class of acids of which the specificnames drawn from their particular bases terminate in ous , as inthe nitrous and the sulphurous acids . The third degree ofoxygenation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ic , as the nitric and sulphuric acids ; and , lastly , we can express a fourth or higher degree of oxygenationby adding the word oxygenated to the name of the acid , as hasalready been done with oxygenated muriatic acid. " 9This new work when given to the world was not merely anepoch-making book ; it was revolutionary . It not only discardedphlogiston altogether , but set forth that metals are simpleelements , not compounds of " earth " and " phlogiston . " It upheldCavendish ' s demonstration that water itself , like air , is acompound of oxygen with another element . In short , it wasscientific chemistry , in the modern acceptance of the term . Lavoisier ' s observations on combustion are at once important andinteresting : " Combustion , " he says , " . . . is the decompositionof oxygen produced by a combustible body . The oxygen which formsthe base of this gas is absorbed by and enters into combinationwith the burning body , while the caloric and light are set free . Every combustion necessarily supposes oxygenation ; whereas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; because combustion properly so calledcannot take place without disengagement of caloric and light . Before combustion can take place , it is necessary that the baseof oxygen gas should have greater affinity to the combustiblebody than it has to caloric ; and this elective attraction , to useBergman ' s expression , can only take place at a certain degree oftemperature which is different for each combustible substance ; hence the necessity of giving the first motion or beginning toevery combustion by the approach of a heated body . This necessity of heating any body we mean to burn depends upon certainconsiderations which have not hitherto been attended to by anynatural philosopher , for which reason I shall enlarge a littleupon the subject in this place : " Nature is at present in a state of equilibrium , which cannothave been attained until all the spontaneous combustions oroxygenations possible in an ordinary degree of temperature hadtaken place . . . . To illustrate this abstract view of the matter byexample : Let us suppose the usual temperature of the earth alittle changed , and it is raised only to the degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phosphorus , which iscombustible in a considerably lower degree of temperature , wouldno longer exist in nature in its pure and simple state , but wouldalways be procured in its acid or oxygenated state , and itsradical would become one of the substances unknown to chemistry . By gradually increasing the temperature of the earth , the samecircumstance would successively happen to all the bodies capableof combustion ; and , at the last , every possible combustion havingtaken place , there would no longer exist any combustible bodywhatever , and every substance susceptible of the operation wouldbe oxygenated and consequently incombustible . " There can not , therefore , exist , as far as relates to us , anycombustible body but such as are non-combustible at the ordinarytemperature of the earth , or , what is the same thing in otherwords , that it is essential to the nature of every combustiblebody not to possess the property of combustion unless heated , orraised to a degree of temperature at which its combustionnaturally takes place . When this degree is once produced , combustion commences , and the caloric which is disengaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which isnecessary for continuing combustion . When this is not the case  --  that is , when the disengaged caloric is not sufficient forkeeping up the necessary temperature  --  the combustion ceases . Thiscircumstance is expressed in the common language by saying that abody burns ill or with difficulty. " 10 It needed the genius of such a man as Lavoisier to complete therefutation of the false but firmly grounded phlogiston theory , and against such a book as his Elements of Chemistry the feebleweapons of the supporters of the phlogiston theory were hurled invain . But while chemists , as a class , had become converts to the newchemistry before the end of the century , one man , Dr. Priestley , whose work had done so much to found it , remained unconverted . In this , as in all his life-work , he showed himself to be a mostremarkable man . Davy said of him , a generation later , that noother person ever discovered so many new and curious substancesas he ; yet to the last he was only an amateur in science , hisprofession , as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in history of a man not a specialist in scienceaccomplishing so much in original research as did this chemist , physiologist , electrician ; the mathematician , logician , andmoralist ; the theologian , mental philosopher , and politicaleconomist . He took all knowledge for his field ; but how he foundtime for his numberless researches and multifarious writings , along with his every-day duties , must ever remain a mystery toordinary mortals . That this marvellously receptive , flexible mind should haverefused acceptance to the clearly logical doctrines of the newchemistry seems equally inexplicable . But so it was . To the very last , after all his friends had capitulated , Priestley keptup the fight . From America he sent out his last defy to theenemy , in 1800 , in a brochure entitled " The Doctrine ofPhlogiston Upheld , " etc . In the mind of its author it was littleless than a paean of victory ; but all the world beside knew thatit was the swan-song of the doctrine of phlogiston . Despite thedefiance of this single warrior the battle was really lost andwon , and as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field . III . CHEMISTRY SINCE THE TIME OF DALTONJOHN DALTON AND THE ATOMIC THEORYSmall beginnings as have great endings  --  sometimes . As a case inpoint , note what came of the small , original effort of aself-trained back-country Quaker youth named John Dalton , whoalong towards the close of the eighteenth century becameinterested in the weather , and was led to construct and use acrude water-gauge to test the amount of the rainfall . The simpleexperiments thus inaugurated led to no fewer than two hundredthousand recorded observations regarding the weather , whichformed the basis for some of the most epochal discoveries inmeteorology , as we have seen . But this was only a beginning . Thesimple rain-gauge pointed the way to the most importantgeneralization of the nineteenth century in a field of sciencewith which , to the casual observer , it might seem to have noalliance whatever . The wonderful theory of atoms , on which the whole gigantic structure of modern chemistry is founded , was thelogical outgrowth , in the mind of John Dalton , of those earlystudies in meteorology . The way it happened was this : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of evaporation . Hewas soon led to believe that vapor exists , in the atmosphere asan independent gas . But since two bodies can not occupy the samespace at the same time , this implies that the various atmosphericgases are really composed of discrete particles . These ultimateparticles are so small that we can not see them  --  can not , indeed , more than vaguely imagine them  --  yet each particle of vapor , forexample , is just as much a portion of water as if it were a dropout of the ocean , or , for that matter , the ocean itself . But , again , water is a compound substance , for it may be separated , asCavendish has shown , into the two elementary substances hydrogenand oxygen . Hence the atom of water must be composed of twolesser atoms joined together . Imagine an atom of hydrogen and oneof oxygen . Unite them , and we have an atom of water ; sever them , and the water no longer exists ; but whether united or separatethe atoms of hydrogen and of oxygen remain hydrogen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , atomsproduce different gross substances ; but the elementary atomsnever change their chemical nature  --  their distinct personality . It was about the year 1803 that Dalton first gained a full graspof the conception of the chemical atom . At once he saw that thehypothesis , if true , furnished a marvellous key to secrets ofmatter hitherto insoluble  --  questions relating to the relativeproportions of the atoms themselves . It is known , for example , that a certain bulk of hydrogen gas unites with a certain bulk of oxygen gas to form water . If it be true that this combinationconsists essentially of the union of atoms one with another ( eachsingle atom of hydrogen united to a single atom of oxygen ) , thenthe relative weights of the original masses of hydrogen and of oxygen must be also the relative weights of each of theirrespective atoms . If one pound of hydrogen unites with five andone-half pounds of oxygen ( as , according to Dalton ' s experiments , it did ) , then the weight of the oxygen atom must be five andone-half times that of the hydrogen atom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dalton made numerous testsbefore he published his theory . He found that hydrogen entersinto compounds in smaller proportions than any other elementknown to him , and so , for convenience , determined to take the weight of the hydrogen atom as unity . The atomic weight of oxygen then becomes ( as given in Dalton ' s first table of 1803 ) 5. 5 ; that of water ( hydrogen plus oxygen ) being of course 6. 5 . The atomic weights of about a score of substances are given inDalton ' s first paper , which was read before the Literary andPhilosophical Society of Manchester , October 21 , 1803 . I wonder if Dalton himself , great and acute intellect though he had , suspected , when he read that paper , that he was inaugurating oneof the most fertile movements ever entered on in the wholehistory of science ? Be that as it may , it is certain enough that Dalton ' scontemporaries were at first little impressed with the novelatomic theory . Just at this time , as it chanced , a dispute waswaging in the field of chemistry regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a theory asthat of Dalton could even hope for a bearing . This was thequestion whether or not chemical elements unite with one anotheralways in definite proportions . Berthollet , the great co-workerwith Lavoisier , and now the most authoritative of livingchemists , contended that substances combine in almostindefinitely graded proportions between fixed extremes . He heldthat solution is really a form of chemical combination  --  aposition which , if accepted , left no room for argument . But this contention of the master was most actively disputed , inparticular by Louis Joseph Proust , and all chemists of reputewere obliged to take sides with one or the other . For a time theauthority of Berthollet held out against the facts , but at lastaccumulated evidence told for Proust and his followers , andtowards the close of the first decade of our century it came tobe generally conceded that chemical elements combine with oneanother in fixed and definite proportions . More than that . As the analysts were led to weigh carefully thequantities of combining elements , it was observed that theproportions are not only definite , but that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A combines with twodifferent proportions of element B to form two compounds , itappears that the weight of the larger quantity of B is an exactmultiple of that of the smaller quantity . This curious relationwas noticed by Dr. Wollaston , one of the most accurate ofobservers , and a little later it was confirmed by Johan JakobBerzelius , the great Swedish chemist , who was to be a dominatinginfluence in the chemical world for a generation to come . Butthis combination of elements in numerical proportions was exactly what Dalton had noticed as early as 1802 , and what bad led himdirectly to the atomic weights . So the confirmation of thisessential point by chemists of such authority gave the strongestconfirmation to the atomic theory . During these same years the rising authority of the Frenchchemical world , Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac , was conductingexperiments with gases , which he had undertaken at first inconjunction with Humboldt , but which later on were conductedindependently . In 1809 , the next year after the publication ofthe first volume of Dalton ' s New System of Chemical Philosophy , Gay-Lussac published the results of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that gases , underthe same conditions as to temperature and pressure , combinealways in definite numerical proportions as to volume . Exactlytwo volumes of hydrogen , for example , combine with one volume of oxygen to form water . Moreover , the resulting compound gasalways bears a simple relation to the combining volumes . In the case just cited , the union of two volumes of hydrogen and one of oxygen results in precisely two volumes of water vapor . Naturally enough , the champions of the atomic theory seized uponthese observations of Gay-Lussac as lending strong support totheir hypothesis  --  all of them , that is , but the curiouslyself-reliant and self-sufficient author of the atomic theoryhimself , who declined to accept the observations of the Frenchchemist as valid . Yet the observations of Gay-Lussac werecorrect , as countless chemists since then have demonstrated anew , and his theory of combination by volumes became one of thefoundation-stones of the atomic theory , despite the opposition ofthe author of that theory . The true explanation of Gay-Lussac ' s law of combination byvolumes was thought out almost immediately by an Italian savant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic theory . The fact must be , said Avogadro , that under similar physicalconditions every form of gas contains exactly the same number ofultimate particles in a given volume . Each of these ultimatephysical particles may be composed of two or more atoms ( as inthe case of water vapor ) , but such a compound atom conductsitself as if it were a simple and indivisible atom , as regardsthe amount of space that separates it from its fellows undergiven conditions of pressure and temperature . The compound atom , composed of two or more elementary atoms , Avogadro proposed todistinguish , for purposes of convenience , by the name molecule . It is to the molecule , considered as the unit of physicalstructure , that Avogadro ' s law applies . This vastly important distinction between atoms and molecules , implied in the law just expressed , was published in 1811 . Fouryears later , the famous French physicist Ampere outlined asimilar theory , and utilized the law in his mathematicalcalculations . And with that the law of Avogadro dropped out ofsight for a full generation . Little suspecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atoms for which they wereseeking , the chemists of the time cast it aside , and let it fadefrom the memory of their science . This , however , was not strange , for of course the law of Avogadrois based on the atomic theory , and in 1811 the atomic theory wasitself still being weighed in the balance . The law of multipleproportions found general acceptance as an empirical fact ; butmany of the leading lights of chemistry still looked askance atDalton ' s explanation of this law . Thus Wollaston , though from thefirst he inclined to acceptance of the Daltonian view , cautiouslysuggested that it would be well to use the non-committal word " equivalent " instead of " atom " ; and Davy , for a similar reason , in his book of 1812 , speaks only of " proportions , " bindinghimself to no theory as to what might be the nature of theseproportions . At least two great chemists of the time , however , adopted theatomic view with less reservation . One of these was ThomasThomson , professor at Edinburgh , who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory in a widely circulated book , whichfirst brought the theory to the general attention of the chemicalworld . The other and even more noted advocate of the atomictheory was Johan Jakob Berzelius . This great Swedish chemist atonce set to work to put the atomic theory to such tests as mightbe applied in the laboratory . He was an analyst of the utmostskill , and for years be devoted himself to the determination ofthe combining weights , " equivalents " or " proportions , " of thedifferent elements . These determinations , in so far as they wereaccurately made , were simple expressions of empirical facts , independent of any theory ; but gradually it became more and moreplain that these facts all harmonize with the atomic theory ofDalton . So by common consent the proportionate combining weightsof the elements came to be known as atomic weights  --  the nameDalton had given them from the first  --  and the tangible conception of the chemical atom as a body of definite constitution andweight gained steadily in favor . From the outset the idea had had the utmost tangibility in themind of Dalton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbols  --  as a circle for oxygen , a circleenclosing a dot for hydrogen , and the like  --  and had representedcompounds by placing these symbols of the elements injuxtaposition . Berzelius proposed to improve upon this method bysubstituting for the geometrical symbol the initial of the Latinname of the element represented  --  O for oxygen , H for hydrogen , and so on  --  a numerical coefficient to follow the letter as anindication of the number of atoms present in any given compound . This simple system soon gained general acceptance , and withslight modifications it is still universally employed . Everyschool-boy now is aware that H2O is the chemical way ofexpressing the union of two atoms of hydrogen with one of oxygento form a molecule of water . But such a formula would have hadno meaning for the wisest chemist before the day of Berzelius . The universal fame of the great Swedish authority served to givegeneral currency to his symbols and atomic weights , and the newpoint of view thus developed led presently to two importantdiscoveries which removed the last lingering doubts as to thevalidity of the atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Petit , while experimenting with heat , discovered thatthe specific heats of solids ( that is to say , the amount of heatrequired to raise the temperature of a given mass to a givendegree ) vary inversely as their atomic weights . In the same yearEilhard Mitscherlich , a German investigator , observed thatcompounds having the same number of atoms to the molecule aredisposed to form the same angles of crystallization  --  a propertywhich he called isomorphism . Here , then , were two utterly novel and independent sets ofempirical facts which harmonize strangely with the suppositionthat substances are composed of chemical atoms of a determinateweight . This surely could not be coincidence  --  it tells of law . And so as soon as the claims of Dulong and Petit and ofMitscherlich had been substantiated by other observers , the lawsof the specific heat of atoms , and of isomorphism , took theirplace as new levers of chemical science . With the aid of thesenew tools an impregnable breastwork of facts was soon piled aboutthe atomic theory . And John Dalton , the author of that theory , plain , provincial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known to all the world and for all time as a master of masters . HUMPHRY DAVY AND ELECTRO-CHEMISTRYDuring those early years of the nineteenth century , when Daltonwas grinding away at chemical fact and theory in his obscureManchester laboratory , another Englishman held the attention ofthe chemical world with a series of the most brilliant and widelyheralded researches . This was Humphry Davy , a young man who hadconic to London in 1801 , at the instance of Count Rumford , toassume the chair of chemical philosophy in the Royal Institution , which the famous American had just founded . Here , under Davy ' s direction , the largest voltaic battery yetconstructed had been put in operation , and with its aid thebrilliant young experimenter was expected almost to performmiracles . And indeed he scarcely disappointed the expectation , for with the aid of his battery he transformed so familiar asubstance as common potash into a metal which was not only solight that it floated on water , but possessed the seeminglymiraculous property of bursting into flames as soon as it came incontact with that fire-quenching liquid . If this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the appearance of themiraculous . What Davy really had done was to decompose the potash , whichhitherto had been supposed to be elementary , liberating itsoxygen , and thus isolating its metallic base , which he namedpotassium . The same thing was done with soda , and the closelysimilar metal sodium was discovered  --  metals of a unique type , possessed of a strange avidity for oxygen , and capable of seizingon it even when it is bound up in the molecules of water . Considered as mere curiosities , these discoveries wereinteresting , but aside from that they were of great theoreticalimportance , because they showed the compound nature of somefamiliar chemicals that had been regarded as elements . Severalother elementary earths met the same fate when subjected to theelectrical influence ; the metals barium , calcium , and strontiumbeing thus discovered . Thereafter Davy always referred to thesupposed elementary substances ( including oxygen , hydrogen , andthe rest ) as " unde-compounded " bodies . These resist all presentefforts to decompose them , but how can one know what might nothappen were they subjected to an influence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power as the batteryexceeds the blowpipe ? Another and even more important theoretical result that flowedfrom Davy ' s experiments during this first decade of the century was the proof that no elementary substances other than hydrogenand oxygen are produced when pure water is decomposed by theelectric current . It was early noticed by Davy and others thatwhen a strong current is passed through water , alkalies appear atone pole of the battery and acids at the other , and this thoughthe water used were absolutely pure . This seemingly told of thecreation of elements  --  a transmutation but one step removed fromthe creation of matter itself  --  under the influence of the new " force . " It was one of Davy ' s greatest triumphs to prove , in theseries of experiments recorded in his famous Bakerian lecture of1806 , that the alleged creation of elements did not take place , the substances found at the poles of the battery having beendissolved from the walls of the vessels in which the waterexperimented upon had been placed . Thus the same implement which had served to give a certain philosophical warrant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thedomain of present science . " As early as 1800 , " writes Davy , " I had found that when separateportions of distilled water , filling two glass tubes , connectedby moist bladders , or any moist animal or vegetable substances , were submitted to the electrical action of the pile of Volta bymeans of gold wires , a nitro-muriatic solution of gold appeared in the tube containing the positive wire , or the wiretransmitting the electricity , and a solution of soda in theopposite tube ; but I soon ascertained that the muriatic acid owedits existence to the animal or vegetable matters employed ; forwhen the same fibres of cotton were made use of in successiveexperiments , and washed after every process in a weak solution ofnitric acid , the water in the apparatus containing them , thoughacted on for a great length of time with a very strong power , atlast produced no effects upon nitrate of silver . " In cases when I had procured much soda , the glass at its pointof contact with the wire seemed considerably corroded ; and I wasconfirmed in my idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by finding that no fixed salinematter could be obtained by electrifying distilled water in asingle agate cup from two points of platina with the Voltaicbattery . " Mr. Sylvester , however , in a paper published in Mr. Nicholson ' sjournal for last August , states that though no fixed alkali ormuriatic acid appears when a single vessel is employed , yet thatthey are both formed when two vessels are used . And to do awaywith all objections with regard to vegetable substances or glass , he conducted his process in a vessel made of baked tobacco-pipeclay inserted in a crucible of platina . I have no doubt of thecorrectness of his results ; but the conclusion appearsobjectionable . He conceives , that he obtained fixed alkali , because the fluid after being heated and evaporated left a matterthat tinged turmeric brown , which would have happened had it beenlime , a substance that exists in considerable quantities in allpipe-clay ; and even allowing the presence of fixed alkali , thematerials employed for the manufacture of tobacco-pipes are notat all such as to exclude the combinations of this substance . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ofagate of the capacity of about one-quarter of a cubic inch each . They were boiled for some hours in distilled water , and a pieceof very white and transparent amianthus that had been treated inthe same way was made then to connect together ; they were filledwith distilled water and exposed by means of two platina wires toa current of electricity , from one hundred and fifty pairs ofplates of copper and zinc four inches square , made active bymeans of solution of alum . After forty-eight hours the processwas examined : Paper tinged with litmus plunged into the tubecontaining the transmitting or positive wire was immediatelystrongly reddened . Paper colored by turmeric introduced into theother tube had its color much deepened ; the acid matter gave avery slight degree of turgidness to solution of nitrate of soda . The fluid that affected turmeric retained this property afterbeing strongly boiled ; and it appeared more vivid as the quantitybecame reduced by evaporation ; carbonate of ammonia was mixed with it , and the whole dried and exposed to a strong heat ; aminute quantity of white matter remained , which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of carbonate of soda . Icompared it with similar minute portions of the pure carbonatesof potash , and similar minute portions of the pure carbonates ofpotash and soda . It was not so deliquescent as the former ofthese bodies , and it formed a salt with nitric acid , which , likenitrate of soda , soon attracted moisture from a damp atmosphereand became fluid . " This result was unexpected , but it was far from convincing methat the substances which were obtained were generated . In asimilar process with glass tubes , carried on under exactly thesame circumstances and for the same time , I obtained a quantityof alkali which must have been more than twenty times greater , but no traces of muriatic acid . There was much probability thatthe agate contained some minute portion of saline matter , noteasily detected by chemical analysis , either in combination orintimate cohesion in its pores . To determine this , I repeatedthis a second , a third , and a fourth time . In the secondexperiment turbidness was still produced by a solution of nitrateof silver in the tube containing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process it was barely perceptible ; and inthe fourth process the two fluids remained perfectly clear afterthe mixture . The quantity of alkaline matter diminished in everyoperation ; and in the last process , though the battery had beenkept in great activity for three days , the fluid possessed , in avery slight degree , only the power of acting on paper tinged withturmeric ; but its alkaline property was very sensible to litmuspaper slightly reddened , which is a much more delicate test ; andafter evaporation and the process by carbonate of ammonia , abarely perceptible quantity of fixed alkali was still left . Theacid matter in the other tube was abundant ; its taste was sour ; it smelled like water over which large quantities of nitrous gashave been long kept ; it did not effect solution of muriate ofbarytes ; and a drop of it placed upon a polished plate of silverleft , after evaporation , a black stain , precisely similar to thatproduced by extremely diluted nitrous acid . " After these results I could no longer doubt that some salinematter existing in the agate tubes had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of silver and muchof the alkali . Four additional repetitions of the process , however , convinced me that there was likewise some other causefor the presence of this last substance ; for it continued toappear to the last in quantities sufficiently distinguishable , and apparently equal in every case . I had used every precaution , I had included the tube in glass vessels out of the reach of thecirculating air ; all the acting materials had been repeatedlywashed with distilled water ; and no part of them in contact withthe fluid had been touched by the fingers . " The only substance that I could now conceive as furnishing thefixed alkali was the water itself . This water appeared pure bythe tests of nitrate of silver and muriate of barytes ; but potashof soda , as is well known , rises in small quantities in rapiddistillation ; and the New River water which I made use ofcontains animal and vegetable impurities , which it was easy toconceive might furnish neutral salts capable of being carriedover in vivid ebullition. " 1 Further experiment proved thecorrectness of this inference , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was dispelled . Though the presence of the alkalies and acids in the water wasexplained , however , their respective migrations to the negativeand positive poles of the battery remained to be accounted for . Davy ' s classical explanation assumed that different elementsdiffer among themselves as to their electrical properties , somebeing positively , others negatively , electrified . Electricityand " chemical affinity , " he said , apparently are manifestationsof the same force , acting in the one case on masses , in the otheron particles . Electro-positive particles unite withelectro-negative particles to form chemical compounds , in virtueof the familiar principle that opposite electricities attract oneanother . When compounds are decomposed by the battery , thismutual attraction is overcome by the stronger attraction of thepoles of the battery itself . This theory of binary composition of all chemical compounds , through the union of electro-positive and electro-negative atomsor molecules , was extended by Berzelius , and made the basis ofhis famous system of theoretical chemistry . This theory heldthat all inorganic compounds , however complex their composition , are essentially composed of such binary combinations . For manyyears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong confirmation when Faraday showed the definiteconnection between the amount of electricity employed and theamount of decomposition produced in the so-called electrolyte . But its claims were really much too comprehensive , as subsequentdiscoveries proved . ORGANIC CHEMISTRY AND THE IDEA OF THE MOLECULEWhen Berzelius first promulgated his binary theory he was careful to restrict its unmodified application to the compounds of theinorganic world . At that time , and for a long time thereafter , it was supposed that substances of organic nature had someproperties that kept them aloof from the domain of inorganicchemistry . It was little doubted that a so-called " vital force " operated here , replacing or modifying the action of ordinary " chemical affinity . " It was , indeed , admitted that organiccompounds are composed of familiar elements  --  chiefly carbon , oxygen , hydrogen , and nitrogen ; but these elements were supposedto be united in ways that could not be imitated in the domain ofthe non-living . It was regarded almost as an axiom of chemistrythat no organic compound whatever could be put together from itselements  --  synthesized  --  in the laboratory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was thought that the " vital force " must be in operation . Therefore a veritable sensation was created in the chemical worldwhen , in the year 1828 , it was announced that the young Germanchemist , Friedrich Wohler , formerly pupil of Berzelius , andalready known as a coming master , had actually synthesized thewell-known organic product urea in his laboratory at Sacrow . The " exception which proves the rule " is something never heard of inthe domain of logical science . Natural law knows no exceptions . So the synthesis of a single organic compound sufficed at a blowto break down the chemical barrier which the imagination of thefathers of the science had erected between animate and inanimatenature . Thenceforth the philosophical chemist would regard theplant and animal organisms as chemical laboratories in whichconditions are peculiarly favorable for building up complexcompounds of a few familiar elements , under the operation ofuniversal chemical laws . The chimera " vital force " could nolonger gain recognition in the domain of chemistry . Now a wave of interest in organic chemistry swept over thechemical world , and soon the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in the , precedinggeneration . Foremost among the workers who rendered this epoch of organicchemistry memorable were Justus Liebig in Germany and JeanBaptiste Andre Dumas in France , and their respective pupils , Charles Frederic Gerhardt and Augustus Laurent . Wohler , too , must be named in the same breath , as also must Louis Pasteur , who , though somewhat younger than the others , came upon the scenein time to take chief part in the most important of thecontroversies that grew out of their labors . Several years earlier than this the way had been paved for thestudy of organic substances by Gay-Lussac ' s discovery , made in1815 , that a certain compound of carbon and nitrogen , which henamed cyanogen , has a peculiar degree of stability which enablesit to retain its identity and enter into chemical relations afterthe manner of a simple body . A year later Ampere discovered thatnitrogen and hydrogen , when combined in certain proportions toform what he called ammonium , have the same property . Berzeliushad seized upon this discovery of the compound radical , as it wascalled , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heconceived the idea that all organic compounds are binary unionsof various compound radicals with an atom of oxygen , announcingthis theory in 1818 . Ten years later , Liebig and Wohler undertooka joint investigation which resulted in proving that compoundradicals are indeed very abundant among organic substances . Thusthe theory of Berzelius seemed to be substantiated , and organicchemistry came to be defined as the chemistry of compoundradicals . But even in the day of its seeming triumph the dualistic theorywas destined to receive a rude shock . This came about throughthe investigations of Dumas , who proved that in a certain organicsubstance an atom of hydrogen may be removed and an atom ofchlorine substituted in its place without destroying theintegrity of the original compound  --  much as a child mightsubstitute one block for another in its play-house . Such asubstitution would be quite consistent with the dualistic theory , were it not for the very essential fact that hydrogen is apowerfully electro-positive element , while chlorine is asstrongly electro-negative . Hence the compound radical whichunited successively with these two elements must itself be at onetime electro-positive , at another electro-negative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In its place there was elaborated , chiefly through the efforts ofLaurent and Gerhardt , a conception of the molecule as a unitarystructure , built up through the aggregation of various atoms , inaccordance with " elective affinities " whose nature is not yetunderstood A doctrine of " nuclei " and a doctrine of " types " ofmolecular structure were much exploited , and , like the doctrineof compound radicals , became useful as aids to memory and guidesfor the analyst , indicating some of the plans of molecularconstruction , though by no means penetrating the mysteries ofchemical affinity . They are classifications rather thanexplanations of chemical unions . But at least they served animportant purpose in giving definiteness to the idea of amolecular structure built of atoms as the basis of allsubstances . Now at last the word molecule came to have a distinctmeaning , as distinct from " atom , " in the minds of the generalityof chemists , as it had had for Avogadro a third of a centurybefore . Avogadro ' s hypothesis that there are equal numbers ofthese molecules in equal volumes of gases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little later , underthe championship of Cannizzaro , was exalted to the plane of afixed law . Thenceforth the conception of the molecule was to beas dominant a thought in chemistry as the idea of the atom had become in a previous epoch . CHEMICAL AFFINITYOf course the atom itself was in no sense displaced , butAvogadro ' s law soon made it plain that the atom had often usurpedterritory that did not really belong to it . In many cases thechemists had supposed themselves dealing with atoms as unitswhere the true unit was the molecule . In the case of elementarygases , such as hydrogen and oxygen , for example , the law of equalnumbers of molecules in equal spaces made it clear that the atomsdo not exist isolated , as had been supposed . Since two volumesof hydrogen unite with one volume of oxygen to form two volumesof water vapor , the simplest mathematics show , in the light ofAvogadro ' s law , not only that each molecule of water must containtwo hydrogen atoms ( a point previously in dispute ) , but that theoriginal molecules of hydrogen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  - else how could one volume of oxygensupply an atom for every molecule of two volumes of water ? What , then , does this imply ? Why , that the elementary atom hasan avidity for other atoms , a longing for companionship , an " affinity "  --  call it what you will  --  which is bound to be satisfiedif other atoms are in the neighborhood . Placed solely amongatoms of its own kind , the oxygen atom seizes on a fellow oxygenatom , and in all their mad dancings these two mates clingtogether  --  possibly revolving about each other in miniatureplanetary orbits . Precisely the same thing occurs among thehydrogen atoms . But now suppose the various pairs of oxygen atomscome near other pairs of hydrogen atoms ( under proper conditions which need not detain us here ) , then each oxygen atom loses itsattachment for its fellow , and flings itself madly into thecircuit of one of the hydrogen couplets , and  --  presto !  --  there areonly two molecules for every three there were before , and freeoxygen and hydrogen have become water . The whole process , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that underthe given conditions the oxygen atoms had a greater affinity forthe hydrogen atoms than for one another . As chemists studied the actions of various kinds of atoms , inregard to their unions with one another to form molecules , itgradually dawned upon them that not all elements are satisfied with the same number of companions . Some elements ask only one , and refuse to take more ; while others link themselves , whenoccasion offers , with two , three , four , or more . Thus we saw thatoxygen forsook a single atom of its own kind and linked itselfwith two atoms of hydrogen . Clearly , then , the oxygen atom , likea creature with two hands , is able to clutch two other atoms . But we have no proof that under any circumstances it could holdmore than two . Its affinities seem satisfied when it has twobonds . But , on the other hand , the atom of nitrogen is able tohold three atoms of hydrogen , and does so in the molecule ofammonium ( NH3 ) ; while the carbon atom can hold four atoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one atom is not always equivalent to anotheratom of a different kind in combining powers . A recognition ofthis fact by Frankland about 1852 , and its further investigationby others ( notably A. Kekule and A. S. Couper ) , led to theintroduction of the word equivalent into chemical terminology ina new sense , and in particular to an understanding of theaffinities or " valency " of different elements , which proved ofthe most fundamental importance . Thus it was shown that , of thefour elements that enter most prominently into organic compounds , hydrogen can link itself with only a single bond to any otherelement  --  it has , so to speak , but a single hand with which tograsp  --  while oxygen has capacity for two bonds , nitrogen forthree ( possibly for five ) , and carbon for four . The wordsmonovalent , divalent , trivalent , tretrava-lent , etc. , were coinedto express this most important fact , and the various elementscame to be known as monads , diads , triads , etc . Just whydifferent elements should differ thus in valency no one as yetknows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And once the nature of any element has been determined as regards its valency , a mostimportant insight into the possible behavior of that element hasbeen secured . Thus a consideration of the fact that hydrogen ismonovalent , while oxygen is divalent , makes it plain that we mustexpect to find no more than three compounds of these twoelements  --  namely , H  --  O  --  ( written HO by the chemist , and calledhydroxyl ) ; H  --  O  --  H ( H2O , or water ) , and H  --  O  --  O  --  H ( H2O2 , orhydrogen peroxide ) . It will be observed that in the first ofthese compounds the atom of oxygen stands , so to speak , with oneof its hands free , eagerly reaching out , therefore , for anothercompanion , and hence , in the language of chemistry , forming anunstable compound . Again , in the third compound , though all handsare clasped , yet one pair links oxygen with oxygen ; and this alsomust be an unstable union , since the avidity of an atom for itsown kind is relatively weak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its easy decomposition , and theeagerness with which it seizes upon the elements of othercompounds . But the molecule of water , on the other hand , has its atomsarranged in a state of stable equilibrium , all their affinitiesbeing satisfied . Each hydrogen atom has satisfied its ownaffinity by clutching the oxygen atom ; and the oxygen atom hasboth its bonds satisfied by clutching back at the two hydrogenatoms . Therefore the trio , linked in this close bond , have notendency to reach out for any other companion , nor , indeed , anypower to hold another should it thrust itself upon them . Theyform a " stable " compound , which under all ordinary circumstanceswill retain its identity as a molecule of water , even though the physical mass of which it is a part changes its condition from asolid to a gas from ice to vapor . But a consideration of this condition of stable equilibrium inthe molecule at once suggests a new question : How can anaggregation of atoms , having all their affinities satisfied , takeany further part in chemical reactions ? Seemingly such amolecule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any atomic readjustments . And so in point offact it is , so long as its component atoms cling to one anotherunremittingly . But this , it appears , is precisely what the atomsare little prone to do . It seems that they are fickle to the lastdegree in their individual attachments , and are as prone to breakaway from bondage as they are to enter into it . Thus the oxygenatom which has just flung itself into the circuit of two hydrogenatoms , the next moment flings itself free again and seeks newcompanions . It is for all the world like the incessant change ofpartners in a rollicking dance . This incessant dissolution andreformation of molecules in a substance which as a whole remainsapparently unchanged was first fully appreciated by Ste.-ClaireDeville , and by him named dissociation . It is a process whichgoes on much more actively in some compounds than in others , andvery much more actively under some physical conditions ( such asincrease of temperature ) than under others . But apparently nosubstances at ordinary temperatures , and no temperature above theabsolute zero , are absolutely free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having all the valency of their atomsfully satisfied do not lose their chemical activity  --  since eachatom is momentarily free in the exchange of partners , and mayseize upon different atoms from its former partners , if those itprefers are at hand . While , however , an appreciation of this ceaseless activity of theatom is essential to a proper understanding of its chemicalefficiency , yet from another point of view the " saturated " molecule  --  that is , the molecule whose atoms have their valencyall satisfied  --  may be thought of as a relatively fixed or stableorganism . Even though it may presently be torn down , it is forthe time being a completed structure ; and a consideration of thevalency of its atoms gives the best clew that has hitherto beenobtainable as to the character of its architecture . Howimportant this matter of architecture of the molecule  --  of spacerelations of the atoms  --  may be was demonstrated as long ago as1823 , when Liebig and Wohler proved , to the utter bewilderment ofthe chemical world , that two substances may have precisely thesame chemical constitution  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in physical properties . The wordisomerism was coined by Berzelius to express this anomalouscondition of things , which seemed to negative the mostfundamental truths of chemistry . Naming the condition by nomeans explained it , but the fact was made clear that somethingbesides the mere number and kind of atoms is important in thearchitecture of a molecule . It became certain that atoms are notthrown together haphazard to build a molecule , any more thanbricks are thrown together at random to form a house . How delicate may be the gradations of architectural design inbuilding a molecule was well illustrated about 1850 , when Pasteurdiscovered that some carbon compounds  --  as certain sugars  --  canonly be distinguished from one another , when in solution , by thefact of their twisting or polarizing a ray of light to the leftor to the right , respectively . But no inkling of an explanationof these strange variations of molecular structure came until thediscovery of the law of valency . Then much of the mystery wascleared away ; for it was plain that since each atom in a moleculecan hold to itself only a fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linked in definite chains orgroups . And it is equally plain that where the atoms arenumerous , the exact plan of grouping may sometimes be susceptibleof change without doing violence to the law of valency . It is insuch cases that isomerism is observed to occur . By paying constant heed to this matter of the affinities , chemists are able to make diagrammatic pictures of the plan ofarchitecture of any molecule whose composition is known . In thesimple molecule of water ( H2O ) , for example , the two hydrogenatoms must have released each other before they could join theoxygen , and the manner of linking must apparently be thatrepresented in the graphic formula H  --  O  --  H. With moleculescomposed of a large number of atoms , such graphic representation of the scheme of linking is of course increasingly difficult , yet , with the affinities for a guide , it is always possible . Ofcourse no one supposes that such a formula , written in a singleplane , can possibly represent the true architecture of themolecule : it is at best suggestive or diagrammatic rather thanpictorial . Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the fathers of chemistry would not havethought it possible ever to attain . PERIODICITY OF ATOMIC WEIGHTSThese utterly novel studies of molecular architecture may seem at first sight to take from the atom much of its former prestige asthe all-important personage of the chemical world . Since so muchdepends upon the mere position of the atoms , it may appear thatcomparatively little depends upon the nature of the atomsthemselves . But such a view is incorrect , for on closerconsideration it will appear that at no time has the atom beenseen to renounce its peculiar personality . Within certain limitsthe character of a molecule may be altered by changing thepositions of its atoms ( just as different buildings may beconstructed of the same bricks ) , but these limits are sharplydefined , and it would be as impossible to exceed them as it wouldbe to build a stone building with bricks . From first to last thebrick remains a brick , whatever the style of architecture ithelps to construct ; it never becomes a stone . And just as closelydoes each atom retain its own peculiar properties , regardless ofits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may take part in the formationat one time of a diamond , again of a piece of coal , and yet againof a particle of sugar , of wood fibre , of animal tissue , or of agas in the atmosphere ; but from first to last  --  from glass-cuttinggem to intangible gas  --  there is no demonstrable change whateverin any single property of the atom itself . So far as we know , itssize , its weight , its capacity for vibration or rotation , and itsinherent affinities , remain absolutely unchanged throughout allthese varying fortunes of position and association . And the samething is true of every atom of all of the seventy-odd elementarysubstances with which the modern chemist is acquainted . Every oneappears always to maintain its unique integrity , gaining nothingand losing nothing . All this being true , it would seem as if the position of theDaltonian atom as a primordial bit of matter , indestructible andnon-transmutable , had been put to the test by the chemistry ofour century , and not found wanting . Since those early days of thecentury when the electric battery performed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Davy , many newelementary substances have been discovered , but no single elementhas been displaced from its position as an undecomposable body . Rather have the analyses of the chemist seemed to make it moreand more certain that all elementary atoms are in truth what JohnHerschel called them , " manufactured articles "  --  primordial , changeless , indestructible . And yet , oddly enough , it has chanced that hand in hand with theexperiments leading to such a goal have gone other experimentsarid speculations of exactly the opposite tenor . In eachgeneration there have been chemists among the leaders of theirscience who have refused to admit that the so-called elements arereally elements at all in any final sense , and who have soughteagerly for proof which might warrant their scepticism . The firstbit of evidence tending to support this view was furnished by anEnglish physician , Dr. William Prout , who in 1815 calledattention to a curious relation to be observed between the atomicweight of the various elements . Accepting the figures given bythe authorities of the time ( notably Thomson and Berzelius ) , itappeared that a strikingly large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hydrogen , and that othersdiffered so slightly that errors of observation might explain thediscrepancy . Prout felt that it could not be accidental , and hecould think of no tenable explanation , unless it be that theatoms of the various alleged elements are made up of differentfixed numbers of hydrogen atoms . Could it be that the one trueelement  --  the one primal matter  --  is hydrogen , and that all otherforms of matter are but compounds of this original substance ? Prout advanced this startling idea at first tentatively , in ananonymous publication ; but afterwards he espoused it openly andurged its tenability . Coming just after Davy ' s dissociation of some supposed elements , the idea proved alluring , and for a timegained such popularity that chemists were disposed to round outthe observed atomic weights of all elements into whole numbers . But presently renewed determinations of the atomic weights seemedto discountenance this practice , and Prout ' s alleged law fellinto disrepute . It was revived , however , about 1840 , by Dumas , whose great authority secured it a respectful hearing , and whosecareful redetermination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of hydrogen , aided the cause . Subsequently Stas , the pupil of Dumas , undertook a long series ofdeterminations of atomic weights , with the expectation ofconfirming the Proutian hypothesis . But his results seemed todisprove the hypothesis , for the atomic weights of many elementsdiffered from whole numbers by more , it was thought , than thelimits of error of the experiments . It was noteworthy , however , that the confidence of Dumas was not shaken , though he was led tomodify the hypothesis , and , in accordance with previoussuggestions of Clark and of Marignac , to recognize as theprimordial element , not hydrogen itself , but an atom half the weight , or even one-fourth the weight , of that of hydrogen , ofwhich primordial atom the hydrogen atom itself is compounded . Buteven in this modified form the hypothesis found great oppositionfrom experimental observers . In 1864 , however , a novel relation between the weights of theelements and their other characteristics was called to the attention of chemists by Professor John A. R. Newlands , ofLondon , who had noticed that if the elements are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there isa curious recurrence of similar properties at intervals of eightelements This so-called " law of octaves " attracted littleimmediate attention , but the facts it connotes soon came underthe observation of other chemists , notably of Professors GustavHinrichs in America , Dmitri Mendeleeff in Russia , and LotharMeyer in Germany . Mendeleeff gave the discovery fullestexpression , explicating it in 1869 , under the title of " theperiodic law . " Though this early exposition of what has since been admitted tobe a most important discovery was very fully outlined , thegenerality of chemists gave it little heed till a decade or solater , when three new elements , gallium , scandium , and germanium , were discovered , which , on being analyzed , were quiteunexpectedly found to fit into three gaps which Mendeleeff hadleft in his periodic scale . In effect the periodic law hadenabled Mendeleeff to predicate the existence of the new elementsyears before they were discovered . Surely a system that leads tosuch results is no mere vagary . So very soon the periodic lawtook its place as one of the most important generalizations ofchemical science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression ofobserved relations independent of hypothesis ; but of course thetheoretical bearings of these facts could not be overlooked . AsProfessor J. H. Gladstone has said , it forces upon us " theconviction that the elements are not separate bodies createdwithout reference to one another , but that they have beenoriginally fashioned , or have been built up , from one another , according to some general plan . " It is but a short step fromthat proposition to the Proutian hypothesis . NEW WEAPONS  --  SPECTROSCOPE AND CAMERABut the atomic weights are not alone in suggesting the compoundnature of the alleged elements . Evidence of a totally differentkind has contributed to the same end , from a source that could hardly have been imagined when the Proutian hypothesis , wasformulated , through the tradition of a novel weapon to thearmamentarium of the chemist  --  the spectroscope . The perfection of this instrument , in the hands of two German scientists , GustavRobert Kirchhoff and Robert Wilhelm Bunsen , came about throughthe investigation , towards the middle of the century , of themeaning of the dark lines which had been observed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wollaston adecade earlier . It was suspected by Stokes and by Fox Talbot in England , but first brought to demonstration by Kirchhoff andBunsen , that these lines , which were known to occupy definitepositions in the spectrum , are really indicative of particularelementary substances . By means of the spectroscope , which isessentially a magnifying lens attached to a prism of glass , it is possible to locate the lines with great accuracy , and it was soonshown that here was a new means of chemical analysis of the mostexquisite delicacy . It was found , for example , that thespectroscope could detect the presence of a quantity of sodium soinfinitesimal as the one two-hundred-thousandth of a grain . Butwhat was even more important , the spectroscope put no limit upon the distance of location of the substance it tested , providedonly that sufficient light came from it . The experiments itrecorded might be performed in the sun , or in the most distantstars or nebulae ; indeed , one of the earliest feats of theinstrument was to wrench from the sun the secret of his chemicalconstitution . To render the utility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it another new chemicalagency  --  namely , photography . This now familiar process is basedon the property of light to decompose certain unstable compoundsof silver , and thus alter their chemical composition . Davy andWedgwood barely escaped the discovery of the value of thephotographic method early in the nineteenth century . Theirsuccessors quite overlooked it until about 1826 , when Louis J. M.Daguerre , the French chemist , took the matter in hand , and aftermany years of experimentation brought it to relative perfectionin 1839 , in which year the famous daguerreotype first brought the matter to popular attention . In the same year Mr. Fox Talbot reada paper on the subject before the Royal Society , and soonafterwards the efforts of Herschel and numerous other naturalphilosophers contributed to the advancement of the new method . In 1843 Dr. John W. Draper , the famous English-American chemistand physiologist , showed that by photography the Fraunhofer linesin the solar spectrum might be mapped with absolute accuracy ; also proving that the silvered film revealed many lines invisibleto the unaided eye . The value of this method of observation wasrecognized at once , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographic method , in conjunction with its use , became invaluable to the chemist . By this means comparisons ofspectra may be made with a degree of accuracy not otherwiseobtainable ; and , in case of the stars , whole clusters of spectramay be placed on record at a single observation . As the examination of the sun and stars proceeded , chemists wereamazed or delighted , according to their various preconceptions , to witness the proof that many familiar terrestrial elements areto be found in the celestial bodies . But what perhaps surprisedthem most was to observe the enormous preponderance in thesidereal bodies of the element hydrogen . Not only are there vastquantities of this element in the sun ' s atmosphere , but someother suns appeared to show hydrogen lines almost exclusively intheir spectra . Presently it appeared that the stars of whichthis is true are those white stars , such as Sirius , which hadbeen conjectured to be the hottest ; whereas stars that are onlyred-hot , like our sun , show also the vapors of many otherelements , including iron and other metals . In 1878 Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , called attention to the possible significance of thisseries of observations . He urged that the fact of the sun showingfewer elements than are observed here on the cool earth , whilestars much hotter than the sun show chiefly one element , and thatone hydrogen , the lightest of known elements , seemed to givecolor to the possibility that our alleged elements are reallycompounds , which at the temperature of the hottest stars may bedecomposed into hydrogen , the latter " element " itself being alsodoubtless a compound , which might be resolved under yet moretrying conditions . Here , then , was what might be termed direct experimental evidencefor the hypothesis of Prout . Unfortunately , however , it isevidence of a kind which only a few experts are competent todiscuss  --  so very delicate a matter is the spectral analysis ofthe stars . What is still more unfortunate , the experts do notagree among themselves as to the validity of Professor Lockyer ' sconclusions . Some , like Professor Crookes , have accepted themwith acclaim , hailing Lockyer as " the Darwin of the inorganicworld , " while others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As yet it can not be said that thecontroversy has been brought to final settlement . Still , it ishardly to be doubted that now , since the periodic law has seemedto join hands with the spectroscope , a belief in the compoundnature of the so-called elements is rapidly gaining ground amongchemists . More and more general becomes the belief that theDaltonian atom is really a compound radical , and that back of theseeming diversity of the alleged elements is a single form ofprimordial matter . Indeed , in very recent months , directexperimental evidence for this view has at last come to hand , through the study of radio-active substances . In a later chapterwe shall have occasion to inquire how this came about . IV . ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURYALBRECHT VON HALLERAn epoch in physiology was made in the eighteenth century by thegenius and efforts of Albrecht von Haller ( 1708-1777 ) , of Berne , who is perhaps as worthy of the title " The Great " as anyphilosopher who has been so christened by his contemporariessince the time of Hippocrates . Celebrated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally famed in his own time as poet , botanist , and statesman , and dividing his attentionbetween art and science . As a child Haller was so sickly that he was unable to amusehimself with the sports and games common to boys of his age , andso passed most of his time poring over books . When ten years ofage he began writing poems in Latin and German , and at fifteenentered the University of Tubingen . At seventeen he wrotelearned articles in opposition to certain accepted doctrines , andat nineteen he received his degree of doctor . Soon after this hevisited England , where his zeal in dissecting brought him undersuspicion of grave-robbery , which suspicion made it expedient forhim to return to the Continent . After studying botany in Baselfor some time he made an extended botanical journey throughSwitzerland , finally settling in his native city , Berne , as apractising physician . During this time he did not neglect eitherpoetry or botany , publishing anonymously a collection of poems . In 1736 he was called to Gottingen as professor of anatomy , surgery , chemistry , and botany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literary work , sometimes livingand sleeping for days and nights together in his library , eatinghis meals while delving in his books , and sleeping only whenactually compelled to do so by fatigue . During all this time hewas in correspondence with savants from all over the world , andit is said of him that he never left a letter of any kindunanswered . Haller ' s greatest contribution to medical science was his famousdoctrine of irritability , which has given him the name of " fatherof modern nervous physiology , " just as Harvey is called " thefather of the modern physiology of the blood . " It has been saidof this famous doctrine of irritability that " it moved all theminds of the century  --  and not in the departments of medicinealone  --  in a way of which we of the present day have nosatisfactory conception , unless we compare it with our modernDarwinism. " 1The principle of general irritability had been laid down byFrancis Glisson ( 1597-1677 ) from deductive studies , but Hallerproved by experiments along the line of inductive methods thatthis irritability was not common to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , " but something entirely special , and peculiaronly to muscular substance . He distinguished between irritabilityof muscles and sensibility of nerves . In 1747 he gave as the three forces that produce muscular movements : elasticity , or " dead nervous force " ; irritability , or " innate nervous force " ; and nervous force in itself . And in 1752 he described onehundred and ninety experiments for determining what parts of thebody possess " irritability "  --  that is , the property of contractingwhen stimulated . His conclusion that this irritability exists inmuscular substance alone and is quite independent of the nervesproceeding to it aroused a controversy that was never definitelysettled until late in the nineteenth century , when Haller ' stheory was found to be entirely correct . It was in pursuit of experiments to establish his theory ofirritability that Haller made his chief discoveries in embryologyand development . He proved that in the process of incubation ofthe egg the first trace of the heart of the chick shows itself inthe thirty-eighth hour , and that the first trace of red bloodshowed in the forty-first hour . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory that since thecreation of genus every individual is derived from a precedingindividual  --  the existing theory of preformation , in which hebelieved , and which taught that " every individual is fully andcompletely preformed in the germ , simply growing from microscopicto visible proportions , without developing any new parts . " In physiology , besides his studies of the nervous system , Hallerstudied the mechanism of respiration , refuting the teachings ofHamberger ( 1697-1755 ) , who maintained that the lungs contractindependently . Haller , however , in common with hiscontemporaries , failed utterly to understand the true function ofthe lungs . The great physiologist ' s influence upon practicalmedicine , while most profound , was largely indirect . He was atheoretical rather than a practical physician , yet he is creditedwith being the first physician to use the watch in counting thepulse . BATTISTA MORGAGNI AND MORBID ANATOMYA great contemporary of Haller was Giovanni Battista Morgagni(1682-1771) , who pursued what Sydenham had neglected , theinvestigation in anatomy , thus supplying a necessary counterpartto the great Englishman ' s work . Morgagni ' s investigations weredirected chiefly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of diseased tissue , both during life and post mortem , in contrast to the normal anatomical structures . This work cannotbe said to have originated with him ; for as early as 1679 Bonnethad made similar , although less extensive , studies ; and latermany investigators , such as Lancisi and Haller , had madepost-mortem studies . But Morgagni ' s De sedibus et causismorborum per anatomen indagatis was the largest , most accurate , and best-illustrated collection of cases that had ever beenbrought together , and marks an epoch in medical science . From thetime of the publication of Morgagni ' s researches , morbid anatomybecame a recognized branch of the medical science , and the effect of the impetus thus given it has been steadily increasing sincethat time . WILLIAM HUNTERWilliam Hunter ( 1718-1783 ) must always be remembered as one ofthe greatest physicians and anatomists of the eighteenth century , and particularly as the first great teacher of anatomy in England ; but his fame has been somewhat overshadowed by that ofhis younger brother John . Hunter had been intended and educated for the Church , but on theadvice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study of medicine . His first attempt at teaching was in 1746 , when he delivered a series of lectures on surgery for the Societyof Naval Practitioners . These lectures proved so interesting andinstructive that he was at once invited to give others , and hisreputation as a lecturer was soon established . He was a naturalorator and story-teller , and he combined with these attractivequalities that of thoroughness and clearness in demonstrations , and although his lectures were two hours long he made them sofull of interest that his pupils seldom tired of listening . Hebelieved that he could do greater good to the world by " publiclyteaching his art than by practising it , " and even during the lastfew days of his life , when he was so weak that his friendsremonstrated against it , he continued his teaching , fainting fromexhaustion at the end of his last lecture , which preceded hisdeath by only a few days . For many years it was Hunter ' s ambition to establish a museumwhere the study of anatomy , surgery , and medicine might beadvanced , and in 1765 he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose , offering to spend seven thousand pounds on its , erection besides endowing it with a professorship of anatomy . Notbeing able to obtain this grant , however , he built a house , inwhich were lecture and dissecting rooms , and his museum . In thismuseum were anatomical preparations , coins , minerals , andnatural-history specimens . Hunter ' s weakness was his love of controversy and his resentmentof contradiction . This brought him into strained relations withmany of the leading physicians of his time , notably his ownbrother John , who himself was probably not entirely free fromblame in the matter . Hunter is said to have excused his ownirritability on the grounds that being an anatomist , andaccustomed to " the passive submission of dead bodies , " contradictions became the more unbearable . Many of thephysiological researches begun by him were carried on andperfected by his more famous brother , particularly hisinvestigations of the capillaries , but he added much to theanatomical knowledge of several structures of the body , notablyas to the structure of cartilages and joints . JOHN HUNTERIn Abbot Islip ' s chapel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rest the remains of John Hunter(1728-1793) , famous in the annals of medicine as among the greatest physiologists and surgeons that the world has everproduced : a man whose discoveries and inventions are counted byscores , and whose field of research was only limited by theoutermost boundaries of eighteenth-century science , although hisefforts were directed chiefly along the lines of his profession . Until about twenty years of age young Hunter had shown littleaptitude for study , being unusually fond of out-door sports andamusements ; but about that time , realizing that some occupationmust be selected , he asked permission of his brother William toattempt some dissections in his anatomical school in London . Tothe surprise of his brother he made this dissection unusuallywell ; and being given a second , he acquitted himself with suchskill that his brother at once predicted that he would become agreat anatomist . Up to this time he had had no training of anykind to prepare him for his professional career , and knew littleof Greek or Latin  --  languages entirely unnecessary for him , as heproved in all of his life work . Ottley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowledge of the " dead languages " in after life , he said of his opponent , " I could teach him thaton the dead body which he never knew in any language , dead orliving . " By his second year in dissection he had become so skilful that hewas given charge of some of the classes in his brother ' s school ; in 1754 he became a surgeon ' s pupil in St. George ' s Hospital , and two years later house-surgeon . Having by overwork brought onsymptoms that seemed to threaten consumption , he accepted the position of staff-surgeon to an expedition to Belleisle in 1760 , and two years later was serving with the English army atPortugal . During all this time he was constantly engaged inscientific researches , many of which , such as his observations ofgun-shot wounds , he put to excellent use in later life . Onreturning to England much improved in health in 1763 , he enteredat once upon his career as a London surgeon , and from that timeforward his progress was a practically uninterrupted series ofsuccesses in his profession . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was of great serviceto the medical profession . This important net-work of minutevessels distributed throughout the body had recently been madethe object of much study , and various students , including Haller , had made extensive investigations since their discovery byAsellius . But Hunter , in 1758 , was the first to discover thelymphatics in the neck of birds , although it was his brotherWilliam who advanced the theory that the function of thesevessels was that of absorbents . One of John Hunter ' s pupils , William Hewson ( 1739-1774 ) , first gave an account , in 1768 , ofthe lymphatics in reptiles and fishes , and added to his teacher ' sinvestigations of the lymphatics in birds . These studies of thelymphatics have been regarded , perhaps with justice , as Hunter ' smost valuable contributions to practical medicine . In 1767 he met with an accident by which he suffered a rupture ofthe tendo Achillis  --  the large tendon that forms the attachment ofthe muscles of the calf to the heel . From observations of thisaccident , and subsequent experiments upon dogs , he laid thefoundation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet and other deformities involving the tendons . In 1772 he moved into his residence at Earlscourt , Brompton , where he gathered about him a great menagerie of animals , birds , reptiles , insects , and fishes , which he used in his physiologicaland surgical experiments . Here he performed a countless number ofexperiments  --  more , probably , than " any man engaged inprofessional practice has ever conducted . " These experimentsvaried in nature from observations of the habits of bees andwasps to major surgical operations performed upon hedgehogs , dogs , leopards , etc . It is said that for fifteen years he kept aflock of geese for the sole purpose of studying the process ofdevelopment in eggs . Hunter began his first course of lectures in 1772 , being forcedto do this because he had been so repeatedly misquoted , andbecause he felt that he could better gauge his own knowledge inthis way . Lecturing was a sore trial to him , as he was extremelydiffident , and without writing out his lectures in advance he wasscarcely able to speak at all . In this he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fluent and brilliantspeaker . Hunter ' s lectures were at best simple readings of the facts as he had written them , the diffident teacher seldomraising his eyes from his manuscript and rarely stopping untilhis complete lecture had been read through . His lectures were , therefore , instructive rather than interesting , as he usedinfinite care in preparing them ; but appearing before his classeswas so dreaded by him that he is said to have been in the habitof taking a half-drachm of laudanum before each lecture to nervehim for the ordeal . One is led to wonder by what name he shalldesignate that quality of mind that renders a bold and fearlesssurgeon like Hunter , who is undaunted in the face of hazardousand dangerous operations , a stumbling , halting , and " frightened " speaker before a little band of , at most , thirty young medicalstudents . And yet this same thing is not unfrequently seen amongthe boldest surgeons . Hunter ' s Operation for the Cure of AneurismsIt should be an object-lesson to those who , ignorantly orotherwise , preach against the painless vivisection as practisedto-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause ofscience Hunter discovered a fact in physiology that has been themeans of saving thousands of human lives and thousands of humanbodies from needless mutilation . We refer to the discovery of the " collateral circulation " of the blood , which led , among otherthings , to Hunter ' s successful operation upon aneurisms . Simply stated , every organ or muscle of the body is supplied byone large artery , whose main trunk distributes the blood into itslesser branches , and thence through the capillaries . Cutting offthis main artery , it would seem , should cut off entirely theblood-supply to the particular organ which is supplied by thisvessel ; and until the time of Hunter ' s demonstration this beliefwas held by most physiologists . But nature has made a provisionfor this possible stoppage of blood-supply from a single source , and has so arranged that some of the small arterial branchescoming from the main supply-trunk are connected with otherarterial branches coming from some other supply-trunk . Undernormal conditions the main arterial trunks supply theirrespective organs , the little connecting arterioles playing aninsignificant part . But let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a remarkable thing takes place . The little connecting branches begin at once to enlarge and drawblood from the neighboring uninjured supply-trunk , Thisenlargement continues until at last a new route for thecirculation has been established , the organ no longer dependingon the now defunct original arterial trunk , but getting on aswell as before by this " collateral " circulation that has beenestablished . The thorough understanding of this collateral circulation is oneof the most important steps in surgery , for until it wasdiscovered amputations were thought necessary in such cases asthose involving the artery supplying a leg or arm , since it wassupposed that , the artery being stopped , death of the limb andthe subsequent necessity for amputation were sure to follow . Hunter solved this problem by a single operation upon a deer , andhis practicality as a surgeon led him soon after to apply thisknowledge to a certain class of surgical cases in a mostrevolutionary and satisfactory manner . What led to Hunter ' s far-reaching discovery was his investigationas to the cause of the growth of the antlers of the deer . Wishingto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neck played in the process of development , or , perhaps more correctly , to see what effect cutting off the mainblood-supply would have , Hunter had one of the deer of RichmondPark caught and tied , while he placed a ligature around one ofthe carotid arteries  --  one of the two principal arteries thatsupply the head with blood . He observed that shortly after thisthe antler ( which was only half grown and consequently veryvascular ) on the side of the obliterated artery became cold tothe touch  --  from the lack of warmth-giving blood . There was nothing unexpected in this , and Hunter thought nothing of ituntil a few days later , when he found , to his surprise , that theantler had become as warm as its fellow , and was apparentlyincreasing in size . Puzzled as to how this could be , andsuspecting that in some way his ligature around the artery hadnot been effective , he ordered the deer killed , and onexamination was astonished to find that while his ligature hadcompletely shut off the blood-supply from the source of thatcarotid artery , the smaller arteries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as ever , only by a differentroute . Hunter soon had a chance to make a practical application of theknowledge thus acquired . This was a case of popliteal aneurism , operations for which had heretofore proved pretty uniformlyfatal . An aneurism , as is generally understood , is an enlargementof a certain part of an artery , this enlargement sometimesbecoming of enormous size , full of palpitating blood , and likelyto rupture with fatal results at any time . If by any means theblood can be allowed to remain quiet for even a few hours in thisaneurism it will form a clot , contract , and finally be absorbedand disappear without any evil results . The problem of keepingthe blood quiet , with the heart continually driving it throughthe vessel , is not a simple one , and in Hunter ' s time wasconsidered so insurmountable that some surgeons advocatedamputation of any member having an aneurism , while others cutdown upon the tumor itself and attempted to tie off the arteryabove and below . The first of these operations maimed the patientfor life , while the second was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had learned about collateralcirculation and the time required for it to become fullyestablished , Hunter conceived the idea that if the blood-supplywas cut off from above the aneurism , thus temporarily preventingthe ceaseless pulsations from the heart , this blood wouldcoagulate and form a clot before the collateral circulation couldbecome established or could affect it . The patient upon whom heperformed his now celebrated operation was afflicted with apopliteal aneurism  --  that is , the aneurism was located on thelarge popliteal artery just behind the knee-joint . Hunter , therefore , tied off the femoral , or main supplying artery in thethigh , a little distance above the aneurism . The operation wasentirely successful , and in six weeks ' time the patient was able to leave the hospital , and with two sound limbs . Naturally thesimplicity and success of this operation aroused the attention ofEurope , and , alone , would have made the name of Hunter immortalin the annals of surgery . The operation has ever since beencalled the " Hunterian " operation for aneurism , but there isreason to believe that Dominique Anel ( born about 1679 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that Hunter had never heard of this work ofAnel , and that his operation was the outcome of his ownindependent reasoning from the facts he had learned aboutcollateral circulation . Furthermore , Hunter ' s mode of operation was a much better one than Anel ' s , and , while Anel ' s must claimpriority , the credit of making it widely known will always beHunter ' s . The great services of Hunter were recognized both at home andabroad , and honors and positions of honor and responsibility weregiven him . In 1776 he was appointed surgeon-extraordinary to theking ; in 1783 he was elected a member of the Royal Society ofMedicine and of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris ; in 1786 hebecame deputy surgeon-general of the army ; and in 1790 he wasappointed surgeon-general and inspector-general of hospitals . Allthese positions he filled with credit , and he was activelyengaged in his tireless pursuit of knowledge and in discharginghis many duties when in October , 1793 , he was stricken whileaddressing some colleagues , and fell dead in the arms of afellow-physician . LAZZARO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lazzaro Spallanzani ( 1729-1799 ) , one of the mostpicturesque figures in the history of science . He was noteducated either as a scientist or physician , devoting , himself atfirst to philosophy and the languages , afterwards studying law , and later taking orders . But he was a keen observer of nature andof a questioning and investigating mind , so that he is rememberednow chiefly for his discoveries and investigations in thebiological sciences . One important demonstration was hiscontroversion of the theory of abiogenesis , or " spontaneousgeneration , " as propounded by Needham and Buffon . At the time ofNeedham ' s experiments it had long been observed that when animalor vegetable matter had lain in water for a little time  --  longenough for it to begin to undergo decomposition  --  the water becamefilled with microscopic creatures , the " infusoria animalculis . " This would tend to show , either that the water or the animal orvegetable substance contained the " germs " of these minuteorganisms , or else that they were generated spontaneously . It wasknown that boiling killed these animalcules , and Needham agreed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vegetables , andalso the water containing them , and then placed them inhermetically scaled jars  --  if he did this , and still theanimalcules made their appearance , it would be proof-positivethat they had been generated spontaneously . Accordingly be madenumerous experiments , always with the same results  --  that after afew days the water was found to swarm with the microscopiccreatures . The thing seemed proven beyond question  --  providing , ofcourse , that there had been no slips in the experiments . But Abbe Spallanzani thought that he detected such slips inNeedham ' s experiment . The possibility of such slips might comein several ways : the contents of the jar might not have beenboiled for a sufficient length of time to kill all the germs , orthe air might not have been excluded completely by the sealingprocess . To cover both these contingencies , Spallanzani firsthermetically sealed the glass vessels and then boiled them forthree-quarters of an hour . Under these circumstances noanimalcules ever made their appearance  --  a conclusivedemonstration that rendered Needham ' s grounds for his theory atonce untenable. 2Allied to these studies of spontaneous generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation among higher animals . He experimentedwith frogs , tortoises , and dogs ; and settled beyond question thefunction of the ovum and spermatozoon . Unfortunately hemisinterpreted the part played by the spermatozoa in believingthat their surrounding fluid was equally active in thefertilizing process , and it was not until some forty years later(1824) that Dumas corrected this error . THE CHEMICAL THEORY OF DIGESTIONAmong the most interesting researches of Spallanzani were his experiments to prove that digestion , as carried on in the stomach , is a chemical process . In this he demonstrated , as ReneReaumur had attempted to demonstrate , that digestion could becarried on outside the walls of the stomach as an ordinarychemical reaction , using the gastric juice as the reagent forperforming the experiment . The question as to whether the stomachacted as a grinding or triturating organ , rather than as areceptacle for chemical action , had been settled by Reaumur and was no longer a question of general dispute . Reaumur haddemonstrated conclusively that digestion would take place in the stomach in the same manner and the same time if the substance tobe digested was protected from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gastric juice only . Hedid this by introducing the substances to be digested into the stomach in tubes , and thus protected so that while the juices ofthe stomach could act upon them freely they would not be affectedby any movements of the organ . Following up these experiments , he attempted to show thatdigestion could take place outside the body as well as in it , asit certainly should if it were a purely chemical process . Hecollected quantities of gastric juice , and placing it in suitablevessels containing crushed grain or flesh , kept the mixture atabout the temperature of the body for several hours . Afterrepeated experiments of this kind , apparently conducted withgreat care , Reaumur reached the conclusion that " the gastricjuice has no more effect out of the living body in dissolving ordigesting the food than water , mucilage , milk , or any other blandfluid. " 3 Just why all of these experiments failed todemonstrate a fact so simple does not appear ; but to Spallanzani , at least , they were by no means conclusive , and he proceeded toelaborate upon the experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a certain degree of heat , and showed conclusively that the chemical process does go on , even when the food and gastric juice are removed from theirnatural environment in the stomach . In this he was opposed bymany physiologists , among them John Hunter , but the truth of hisdemonstrations could not be shaken , and in later years we findHunter himself completing Spallanzani ' s experiments by hisstudies of the post-mortem action of the gastric juice upon the stomach walls . That Spallanzani ' s and Hunter ' s theories of the action of thegastric juice were not at once universally accepted is shown by an essay written by a learned physician in 1834 . In speaking of some of Spallanzani ' s demonstrations , he writes : " In some of theexperiments , in order to give the flesh or grains steeped in thegastric juice the same temperature with the body , the phials wereintroduced under the armpits . But this is not a fair mode ofascertaining the effects of the gastric juice out of the body ; for the influence which life may be supposed to have on thesolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theaffinities connected with life would extend to substances incontact with any part of the system : substances placed under thearmpits are not placed at least in the same circumstances withthose unconnected with a living animal . " But just how this writerreaches the conclusion that " the experiments of Reaumur andSpallanzani give no evidence that the gastric juice has anypeculiar influence more than water or any other bland fluid indigesting the food " 4 is difficult to understand . The concluding touches were given to the new theory of digestionby John Hunter , who , as we have seen , at first opposedSpallanzani , but who finally became an ardent champion of thechemical theory . Hunter now carried Spallanzani ' s experimentsfurther and proved the action of the digestive fluids afterdeath . For many years anatomists had been puzzled by pathologicallesion of the stomach , found post mortem , when no symptoms of anydisorder of the stomach had been evinced during life . Hunterrightly conceived that these lesions were caused by the action ofthe gastric juice , which , while unable to act upon the livingtissue , continued its action chemically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it had been formed . And , as usual with his observations , be turned this discovery topractical use in accounting for certain phenomena of digestion . The following account of the stomach being digested after deathwas written by Hunter at the desire of Sir John Pringle , when hewas president of the Royal Society , and the circumstance whichled to this is as follows : " I was opening , in his presence , thebody of a patient of his own , where the stomach was in partdissolved , which appeared to him very unaccountable , as there hadbeen no previous symptom that could have led him to suspect anydisease in the stomach . I took that opportunity of giving him myideas respecting it , and told him that I had long been makingexperiments on digestion , and considered this as one of the factswhich proved a converting power in the gastric juice . . . . Thereare a great many powers in nature which the living principle doesnot enable the animal matter , with which it is combined , toresist  --  viz. , the mechanical and most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of resisting the powersof fermentation , digestion , and perhaps several others , which arewell known to act on the same matter when deprived of the livingprinciple and entirely to decompose it . " Hunter concludes his paper with the following paragraph : " Theseappearances throw considerable light on the principle ofdigestion , and show that it is neither a mechanical power , norcontractions of the stomach , nor heat , but something secreted inthe coats of the stomach , and thrown into its cavity , which thereanimalizes the food or assimilates it to the nature of the blood . The power of this juice is confined or limited to certainsubstances , especially of the vegetable and animal kingdoms ; andalthough this menstruum is capable of acting independently of the stomach , yet it is indebted to that viscus for itscontinuance. 5 THE FUNCTION OF RESPIRATIONIt is a curious commentary on the crude notions of mechanics ofprevious generations that it should have been necessary to proveby experiment that the thin , almost membranous stomach of amammal has not the power to pulverize , by mere attrition , thefoods that are taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thefirst time forthcoming , and the question of the general characterof the function of digestion was forever set at rest . Almostsimultaneously with this great advance , corresponding progresswas made in an allied field : the mysteries of respiration wereat last cleared up , thanks to the new knowledge of chemistry . Thesolution of the problem followed almost as a matter of courseupon the advances of that science in the latter part of thecentury . Hitherto no one since Mayow , of the previous century , whose flash of insight had been strangely overlooked andforgotten , had even vaguely surmised the true function of thelungs . The great Boerhaave had supposed that respiration ischiefly important as an aid to the circulation of the blood ; hisgreat pupil , Haller , had believed to the day of his death in 1777that the main purpose of the function is to form the voice . Nogenius could hope to fathom the mystery of the lungs so long asair was supposed to be a simple element , serving a meremechanical purpose in the economy of the earth . But the discovery of oxygen gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air that came from the lungs  --  Dr.Priestley , as usual , being in the van . His initial experimentswere made in 1777 , and from the outset the problem was as good assolved . Other experimenters confirmed his results in all theiressentials  --  notably Scheele and Lavoisier and Spallanzani andDavy . It was clearly established that there is chemical actionin the contact of the air with the tissue of the lungs ; that someof the oxygen of the air disappears , and that carbonic-acid gasis added to the inspired air . It was shown , too , that the blood , having come in contact with the air , is changed from black to redin color . These essentials were not in dispute from the first . But as to just what chemical changes caused these results was the subject of controversy . Whether , for example , oxygen is actuallyabsorbed into the blood , or whether it merely unites with carbongiven off from the blood , was long in dispute . Each of the main disputants was biased by his own particularviews as to the moot points of chemistry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a metal oxygencombined with the alleged element heat ; Dr. Priestley thought ita compound of positive electricity and phlogiston ; and HumphryDavy , when he entered the lists a little later , supposed it to bea compound of oxygen and light . Such mistaken notions naturallycomplicated matters and delayed a complete understanding of thechemical processes of respiration . It was some time , too , before the idea gained acceptance that the most important chemicalchanges do not occur in the lungs themselves , but in the ultimatetissues . Indeed , the matter was not clearly settled at the closeof the century . Nevertheless , the problem of respiration hadbeen solved in its essentials . Moreover , the vastly importantfact had been established that a process essentially identical with respiration is necessary to the existence not only of allcreatures supplied with lungs , but to fishes , insects , and evenvegetables  --  in short , to every kind of living organism . ERASMUS DARWIN AND VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGYSome interesting experiments regarding vegetable respiration weremade just at the close of the century by Erasmus Darwin , andrecorded in his Botanic Garden as a foot-note to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respiring play . " These notes are worth quoting at some length , as they give aclear idea of the physiological doctrines of the time ( 1799 ) , while taking advance ground as to the specific matter inquestion : " There have been various opinions , " Darwin says , " concerning the use of the leaves of plants in the vegetable economy . Some havecontended that they are perspiratory organs . This does not seemprobable from an experiment of Dr. Hales , Vegetable Statics , p. 30 . He , found , by cutting off branches of trees with apples onthem and taking off the leaves , that an apple exhaled about asmuch as two leaves the surfaces of which were nearly equal to theapple ; whence it would appear that apples have as good a claim tobe termed perspiratory organs as leaves . Others have believedthem excretory organs of excrementitious juices , but as the vaporexhaled from vegetables has no taste , this idea is no moreprobable than the other ; add to this that in most weathers they do not appear to perspire or exhale at all . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is saidto be equal to the external surface of the whole body , or almostfifteen square feet ; on this surface the blood is exposed to theinfluence of the respired air through the medium , however , of athin pellicle ; by this exposure to the air it has its colorchanged from deep red to bright scarlet , and acquires something so necessary to the existence of life that we can live scarcely aminute without this wonderful process . " The analogy between the leaves of plants and the lungs or gillsof animals seems to embrace so many circumstances that we canscarcely withhold our consent to their performing similaroffices. " 1 . The great surface of leaves compared to that of the trunkand branches of trees is such that it would seem to be an organwell adapted for the purpose of exposing the vegetable juices tothe influence of the air ; this , however , we shall see afterwardsis probably performed only by their upper surfaces , yet even inthis case the surface of the leaves in general bear a greaterproportion to the surface of the tree than the lungs of animalsto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals the blood , after having been exposed to the air in the extremities of the pulmonary artery , is changedin color from deep red to bright scarlet , and certainly in someof its essential properties it is then collected by the pulmonaryvein and returned to the heart . To show a similarity ofcircumstances in the leaves of plants , the following experimentwas made , June 24 , 1781 . A stalk with leaves and seed-vessels oflarge spurge ( Euphorbia helioscopia ) had been several days placedin a decoction of madder ( Rubia tinctorum ) so that the lower partof the stem and two of the undermost leaves were immersed in it . After having washed the immersed leaves in clear water I couldreadily discover the color of the madder passing along the middlerib of each leaf . The red artery was beautifully visible on theunder and on the upper surface of the leaf ; but on the upper sidemany red branches were seen going from it to the extremities ofthe leaf , which on the other side were not visible except bylooking through it against the light . On this under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were seen coming from the extremities of the leaf , and covering the whole underside of it , and joining two large veins , one on each side of thered artery in the middle rib of the leaf , and along with itdescending to the foot-stalk or petiole . On slitting one of theseleaves with scissors , and having a magnifying-glass ready , themilky blood was seen oozing out of the returning veins on eachside of the red artery in the middle rib , but none of the redfluid from the artery . " All these appearances were more easily seen in a leaf of Picristreated in the same manner ; for in this milky plant the stems andmiddle rib of the leaves are sometimes naturally colored reddish , and hence the color of the madder seemed to pass farther into theramifications of their leaf-arteries , and was there beautifullyvisible with the returning branches of milky veins on each side . " Darwin now goes on to draw an incorrect inference from hisobservations : " 3 . From these experiments , " he says , " the upper surface of theleaf appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fluid was carried to the extremities of the leaf byvessels most conspicuous on the upper surface , and there changedinto a milky fluid , which is the blood of the plant , and thenreturned by concomitant veins on the under surface , which wereseen to ooze when divided with scissors , and which , in Picris , particularly , render the under surface of the leaves greatlywhiter than the upper one . " But in point of fact , as studies of a later generation were toshow , it is the under surface of the leaf that is most abundantlyprovided with stomata , or " breathing-pores . " From the stand-pointof this later knowledge , it is of interest to follow our author alittle farther , to illustrate yet more fully the possibility ofcombining correct observations with a faulty inference. " 4 . As the upper surface of leaves constitutes the organ ofrespiration , on which the sap is exposed in the termination ofarteries beneath a thin pellicle to the action of the atmosphere , these surfaces in many plants strongly repel moisture , as cabbageleaves , whence the particles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Melville ( EssaysLiterary and Philosophical : Edinburgh ) , have the appearance ofglobules of quicksilver . And hence leaves with the uppersurfaces on water wither as soon as in the dry air , but continuegreen for many days if placed with the under surface on water , asappears in the experiments of Monsieur Bonnet ( Usage desFeuilles ) . Hence some aquatic plants , as the water-lily(Nymphoea) , have the lower sides floating on the water , while theupper surfaces remain dry in the air. " 5 . As those insects which have many spiracula , or breathingapertures , as wasps and flies , are immediately suffocated bypouring oil upon them , I carefully covered with oil the surfacesof several leaves of phlomis , of Portugal laurel , and balsams , and though it would not regularly adhere , I found them all die ina day or two . " It must be added that many leaves are furnished with musclesabout their foot-stalks , to turn their surfaces to the air orlight , as mimosa or Hedysarum gyrans . From all these analogies Ithink there can be no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a phlogistic material to the atmosphere , andabsorbing oxygen , or vital air. " 6 . The great use of light to vegetation would appear from thistheory to be by disengaging vital air from the water which theyperspire , and thence to facilitate its union with their bloodexposed beneath the thin surface of their leaves ; since when pureair is thus applied it is probable that it can be more readilyabsorbed . Hence , in the curious experiments of Dr. Priestley andMr . Ingenhouz , some plants purified less air than others  --  thatis , they perspired less in the sunshine ; and Mr. Scheele foundthat by putting peas into water which about half covered themthey converted the vital air into fixed air , or carbonic-acidgas , in the same manner as in animal respiration. " 7 . The circulation in the lungs or leaves of plants is verysimilar to that of fish . In fish the blood , after having passedthrough their gills , does not return to the heart as from thelungs of air-breathing animals , but the pulmonary vein taking thestructure of an artery after having received the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ color , distributes it tothe other parts of their bodies . The same structure occurs in thelivers of fish , whence we see in those animals two circulationsindependent of the power of the heart  --  viz. , that beginning atthe termination of the veins of the gills and branching throughthe muscles , and that which passes through the liver ; both whichare carried on by the action of those respective arteries andveins. " 6Darwin is here a trifle fanciful in forcing the analogy betweenplants and animals . The circulatory system of plants is reallynot quite so elaborately comparable to that of fishes as hesupposed . But the all-important idea of the uniformity underlyingthe seeming diversity of Nature is here exemplified , as elsewherein the writings of Erasmus Darwin ; and , more specifically , aclear grasp of the essentials of the function of respiration isfully demonstrated . ZOOLOGY AT THE CLOSE OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY Several causes conspired to make exploration all the fashionduring the closing epoch of the eighteenth century . New aid tothe navigator had been furnished by the perfected compass andquadrant , and by the invention of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a perpetualmenace to the voyager ; and , above all , the restless spirit of theage impelled the venturesome to seek novelty in fields altogethernew . Some started for the pole , others tried for a northeast ornorthwest passage to India , yet others sought the greatfictitious antarctic continent told of by tradition . All these ofcourse failed of their immediate purpose , but they added much tothe world ' s store of knowledge and its fund of travellers ' tales . Among all these tales none was more remarkable than those whichtold of strange living creatures found in antipodal lands . Andhere , as did not happen in every field , the narratives were oftensubstantiated by the exhibition of specimens that admitted noquestion . Many a company of explorers returned more or less ladenwith such trophies from the animal and vegetable kingdoms , to themingled astonishment , delight , and bewilderment of the closetnaturalists . The followers of Linnaeus in the " golden age ofnatural history , " a few decades before , had increased the numberof known species of fishes to about four hundred , of birds to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants to tenthousand . But now these sudden accessions from new territoriesdoubled the figure for plants , tripled it for fish and birds , andbrought the number of described insects above twenty thousand . Naturally enough , this wealth of new material was sorely puzzlingto the classifiers . The more discerning began to see that theartificial system of Linnaeus , wonderful and useful as it hadbeen , must be advanced upon before the new material could besatisfactorily disposed of . The way to a more natural system , based on less arbitrary signs , had been pointed out by Jussieu inbotany , but the zoologists were not prepared to make headwaytowards such a system until they should gain a widerunderstanding of the organisms with which they had to dealthrough comprehensive studies of anatomy . Such studies ofindividual forms in their relations to the entire scale oforganic beings were pursued in these last decades of the century , but though two or three most important generalizations wereachieved ( notably Kaspar Wolff ' s conception of the cell as thebasis of organic life , and Goethe ' s all-important doctrine ofmetamorphosis of parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of theanatomists of the period was germinative rather thanfruit-bearing . Bichat ' s volumes , telling of the recognition ofthe fundamental tissues of the body , did not begin to appear tillthe last year of the century . The announcement by Cuvier of thedoctrine of correlation of parts bears the same date , but ingeneral the studies of this great naturalist , which in due timewere to stamp him as the successor of Linnaeus , were as yet onlyfairly begun . V. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURYCUVIER AND THE CORRELATION OF PARTSWe have seen that the focal points of the physiological worldtowards the close of the eighteenth century were Italy andEngland , but when Spallanzani and Hunter passed away the sceneshifted to France . The time was peculiarly propitious , as therecent advances in many lines of science had brought fresh datafor the student of animal life which were in need ofclassification , and , as several minds capable of such a task werein the field , it was natural that great generalizations shouldhave come to be quite the fashion . Thus it was that Cuvier cameforward with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of being , which he calledvertebrates , mollusks , articulates , and radiates . Lamarck hadshortly before established the broad distinction between animalswith and those without a backbone ; Cuvier ' s Classificationdivided the latter  --  the invertebrates  --  into three minor groups . And this division , familiar ever since to all students ofzoology , has only in very recent years been supplanted , and thennot by revolution , but by a further division , which the elaboraterecent studies of lower forms of life seemed to make desirable . In the course of those studies of comparative anatomy which ledto his new classification , Cuvier ' s attention was calledconstantly to the peculiar co-ordination of parts in eachindividual organism . Thus an animal with sharp talons forcatching living prey  --  as a member of the cat tribe  --  has alsosharp teeth , adapted for tearing up the flesh of its victim , anda particular type of stomach , quite different from that ofherbivorous creatures . This adaptation of all the parts of the animal to one another extends to the most diverse parts of theorganism , and enables the skilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to draw inferences as to the structureof the entire animal  --  a fact which was of vast aid to Cuvier inhis studies of paleontology . It did not enable Cuvier , nor doesit enable any one else , to reconstruct fully the extinct animalfrom observation of a single bone , as has sometimes beenasserted , but what it really does establish , in the hands of anexpert , is sufficiently astonishing . " While the study of the fossil remains of the greater quadrupedsis more satisfactory , " he writes , " by the clear results which itaffords , than that of the remains of other animals found in afossil state , it is also complicated with greater and morenumerous difficulties . Fossil shells are usually found quiteentire , and retaining all the characters requisite for comparingthem with the specimens contained in collections of naturalhistory , or represented in the works of naturalists . Even theskeletons of fishes are found more or less entire , so that thegeneral forms of their bodies can , for the most part , beascertained , and usually , at least , their generic and specificcharacters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts . In quadrupeds , on the contrary , even when theirentire skeletons are found , there is great difficulty indiscovering their distinguishing characters , as these are chieflyfounded upon their hairs and colors and other marks which havedisappeared previous to their incrustation . It is also very rareto find any fossil skeletons of quadrupeds in any degreeapproaching to a complete state , as the strata for the most partonly contain separate bones , scattered confusedly and almost always broken and reduced to fragments , which are the only meansleft to naturalists for ascertaining the species or genera towhich they have belonged . " Fortunately comparative anatomy , when thoroughly understood , enables us to surmount all these difficulties , as a carefulapplication of its principles instructs us in the correspondencesand dissimilarities of the forms of organized bodies of differentkinds , by which each may be rigorously ascertained from almost every fragment of its various parts and organs . " Every organized individual forms an entire system of its own , all the parts of which naturally correspond , and concur to produce a certain definite purpose , by reciprocal reaction , or bycombining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can change their forms without a corresponding change inthe other parts of the same animal , and consequently each ofthese parts , taken separately , indicates all the other parts towhich it has belonged . Thus , as I have elsewhere shown , if theviscera of an animal are so organized as only to be fitted forthe digestion of recent flesh , it is also requisite that the jawsshould be so constructed as to fit them for devouring prey ; theclaws must be constructed for seizing and tearing it to pieces ; the teeth for cutting and dividing its flesh ; the entire systemof the limbs , or organs of motion , for pursuing and overtakingit ; and the organs of sense for discovering it at a distance . Nature must also have endowed the brain of the animal withinstincts sufficient for concealing itself and for laying plansto catch its necessary victims . . . . . . . . . . " To enable the animal to carry off its prey when seized , acorresponding force is requisite in the muscles which elevate the head , and this necessarily gives rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are attached and of theocciput into which they are inserted . In order that the teeth ofa carnivorous animal may be able to cut the flesh , they requireto be sharp , more or less so in proportion to the greater or lessquantity of flesh that they have to cut . It is requisite thattheir roots should be solid and strong , in proportion to thequantity and size of the bones which they have to break topieces . The whole of these circumstances must necessarilyinfluence the development and form of all the parts whichcontribute to move the jaws . . . . . . . . . . After these observations , it will be easily seen that similarconclusions may be drawn with respect to the limbs of carnivorousanimals , which require particular conformations to fit them forrapidity of motion in general ; and that similar considerationsmust influence the forms and connections of the vertebrae andother bones constituting the trunk of the body , to fit them forflexibility and readiness of motion in all directions . The bonesalso of the nose , of the orbit , and of the ears require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thesenses of smell , sight , and hearing , so necessary to animals ofprey . In short , the shape and structure of the teeth regulate theforms of the condyle , of the shoulder-blade , and of the claws , inthe same manner as the equation of a curve regulates all itsother properties ; and as in regard to any particular curve allits properties may be ascertained by assuming each separateproperty as the foundation of a particular equation , in the samemanner a claw , a shoulder-blade , a condyle , a leg or arm bone , orany other bone separately considered , enables us to discover thedescription of teeth to which they have belonged ; and so alsoreciprocally we may determine the forms of the other bones fromthe teeth . Thus commencing our investigations by a carefulsurvey of any one bone by itself , a person who is sufficientlymaster of the laws of organic structure may , as it were , reconstruct the whole animal to which that bone belonged. " 1We have already pointed out that no one is quite able to perform the necromantic feat suggested in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom theprinciple meant so much and in whose hands it extended so far . Of course this entire principle , in its broad outlines , issomething with which every student of anatomy had been familiarfrom the time when anatomy was first studied , but the fullexpression of the " law of co-ordination , " as Cuvier called it , had never been explicitly made before ; and , notwithstanding itsseeming obviousness , the exposition which Cuvier made of it inthe introduction to his classical work on comparative anatomy , which was published during the first decade of the nineteenthcentury , ranks as a great discovery . It is one of thosegeneralizations which serve as guideposts to other discoveries . BICHAT AND THE BODILY TISSUESMuch the same thing may be said of another generalizationregarding the animal body , which the brilliant young Frenchphysician Marie Francois Bichat made in calling attention to thefact that each vertebrate organism , including man , has really twoquite different sets of organs  --  one set under volitional control , and serving the end of locomotion , the other removed fromvolitional control , and serving the ends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the like . He called these sets oforgans the animal system and the organic system , respectively . The division thus pointed out was not quite new , for Grimaud , professor of physiology in the University of Montpellier , hadearlier made what was substantially the same classification ofthe functions into " internal or digestive and external orlocomotive " ; but it was Bichat ' s exposition that gave currency tothe idea . Far more important , however , was another classification whichBichat put forward in his work on anatomy , published just at thebeginning of the last century . This was the division of allanimal structures into what Bichat called tissues , and thepointing out that there are really only a few kinds of these inthe body , making up all the diverse organs . Thus muscular organsform one system ; membranous organs another ; glandular organs athird ; the vascular mechanism a fourth , and so on . Thedistinction is so obvious that it seems rather difficult toconceive that it could have been overlooked by the earliestanatomists ; but , in point of fact , it is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century . It had neverbeen given explicit expression before the time of Bichat , thoughit is said that Bichat himself was somewhat indebted for it tohis master , Desault , and to the famous alienist Pinel . However that may be , it is certain that all subsequent anatomistshave found Bichat ' s classification of the tissues of the utmostvalue in their studies of the animal functions . Subsequentadvances were to show that the distinction between the varioustissues is not really so fundamental as Bichat supposed , but thattakes nothing from the practical value of the famousclassification . It was but a step from this scientific classification of tissuesto a similar classification of the diseases affecting them , and this was one of the greatest steps towards placing medicine onthe plane of an exact science . This subject of these branchescompletely fascinated Bichat , and he exclaimed , enthusiastically : " Take away some fevers and nervous trouble , and all else belongs to the kingdom of pathological anatomy . " But out of thisenthusiasm came great results . Bichat practised as he preached , and , believing that it was only possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , if thedisease terminated fatally , by post-mortem examination , he was soarduous in his pursuit of knowledge that within a period of lessthan six months he had made over six hundred autopsies  --  a recordthat has seldom , if ever , been equalled . Nor were his effortsfruitless , as a single example will suffice to show . By hisexaminations he was able to prove that diseases of the chest , which had formerly been classed under the indefinite name " peripneumonia , " might involve three different structures , thepleural sac covering the lungs , the lung itself , and thebronchial tubes , the diseases affecting these organs being knownrespectively as pleuritis , pneumonia , and bronchitis , each onediffering from the others as to prognosis and treatment . Theadvantage of such an exact classification needs no demonstration . LISTER AND THE PERFECTED MICROSCOPEAt the same time when these broad macroscopical distinctions werebeing drawn there were other workers who were striving to go evendeeper into the intricacies of the animal mechanism with the aidof the microscope . This undertaking , however , was beset withvery great optical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the work of preceding generations . Twogreat optical barriers , known technically as spherical andchromatic aberration  --  the one due to a failure of the rays oflight to fall all in one plane when focalized through a lens , theother due to the dispersive action of the lens in breaking the white light into prismatic colors  --  confronted the makers ofmicroscopic lenses , and seemed all but insuperable . The making ofachromatic lenses for telescopes had been accomplished , it istrue , by Dolland in the previous century , by the union of lensesof crown glass with those of flint glass , these two materialshaving different indices of refraction and dispersion . But , asidefrom the mechanical difficulties which arise when the lens is ofthe minute dimensions required for use with the microscope , otherperplexities are introduced by the fact that the use of a widepencil of light is a desideratum , in order to gain sufficientillumination when large magnification is to be secured . In the attempt to overcome those difficulties , the foremostphysical philosophers of the time came to the aid of the bestopticians . Very early in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the renowned Scotch physicist , suggested that certainadvantages might accrue from the use of such gems as have highrefractive and low dispersive indices , in place of lenses made ofglass . Accordingly lenses were made of diamond , of sapphire , andso on , and with some measure of success . But in 1812 a much moreimportant innovation was introduced by Dr. William HydeWollaston , one of the greatest and most versatile , and , since thedeath of Cavendish , by far the most eccentric of English naturalphilosophers . This was the suggestion to use two plano-convexlenses , placed at a prescribed distance apart , in lieu of thesingle double-convex lens generally used . This combinationlargely overcame the spherical aberration , and it gainedimmediate fame as the " Wollaston doublet . " To obviate loss of light in such a doublet from increase ofreflecting surfaces , Dr. Brewster suggested filling theinterspace between the two lenses with a cement having the sameindex of refraction as the lenses themselves  --  an improvement ofmanifest advantage . An improvement yet more important was made byDr . Wollaston himself in the introduction of the diaphragm tolimit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in frontof the anterior lens . A pair of lenses thus equipped Dr.Wollaston called the periscopic microscope . Dr. Brewstersuggested that in such a lens the same object might be attainedwith greater ease by grinding an equatorial groove about a thickor globular lens and filling the groove with an opaque cement . This arrangement found much favor , and came subsequently to beknown as a Coddington lens , though Mr. Coddington laid no claimto being its inventor . Sir John Herschel , another of the very great physicists of thetime , also gave attention to the problem of improving themicroscope , and in 1821 he introduced what was called anaplanatic combination of lenses , in which , as the name implies , the spherical aberration was largely done away with . It wasthought that the use of this Herschel aplanatic combination as aneyepiece , combined with the Wollaston doublet for the objective , came as near perfection as the compound microscope was likelysoon to come . But in reality the instrument thus constructed , though doubtless superior to any predecessor , was so defectivethat for practical purposes the simple microscope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more complicatedone . Many opticians , indeed , quite despaired of ever being able tomake a satisfactory refracting compound microscope , and some ofthem had taken up anew Sir Isaac Newton ' s suggestion in reference to a reflecting microscope . In particular , Professor GiovanniBattista Amici , a very famous mathematician and practicaloptician of Modena , succeeded in constructing a reflectingmicroscope which was said to be superior to any compoundmicroscope of the time , though the events of the ensuing yearswere destined to rob it of all but historical value . For therewere others , fortunately , who did not despair of thepossibilities of the refracting microscope , and their effortswere destined before long to be crowned with a degree of successnot even dreamed of by any preceding generation . The man to whom chief credit is due for directing those finalsteps that made the compound microscope a practical implementinstead of a scientific toy was the English amateur opticianJoseph Jackson Lister . Combining mathematical knowledge withmechanical ingenuity , and having the practical aid of thecelebrated optician Tulley , he devised formulae for thecombination of lenses of crown glass with others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one were corrected orcompensated by the other , with the result of producing lenses ofhitherto unequalled powers of definition ; lenses capable ofshowing an image highly magnified , yet relatively free from thosedistortions and fringes of color that had heretofore been sodisastrous to true interpretation of magnified structures . Lister had begun his studies of the lens in 1824 , but it was notuntil 1830 that he contributed to the Royal Society the famouspaper detailing his theories and experiments . Soon after thisvarious continental opticians who had long been working alongsimilar lines took the matter up , and their expositions , inparticular that of Amici , introduced the improved compoundmicroscope to the attention of microscopists everywhere . And itrequired but the most casual trial to convince the experiencedobservers that a new implement of scientific research had beenplaced in their hands which carried them a long step nearer theobservation of the intimate physical processes which lie at thefoundation of vital phenomena . For the physiologist thisperfection of the compound microscope had the same significancethat the , discovery of America had for the **28;33;TOOLONG  --  it promised a veritable world of utterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delayed . Indeed , so numerous and so important were the discoveries nowmade in the realm of minute anatomy that the rise of histology tothe rank of an independent science may be said to date from thisperiod . Hitherto , ever since the discovery of magnifying-glasses , there had been here and there a man , such as Leuwenhoek orMalpighi , gifted with exceptional vision , and perhaps unusuallyhappy in his conjectures , who made important contributions to theknowledge of the minute structure of organic tissues ; but now ofa sudden it became possible for the veriest tyro to confirm orrefute the laborious observations of these pioneers , while theskilled observer could step easily beyond the barriers of visionthat hitherto were quite impassable . And so , naturally enough , the physiologists of the fourth decade of the nineteenth centuryrushed as eagerly into the new realm of the microscope as , forexample , their successors of to-day are exploring the realm ofthe X-ray . Lister himself , who had become an eager interrogator of theinstrument he had perfected , made many important discoveries , themost notable being his final settlement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corpuscles of the humanblood . In reality , as everybody knows nowadays , these arebiconcave disks , but owing to their peculiar figure it is easilypossible to misinterpret the appearances they present when seenthrough a poor lens , and though Dr. Thomas Young and variousother observers had come very near the truth regarding them , unanimity of opinion was possible only after the verdict of theperfected microscope was given . These blood corpuscles are so infinitesimal in size thatsomething like five millions of them are found in each cubicmillimetre of the blood , yet they are isolated particles , eachhaving , so to speak , its own personality . This , of course , hadbeen known to microscopists since the days of the earliestlenses . It had been noticed , too , by here and there an observer , that certain of the solid tissues seemed to present something ofa granular texture , as if they , too , in their ultimateconstitution , were made up of particles . And now , as better andbetter lenses were constructed , this idea gained groundconstantly , though for a time no one saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , the fact that littleparticles encased a membranous covering , and called cells , arethe ultimate visible units of structure had long been known . Butit was supposed that animal tissues differed radically from thisconstruction . The elementary particles of vegetables " wereregarded to a certain extent as individuals which composed the entire plant , while , on the other hand , no such view was taken ofthe elementary parts of animals . " ROBERT BROWN AND THE CELL NUCLEUSIn the year 1833 a further insight into the nature of the ultimate particles of plants was gained through the observation of the English microscopist Robert Brown , who , in the course ofhis microscopic studies of the epidermis of orchids , discovered in the cells " an opaque spot , " which he named the nucleus . Doubtless the same " spot " had been seen often enough before byother observers , but Brown was the first to recognize it as acomponent part of the vegetable cell and to give it a name . " I shall conclude my observations on Orchideae , " said Brown , " with a notice of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cellular tissue . In each cell of theepidermis of a great part of this family , especially of thosewith membranous leaves , a single circular areola , generallysomewhat more opaque than , the membrane of the cell , isobservable . This areola , which is more or less distinctlygranular , is slightly convex , and although it seems to be on thesurface is in reality covered by the outer lamina of the cell . There is no regularity as to its place in the cell ; it is notunfrequently , however , central or nearly so . " As only one areola belongs to each cell , and as in many caseswhere it exists in the common cells of the epidermis , it is alsovisible in the cutaneous glands or stomata , and in these isalways double  --  one being on each side of the limb  --  it is highlyprobable that the cutaneous gland is in all cases composed of twocells of peculiar form , the line of union being the longitudinalaxis of the disk or pore . " This areola , or nucleus of the cell as perhaps it might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also found , notonly in the pubescence of the surface , particularly when jointed , as in cypripedium , but in many cases in the parenchyma orinternal cells of the tissue , especially when these are free fromthe deposition of granular matter . " In the compressed cells of the epidermis the nucleus is in acorresponding degree flattened ; but in the internal tissue it isoften nearly spherical , more or less firmly adhering to one ofthe walls , and projecting into the cavity of the cell . In thisstate it may not unfrequently be found. in the substance of thecolumn and in that of the perianthium . " The nucleus is manifest also in the tissue of the stigma , wherein accordance with the compression of the utriculi , it has anintermediate form , being neither so much flattened as in theepidermis nor so convex as it is in the internal tissue of thecolumn . " I may here remark that I am acquainted with one case of apparentexception to the nucleus being solitary in each utriculus orcell  --  namely , in Bletia Tankervilliae . In the utriculi of thestigma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always , founda second areola apparently on the surface , and composed of muchlarger granules than the ordinary nucleus , which is formed ofvery minute granular matter , and seems to be deep seated . " Mr. Bauer has represented the tissue of the stigma , in thespecies of Bletia , both before and , as he believes , afterimpregnation ; and in the latter state the utriculi are markedwith from one to three areolae of similar appearance . " The nucleus may even be supposed to exist in the pollen of thisfamily . In the early stages of its formation , at least a minuteareola is of ten visible in the simple grain , and in each of theconstituent parts of cells of the compound grain . But theseareolae may perhaps rather be considered as merely the points ofproduction of the tubes . " This nucleus of the cell is not confined to orchideae , but isequally manifest in many other monocotyledonous families ; and Ihave even found it , hitherto however in very few cases , in theepidermis of dicotyledonous plants ; though in this primary division it may perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pollen . Among monocotyledons , the orders inwhich it is most remarkable are Liliaceae , Hemerocallideae , Asphodeleae , Irideae , and Commelineae . " In some plants belonging to this last-mentioned family , especially in Tradascantia virginica , and several nearly relatedspecies , it is uncommonly distinct , not in the epidermis and inthe jointed hairs of the filaments , but in the tissue of thestigma , in the cells of the ovulum even before impregnation , andin all the stages of formation of the grains of pollen , theevolution of which is so remarkable in tradascantia . " The few indications of the presence of this nucleus , or areola , that I have hitherto met with in the publications of botanistsare chiefly in some figures of epidermis , in the recent works ofMeyen and Purkinje , and in one case , in M. Adolphe Broigniart ' smemoir on the structure of leaves . But so little importanceseems to be attached to it that the appearance is not alwaysreferred to in the explanations of the figures in which it isrepresented . Mr. Bauer , however , who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tankervilliae has moreparticularly noticed it , and seems to consider it as only visibleafter impregnation. " 2 SCHLEIDEN AND SCHWANN AND THE CELL THEORYThat this newly recognized structure must be important in theeconomy of the cell was recognized by Brown himself , and by thecelebrated German Meyen , who dealt with it in his work onvegetable physiology , published not long afterwards ; but itremained for another German , the professor of botany in theUniversity of Jena , Dr. M. J. Schleiden , to bring the nucleus topopular attention , and to assert its all-importance in theeconomy of the cell . Schleiden freely acknowledged his indebtedness to Brown for firstknowledge of the nucleus , but he soon carried his studies of thatstructure far beyond those of its discoverer . He came to believe that the nucleus is really the most important portion of thecell , in that it is the original structure from which theremainder of the cell is developed . Hence he named it thecytoblast . He outlined his views in an epochal paper publishedin Muller ' s Archives in 1838 , under title of " Beitrage zurPhytogenesis . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outgrowth of Schleiden ' s observations of the nucleusdid not spring from his own labors , but from those of a friend towhom he mentioned his discoveries the year previous to theirpublication . This friend was Dr. Theodor Schwann , professor ofphysiology in the University of Louvain . At the moment when these observations were communicated to himSchwann was puzzling over certain details of animal histologywhich he could not clearly explain . His great teacher , JohannesMuller , had called attention to the strange resemblance tovegetable cells shown by certain cells of the chorda dorsalis ( the embryonic cord from which the spinal column is developed ) , and Schwann himself had discovered a corresponding similarity inthe branchial cartilage of a tadpole . Then , too , the researchesof Friedrich Henle had shown that the particles that make up theepidermis of animals are very cell-like in appearance . Indeed , the cell-like character of certain animal tissues had come to bematter of common note among students of minute anatomy . Schwannfelt that this similarity could not be mere coincidence , but he had gained no clew to further insight until Schleiden called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if therereally is the correspondence between vegetable and animal tissuesthat he suspected , and if the nucleus is so important in thevegetable cell as Schleiden believed , the nucleus should also befound in the ultimate particles of animal tissues . Schwann ' s researches soon showed the entire correctness of thisassumption . A closer study of animal tissues under the microscopeshowed , particularly in the case of embryonic tissues , that " opaque spots " such as Schleiden described are really to be foundthere in abundance  --  forming , indeed , a most characteristic phaseof the structure . The location of these nuclei at comparativelyregular intervals suggested that they are found in definitecompartments of the tissue , as Schleiden had shown to be the casewith vegetables ; indeed , the walls that separated such cell-likecompartments one from another were in some cases visible . Particularly was this found to be the case with embryonictissues , and the study of these soon convinced Schwann that hisoriginal surmise had been correct , and that all animal tissuesare in their incipiency composed of particles not unlike the ultimate particles of vegetables in short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schwann propounded what soonbecame famous as his cell theory , under title of **28;63;TOOLONG uber die Ubereinstimmung in der Structur und dentWachsthum der Thiere und Pflanzen . So expeditious had been hiswork that this book was published early in 1839 , only a fewmonths after the appearance of Schleiden ' s paper . As the title suggests , the main idea that actuated Schwann was tounify vegetable and animal tissues . Accepting cell-structure asthe basis of all vegetable tissues , he sought to show that thesame is true of animal tissues , all the seeming diversities offibre being but the alteration and development of what wereoriginally simple cells . And by cell Schwann meant , as didSchleiden also , what the word ordinarily implies  --  a cavity walledin on all sides . He conceived that the ultimate constituents ofall tissues were really such minute cavities , the most important part of which was the cell wall , with its associated nucleus . Heknew , indeed , that the cell might be filled with fluid contents , but he regarded these as relatively subordinate in importance tothe wall itself . This , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed to lie against the cell wall and in thebeginning to generate it . Subsequently the wall might grow sorapidly as to dissociate itself from its contents , thus becoming a hollow bubble or true cell ; but the nucleus , as long as itlasted , was supposed to continue in contact with the cell wall . Schleiden had even supposed the nucleus to be a constituent partof the wall , sometimes lying enclosed between two layers of itssubstance , and Schwann quoted this view with seeming approval . Schwann believed , however , that in the mature cell the nucleusceased to be functional and disappeared . The main thesis as to the similarity of development of vegetableand animal tissues and the cellular nature of the ultimateconstitution of both was supported by a mass of carefullygathered evidence which a multitude of microscopists at onceconfirmed , so Schwann ' s work became a classic almost from themoment of its publication . Of course various other workers atonce disputed Schwann ' s claim to priority of discovery , inparticular the English microscopist Valentin , who asserted , notwithout some show of justice , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for that matter , were numerous others , as Henle , Turpin , Du-mortier , Purkinje , and Muller , all of whomSchwann himself had quoted . Moreover , there were variousphysiologists who earlier than any of these had foreshadowed thecell theory  --  notably Kaspar Friedrich Wolff , towards the close ofthe previous century , and Treviranus about 1807 , But , as we haveseen in so many other departments of science , it is one thing toforeshadow a discovery , it is quite another to give it fullexpression and make it germinal of other discoveries . And whenSchwann put forward the explicit claim that " there is oneuniversal principle of development for the elementary parts , oforganisms , however different , and this principle is the formation of cells , " he enunciated a doctrine which was for all practicalpurposes absolutely new and opened up a novel field for themicroscopist to enter . A most important era in physiology datesfrom the publication of his book in 1839 . THE CELL THEORY ELABORATEDThat Schwann should have gone to embryonic tissues for theestablishment of his ideas was no doubt due very largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who about tenyears earlier had published the first part of his celebrated workon embryology , and whose ideas were rapidly gaining ground , thanks largely to the advocacy of a few men , notably JohannesMuller , in Germany , and William B. Carpenter , in England , and tothe fact that the improved microscope had made minute anatomypopular . Schwann ' s researches made it plain that the best fieldfor the study of the animal cell is here , and a host of explorersentered the field . The result of their observations was , in themain , to confirm the claims of Schwann as to the universalprevalence of the cell . The long-current idea that animal tissuesgrow only as a sort of deposit from the blood-vessels was nowdiscarded , and the fact of so-called plantlike growth of animalcells , for which Schwann contended , was universally accepted . Yetthe full measure of the affinity between the two classes of cellswas not for some time generally apprehended . Indeed , since the substance that composes the cell walls ofplants is manifestly very different from the limiting membrane ofthe animal cell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wasconsidered the most essential part of the structure , that thedivergence between the two classes of cells should seem verypronounced . And for a time this was the conception of the matterthat was uniformly accepted . But as time went on many observershad their attention called to the peculiar characteristics of thecontents of the cell , and were led to ask themselves whetherthese might not be more important than had been supposed . Inparticular , Dr. Hugo von Mohl , professor of botany in theUniversity of Tubingen , in the course of his exhaustive studiesof the vegetable cell , was impressed with the peculiar andcharacteristic appearance of the cell contents . He observeduniversally within the cell " an opaque , viscid fluid , havinggranules intermingled in it , " which made up the main substance ofthe cell , and which particularly impressed him because undercertain conditions it could be seen to be actively in motion , itsparts separated into filamentous streams . Von Mohl called attention to the fact that this motion of thecell contents had been observed as long ago as 1774 byBonaventura Corti , and rediscovered in 1807 by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " mostunsuitable name of ' rotation of the cell sap . ' Von Mohlrecognized that the streaming substance was something quitedifferent from sap . He asserted that the nucleus of the cell lieswithin this substance and not attached to the cell wall asSchleiden had contended . He saw , too , that the chlorophylgranules , and all other of the cell contents , are incorporatedwith the " opaque , viscid fluid , " and in 1846 he had become soimpressed with the importance of this universal cell substancethat be gave it the name of protoplasm . Yet in so doing he had nointention of subordinating the cell wall . The fact that Payen , in1844 , had demonstrated that the cell walls of all vegetables , high or low , are composed largely of one substance , cellulose , tended to strengthen the position of the cell wall as the reallyessential structure , of which the protoplasmic contents were onlysubsidiary products . Meantime , however , the students of animal histology were more andmore impressed with the seeming preponderance of cell contentsover cell walls in the tissues they studied . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a viscid , slimy fluid capable ofmotion . To this Dujardin gave the name of sarcode . Presently itcame to be known , through the labors of Kolliker , Nageli , Bischoff , and various others , that there are numerous lower formsof animal life which seem to be composed of this sarcode , without any cell wall whatever . The same thing seemed to be true ofcertain cells of higher organisms , as the blood corpuscles . Particularly in the case of cells that change their shapemarkedly , moving about in consequence of the streaming of theirsarcode , did it seem certain that no cell wall is present , orthat , if present , its role must be insignificant . And so histologists came to question whether , after all , the cellcontents rather than the enclosing wall must not be the reallyessential structure , and the weight of increasing observationsfinally left no escape from the conclusion that such is reallythe case . But attention being thus focalized on the cellcontents , it was at once apparent that there is a far closersimilarity between the ultimate particles of vegetables and thoseof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now regarded as more by-products , the way was clear for therecognition of the fact that vegetable protoplasm and animalsarcode are marvellously similar in appearance and generalproperties . The closer the observation the more striking seemedthis similarity ; and finally , about 1860 , it was demonstrated byHeinrich de Bary and by Max Schultze that the two are to allintents and purposes identical . Even earlier Remak had reached asimilar conclusion , and applied Von Mohl ' s word protoplasm toanimal cell contents , and now this application soon becameuniversal . Thenceforth this protoplasm was to assume the utmostimportance in the physiological world , being recognized as theuniversal " physical basis of life , " vegetable and animal alike . This amounted to the logical extension and culmination ofSchwann ' s doctrine as to the similarity of development of the twoanimate kingdoms . Yet at the , same time it was in effect thebanishment of the cell that Schwann had defined . The word cellwas retained , it is true , but it no longer signified a minutecavity . It now implied , as Schultze defined it , " a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This definitionwas destined presently to meet with yet another modification , aswe shall see ; but the conception of the protoplasmic mass as theessential ultimate structure , which might or might not surrounditself with a protective covering , was a permanent addition tophysiological knowledge . The earlier idea had , in effect , declared the shell the most important part of the egg ; thisdeveloped view assigned to the yolk its true position . In one other important regard the theory of Schleiden and Schwannnow became modified . This referred to the origin of the cell . Schwann had regarded cell growth as a kind of crystallization , beginning with the deposit of a nucleus about a granule in theintercellular substance  --  the cytoblastema , as Schleiden calledit . But Von Mohl , as early as 1835 , had called attention to the formation of new vegetable cells through the division of apre-existing cell . Ehrenberg , another high authority of the time , contended that no such division occurs , and the matter was stillin dispute when Schleiden came forward with his discovery ofso-called free cell-formation within the parent cell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of divisionwhich Von Mohl had described . All manner of schemes ofcell-formation were put forward during the ensuing years by amultitude of observers , and gained currency notwithstanding VonMohl ' s reiterated contention that there are really but two waysin which the formation of new cells takes place  --  namely , " first , through division of older cells ; secondly , through the formation of secondary cells lying free in the cavity of a cell . " But gradually the researches of such accurate observers as Unger , Nageli , Kolliker , Reichart , and Remak tended to confirm theopinion of Von Mohl that cells spring only from cells , and finally Rudolf Virchow brought the matter to demonstration about1860 . His Omnis cellula e cellula became from that time one ofthe accepted data of physiology . This was supplemented a littlelater by Fleming ' s Omnis nucleus e nucleo , when still morerefined methods of observation had shown that the part of thecell which always first undergoes change preparatory to newcell-formation is the all-essential nucleus . Thus the nucleus wasrestored to the important position which Schwann and Schleidenhad given it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generated de novo from non-cellular substance , and disappearing as soon as its function of cell-formation wasaccomplished , the nucleus was now known as the central andpermanent feature of every cell , indestructible while the celllives , itself the division-product of a pre-existing nucleus , andthe parent , by division of its substance , of other generations ofnuclei . The word cell received a final definition as " a smallmass of protoplasm supplied with a nucleus . " In this widened and culminating general view of the cell theoryit became clear that every animate organism , animal or vegetable , is but a cluster of nucleated cells , all of which , in eachindividual case , are the direct descendants of a singleprimordial cell of the ovum . In the developed individuals ofhigher organisms the successive generations of cells becomemarvellously diversified in form and in specific functions ; there is a wonderful division of labor , special functions being chieflyrelegated to definite groups of cells ; but from first to lastthere is no function developed that is not present , in aprimitive way , in every cell , however isolated ; nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone of its primordial functions or capacities . All physiology , then , properly interpreted , becomes merely a study of cellularactivities ; and the development of the cell theory takes itsplace as the great central generalization in physiology of thenineteenth century . Something of the later developments of thistheory we shall see in another connection . ANIMAL CHEMISTRYJust at the time when the microscope was opening up the pathsthat were to lead to the wonderful cell theory , another novelline of interrogation of the living organism was being putforward by a different set of observers . Two great schools ofphysiological chemistry had arisen  --  one under guidance of Liebigand Wohler , in Germany , the other dominated by the great Frenchmaster Jean Baptiste Dumas . Liebig had at one time contemplatedthe study of medicine , and Dumas had achieved distinction inconnection with Prevost , at Geneva , in the field of purephysiology before he turned his attention especially tochemistry . Both these masters , therefore , and Wohler as well , found absorbing interest in those phases of chemistry that haveto do with the functions of living tissues ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followers that theprevalent idea that vital processes are dominated by unique lawswas discarded and physiology was brought within the recognizedprovince of the chemist . So at about the time when the microscopehad taught that the cell is the really essential structure of theliving organism , the chemists had come to understand that everyfunction of the organism is really the expression of a chemicalchange  --  that each cell is , in short , a miniature chemicallaboratory . And it was this combined point of view of anatomistand chemist , this union of hitherto dissociated forces , that madepossible the inroads into the unexplored fields of physiologythat were effected towards the middle of the nineteenth century . One of the first subjects reinvestigated and brought to proximalsolution was the long-mooted question of the digestion of foods . Spallanzani and Hunter had shown in the previous century thatdigestion is in some sort a solution of foods ; but little advancewas made upon their work until 1824 , when Prout detected the presence of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice . A decadelater Sprott and Boyd detected the existence of peculiar glandsin the gastric mucous membrane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really active principle of thegastric juice is a substance which was named pepsin , and whichwas shown by Schwann to be active in the presence of hydrochloric acid . Almost coincidently , in 1836 , it was discovered by Purkinje andPappenheim that another organ than the stomach  --  namely , thepancreas  --  has a share in digestion , and in the course of theensuing decade it came to be known , through the efforts ofEberle , Valentin , and Claude Bernard , that this organ isall-important in the digestion of starchy and fatty foods . It wasfound , too , that the liver and the intestinal glands have each animportant share in the work of preparing foods for absorption , asalso has the saliva  --  that , in short , a coalition of forces isnecessary for the digestion of all ordinary foods taken into the stomach . And the chemists soon discovered that in each one of theessential digestive juices there is at least one substance havingcertain resemblances to pepsin , though acting on different kindsof food . The point of resemblance between all these essentialdigestive agents is that each has the remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can digest without itself being destroyed or apparently evenaltered . In virtue of this strange property , pepsin and theallied substances were spoken of as ferments , but more recentlyit is customary to distinguish them from such organized fermentsas yeast by designating them enzymes . The isolation of theseenzymes , and an appreciation of their mode of action , mark a longstep towards the solution of the riddle of digestion , but it mustbe added that we are still quite in the dark as to the realultimate nature of their strange activity . In a comprehensive view , the digestive organs , taken as a whole , are a gateway between the outside world and the more intimatecells of the organism . Another equally important gateway isfurnished by the lungs , and here also there was much obscurityabout the exact method of functioning at the time of the revival of physiological chemistry . That oxygen is consumed and carbonicacid given off during respiration the chemists of the age ofPriestley and Lavoisier had indeed made clear , but the mistakennotion prevailed that it was in the lungs themselves that theimportant burning of fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But now that attention had been called to theimportance of the ultimate cell , this misconception could notlong hold its ground , and as early as 1842 Liebig , in the courseof his studies of animal heat , became convinced that it is not inthe lungs , but in the ultimate tissues to which they aretributary , that the true consumption of fuel takes place . Reviving Lavoisier ' s idea , with modifications and additions , Liebig contended , and in the face of opposition finallydemonstrated , that the source of animal heat is really theconsumption of the fuel taken in through the stomach and thelungs . He showed that all the activities of life are really theproduct of energy liberated solely through destructive processes , amounting , broadly speaking , to combustion occurring in the ultimate cells of the organism . Here is his argument : LIEBIG ON ANIMAL HEAT " The oxygen taken into the system is taken out again in the sameforms , whether in summer or in winter ; hence we expire morecarbon in cold weather , and when the barometer is high , than wedo in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carbon inour food in the same proportion ; in Sweden more than in Sicily ; and in our more temperate climate a full eighth more in winterthan in summer . " Even when we consume equal weights of food in cold and warmcountries , infinite wisdom has so arranged that the articles offood in different climates are most unequal in the proportion ofcarbon they contain . The fruits on which the natives of the Southprefer to feed do not in the fresh state contain more than twelveper cent. of carbon , while the blubber and train-oil used by theinhabitants of the arctic regions contain from sixty-six toeighty per cent. of carbon . " It is no difficult matter , in warm climates , to study moderationin eating , and men can bear hunger for a long time under theequator ; but cold and hunger united very soon exhaust the body . " The mutual action between the elements of the food and theoxygen conveyed by the circulation of the blood to every part ofthe body is the source of animal heat . " All living creatures whose existence depends on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounding objects . " This truth applies to all animals , and extends besides to thegermination of seeds , to the flowering of plants , and to thematuration of fruits . It is only in those parts of the body towhich arterial blood , and with it the oxygen absorbed inrespiration , is conveyed that heat is produced . Hair , wool , orfeathers do not possess an elevated temperature . This hightemperature of the animal body , or , as it may be called , disengagement of heat , is uniformly and under all circumstancesthe result of the combination of combustible substance withoxygen . " In whatever way carbon may combine with oxygen , the act ofcombination can not take place without the disengagement of heat . It is a matter of indifference whether the combination takesplace rapidly or slowly , at a high or at a low temperature ; theamount of heat liberated is a constant quantity . The carbon ofthe food , which is converted into carbonic acid within the body , must give out exactly as much heat as if it had been directlyburned in the air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of heat produced is diffused over unequal times . Inoxygen the combustion is more rapid and the heat more intense ; inair it is slower , the temperature is not so high , but itcontinues longer . " It is obvious that the amount of heat liberated must increase ordiminish with the amount of oxygen introduced in equal times byrespiration . Those animals which respire frequently , andconsequently consume much oxygen , possess a higher temperaturethan others which , with a body of equal size to be heated , takeinto the system less oxygen . The temperature of a child ( 102degrees ) is higher than that of an adult ( 99. 5 degrees ) . That ofbirds ( 104 to 105. 4 degrees ) is higher than that of quadrupeds ( 98. 5 to 100. 4 degrees ) , or than that of fishes or amphibia , whose proper temperature is from 3. 7 to 2. 6 degrees higher thanthat of the medium in which they live . All animals , strictlyspeaking , are warm-blooded ; but in those only which possess lungsis the temperature of the body independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in all climates , inthe temperate zones as well as at the equator or the poles , thetemperature of the body in man , and of what are commonly calledwarm-blooded animals , is invariably the same ; yet how differentare the circumstances in which they live . " The animal body is a heated mass , which bears the same relation to surrounding objects as any other heated mass . It receives heatwhen the surrounding objects are hotter , it loses heat when theyare colder than itself . We know that the rapidity of coolingincreases with the difference between the heated body and that ofthe surrounding medium  --  that is , the colder the surroundingmedium the shorter the time required for the cooling of theheated body . How unequal , then , must be the loss of heat of a manat Palermo , where the actual temperature is nearly equal to thatof the body , and in the polar regions , where the externaltemperature is from 70 to 90 degrees lower . " Yet notwithstanding this extremely unequal loss of heat , experience has shown that the blood of an inhabitant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the native ofthe South , who lives in so different a medium . This fact , whenits true significance is perceived , proves that the heat givenoff to the surrounding medium is restored within the body withgreat rapidity . This compensation takes place more rapidly inwinter than in summer , at the pole than at the equator . " Now in different climates the quantity of oxygen introduced intothe system of respiration , as has been already shown , variesaccording to the temperature of the external air ; the quantity ofinspired oxygen increases with the loss of heat by externalcooling , and the quantity of carbon or hydrogen necessary tocombine with this oxygen must be increased in like ratio . It isevident that the supply of heat lost by cooling is effected bythe mutual action of the elements of the food and the inspiredoxygen , which combine together . To make use of a familiar , butnot on that account a less just illustration , the animal bodyacts , in this respect , as a furnace , which we supply with fuel . It signifies nothing what intermediate forms food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , the last change isuniformly the conversion of carbon into carbonic acid and of itshydrogen into water ; the unassimilated nitrogen of the food , along with the unburned or unoxidized carbon , is expelled in theexcretions . In order to keep up in a furnace a constanttemperature , we must vary the supply of fuel according to theexternal temperature  --  that is , according to the supply of oxygen . " In the animal body the food is the fuel ; with a proper supply of oxygen we obtain the heat given out during its oxidation orcombustion. " 3 BLOOD CORPUSCLES , MUSCLES , AND GLANDSFurther researches showed that the carriers of oxygen , from thetime of its absorption in the lungs till its liberation in the ultimate tissues , are the red corpuscles , whose function had beensupposed to be the mechanical one of mixing of the blood . Ittranspired that the red corpuscles are composed chiefly of asubstance which Kuhne first isolated in crystalline form in 1865 , and which was named haemoglobin  --  a substance which has amarvellous affinity for oxygen , seizing on it eagerly at thelungs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remote cells of the body . When freighted with oxygen itbecomes oxyhaemoglobin and is red in color ; when freed from itsoxygen it takes a purple hue ; hence the widely differentappearance of arterial and venous blood , which so puzzled the early physiologists . This proof of the vitally important role played by the red-bloodcorpuscles led , naturally , to renewed studies of theseinfinitesimal bodies . It was found that they may vary greatly innumber at different periods in the life of the same individual , proving that they may be both developed and destroyed in theadult organism . Indeed , extended observations left no reason todoubt that the process of corpuscle formation and destruction maybe a perfectly normal one  --  that , in short , every red-bloodcorpuscle runs its course and dies like any more elaborateorganism . They are formed constantly in the red marrow of bones , and are destroyed in the liver , where they contribute to the formation of the coloring matter of the bile . Whether there areother seats of such manufacture and destruction of the corpusclesis not yet fully determined . Nor are histologists agreed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells , or merely as fragments of cells budded out from atrue cell for a special purpose ; but in either case there is notthe slightest doubt that the chief function of the red corpuscleis to carry oxygen . If the oxygen is taken to the ultimate cells before combiningwith the combustibles it is to consume , it goes without sayingthat these combustibles themselves must be carried there also . Nor could it be in doubt that the chiefest of these ultimatetissues , as regards , quantity of fuel required , are the muscles . A general and comprehensive view of the organism includes , then , digestive apparatus and lungs as the channels of fuel-supply ; blood and lymph channels as the transportation system ; and musclecells , united into muscle fibres , as the consumption furnaces , where fuel is burned and energy transformed and renderedavailable for the purposes of the organism , supplemented by a setof excretory organs , through which the waste products  --  theashes  --  are eliminated from the system . But there remain , broadly speaking , two other sets of organswhose size demonstrates their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not accounted for in thissynopsis . These are those glandlike organs , such as the spleen , which have no ducts and produce no visible secretions , and the nervous mechanism , whose central organs are the brain and spinalcord . What offices do these sets of organs perform in the greatlabor-specializing aggregation of cells which we call a livingorganism ? As regards the ductless glands , the first clew to their functionwas given when the great Frenchman Claude Bernard ( the man ofwhom his admirers loved to say , " He is not a physiologist merely ; he is physiology itself " ) discovered what is spoken of as theglycogenic function of the liver . The liver itself , indeed , is not a ductless organ , but the quantity of its biliary outputseems utterly disproportionate to its enormous size , particularlywhen it is considered that in the case of the human species theliver contains normally about one-fifth of all the blood in the entire body . Bernard discovered that the blood undergoes a changeof composition in passing through the liver . The liver cells ( the peculiar forms of which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1838 ) have the power to convertcertain of the substances that come to them into a starchlikecompound called glycogen , and to store this substance away tillit is needed by the organism . This capacity of the liver cellsis quite independent of the bile-making power of the same cells ; hence the discovery of this glycogenic function showed that anorgan may have more than one pronounced and important specificfunction . But its chief importance was in giving a clew to thoseintermediate processes between digestion and final assimilationthat are now known to be of such vital significance in theeconomy of the organism . In the forty odd years that have elapsed since this pioneerobservation of Bernard , numerous facts have come to light showingthe extreme importance of such intermediate alterations offood-supplies in the blood as that performed by the liver . It hasbeen shown that the pancreas , the spleen , the thyroid gland , thesuprarenal capsules are absolutely essential , each in its ownway , to the health of the organism , through metabolic changeswhich they alone seem capable of performing ; and it is suspectedthat various other tissues , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their recognized functions . But so extremelyintricate is the chemistry of the substances involved that in nosingle case has the exact nature of the metabolisms wrought by these organs been fully made out . Each is in its way a chemicallaboratory indispensable to the right conduct of the organism , but the precise nature of its operations remains inscrutable . Thevast importance of the operations of these intermediate organs isunquestioned . A consideration of the functions of that other set of organsknown collectively as the nervous system is reserved for a laterchapter . VI . THEORIES OF ORGANIC EVOLUTIONGOETHE AND THE METAMORPHOSIS OF PARTSWhen Coleridge said of Humphry Davy that he might have been the greatest poet of his time had he not chosen rather to be the greatest chemist , it is possible that the enthusiasm of thefriend outweighed the caution of the critic . But however thatmay be , it is beyond dispute that the man who actually was the greatest poet of that time might easily have taken the veryhighest rank as a scientist had not the muse distracted hisattention . Indeed , despite these distractions , Johann Wolfgangvon Goethe achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition for his name had he neverwritten a stanza of poetry . Such is the versatility that marksthe highest genius . It was in 1790 that Goethe published the work that laid thefoundations of his scientific reputation  --  the work on theMetamorphoses of Plants , in which he advanced the novel doctrinethat all parts of the flower are modified or metamorphosedleaves . " Every one who observes the growth of plants , evensuperficially , " wrote Goethe , " will notice that certain externalparts of them become transformed at times and go over into theforms of the contiguous parts , now completely , now to a greateror less degree . Thus , for example , the single flower istransformed into a double one when , instead of stamens , petalsare developed , which are either exactly like the other petals ofthe corolla in form , and color or else still bear visible signsof their origin . " When we observe that it is possible for a plant in this way totake a step backward , we shall give so much the more heed to theregular course of nature and learn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another , anddisplays the most varying forms through the modification of onesingle organ . " Let us first direct our attention to the plant at the moment when it develops out of the seed-kernel . The first organs of itsupward growth are known by the name of cotyledons ; they have alsobeen called seed-leaves . " They often appear shapeless , filled with new matter , and arejust as thick as they are broad . Their vessels areunrecognizable and are hardly to be distinguished from the massof the whole ; they bear almost no resemblance to a leaf , and wecould easily be misled into regarding them as special organs . Occasionally , however , they appear as real leaves , their vesselsare capable of the most minute development , their similarity tothe following leaves does not permit us to take them for specialorgans , but we recognize them instead to be the first leaves ofthe stalk . " The cotyledons are mostly double , and there is an observation tobe made here which will appear still more important as weproceed  --  that is , that the leaves of the first node @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stalk standalternately upon it . Here we see an approximation and a joiningof parts which nature afterwards separates and places at adistance from one another . It is still more remarkable when thecotyledons take the form of many little leaves gathered about anaxis , and the stalk which grows gradually from their midstproduces the following leaves arranged around it singly in awhorl . This may be observed very exactly in the growth of thepinus species . Here a corolla of needles forms at the same time acalyx , and we shall have occasion to remember the present case inconnection with similar phenomena later . " On the other hand , we observe that even the cotyledons which aremost like a leaf when compared with the following leaves of thestalk are always more undeveloped or less developed . This ischiefly noticeable in their margin which is extremely simple andshows few traces of indentation . " A few or many of the next following leaves are often alreadypresent in the seed , and lie enclosed between the cotyledons ; intheir folded state they are known by the name of plumules . Theirform , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varies in different plants . Their chief point of variance , however , from the cotyledons is that they are flat , delicate , andformed like real leaves generally . They are wholly green , rest ona visible node , and can no longer deny their relationship to thefollowing leaves of the stalk , to which , however , they areusually still inferior , in so far as that their margin is notcompletely developed . " The further development , however , goes on ceaselessly in theleaf , from node to node ; its midrib is elongated , and more orless additional ribs stretch out from this towards the sides . Theleaves now appear notched , deeply indented , or composed ofseveral small leaves , in which last case they seem to formcomplete little branches . The date-palm furnishes a strikingexample of such a successive transformation of the simplest leafform . A midrib is elongated through a succession of severalleaves , the single fan-shaped leaf becomes torn and diverted , anda very complicated leaf is developed , which rivals a branch inform . " The transition to inflorescence takes place more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the leaves ofthe stalk loose their different external divisions , and , on theother hand , spread out more or less in their lower parts wherethey are attached to the stalk . If the transition takes placerapidly , the stalk , suddenly become thinner and more elongatedsince the node of the last-developed leaf , shoots up and collectsseveral leaves around an axis at its end . " That the petals of the calyx are precisely the same organs whichhave hitherto appeared as leaves on the stalk , but now standgrouped about a common centre in an often very different form , can , as it seems to me , be most clearly demonstrated . Already inconnection with the cotyledons above , we noticed a similarworking of nature . The first species , while they are developingout of the seed-kernel , display a radiate crown of unmistakableneedles ; and in the first childhood of these plants we seealready indicated that force of nature whereby when they areolder their flowering and fruit-giving state will be produced . " We see this force of nature , which collects several leavesaround an axis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaves still more unrecognizable byjoining them together either wholly or partially . Thebell-shaped or so-called one-petalled calices represent thesecloudy connected leaves , which , being more or less indented fromabove , or divided , plainly show their origin . " We can observe the transition from the calyx to the corolla inmore than one instance , for , although the color of the calyx isstill usually green , and like the color of the leaves of thestalk , it nevertheless often varies in one or another of itsparts  --  at the tips , the margins , the back , or even , the inwardside  --  while the outer still remains on green . " The relationship of the corolla to the leaves of the stalk isshown in more than one way , since on the stalks of some plantsappear leaves which are already more or less colored long before they approach inflorescence ; others are fully colored when nearinflorescence . Nature also goes over at once to the corolla , sometimes by skipping over the organs of the calyx , and in such acase we likewise have an opportunity to observe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stalk oftulips , for instance , there sometimes appears an almostcompletely developed and colored petal . Even more remarkable isthe case when such a leaf , half green and half of it belonging tothe stalk , remains attached to the latter , while another coloredpart is raised with the corolla , and the leaf is thus torn intwo . " The relationship between the petals and stamens is very close . In some instances nature makes the transition regular  --  e. g. , among the Canna and several plants of the same family . A true , little-modified petal is drawn together on its upper margin , andproduces a pollen sac , while the rest of the petal takes the place of the stamen . In double flowers we can observe thistransition in all its stages . In several kinds of roses , withinthe fully developed and colored petals there appear other oneswhich are drawn together in the middle or on the side . Thisdrawing together is produced by a small weal , which appears as amore or less complete pollen sac , and in the same proportion theleaf approaches the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many cases looks almost like a stamen withoutanthers , and the relationship between the formation of the two ismuch closer than between the other parts . In retrograde fashionnature often produces cases where the style and stigma ( Narben ) become retransformed into petals  --  that is , the RanunculusAsiaticus becomes double by transforming the stigma and style ofthe fruit-receptacle into real petals , while the stamens areoften found unchanged immediately behind the corolla . " In the seed receptacles , in spite of their formation , of theirspecial object , and of their method of being joined together , wecannot fail to recognize the leaf form . Thus , for instance , thepod would be a simple leaf folded and grown together on itsmargin ; the siliqua would consist of more leaves folded overanother ; the compound receptacles would be explained as beingseveral leaves which , being united above one centre , keep theirinward parts separate and are joined on their margins . We canconvince ourselves of this by actual sight when such compositecapsules fall apart after becoming ripe , because then every partdisplays an opened pod. " 1 The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater generality through extension to the animal kingdom , in the doctrine which Goethe and Oken advancedindependently , that the vertebrate skull is essentially amodified and developed vertebra . These were conceptions worthy ofa poet  --  impossible , indeed , for any mind that had not the poeticfaculty of correlation . But in this case the poet ' s vision wasprophetic of a future view of the most prosaic science . Thedoctrine of metamorphosis of parts soon came to be regarded as offundamental importance . But the doctrine had implications that few of its early advocatesrealized . If all the parts of a flower  --  sepal , petal , stamen , pistil , with their countless deviations of contour and color  --  arebut modifications of the leaf , such modification implies amarvellous differentiation and development . To assert that astamen is a metamorphosed leaf means , if it means anything , thatin the long sweep of time the leaf has by slow or suddengradations changed its character through successive generations , until the offspring , so to speak , of a true leaf has become astamen . But if such a metamorphosis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaf and stamen may be spanned by themodification of a line of organisms  --  where does the possibility of modification of organic type find its bounds ? Why may not themodification of parts go on along devious lines until the remotedescendants of an organism are utterly unlike that organism ? Whymay we not thus account for the development of various species ofbeings all sprung from one parent stock ? That , too , is a poet ' sdream ; but is it only a dream ? Goethe thought not . Out of hisstudies of metamorphosis of parts there grew in his mind thebelief that the multitudinous species of plants and animals aboutus have been evolved from fewer and fewer earlier parent types , like twigs of a giant tree drawing their nurture from the sameprimal root . It was a bold and revolutionary thought , and theworld regarded it as but the vagary of a poet . ERASMUS DARWINJust at the time when this thought was taking form in Goethe ' sbrain , the same idea was germinating in the mind of anotherphilosopher , an Englishman of international fame , Dr. ErasmusDarwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularity as apoet , the rhymed couplets of his Botanic Garden being quotedeverywhere with admiration . And posterity repudiating the versewhich makes the body of the book , yet grants permanent value tothe book itself , because , forsooth , its copious explanatoryfoot-notes furnish an outline of the status of almost everydepartment of science of the time . But even though he lacked the highest art of the versifier , Darwin had , beyond peradventure , the imagination of a poetcoupled with profound scientific knowledge ; and it was his poeticinsight , correlating organisms seemingly diverse in structure andimbuing the lowliest flower with a vital personality , which ledhim to suspect that there are no lines of demarcation in nature . " Can it be , " he queries , " that one form of organism has developedfrom another ; that different species are really but modifieddescendants of one parent stock ? " The alluring thought nestledin his mind and was nurtured there , and grew in a fixed belief , which was given fuller expression in his Zoonomia and in theposthumous Temple of Nature . Here is his rendering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Organic life beneath the shoreless waves Was born , and nursed in Ocean ' s pearly caves ; First forms minute , unseen by spheric glass , Move on the mud , or pierce the watery mass ; These , as successive generations bloom , New powers acquire and larger limbs assume ; Whence countless groups of vegetation spring , And breathing realms of fin , and feet , and wing . " Thus the tall Oak , the giant of the wood , Which bears Britannia ' s thunders on the flood ; The Whale , unmeasured monster of the main ; The lordly lion , monarch of the plain ; The eagle , soaring in the realms of air , Whose eye , undazzled , drinks the solar glare ; Imperious man , who rules the bestial crowd , Of language , reason , and reflection proud , With brow erect , who scorns this earthy sod , And styles himself the image of his God  --  Arose from rudiments of form and sense , An embryon point or microscopic ens ! " 2 Here , clearly enough , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was little proof forthcoming of its validity that couldsatisfy any one but a poet , and when Erasmus Darwin died , in1802 , the idea of transmutation of species was still but anunsubstantiated dream . It was a dream , however , which was not confined to Goethe andDarwin . Even earlier the idea had come more or less vaguely toanother great dreamer  --  and worker  --  of Germany , Immanuel Kant , and to several great Frenchmen , including De Maillet , Maupertuis , Robinet , and the famous naturalist Buffon  --  a man who had theimagination of a poet , though his message was couched in mostartistic prose . Not long after the middle of the eighteenthcentury Buffon had put forward the idea of transmutation of species , and he reiterated it from time to time from then on tillhis death in 1788 . But the time was not yet ripe for the idea oftransmutation of species to burst its bonds . And yet this idea , in a modified or undeveloped form , had takenstrange hold upon the generation that was upon the scene at theclose of the eighteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently discovered in previouslyunexplored regions of the globe , and the wise men were sorelypuzzled to account for the disposal of all of these at the timeof the deluge . It simplified matters greatly to suppose thatmany existing species had been developed since the episode of theark by modification of the original pairs . The remoter bearingsof such a theory were overlooked for the time , and the idea thatAmerican animals and birds , for example , were modifieddescendants of Old-World forms  --  the jaguar of the leopard , thepuma of the lion , and so on  --  became a current belief with thatclass of humanity who accept almost any statement as true thatharmonizes with their prejudices without realizing itsimplications . Thus it is recorded with eclat that the discovery of the closeproximity of America at the northwest with Asia removes alldifficulties as to the origin of the Occidental faunas andfloras , since Oriental species might easily have found their wayto America on the ice , and have been modified as we find them by " the well-known influence of climate . " And the persons who gaveexpression to this idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here was the doctrine of evolution in a nutshell , and , because its ultimate bearings were not clear , it seemed the mostnatural of doctrines . But most of the persons who advanced itwould have turned from it aghast could they have realized itsimport . As it was , however , only here and there a man like Buffonreasoned far enough to inquire what might be the limits of suchassumed transmutation ; and only here and there a Darwin or aGoethe reached the conviction that there are no limits . LAMARCK VERSUS CUVIERAnd even Goethe and Darwin had scarcely passed beyond thattentative stage of conviction in which they held the thought oftransmutation of species as an ancillary belief not ready forfull exposition . There was one of their contemporaries , however , who , holding the same conception , was moved to give it fullexplication . This was the friend and disciple of Buffon , JeanBaptiste de Lamarck . Possessed of the spirit of a poet andphilosopher , this great Frenchman had also the widest range oftechnical knowledge , covering the entire field of animate nature . The first half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inwhich he attained high distinction . Then , just at the beginning of the nineteenth century , he turned to zoology , in particular tothe lower forms of animal life . Studying these lowly organisms , existing and fossil , he was more and more impressed with thegradations of form everywhere to be seen ; the linking of diversefamilies through intermediate ones ; and in particular with thepredominance of low types of life in the earlier geologicalstrata . Called upon constantly to classify the various forms oflife in the course of his systematic writings , he found it moreand more difficult to draw sharp lines of demarcation , and atlast the suspicion long harbored grew into a settled conviction that there is really no such thing as a species of organism innature ; that " species " is a figment of the human imagination , whereas in nature there are only individuals . That certain sets of individuals are more like one another thanlike other sets is of course patent , but this only means , saidLamarck , that these similar groups have had comparatively recentcommon ancestors , while dissimilar sets of beings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines ofdescent far enough , and all will culminate in one original stock . All forms of life whatsoever are modified descendants of anoriginal organism . From lowest to highest , then , there is but onerace , one species , just as all the multitudinous branches andtwigs from one root are but one tree . For purposes of convenienceof description , we may divide organisms into orders , families , genera , species , just as we divide a tree into root , trunk , branches , twigs , leaves ; but in the one case , as in the other , the division is arbitrary and artificial . In Philosophie Zoologique ( 1809 ) , Lamarck first explicitlyformulated his ideas as to the transmutation of species , thoughhe had outlined them as early as 1801 . In this memorablepublication not only did he state his belief more explicitly andin fuller detail than the idea had been expressed by anypredecessor , but he took another long forward step , carrying himfar beyond all his forerunners except Darwin , in that he made anattempt to explain the way in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been wrought , he said , through the unceasing efforts of each organism to meet the needsimposed upon it by its environment . Constant striving means theconstant use of certain organs . Thus a bird running by theseashore is constantly tempted to wade deeper and deeper inpursuit of food ; its incessant efforts tend to develop its legs , in accordance with the observed principle that the use of anyorgan tends to strengthen and develop it . But such slightlyincreased development of the legs is transmitted to the offspring of the bird , which in turn develops its already improvedlegs by its individual efforts , and transmits the improvedtendency . Generation after generation this is repeated , until thesum of the infinitesimal variations , all in the same direction , results in the production of the long-legged wading-bird . In asimilar way , through individual effort and transmitted tendency , all the diversified organs of all creatures have beendeveloped  --  the fin of the fish , the wing of the bird , the hand of man ; nay , more , the fish itself , the bird , the man , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and what istrue of the individual organs must be true also of theirensemble , the living being . Whatever might be thought of Lamarck ' s explanation of the causeof transmutation  --  which really was that already suggested byErasmus Darwin  --  the idea of the evolution for which he contendedwas but the logical extension of the conception that Americananimals are the modified and degenerated descendants of Europeananimals . But people as a rule are little prone to follow ideas totheir logical conclusions , and in this case the conclusions wereso utterly opposed to the proximal bearings of the idea that the whole thinking world repudiated them with acclaim . The verypersons who had most eagerly accepted the idea of transmutationof European species into American species , and similar limitedvariations through changed environment , because of the reliefthus given the otherwise overcrowded ark , were now foremost indenouncing such an extension of the doctrine of transmutation asLamarck proposed . And , for that matter , the leaders of the scientific world wereequally antagonistic to the Lamarckian hypothesis . Cuvier inparticular , once the pupil of Lamarck , but now his colleague , andin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine with all his force . He argued for theabsolute fixity of species , bringing to bear the resources of amind which , as a mere repository of facts , perhaps never wasexcelled . As a final and tangible proof of his position , hebrought forward the bodies of ibises that had been embalmed bythe ancient Egyptians , and showed by comparison that these do notdiffer in the slightest particular from the ibises that visit theNile to-day . Cuvier ' s reasoning has such great historical interest  --  being theargument of the greatest opponent of evolution of that day  --  thatwe quote it at some length . " The following objections , " he says , " have already been startedagainst my conclusions . Why may not the presently existing racesof mammiferous land quadrupeds be mere modifications or varietiesof those ancient races which we now find in the fossil state , which modifications may have been produced by change of climateand other local circumstances , and since raised to the presentexcessive difference by the operations of similar causes during along period of ages ? " This objection may appear strong to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in organized bodies , andthink that , during a succession of ages and by alterations ofhabitudes , all the species may change into one another , or one ofthem give birth to all the rest . Yet to these persons thefollowing answer may be given from their own system : If thespecies have changed by degrees , as they assume , we ought to findtraces of this gradual modification . Thus , between thepalaeotherium and the species of our own day , we should be able to discover some intermediate forms ; and yet no such discoveryhas ever been made . Since the bowels of the earth have notpreserved monuments of this strange genealogy , we have no rightto conclude that the ancient and now extinct species were aspermanent in their forms and characters as those which exist atpresent ; or , at least , that the catastrophe which destroyed themdid not leave sufficient time for the productions of the changesthat are alleged to have taken place . " In order to reply to those naturalists who acknowledge that thevarieties of animals are restrained by nature within certainlimits , it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very curious inquiry , and in itself exceedinglyinteresting under a variety of relations , but has been hithertovery little attended to . . . . . . . . . Wild animals which subsist upon herbage feel the influence ofclimate a little more extensively , because there is added to itthe influence of food , both in regard to its abundance and itsquality . Thus the elephants of one forest are larger than thoseof another ; their tusks also grow somewhat longer in places wheretheir food may happen to be more favorable for the production ofthe substance of ivory . The same may take place in regard to thehorns of stags and reindeer . But let us examine two elephants , the most dissimilar that can be conceived , we shall not discover the smallest difference in the number and articulations of thebones , the structure of the teeth , etc . . . . . . . . . " Nature appears also to have guarded against the alterations of species which might proceed from mixture of breeds by influencingthe various species of animals with mutual aversion from oneanother . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to exert is necessary to accomplish such unions , even betweenspecies that have the nearest resemblances . And when the mulebreeds that are thus produced by these forced conjunctions happen to be fruitful , which is seldom the case , this fecundity nevercontinues beyond a few generations , and would not probablyproceed so far without a continuance of the same cares whichexcited it at first . Thus we never see in a wild stateintermediate productions between the hare and the rabbit , between the stag and the doe , or between the marten and the weasel . Butthe power of man changes this established order , and continues to produce all these intermixtures of which the various species aresusceptible , but which they would never produce if left tothemselves . " The degrees of these variations are proportional to theintensity of the causes that produced them  --  namely , the slaveryor subjection under which those animals are to man . They do notproceed far in half-domesticated species . In the cat , forexample , a softer or harsher fur , more brilliant or more variedcolors , greater or less size  --  these form the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cat of Angora differsin no regular and constant circumstances from the wild-cat ofEurope . . . . . . . . The most remarkable effects of the influence of man are producedupon that animal which he has reduced most completely undersubjection . Dogs have been transported by mankind into every partof the world and have submitted their action to his entiredirection . Regulated in their unions by the pleasure or capriceof their masters , the almost endless varieties of dogs differfrom one another in color , in length , and abundance of hair , which is sometimes entirely wanting ; in their natural instincts ; in size , which varies in measure as one to five , mounting in someinstances to more than a hundredfold in bulk ; in the form oftheir ears , noses , and tails ; in the relative length of theirlegs ; in the progressive development of the brain , in several ofthe domesticated varieties occasioning alterations even in theform of the head , some of them having long , slender muzzles witha flat forehead , others having short muzzles with a foreheadconvex , etc. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and between a greyhound and a pugdogare even more striking than between almost any of the wildspecies of a genus . . . . . . . . It follows from these observations that animals have certainfixed and natural characters which resist the effects of everykind of influence , whether proceeding from natural causes orhuman interference ; and we have not the smallest reason tosuspect that time has any more effect on them than climate . " I am aware that some naturalists lay prodigious stress upon thethousands which they can call into action by a dash of theirpens . In such matters , however , our only way of judging as to theeffects which may be produced by a long period of time is bymultiplying , as it were , such as are produced by a shorter time . With this view I have endeavored to collect all the ancientdocuments respecting the forms of animals ; and there are noneequal to those furnished by the Egyptians , both in regard totheir antiquity and abundance . They have not only left usrepresentatives of animals , but even their identical bodiesembalmed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the greatest attention , the engravedfigures of quadrupeds and birds brought from Egypt to ancientRome , and all these figures , one with another , have a perfectresemblance to their intended objects , such as they still areto-day . " From all these established facts , there does not seem to be thesmallest foundation for supposing that the new genera which Ihave discovered or established among extraneous fossils , such asthe paleoetherium , anoplotherium , megalonyx , mastodon , pterodactylis , etc. , have ever been the sources of any of ourpresent animals , which only differ so far as they are influenced by time or climate . Even if it should prove true , which I am farfrom believing to be the case , that the fossil elephants , rhinoceroses , elks , and bears do not differ further from theexisting species of the same genera than the present races ofdogs differ among themselves , this would by no means be asufficient reason to conclude that they were of the same species ; since the races or varieties of dogs have been influenced by thetrammels of domesticity , which those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 3 To Cuvier ' s argument from the fixity of Egyptian mummified birdsand animals , as above stated , Lamarck replied that this provednothing except that the ibis had become perfectly adapted to itsEgyptian surroundings in an early day , historically speaking , andthat the climatic and other conditions of the Nile Valley had notsince then changed . His theory , he alleged , provided for thestability of species under fixed conditions quite as well as fortransmutation under varying conditions . But , needless to say , the popular verdict lay with Cuvier ; talentwon for the time against genius , and Lamarck was looked upon asan impious visionary . His faith never wavered , however . Hebelieved that he had gained a true insight into the processes ofanimate nature , and he reiterated his hypotheses over and over , particularly in the introduction to his Histoire Naturelle desAnimaux sans Vertebres , in 1815 , and in his Systeme desConnaissances Positives de l ' Homme , in 1820 . He lived on till1829 , respected as a naturalist , but almost unrecognized as aprophet . TENTATIVE ADVANCESWhile the names of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must always stand out in high relief in this generationas the exponents of the idea of transmutation of species , thereare a few others which must not be altogether overlooked in thisconnection . Of these the most conspicuous is that of GottfriedReinhold Treviranus , a German naturalist physician , professor ofmathematics in the lyceum at Bremen . It was an interesting coincidence that Treviranus should havepublished the first volume of his Biologie , oder Philosophie derlebenden Natur , in which his views on the transmutation of species were expounded , in 1802 , the same twelvemonth in whichLamarck ' s first exposition of the same doctrine appeared in hisRecherches sur l ' Organisation des Corps Vivants . It is singular , too , that Lamarck , in his Hydrogelogie of the same date , shouldindependently have suggested " biology " as an appropriate word toexpress the general science of living things . It is significantof the tendency of thought of the time that the need of such aunifying word should have presented itself simultaneously toindependent thinkers in different countries . That same memorable year , Lorenz Oken , another philosophicalnaturalist , professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Philosophie der Natur , which , asdeveloped through later publications , outlined a theory ofspontaneous generation and of evolution of species . Thus itappears that this idea was germinating in the minds of several ofthe ablest men of the time during the first decade of ourcentury . But the singular result of their various explicationswas to give sudden check to that undercurrent of thought whichfor some time had been setting towards this conception . As soonas it was made clear whither the concession that animals may bechanged by their environment must logically trend , the recoilfrom the idea was instantaneous and fervid . Then for a generationCuvier was almost absolutely dominant , and his verdict wasgenerally considered final . There was , indeed , one naturalist of authority in France who hadthe hardihood to stand out against Cuvier and his school , and whowas in a position to gain a hearing , though by no means to dividethe following . This was Etienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire , thefamous author of the Philosophie Anatomique , and for many yearsthe colleague of Lamarck at the Jardin des Plantes . Like Goethe , Geoffroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he had early been impressed with the resemblances between the analogous organs of different classes of beings . Heconceived the idea that an absolute unity of type prevailsthroughout organic nature as regards each set of organs . Out ofthis idea grew his gradually formed belief that similarity ofstructure might imply identity of origin  --  that , in short , onespecies of animal might have developed from another . Geoffroy ' s grasp of this idea of transmutation was by no means socomplete as that of Lamarck , and he seems never to have fullydetermined in his own mind just what might be the limits of suchdevelopment of species . Certainly he nowhere includes all organiccreatures in one line of descent , as Lamarck had done ; nevertheless , he held tenaciously to the truth as he saw it , inopen opposition to Cuvier , with whom he held a memorable debateat the Academy of Sciences in 1830  --  the debate which so arousedthe interest and enthusiasm of Goethe , but which , in the opinion of nearly every one else , resulted in crushing defeat forGeoffrey , and brilliant , seemingly final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of species . With that all ardent controversy over the subject seemed to end , and for just a quarter of a century to come there was publishedbut a single argument for transmutation of species whichattracted any general attention whatever . This oasis in a desertgeneration was a little book called Vestiges of the NaturalHistory of Creation , which appeared anonymously in England in1844 , and which passed through numerous editions , and was the subject of no end of abusive and derisive comment . This book , theauthorship of which remained for forty years a secret , is nowconceded to have been the work of Robert Chambers , the well-knownEnglish author and publisher . The book itself is remarkable asbeing an avowed and unequivocal exposition of a general doctrineof evolution , its view being as radical and comprehensive as thatof Lamarck himself . But it was a resume of earlier efforts ratherthan a new departure , to say nothing of its technicalshortcomings , which may best be illustrated by a quotation . " The whole question , " says Chambers , " stands thus : For thetheory of universal order  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration of the world  --  we have the testimony of a vast number of facts in nature , and this one in addition  --  that whatever is left from the domain of ignorance , andmade undoubted matter of science , forms a new support to the samedoctrine . The opposite view , once predominant , has beenshrinking for ages into lesser space , and now maintains a footingonly in a few departments of nature which happen to be lessliable than others to a clear investigation . The chief of these , if not almost the only one , is the origin of the organickingdoms . So long as this remains obscure , the supernatural willhave a certain hold upon enlightened persons . Should it ever becleared up in a way that leaves no doubt of a natural origin ofplants and animals , there must be a complete revolution in theview which is generally taken of the relation of the Father ofour being . " This prepares the way for a few remarks on the present state ofopinion with regard to the origin of organic nature . The greatdifficulty here is the apparent determinateness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or at least alwaysshowing a tendency to return to the character from which theyhave diverged , the idea arises that there can have been noprogression from one to another ; each must have taken its specialform , independently of other forms , directly from the appointmentof the Creator . The Edinburgh Review writer says , ' they werecreated by the hand of God and adapted to the conditions of theperiod . ' Now it is , in the first place , not certain that speciesconstantly maintain a fixed character , for we have seen that whatwere long considered as determinate species have been transmutedinto others . Passing , however , from this fact , as it is notgenerally received among men of science , there remain some greatdifficulties in connection with the idea of special creation . First we should have to suppose , as pointed out in my formervolume , a most startling diversity of plan in the divineworkings , a great general plan or system of law in the leadingevents of world-making , and a plan of minute , nice operation , andspecial attention in some of the mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is surely overpowering , when we allow ourselves to see the whole matter in a steady andrational light . There is , also , the striking fact of anascertained historical progress of plants and animals in theorder of their organization ; marine and cellular plants andinvertebrated animals first , afterwards higher examples of both . In an arbitrary system we had surely no reason to expect mammalsafter reptiles ; yet in this order they came . The writer in theEdinburgh Review speaks of animals as coming in adaptation toconditions , but this is only true in a limited sense . The groveswhich formed the coal-beds might have been a fitting habitationfor reptiles , birds , and mammals , as such groves are at thepresent day ; yet we see none of the last of these classes andhardly any traces of the two first at that period of the earth . Where the iguanodon lived the elephant might have lived , but there was no elephant at that time . The sea of the Lower Silurianera was capable of supporting fish , but no fish existed . Ithence forcibly appears that theatres of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tenantry inferior towhat might have enjoyed them , for many ages : there surely wouldhave been no such waste allowed in a system where Omnipotence wasworking upon the plan of minute attention to specialities . Thefact seems to denote that the actual procedure of the peopling ofthe earth was one of a natural kind , requiring a long space oftime for its evolution . In this supposition the long existence of land without land animals , and more particularly without thenoblest classes and orders , is only analogous to the fact , notnearly enough present to the minds of a civilized people , that tothis day the bulk of the earth is a waste as far as man isconcerned . " Another startling objection is in the infinite local variationof organic forms . Did the vegetable and animal kingdoms consistof a definite number of species adapted to peculiarities of soiland climate , and universally distributed , the fact would be inharmony with the idea of special exertion . But the truth is thatvarious regions exhibit variations altogether without apparentend or purpose . Professor Henslow enumerates forty-five distinctflowers or sets of plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these would be equally suitableelsewhere . The animals of different continents are equallyvarious , few species being the same in any two , though thegeneral character may conform . The inference at present drawnfrom this fact is that there must have been , to use the language of the Rev. Dr. Pye Smith , ' separate and original creations , perhaps at different and respectively distinct epochs . ' It seemshardly conceivable that rational men should give an adherence tosuch a doctrine when we think of what it involves . In the singlefact that it necessitates a special fiat of the inconceivableAuthor of this sand-cloud of worlds to produce the flora of St.Helena , we read its more than sufficient condemnation . It surelyharmonizes far better with our general ideas of nature to suppose that , just as all else in this far-spread science was formed onthe laws impressed upon it at first by its Author , so also wasthis . An exception presented to us in such a light appearsadmissible only when we succeed in forbidding our minds to followout those reasoning processes to which , by another law of theAlmighty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 4 Such reasoning as this naturally aroused bitter animadversions , and can not have been without effect in creating an undercurrent of thought in opposition to the main trend of opinion of thetime . But the book can hardly be said to have done more thanthat . Indeed , some critics have denied it even this merit . Afterits publication , as before , the conception of transmutation of species remained in the popular estimation , both lay andscientific , an almost forgotten " heresy . " It is true that here and there a scientist of greater or lessrepute  --  as Von Buch , Meckel , and Von Baer in Germany , BorySaint-Vincent in France , Wells , Grant , and Matthew in England , and Leidy in America  --  had expressed more or less tentativedissent from the doctrine of special creation and immutability of species , but their unaggressive suggestions , usually put forward in obscure publications , and incidentally , were utterlyoverlooked and ignored . And so , despite the scientific advancesalong many lines at the middle of the century , the idea of thetransmutability of organic races had no such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had acquired fiftyyears before . Special creation held the day , seemingly unopposed . DARWIN AND THE ORIGIN OF SPECIESBut even at this time the fancied security of thespecial-creation hypothesis was by no means real . Though itseemed so invincible , its real position was that of an apparentlyimpregnable fortress beneath which , all unbeknown to thegarrison , a powder-mine has been dug and lies ready forexplosion . For already there existed in the secluded work-room ofan English naturalist , a manuscript volume and a portfolio ofnotes which might have sufficed , if given publicity , to shatterthe entire structure of the special-creation hypothesis . Thenaturalist who , by dint of long and patient effort , hadconstructed this powder-mine of facts was Charles Robert Darwin , grandson of the author of Zoonomia . As long ago as July 1 , 1837 , young Darwin , then twenty-eightyears of age , had opened a private journal , in which he purposedto record all facts that came to him which seemed to have anybearing on the moot point of the doctrine of transmutation of species . Four or five years earlier , during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as naturalistto the Beagle , Darwin had made the personal observations whichfirst tended to shake his belief of the fixity of species . InSouth America , in the Pampean formation , he had discovered " greatfossil animals covered with armor like that on the existingarmadillos , " and had been struck with this similarity of typebetween ancient and existing faunas of the same region . He wasalso greatly impressed by the manner in which closely relatedspecies of animals were observed to replace one another as heproceeded southward over the continent ; and " by theSouth-American character of most of the productions of theGalapagos Archipelago , and more especially by the manner in which they differ slightly on each island of the group , none of theislands appearing to be very ancient in a geological sense . " At first the full force of these observations did not strike him ; for , under sway of Lyell ' s geological conceptions , he tentativelyexplained the relative absence of life on one of the GalapagosIslands by suggesting that perhaps no species had been createdsince that island arose . But gradually it dawned upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be explained on thesupposition that species gradually become modified . " From thenon , as he afterwards asserted , the subject haunted him ; hence thejournal of 1837 . It will thus be seen that the idea of the variability of speciescame to Charles Darwin as an inference from personal observationsin the field , not as a thought borrowed from books . He had , ofcourse , read the works of his grandfather much earlier in life , but the arguments of Zoonomia and The Temple of Nature had notserved in the least to weaken his acceptance of the currentbelief in fixity of species . Nor had he been more impressed withthe doctrine of Lamarck , so closely similar to that of hisgrandfather . Indeed , even after his South-American experiencehad aroused him to a new point of view he was still unable to seeanything of value in these earlier attempts at an explanation ofthe variation of species . In opening his journal , therefore , he had no preconceived notion of upholding the views of these or anyother makers of hypotheses , nor at the time had he formulated anyhypothesis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he waseager only for facts which might lead him to an understanding ofa problem which seemed utterly obscure . It was something to feelsure that species have varied ; but how have such variations beenbrought about ? It was not long before Darwin found a clew which he thought mightlead to the answer he sought . In casting about for facts he hadsoon discovered that the most available field for observation layamong domesticated animals , whose numerous variations withinspecific lines are familiar to every one . Thus underdomestication creatures so tangibly different as a mastiff and aterrier have sprung from a common stock . So have the Shetlandpony , the thoroughbred , and the draught-horse . In short , there isno domesticated animal that has not developed varieties deviatingmore or less widely from the parent stock . Now , how has this beenaccomplished ? Why , clearly , by the preservation , throughselective breeding , of seemingly accidental variations . Thus onehorseman , by constantly selecting animals that " chance " to havethe right build and stamina , finally develops a race ofrunning-horses ; while another horseman , by selecting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , heavydraught animals . So far , so good ; the preservation of " accidental " variationsthrough selective breeding is plainly a means by which races maybe developed that are very different from their original parentform . But this is under man ' s supervision and direction . By whatprocess could such selection be brought about among creatures ina state of nature ? Here surely was a puzzle , and one that must besolved before another step could be taken in this direction . The key to the solution of this puzzle came into Darwin ' s mindthrough a chance reading of the famous essay on " Population " which Thomas Robert Malthus had published almost half a centurybefore . This essay , expositing ideas by no means exclusivelyoriginal with Malthus , emphasizes the fact that organisms tend toincrease at a geometrical ratio through successive generations , and hence would overpopulate the earth if not somehow kept incheck . Cogitating this thought , Darwin gained a new insight intothe processes of nature . He saw that in virtue of this tendencyof each race of beings to overpopulate the earth , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a state ofperpetual carnage and strife , individual against individual , fighting for sustenance and life . That idea fully imagined , it becomes plain that a selectiveinfluence is all the time at work in nature , since only a fewindividuals , relatively , of each generation can come to maturity , and these few must , naturally , be those best fitted to battlewith the particular circumstances in the midst of which they areplaced . In other words , the individuals best adapted to theirsurroundings will , on the average , be those that grow to maturityand produce offspring . To these offspring will be transmitted thefavorable peculiarities . Thus these peculiarities will becomepermanent , and nature will have accomplished precisely what thehuman breeder is seen to accomplish . Grant that organisms in astate of nature vary , however slightly , one from another ( whichis indubitable ) , and that such variations will be transmitted bya parent to its offspring ( which no one then doubted ) ; grant , further , that there is incessant strife among the variousorganisms , so that only a small proportion can come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have anexplanation of the preservation of variations which leads on tothe transmutation of species themselves . This wonderful coign of vantage Darwin had reached by 1839 . Herewas the full outline of his theory ; here were the ideas whichafterwards came to be embalmed in familiar speech in the phrases " spontaneous variation , " and the " survival of the fittest , " through " natural selection . " After such a discovery any ordinaryman would at once have run through the streets of science , so tospeak , screaming " Eureka ! " Not so Darwin . He placed themanuscript outline of his theory in his portfolio , and went ongathering facts bearing on his discovery . In 1844 he made anabstract in a manuscript book of the mass of facts by that timeaccumulated . He showed it to his friend Hooker , made carefulprovision for its publication in the event of his sudden death , then stored it away in his desk and went ahead with the gatheringof more data . This was the unexploded powder-mine to which I havejust referred . Twelve years more elapsed  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts , answered a multitude ofobjections that arose in his own mind , vastly fortified histheory . All this time the toiler was an invalid , never knowing aday free from illness and discomfort , obliged to husband hisstrength , never able to work more than an hour and a half at astretch ; yet he accomplished what would have been vastachievements for half a dozen men of robust health . Two friendsamong the eminent scientists of the day knew of his labors  --  SirJoseph Hooker , the botanist , and Sir Charles Lyell , thegeologist . Gradually Hooker had come to be more than half aconvert to Darwin ' s views . Lyell was still sceptical , yet heurged Darwin to publish his theory without further delay lest hebe forestalled . At last the patient worker decided to comply withthis advice , and in 1856 he set to work to make another andfuller abstract of the mass of data he had gathered . And then a strange thing happened . After Darwin had been at workon his " abstract " about two years , but before he had published aline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper in manuscript , sentfor his approval by a naturalist friend named Alfred RusselWallace , who had been for some time at work in the East IndiaArchipelago . He read the paper , and , to his amazement , found that it contained an outline of the same theory of " naturalselection " which he himself had originated and for twenty yearshad worked upon . Working independently , on opposite sides of theglobe , Darwin and Wallace had hit upon the same explanation ofthe cause of transmutation of species . " Were Wallace ' s paper anabstract of my unpublished manuscript of 1844 , " said Darwin , " itcould not better express my ideas . " Here was a dilemma . To publish this paper with no word fromDarwin would give Wallace priority , and wrest from Darwin thecredit of a discovery which he had made years before hiscodiscoverer entered the field . Yet , on the other hand , couldDarwin honorably do otherwise than publish his friend ' s paper andhimself remain silent ? It was a complication well calculated totry a man ' s soul . Darwin ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the position , he placed the whole matterbefore his friends Hooker and Lyell , and left the decision as toa course of action absolutely to them . Needless to say , thesegreat men did the one thing which insured full justice to allconcerned . They counselled a joint publication , to include on theone hand Wallace ' s paper , and on the other an abstract ofDarwin ' s ideas , in the exact form in which it had been outlinedby the author in a letter to Asa Gray in the previous year  --  anabstract which was in Gray ' s hands before Wallace ' s paper was inexistence . This joint production , together with a full statementof the facts of the case , was presented to the Linnaean Societyof London by Hooker and Lyell on the evening of July 1 , 1858 , this being , by an odd coincidence , the twenty-first anniversary of the day on which Darwin had opened his journal to collectfacts bearing on the " species question . " Not often before in thehistory of science has it happened that a great theory has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adolescence toits full legal majority before being sent out into the world . Thus the fuse that led to the great powder-mine had been lighted . The explosion itself came more than a year later , in November , 1859 , when Darwin , after thirteen months of further effort , completed the outline of his theory , which was at first begun asan abstract for the Linnaean Society , but which grew to the sizeof an independent volume despite his efforts at condensation , andwhich was given that ever-to-be-famous title , The Origin ofSpecies by Means of Natural Selection , or the Preservation ofFavored Races in the Struggle for Life . And what an explosion itwas ! The joint paper of 1858 had made a momentary flare , causingthe hearers , as Hooker said , to " speak of it with bated breath , " but beyond that it made no sensation . What the result was whenthe Origin itself appeared no one of our generation need be told . The rumble and roar that it made in the intellectual world havenot yet altogether ceased to echo after more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then , and to its author , CharlesDarwin , must always be ascribed chief credit for that vastrevolution in the fundamental beliefs of our race which has comeabout since 1859 , and which made the second half of the centurymemorable . But it must not be overlooked that no such suddenmetamorphosis could have been effected had it not been for theaid of a few notable lieutenants , who rallied to the standards ofthe leader immediately after the publication of the Origin . Darwin had all along felt the utmost confidence in the ultimatetriumph of his ideas . " Our posterity , " he declared , in a letter to Hooker , " will marvel as much about the current belief inspecial creation as we do about fossil shells having beenthought to be created as we now see them . " But he fully realized that for the present success of his theory of transmutation thechampionship of a few leaders of science was all-essential . Hefelt that if he could make converts of Hooker and Lyell and ofThomas Henry Huxley at once , all would be well . His success in this regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ardent disciple from reading theproof-sheets before the book was published ; Lyell renounced hisformer beliefs and fell into line a few months later ; whileHuxley , so soon as he had mastered the central idea of naturalselection , marvelled that so simple yet all-potent a thought hadescaped him so long , and then rushed eagerly into the fray , wielding the keenest dialectic blade that was drawn during the entire controversy . Then , too , unexpected recruits were found inSir John Lubbock and John Tyndall , who carried the war eagerlyinto their respective territories ; while Herbert Spencer , who hadadvocated a doctrine of transmutation on philosophic grounds someyears before Darwin published the key to the mystery  --  and whohimself had barely escaped independent discovery of thatkey  --  lent his masterful influence to the cause . In America thefamous botanist Asa Gray , who had long been a correspondent ofDarwin ' s but whose advocacy of the new theory had not beenanticipated , became an ardent propagandist ; while in GermanyErnst Heinrich Haeckel , the youthful but already noted zoologist , took up the fight with equal enthusiasm . Against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less general renown  --  was arrayed , at the outset , practicallyall Christendom . The interest of the question came home to everyperson of intelligence , whatever his calling , and the more deeplyas it became more and more clear how far-reaching are the realbearings of the doctrine of natural selection . Soon it was seenthat should the doctrine of the survival of the favored racesthrough the struggle for existence win , there must come with itas radical a change in man ' s estimate of his own position as hadcome in the day when , through the efforts of Copernicus andGalileo , the world was dethroned from its supposed centralposition in the universe . The whole conservative majority ofmankind recoiled from this necessity with horror . And thisconservative majority included not laymen merely , but a vastpreponderance of the leaders of science also . With the open-minded minority , on the other hand , the theory ofnatural selection made its way by leaps and bounds . Itsdelightful simplicity  --  which at first sight made it seem neithernew nor important  --  coupled with the marvellous comprehensivenessof its implications , gave it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where other theories of transmutation of species had been utterly scorned . Men who had found Lamarck ' sconception of change through voluntary effort ridiculous , and thevaporings of the Vestiges altogether despicable , men whosescientific cautions held them back from Spencer ' s deductiveargument , took eager hold of that tangible , ever-presentprinciple of natural selection , and were led on and on to itsgoal . Hour by hour the attitude of the thinking world towardsthis new principle changed ; never before was so great arevolution wrought so suddenly . Nor was this merely because " the times were ripe " or " men ' s mindsprepared for evolution . " Darwin himself bears witness that this was not altogether so . All through the years in which he broodedthis theory he sounded his scientific friends , and could findamong them not one who acknowledged a doctrine of transmutation . The reaction from the stand-point of Lamarck and Erasmus Darwinand Goethe had been complete , and when Charles Darwin avowed hisown conviction he expected always to have it met with ridicule orcontempt . In 1857 there was but one man speaking with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a belief intransmutation of species  --  that man being Herbert Spencer . Butthe Origin of Species came , as Huxley has said , like a flash inthe darkness , enabling the benighted voyager to see the way . Thescore of years during which its author had waited and worked hadbeen years well spent . Darwin had become , as he himself says , averitable Croesus , " overwhelmed with his riches in facts "  --  factsof zoology , of selective artificial breeding , of geographicaldistribution of animals , of embryology , of paleontology . He hadmassed his facts about his theory , condensed them andrecondensed , until his volume of five hundred pages was anencyclopaedia in scope . During those long years of musing he hadthought out almost every conceivable objection to his theory , andin his book every such objection was stated with fullest forceand candor , together with such reply as the facts at commandmight dictate . It was the force of those twenty years of effortof a master-mind that made the sudden breach in thebreaswtorksic of current thought . Once this breach was effected the work of conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitulated and struck theirarms . By the time another score of years had passed the doctrineof evolution had become the working hypothesis of the scientificworld . The revolution had been effected . And from amid the wreckage of opinion and belief stands forth thefigure of Charles Darwin , calm , imperturbable , serene ; scathelessto ridicule , contumely , abuse ; unspoiled by ultimate success ; unsullied alike by the strife and the victory  --  take him for allin all , for character , for intellect , for what he was and what hedid , perhaps the most Socratic figure of the century . When , in1882 , he died , friend and foe alike conceded that one of the greatest sons of men had rested from his labors , and all theworld felt it fitting that the remains of Charles Darwin shouldbe entombed in Westminster Abbey close beside the honored graveof Isaac Newton . Nor were there many who would dispute thejustice of Huxley ' s estimate of his accomplishment : " He found agreat truth trodden under foot . Reviled by bigots , and ridiculedby all the world , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts , irrefragably established in science , inseparablyincorporated with the common thoughts of men , and only hated andfeared by those who would revile but dare not . " THE ORIGIN OF THE FITTESTWide as are the implications of the great truth which Darwin andhis co-workers established , however , it leaves quite untouchedthe problem of the origin of those " favored variations " uponwhich it operates . That such variations are due to fixed anddeterminate causes no one understood better than Darwin ; but inhis original exposition of his doctrine he made no assumption as to what these causes are . He accepted the observed fact ofvariation  --  as constantly witnessed , for example , in thedifferences between parents and offspring  --  and went ahead fromthis assumption . But as soon as the validity of the principle of natural selectioncame to be acknowledged speculators began to search for theexplanation of those variations which , for purposes of argument , had been provisionally called " spontaneous . " Herbert Spencer hadall along dwelt on this phase of the subject , expounding theLamarckian conceptions of the direct influence of the environment ( an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , and of effort in response to environment andstimulus as modifying the individual organism , and thus supplyingthe basis for the operation of natural selection . Haeckel alsobecame an advocate of this idea , and presently there arose aso-called school of neo-Lamarckians , which developed particularstrength and prominence in America under the leadership ofProfessors A. Hyatt and E. D. Cope . But just as the tide of opinion was turning strongly in thisdirection , an utterly unexpected obstacle appeared in the form ofthe theory of Professor August Weismann , put forward in 1883 , which antagonized the Lamarckian conception ( though not touching the Darwinian , of which Weismann is a firm upholder ) by denyingthat individual variations , however acquired by the matureorganism , are transmissible . The flurry which this denial createdhas not yet altogether subsided , but subsequent observations seemto show that it was quite disproportionate to the real merits ofthe case . Notwithstanding Professor Weismann ' s objections , thebalance of evidence appears to favor the view that the Lamarckianfactor of acquired variations stands as the complement of theDarwinian factor of natural selection in effecting thetransmutation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cope callsthe " origin of the fittest " be accepted , there still remains onegreat life problem which the doctrine of evolution does nottouch . The origin of species , genera , orders , and classes ofbeings through endless transmutations is in a sense explained ; but what of the first term of this long series ? Whence came thatprimordial organism whose transmuted descendants make up theexisting faunas and floras of the globe ? There was a time , soon after the doctrine of evolution gained ahearing , when the answer to that question seemed to somescientists of authority to have been given by experiment . Recurring to a former belief , and repeating some earlierexperiments , the director of the Museum of Natural History atRouen , M. F. A. Pouchet , reached the conclusion that organicbeings are spontaneously generated about us constantly , in thefamiliar processes of putrefaction , which were known to be due tothe agency of microscopic bacteria . But in 1862 Louis Pasteurproved that this seeming spontaneous generation is in reality dueto the existence of germs in the air . Notwithstanding theconclusiveness of these experiments , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Bastian ; but thenthe experiments of John Tyndall , fully corroborating the resultsof Pasteur , gave a final quietus to the claim of " spontaneousgeneration " as hitherto formulated . There for the moment the matter rests . But the end is not yet . Fauna and flora are here , and , thanks to Lamarck and Wallace andDarwin , their development , through the operation of those " secondary causes " which we call laws of nature , has beenproximally explained . The lowest forms of life have been linkedwith the highest in unbroken chains of descent . Meantime , through the efforts of chemists and biologists , the gap between the inorganic and the organic worlds , which once seemed almostinfinite , has been constantly narrowed . Already philosophy canthrow a bridge across that gap . But inductive science , whichbuilds its own bridges , has not yet spanned the chasm , smallthough it appear . Until it shall have done so , the bridge oforganic evolution is not quite complete ; yet even as it standsto-day it is perhaps the most stupendous scientific structure ofthe nineteenth century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of William Harvey distinguished themselves inmedicine , Giorgio Baglivi ( 1669-1707 ) , who has been called the " Italian Sydenham , " and Hermann Boerhaave ( 1668-1738 ) . The work of Baglivi was hardly begun before his early death removed one ofthe most promising of the early eighteenth-century physicians . Like Boerhaave , he represents a type of skilled , practicalclinitian rather than the abstract scientist . One of hiscontributions to medical literature is the first accuratedescription of typhoid , or , as he calls it , mesenteric fever . If for nothing else , Boerhaave must always be remembered as theteacher of Von Haller , but in his own day he was the widest knownand the most popular teacher in the medical world . He was theidol of his pupils at Leyden , who flocked to his lectures in suchnumbers that it became necessary to " tear down the walls ofLeyden to accommodate them . " His fame extended not only all overEurope but to Asia , North America , and even into South America . A letter sent him from China was addressed to " Boerhaave inEurope . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a high standard of morality , and a keen appreciation ofthe value of observation ; and it was through such teachingsimparted to his pupils and advanced by them , rather than to anynew discoveries , that his name is important in medical history . His arrangement and classification of the different branches ofmedicine are interesting as representing the attitude of themedical profession towards these various branches at that time . " In the first place we consider Life ; then Health , afterwardsDiseases ; and lastly their several Remedies . " Health the first general branch of Physic in our Institutions istermed Physiology , or the Animal Oeconomy ; demonstrating theseveral Parts of the human Body , with their Mechanism andActions . " The second branch of Physic is called Pathology , treating ofDiseases , their Differences , Causes and Effects , or Symptoms ; bywhich the human Body is known to vary from its healthy state . " The third part of Physic is termed Semiotica , which shows theSigns distinguishing between sickness and Health , Diseases andtheir Causes in the human Body ; it also imports the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Events . " The fourth general branch of Physic is termed Hygiene , orProphylaxis . " The fifth and last part of Physic is called Therapeutica ; whichinstructs us in the Nature , Preparation and uses of the MateriaMedica ; and the methods of applying the same , in order to cureDiseases and restore lost Health. " 1From this we may gather that his general view of medicine was notunlike that taken at the present time . Boerhaave ' s doctrines were arranged into a " system " by FriedrichHoffmann , of Halle ( 1660-1742 ) , this system having the merit ofbeing simple and more easily comprehended than many others . Inthis system forces were considered inherent in matter , beingexpressed as mechanical movements , and determined by mass , number , and weight . Similarly , forces express themselves in thebody by movement , contraction , and relaxation , etc. , and life itself is movement , " particularly movement of the heart . " Lifeand death are , therefore , mechanical phenomena , health isdetermined by regularly recurring movements , and disease byirregularity of them . The body is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or " sensitive soul , " and thechief centre of this soul lies in the medulla . In the practical application of medicines to diseases Hoffmanused simple remedies , frequently with happy results , for whatever the medical man ' s theory may be he seldom has the temerity tofollow it out logically , and use the remedies indicated by histheory to the exclusion of long-established , although perhapspurely empirical , remedies . Consequently , many vague theoristshave been excellent practitioners , and Hoffman was one of these . Some of the remedies he introduced are still in use , notably thespirits of ether , or " Hoffman ' s anodyne . " ANIMISTS , VITALISTS , AND ORGANICISTSBesides Hoffman ' s system of medicine , there were numerous othersduring the eighteenth century , most of which are of no importancewhatever ; but three , at least , that came into existence anddisappeared during the century are worthy of fuller notice . Oneof these , the Animists , had for its chief exponent Georg ErnstStahl of " phlogiston " fame ; another , the Vitalists , waschampioned by Paul Joseph Barthez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This last , while agreeing with the other twothat vital activity can not be explained by the laws of physicsand chemistry , differed in not believing that life " was due tosome spiritual entity , " but rather to the structure of the bodyitself . The Animists taught that the soul performed functions of ordinarylife in man , while the life of lower animals was controlled byordinary mechanical principles . Stahl supported this theoryardently , sometimes violently , at times declaring that there were " no longer any doctors , only mechanics and chemists . " He deniedthat chemistry had anything to do with medicine , and , in themain , discarded anatomy as useless to the medical man . The soul , he thought , was the source of all vital movement ; and theimmediate cause of death was not disease but the direct action ofthe soul . When through some lesion , or because the machinery ofthe body has become unworkable , as in old age , the soul leavesthe body and death is produced . The soul ordinarily selects thechannels of the circulation , and the contractile parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fever the pulse isquickened , due to the increased activity of the soul , andconvulsions and spasmodic movements in disease are due , to the , same cause . Stagnation of the , blood was supposed to be afertile cause of diseases , and such diseases were supposed toarise mostly from " plethora "  --  an all-important element in Stahl ' stherapeutics . By many this theory is regarded as an attempt onthe part of the pious Stahl to reconcile medicine and theology ina way satisfactory to both physicians and theologians , but , likemany conciliatory attempts , it was violently opposed by bothdoctors and ministers . A belief in such a theory would lead naturally to simplicity intherapeutics , and in this respect at least Stahl was consistent . Since the soul knew more about the body than any physician couldknow , Stahl conceived that it would be a hinderance rather than ahelp for the physician to interfere with complicated doses ofmedicine . As he advanced in age this view of the administration of drugs grew upon him , until after rejecting quinine , and finally opium , he at last used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last we may judge that his " system , " ifnot doing much good , was at least doing little harm . The theory of the Vitalists was closely allied to that of theAnimists , and its most important representative , Paul JosephBarthez , was a cultured and eager scientist . After an eventfuland varied career as physician , soldier , editor , lawyer , andphilosopher in turn , he finally returned to the field ofmedicine , was made consulting physician by Napoleon in 1802 , anddied in Paris four years later . The theory that he championed was based on the assumption thatthere was a " vital principle , " the nature of which was unknown , but which differed from the thinking mind , and was the cause ofthe phenomena of life . This " vital principle " differed from thesoul , and was not exhibited in human beings alone , but even inanimals and plants . This force , or whatever it might be called , was supposed to be present everywhere in the body , and alldiseases were the results of it . The theory of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the other two that vital activity couldnot be explained by the laws of physics and chemistry , but , unlike them , it held that it was a part of the structure of thebody itself . Naturally the practical physicians were moreattracted by this tangible doctrine than by vague theories " whichconverted diseases into unknown derangements of some equallyunknown ' principle . ' " It is perhaps straining a point to include this brief description of these three schools of medicine in the history of the progressof the science . But , on the whole , they were negatively at leastprominent factors in directing true progress along its properchannel , showing what courses were not to be pursued . Some onehas said that science usually stumbles into the right course onlyafter stumbling into all the wrong ones ; and if this be onlypartially true , the wrong ones still play a prominent if not avery creditable part . Thus the medical systems of William Cullen(1710-1790) , and John Brown ( 1735-1788 ) , while doing littletowards the actual advancement of scientific medicine , played soconspicuous a part in so wide a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be given some little attention . According to Brown ' s theory , life , diseases , and methods of cureare explained by the property of " excitability . " All excitingpowers were supposed to be stimulating , the apparent debilitatingeffects of some being due to a deficiency in the amount ofstimulus . Thus " the whole phenomena of life , health , as well asdisease , were supposed to consist of stimulus and nothing else . " This theory created a great stir in the medical world , andpartisans and opponents sprang up everywhere . In Italy it wasenthusiastically supported ; in England it was strongly opposed ; while in Scotland riots took place between the opposing factions . Just why this system should have created any stir , either for oragainst it , is not now apparent . Like so many of the other " theorists " of his century , Brown ' spractical conclusions deduced from his theory ( or perhaps inspite of it ) were generally beneficial to medicine , and some ofthem extremely valuable in the treatment of diseases . He firstadvocated the modern stimulant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized the usefulness of animal soups and beef-teain certain diseases . THE SYSTEM OF HAHNEMANNJust at the close of the century there came into prominence theschool of homoeopathy , which was destined to influence thepractice of medicine very materially and to outlive all the othereighteenth-century schools . It was founded by Christian SamuelFriedrich Hahnemann ( 1755-1843 ) , a most remarkable man , who , after propounding a theory in his younger days which was at leastas reasonable as most of the existing theories , had themisfortune to outlive his usefulness and lay his doctrine open toridicule by the unreasonable teachings of his dotage , Hahnemann rejected all the teachings of morbid anatomy andpathology as useless in practice , and propounded his famous " similia similibus curantur "  --  that all diseases were to be curedby medicine which in health produced symptoms dynamically similarto the disease under treatment . If a certain medicine produced aheadache when given to a healthy person , then this medicine wasindicated in case of headaches , etc . At the present time such atheory seems crude enough , but in the latter part of theeighteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Animists , Vitalists , and other such schools . Itcertainly had the very commendable feature of introducingsimplicity in the use of drugs in place of the complicatedprescriptions then in vogue . Had Hahnemann stopped at this pointhe could not have been held up to the indefensible ridicule thatwas brought upon him , with considerable justice , by his latertheories . But he lived onto propound his extraordinary theory of " potentiality "  --  that medicines gained strength by beingdiluted  --  and his even more extraordinary theory that all chronicdiseases are caused either by the itch , syphilis , or fig-wartdisease , or are brought on by medicines . At the time that his theory of potentialities was promulgated , the medical world had gone mad in its administration of hugedoses of compound mixtures of drugs , and any reaction againstthis was surely an improvement . In short , no medicine at all wasmuch better than the heaping doses used in common practice ; andhence one advantage , at least , of Hahnemann ' s methods . Statedbriefly , his theory was that if a tincture be reduced toone-fiftieth in strength , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeated up to thirty such dilutions , thepotency of such a medicine will be increased by each dilution , Hahnemann himself preferring the weakest , or , as he would call it , the strongest dilution . The absurdity of such a theory isapparent when it is understood that long before any drug has beenraised to its thirtieth dilution it has been so reduced inquantity that it can not be weighed , measured , or recognized asbeing present in the solution at all by any means known tochemists . It is but just to modern followers of homoeopathy tosay that while most of them advocate small dosage , they do notnecessarily follow the teachings of Hahnemann in this respect , believing that the theory of the dose " has nothing more to dowith the original law of cure than the psora ( itch ) theory has ; and that it was one of the later creations of Hahnemann ' s mind . " Hahnemann ' s theory that all chronic diseases are derived fromeither itch , syphilis , or fig-wart disease is no longer advocatedby his followers , because it is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught that fully three-quartersof all diseases were caused by " itch struck in , " and yet it hadbeen demonstrated long before his day , and can be demonstratedany time , that itch is simply a local skin disease caused by asmall parasite . JENNER AND VACCINATIONAll advances in science have a bearing , near or remote , on thewelfare of our race ; but it remains to credit to the closingdecade of the eighteenth century a discovery which , in its powerof direct and immediate benefit to humanity , surpasses any otherdiscovery of this or any previous epoch . Needless to say , I referto Jenner ' s discovery of the method of preventing smallpox byinoculation with the virus of cow-pox . It detracts nothing fromthe merit of this discovery to say that the preventive power ofaccidental inoculation had long been rumored among the peasantryof England . Such vague , unavailing half-knowledge is often theforerunner of fruitful discovery . To all intents and purposes Jenner ' s discovery was original andunique . Nor , considered as a perfect method , was it in any sensean accident . It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific investigation , but atrained observer , who had served a long apprenticeship inscientific observation under no less a scientist than thecelebrated John Hunter . At the age of twenty-one Jenner had goneto London to pursue his medical studies , and soon after he provedhimself so worthy a pupil that for two years he remained a memberof Hunter ' s household as his favorite pupil . His taste forscience and natural history soon attracted the attention of SirJoseph Banks , who intrusted him with the preparation of thezoological specimens brought back by Captain Cook ' s expedition in1771 . He performed this task so well that he was offered the position of naturalist to the second expedition , but declined it , preferring to take up the practice of his profession in hisnative town of Berkeley . His many accomplishments and genial personality soon made him afavorite both as a physician and in society . He was a goodsinger , a fair violinist and flute-player , and a very successfulwriter of prose and verse . But with all his professional andsocial duties he still kept up his scientific investigations , among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instigation of Hunter , theresults of which were laid before the Royal Society . He alsomade quite extensive investigations as to the geologicalformations and fossils found in his neighborhood . Even during his student days with Hunter he had been muchinterested in the belief , current in the rural districts ofGloucestershire , of the antagonism between cow-pox and small-pox , a person having suffered from cow-pox being immuned to small-pox . At various times Jenner had mentioned the subject to Hunter , andhe was constantly making inquiries of his fellow-practitioners as to their observations and opinions on the subject . Hunter was toofully engrossed in other pursuits to give the matter much seriousattention , however , and Jenner ' s brothers of the profession gavescant credence to the rumors , although such rumors were commonenough . At this time the practice of inoculation for preventingsmall-pox , or rather averting the severer forms of the disease , was widely practised . It was customary , when there was a mildcase of the disease , to take some of the virus from the patientand inoculate persons who had never had the disease , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objections to this practice . The inoculated patient frequently developed avirulent form of the disease and died ; or if he recovered , evenafter a mild attack , he was likely to be " pitted " and disfigured . But , perhaps worst of all , a patient so inoculated became thesource of infection to others , and it sometimes happened thatdisastrous epidemics were thus brought about . The case was amost perplexing one , for the awful scourge of small-pox hungperpetually over the head of every person who had not alreadysuffered and recovered from it . The practice of inoculation wasintroduced into England by Lady Mary Wortley Montague(1690-1762) , who had seen it practised in the East , and whoannounced her intention of " introducing it into England in spiteof the doctors . " From the fact that certain persons , usually milkmaids , who hadsuffered from cow-pox seemed to be immuned to small-pox , it wouldseem a very simple process of deduction to discover that cow-poxinoculation was the solution of the problem of preventing thedisease . But there was another form of disease which , whileclosely resembling cow-pox and quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion of these two forms ofthe disease had constantly misled investigations as to thepossibility of either of them immunizing against smallpox , andthe confusion of these two diseases for a time led Jenner toquestion the possibility of doing so . After carefulinvestigations , however , he reached the conclusion that there wasa difference in the effects of the two diseases , only one ofwhich produced immunity from small-pox . " There is a disease to which the horse , from his state ofdomestication , is frequently subject , " wrote Jenner , in hisfamous paper on vaccination . " The farriers call it the grease . It is an inflammation and swelling in the heel , accompanied atits commencement with small cracks or fissures , from which issuesa limpid fluid possessing properties of a very peculiar kind . This fluid seems capable of generating a disease in the human body ( after it has undergone the modification I shall presentlyspeak of ) which bears so strong a resemblance to small-pox that Ithink it highly probable it may be the source of that disease . " In this dairy country a great number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed indiscriminately by men and maidservants . One of the former having been appointed to applydressings to the heels of a horse affected with the malady I havementioned , and not paying due attention to cleanliness , incautiously bears his part in milking the cows with someparticles of the infectious matter adhering to his fingers . Whenthis is the case it frequently happens that a disease iscommunicated to the cows , and from the cows to the dairy-maids , which spreads through the farm until most of the cattle anddomestics feel its unpleasant consequences . This disease hasobtained the name of Cow-Pox . It appears on the nipples of thecows in the form of irregular pustules . At their first appearancethey are commonly of a palish blue , or rather of a color somewhatapproaching to livid , and are surrounded by an inflammation . These pustules , unless a timely remedy be applied , frequentlydegenerate into phagedenic ulcers , which prove extremelytroublesome . The animals become indisposed , and the secretion ofmilk is much lessened . Inflamed spots now begin to appear ondifferent parts of the hands of the domestics employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on tosuppuration , first assuming the appearance of the smallvesications produced by a burn . Most commonly they appear aboutthe joints of the fingers and at their extremities ; but whateverparts are affected , if the situation will admit the superficialsuppurations put on a circular form with their edges moreelevated than their centre and of a color distinctly approachingto blue . Absorption takes place , and tumors appear in eachaxilla . The system becomes affected , the pulse is quickened ; shiverings , succeeded by heat , general lassitude , and pains aboutthe loins and limbs , with vomiting , come on . The head ispainful , and the patient is now and then even affected withdelirium . These symptoms , varying in their degrees of violence , generally continue from one day to three or four , leavingulcerated sores about the hands which , from the sensibility ofthe parts , are very troublesome and commonly heal slowly , frequently becoming phagedenic , like those from which theysprang . During the progress of the disease the lips , nostrils , eyelids , and other parts of the body are sometimes affected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or scratched by the patient ' s infected fingers . Noeruptions on the skin have followed the decline of the feverishsymptoms in any instance that has come under my inspection , oneonly excepted , and in this case a very few appeared on the arms : they were very minute , of a vivid red color , and soon died awaywithout advancing to maturation , so that I can not determine whether they had any connection with the preceding symptoms . " Thus the disease makes its progress from the horse ( as Iconceive ) to the nipple of the cow , and from the cow to the humansubject . " Morbid matter of various kinds , when absorbed into the system , may produce effects in some degree similar ; but what renders thecow-pox virus so extremely singular is that the person that hasbeen thus affected is forever after secure from the infection ofsmall-pox , neither exposure to the variolous effluvia nor theinsertion of the matter into the skin producing thisdistemper. " 2 In 1796 Jenner made his first inoculation with cowpox matter , and two months later the same subject was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no attack of small-poxfollowed . Although fully convinced by this experiment that the case was conclusively proven , he continued his investigations , waiting two years before publishing his discovery . Then , fortified by indisputable proofs , he gave it to the world . Theimmediate effects of his announcement have probably never beenequalled in the history of scientific discovery , unless , perhaps , in the single instance of the discovery of anaesthesia . In Genevaand Holland clergymen advocated the practice of vaccination fromtheir pulpits ; in some of the Latin countries religiousprocessions were formed for receiving vaccination ; Jenner ' sbirthday was celebrated as a feast in Germany ; and the firstchild vaccinated in Russia was named " Vaccinov " and educated atpublic expense . In six years the discovery had penetrated to themost remote corners of civilization ; it had even reached somesavage nations . And in a few years small-pox had fallen from the position of the most dreaded of all diseases to that of beingpractically the only disease for which a sure and easy preventivewas known . Honors were showered upon Jenner from the Old and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the English , was among the others who honored his name . On one occasion Jenner applied tothe Emperor for the release of certain Englishmen detained inFrance . The petition was about to be rejected when the name ofthe petitioner was mentioned . " Ah , " said Napoleon , " we can refusenothing to that name ! " It is difficult for us of to-day clearly to conceive thegreatness of Jenner ' s triumph , for we can only vaguely realizewhat a ruthless and ever-present scourge smallpox had been to allprevious generations of men since history began . Despite allefforts to check it by medication and by direct inoculation , itswept now and then over the earth as an **25;93;TOOLONG , and year by year it claimed one-tenth of all thebeings in Christendom by death as its average quota of victims . " From small-pox and love but few remain free , " ran the old saw . Apitted face was almost as much a matter of course a hundred yearsago as a smooth one is to-day . Little wonder , then , that the world gave eager acceptance toJenner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majorityto give it trial ; passengers on a burning ship do not hold alooffrom the life-boats . Rich and poor , high and low , sought succorin vaccination and blessed the name of their deliverer . Of allthe great names that were before the world in the closing days ofthe century , there was perhaps no other one at once so widelyknown and so uniformly reverenced as that of the great Englishphysician Edward Jenner . Surely there was no other one thatshould be recalled with greater gratitude by posterity . VIII . NINETEENTH-CENTURY MEDICINEPHYSICAL DIAGNOSISAlthough Napoleon Bonaparte , First Consul , was not lacking inself-appreciation , he probably did not realize that in selectinga physician for his own needs he was markedly influencing theprogress of medical science as a whole . Yet so strangely arecause and effect adjusted in human affairs that this simple actof the First Consul had that very unexpected effect . For the manchosen was the envoy of a new method in medical practice , and thefame which came to him through being physician to the FirstConsul , and subsequently to the Emperor , enabled him topromulgate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but telling value to medical science of Napoleon ' sselection . The physician in question was Jean Nicolas de Corvisart . Hisnovel method was nothing more startling than the now-familiarprocedure of tapping the chest of a patient to elicit soundsindicative of diseased tissues within . Every one has seen thisdone commonly enough in our day , but at the beginning of thecentury Corvisart , and perhaps some of his pupils , were probably the only physicians in the world who resorted to this simple anduseful procedure . Hence Napoleon ' s surprise when , on calling inCorvisart , after becoming somewhat dissatisfied with his otherphysicians Pinel and Portal , his physical condition wasinterrogated in this strange manner . With characteristicshrewdness Bonaparte saw the utility of the method , and thephysician who thus attempted to substitute scientific method forguess-work in the diagnosis of disease at once found favor in hiseyes and was installed as his regular medical adviser . For fifteen years before this Corvisart had practised percussion , as the chest-tapping method is called , without succeeding inconvincing the profession of its value . The method itself , itshould be added , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a moment claim it as his own . The trueoriginator of the practice was the German physician Avenbrugger , who published a book about it as early as 1761 . This book hadeven been translated into French , then the language ofinternational communication everywhere , by Roziere de laChassagne , of Montpellier , in 1770 ; but no one other thanCorvisart appears to have paid any attention to either originalor translation . It was far otherwise , however , when Corvisarttranslated Avenbrugger ' s work anew , with important additions ofhis own , in 1808 . " I know very well how little reputation is allotted to translatorand commentators , " writes Corvisart , " and I might easily haveelevated myself to the rank of an author if I had elaborated anewthe doctrine of Avenbrugger and published an independent work onpercussion . In this way , however , I should have sacrificed thename of Avenbrugger to my own vanity , a thing which I amunwilling to do . It is he , and the beautiful invention which ofright belongs to him , that I desire to recall to life. " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metaphysicalmethods in medicine that had previously been so alluring ; thescientific spirit of the time was making itself felt in medicalpractice ; and this , combined with Corvisart ' s fame , brought themethod of percussion into immediate and well-deserved popularity . Thus was laid the foundation for the method of so-called physicaldiagnosis , which is one of the corner-stones of modern medicine . The method of physical diagnosis as practised in our day was byno means completed , however , with the work of Corvisart . Percussion alone tells much less than half the story that may beelicited from the organs of the chest by proper interrogation . The remainder of the story can only be learned by applying theear itself to the chest , directly or indirectly . Simple as thisseems , no one thought of practising it for some years afterCorvisart had shown the value of percussion . Then , in 1815 , another Paris physician , Rene Theophile HyacintheLaennec , discovered , almost by accident , that the sound of theheart-beat could be heard surprisingly through a cylinder ofpaper held to the ear and against the patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laennec substituted a hollow cylinder ofwood for the paper , and found himself provided with an instrumentthrough which not merely heart sounds but murmurs of the lungs inrespiration could be heard with almost startling distinctness . The possibility of associating the varying chest sounds withdiseased conditions of the organs within appealed to the fertilemind of Laennec as opening new vistas in therapeutics , which hedetermined to enter to the fullest extent practicable . Hisconnection with the hospitals of Paris gave him full opportunityin this direction , and his labors of the next few years servednot merely to establish the value of the new method as an aid todiagnosis , but laid the foundation also for the science of morbidanatomy . In 1819 Laennec published the results of his labors ina work called Traite d ' Auscultation Mediate , 2 a work whichforms one of the landmarks of scientific medicine . By mediateauscultation is meant , of course , the interrogation of the chestwith the aid of the little instrument already referred to , aninstrument which its originator thought hardly worth naming untilvarious barbarous appellations were applied to it by others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a namewhich it has ever since retained . In subsequent years the form of the stethoscope , as usuallyemployed , was modified and its value augmented by a binauricularattachment , and in very recent years a further improvement hasbeen made through application of the principle of the telephone ; but the essentials of auscultation with the stethoscope wereestablished in much detail by Laennec , and the honor must always be his of thus taking one of the longest single steps by whichpractical medicine has in our century acquired the right to beconsidered a rational science . Laennec ' s efforts cost him his life , for he died in 1826 of a lung disease acquired in thecourse of his hospital practice ; but even before this his famewas universal , and the value of his method had been recognizedall over the world . Not long after , in 1828 , yet another Frenchphysician , Piorry , perfected the method of percussion byintroducing the custom of tapping , not the chest directly , butthe finger or a small metal or hard-rubber plate held against thechest-mediate percussion , in short . This perfected the methodsof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and from that day till this percussion and auscultation have heldan unquestioned place in the regular armamentarium of thephysician . Coupled with the new method of physical diagnosis in the effortto substitute knowledge for guess-work came the studies of theexperimental physiologists  --  in particular , Marshall Hall in England and Francois Magendie in France ; and the joint efforts ofthese various workers led presently to the abandonment of thosesevere and often irrational depletive methods  --  blood-letting andthe like  --  that had previously dominated medical practice . To thisend also the " statistical method , " introduced by Louis and hisfollowers , largely contributed ; and by the close of the firstthird of our century the idea was gaining ground that theprovince of therapeutics is to aid nature in combating disease , and that this may often be accomplished better by simple meansthan by the heroic measures hitherto thought necessary . In aword , scientific empiricism was beginning to gain a hearing inmedicine as against the metaphysical preconceptions of theearlier generations . PARASITIC DISEASESI have just adverted to the fact that Napoleon Bonaparte , asFirst Consul and as Emperor , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most distinguishedphysicians of Paris . It is a little shocking to modernsensibilities to read that these physicians , except Corvisart , diagnosed the distinguished patient ' s malady as " galerepercutee "  --  that is to say , in idiomatic English , the itch " struck in . " It is hardly necessary to say that no physician oftoday would make so inconsiderate a diagnosis in the case of aroyal patient . If by any chance a distinguished patient wereafflicted with the itch , the sagacious physician would carefullyhide the fact behind circumlocutions and proceed to eradicate thedisease with all despatch . That the physicians of Napoleon didotherwise is evidence that at the beginning of the century thedisease in question enjoyed a very different status . At thattime itch , instead of being a most plebeian malady , was , so tosay , a court disease . It enjoyed a circulation , in high circlesand in low , that modern therapeutics has quite denied it ; and thephysicians of the time gave it a fictitious added importance byascribing to its influence the existence of almost any obscuremalady that came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to hold this proud distinction . For example , the imaginative Dr. Hahnemann did not hesitate to affirm , as apositive maxim , that three-fourths of all the ills that flesh isheir to were in reality nothing but various forms of " galerepercutee . " All of which goes to show how easy it may be for a maskedpretender to impose on credulous humanity , for nothing is moreclearly established in modern knowledge than the fact that " galerepercutee " was simply a name to hide a profound ignorance ; nosuch disease exists or ever did exist . Gale itself is asufficiently tangible reality , to be sure , but it is a purelylocal disease of the skin , due to a perfectly definite cause , andthe dire internal conditions formerly ascribed to it have reallyno causal connection with it whatever . This definite cause , asevery one nowadays knows , is nothing more or less than amicroscopic insect which has found lodgment on the skin , and hasburrowed and made itself at home there . Kill that insect and thedisease is no more ; hence it has come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the three or fourdiseases that he positively is able to cure , and that veryspeedily . But it was far otherwise with the physicians of thefirst third of our century , because to them the cause of thedisease was an absolute mystery . It is true that here and there a physician had claimed to find aninsect lodged in the skin of a sufferer from itch , and two orthree times the claim had been made that this was the cause ofthe malady , but such views were quite ignored by the generalprofession , and in 1833 it was stated in an authoritative medicaltreatise that the " cause of gale is absolutely unknown . " Buteven at this time , as it curiously happened , there were certainignorant laymen who had attained to a bit of medical knowledge that was withheld from the inner circles of the profession . Asthe peasantry of England before Jenner had known of the curativevalue of cow-pox over small-pox , so the peasant women of Polandhad learned that the annoying skin disease from which theysuffered was caused by an almost invisible insect , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creature with the point of a needle . From them a youth ofthe country , F. Renucci by name , learned the open secret . Heconveyed it to Paris when he went there to study medicine , and in1834 demonstrated it to his master Alibert . This physician , atfirst sceptical , soon was convinced , and gave out the discoveryto the medical world with an authority that led to earlyacceptance . Now the importance of all this , in the present connection , is notat all that it gave the clew to the method of cure of a singledisease . What makes the discovery epochal is the fact that itdropped a brand-new idea into the medical ranks  --  an ideadestined , in the long-run , to prove itself a veritable bomb  --  theidea , namely , that a minute and quite unsuspected animal parasitemay be the cause of a well-known , widely prevalent , and importanthuman disease . Of course the full force of this idea could onlybe appreciated in the light of later knowledge ; but even at thetime of its coming it sufficed to give a great impetus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which hadbut recently been made accessible by the inventions of thelens-makers . The new knowledge clarified one very turbid medicalpool and pointed the way to the clarification of many others . Almost at the same time that the Polish medical student wasdemonstrating the itch mite in Paris , it chanced , curiouslyenough , that another medical student , this time an Englishman , made an analogous discovery of perhaps even greater importance . Indeed , this English discovery in its initial stages slightlyantedated the other , for it was in 1833 that the student inquestion , James Paget , interne in St. Bartholomew ' s Hospital , London , while dissecting the muscular tissues of a human subject , found little specks of extraneous matter , which , when taken tothe professor of comparative anatomy , Richard Owen , wereascertained , with the aid of the microscope , to be the cocoon ofa minute and hitherto unknown insect . Owen named the insectTrichina spiralis . After the discovery was published ittranspired that similar specks had been observed by severalearlier investigators , but no one had previously suspected or , atany rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ofthe trichina made out for a long time after Owen ' s discovery . Itwas not till 1847 that the American anatomist Dr. Joseph Leidyfound the cysts of trichina in the tissues of pork ; and anotherdecade or so elapsed after that before German workers , chiefamong whom were Leuckart , Virchow , and Zenker , proved that theparasite gets into the human system through ingestion of infectedpork , and that it causes a definite set of symptoms of diseasewhich hitherto had been mistaken for rheumatism , typhoid fever , and other maladies . Then the medical world was agog for a timeover the subject of trichinosis ; government inspection of porkwas established in some parts of Germany ; American pork wasexcluded altogether from France ; and the whole subject thus cameprominently to public attention . But important as the trichinaparasite proved on its own account in the end , its greatestimportance , after all , was in the share it played in directingattention at the time of its discovery in 1833 to the subject ofmicroscopic parasites in general . The decade that followed that discovery was a time of greatactivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such men as Ehrenberg and Henle and BorySaint-Vincent and Kolliker and Rokitansky and Remak and Dujardinwere widening the bounds of knowledge of this new subject withdetails that can not be more than referred to here . But thecrowning achievement of the period in this direction was thediscovery made by the German , J. L. Schoenlein , in 1839 , that avery common and most distressing disease of the scalp , known asfavus , is really due to the presence and growth on the scalp of avegetable organism of microscopic size . Thus it was made clearthat not merely animal but also vegetable organisms of obscure , microscopic species have causal relations to the diseases withwhich mankind is afflicted . This knowledge of the parasites wasanother long step in the direction of scientific medicalknowledge ; but the heights to which this knowledge led were notto be scaled , or even recognized , until another generation ofworkers had entered the field . PAINLESS SURGERYMeantime , in quite another field of medicine , events weredeveloping which led presently to a revelation of greaterimmediate importance to humanity than any other discovery that had come in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the discovery of the pain-dispelling power ofthe vapor of sulphuric ether inhaled by a patient undergoing asurgical operation . This discovery came solely out of America , and it stands curiously isolated , since apparently no minds in any other country were trending towards it even vaguely . Davy , in England , had indeed originated the method of medication byinhalation , and earned out some most interesting experimentsfifty years earlier , and it was doubtless his experiments withnitrous oxide gas that gave the clew to one of the Americaninvestigators ; but this was the sole contribution of precedinggenerations to the subject , and since the beginning of thecentury , when Davy turned his attention to other matters , no onehad made the slightest advance along the same line until anAmerican dentist renewed the investigation . In view of the sequel , Davy ' s experiments merit full attention . Here is his own account of them , as written in 1799 : " Immediately after a journey of one hundred and twenty-six miles , in which I had no sleep the preceding night , being muchexhausted , I respired seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced the usual pleasurable effects andslight muscular motion . I continued exhilarated for some minutesafterwards , but in half an hour found myself neither more norless exhausted than before the experiment . I had a greatpropensity to sleep . " To ascertain with certainty whether the more extensive action ofnitrous oxide compatible with life was capable of producingdebility , I resolved to breathe the gas for such a time , and insuch quantities , as to produce excitement equal in duration andsuperior in intensity to that occasioned by high intoxicationfrom opium or alcohol . " To habituate myself to the excitement , and to carry it ongradually , on December 26th I was enclosed in an air-tightbreathing-box , of the capacity of about nine and one-half cubicfeet , in the presence of Dr. Kinglake . After I had taken asituation in which I could by means of a curved thermometerinserted under the arm , and a stop-watch , ascertain thealterations in my pulse and animal heat , twenty quarts of nitrousoxide were thrown into the box . " For three minutes I experienced no alteration in my sensations , though immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it were very evident . In four minutes Ibegan to feel a slight glow in the cheeks and a generallydiffused warmth over the chest , though the temperature of the boxwas not quite 50 degrees . . . . In twenty-five minutes the animalheat was 100 degrees , pulse 124 . In thirty minutes twenty quartsmore of gas were introduced . " My sensations were now pleasant ; I had a generally diffusedwarmth without the slightest moisture of the skin , a sense ofexhilaration similar to that produced by a small dose of wine , and a disposition to muscular motion and to merriment . " In three-quarters of an hour the pulse was 104 and the animalheat not 99. 5 degrees , the temperature of the chamber 64 degrees . The pleasurable feelings continued to increase , the pulse becamefuller and slower , till in about an hour it was 88 , when the animal heat was 99 degrees . Twenty quarts more of air wereadmitted . I had now a great disposition to laugh , luminous pointsseemed frequently to pass before my eyes , my hearing wascertainly more acute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my muscles . In a short time the symptoms becamestationary ; breathing was rather oppressed , and on account of thegreat desire for action rest was painful . " I now came out of the box , having been in precisely an hour anda quarter . The moment after I began to respire twenty quarts ofunmingled nitrous oxide . A thrilling extending from the chest tothe extremities was almost immediately produced . I felt a senseof tangible extension highly pleasurable in every limb ; myvisible impressions were dazzling and apparently magnified , Iheard distinctly every sound in the room , and was perfectly awareof my situation . By degrees , as the pleasurable sensationsincreased , I lost all connection with external things ; trains ofvivid visible images rapidly passed through my mind and wereconnected with words in such a manner as to produce perceptionsperfectly novel . " I existed in a world of newly connected and newly modifiedideas . I theorized ; I imagined that I made discoveries . When Iwas awakened from this semi-delirious trance by Dr. Kinglake , whotook the bag from my mouth , indignation and pride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me . My emotionswere enthusiastic and sublime ; and for a minute I walked aboutthe room perfectly regardless of what was said to me . As Irecovered my former state of mind , I felt an inclination tocommunicate the discoveries I had made during the experiment . Iendeavored to recall the ideas  --  they were feeble and indistinct ; one collection of terms , however , presented itself , and , withmost intense belief and prophetic manner , I exclaimed to Dr.Kinglake , ' Nothing exists but thoughts !  --  the universe is composed of impressions , ideas , pleasures , and pains. ' " 3 From this account we see that Davy has anaesthetized himself to apoint where consciousness of surroundings was lost , but not pastthe stage of exhilaration . Had Dr. Kinglake allowed theinhaling-bag to remain in Davy ' s mouth for a few moments longercomplete insensibility would have followed . As it was , Davyappears to have realized that sensibility was dulled , for he addsthis illuminative suggestion : " As nitrous oxide in its extensiveoperation appears capable of destroying physical pain , it mayprobably be used with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes place. " 4Unfortunately no one took advantage of this suggestion at thetime , and Davy himself became interested in other fields ofscience and never returned to his physiological studies , thusbarely missing one of the greatest discoveries in the entirefield of science . In the generation that followed no one seems tohave thought of putting Davy ' s suggestion to the test , and thesurgeons of Europe had acknowledged with one accord that all hopeof finding a means to render operations painless must be utterlyabandoned  --  that the surgeon ' s knife must ever remain a synonymfor slow and indescribable torture . By an odd coincidence itchanced that Sir Benjamin Brodie , the acknowledged leader ofEnglish surgeons , had publicly expressed this as his deliberatethough regretted opinion at a time when the quest which heconsidered futile had already led to the most brilliant success in America , and while the announcement of the discovery , whichthen had no transatlantic cable to convey it , was actually on itsway to the Old World . The American dentist just referred to , who was , with oneexception to be noted presently , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a definite drug might rendera surgical operation painless and to give the belief applicationwas Dr. Horace Wells , of Hartford , Connecticut . The drug withwhich he experimented was nitrous oxide  --  the same that Davy hadused ; the operation that he rendered painless was no moreimportant than the extraction of a tooth  --  yet it sufficed to marka principle ; the year of the experiment was 1844 . The experiments of Dr. Wells , however , though important , were notsufficiently demonstrative to bring the matter prominently to the attention of the medical world . The drug with which heexperimented proved not always reliable , and he himself seemsultimately to have given the matter up , or at least to haverelaxed his efforts . But meantime a friend , to whom he hadcommunicated his belief and expectations , took the matter up , andwith unremitting zeal carried forward experiments that weredestined to lead to more tangible results . This friend wasanother dentist , Dr. W. T. G. Morton , of Boston , then a young manfull of youthful energy and enthusiasm . He seems to have feltthat the drug with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose , and so for several months heexperimented with other allied drugs , until finally he hit uponsulphuric ether , and with this was able to make experiments uponanimals , and then upon patients in the dental chair , that seemedto him absolutely demonstrative . Full of eager enthusiasm , and absolutely confident of hisresults , he at once went to Dr. J. C. Warren , one of the foremostsurgeons of Boston , and asked permission to test his discoverydecisively on one of the patients at the Boston Hospital during asevere operation . The request was granted ; the test was made onOctober 16 , 1846 , in the presence of several of the foremostsurgeons of the city and of a body of medical students . Thepatient slept quietly while the surgeon ' s knife was plied , andawoke to astonished comprehension that the ordeal was over . Theimpossible , the miraculous , had been accomplished. 5Swiftly as steam could carry it  --  slowly enough we should think itto-day  --  the news was heralded to all the world . It was received in Europe with incredulity , which vanished before repeatedexperiments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had long held a place in the subordinate armamentarium ofthe physician , could accomplish such a miracle . But scepticismvanished before the tests which any surgeon might make , and whichsurgeons all over the world did make within the next few weeks . Then there came a lingering outcry from a few surgeons , notablysome of the Parisians , that the shock of pain was beneficial tothe patient , hence that anaesthesia  --  as Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmeshad christened the new method  --  was a procedure not to be advised . Then , too , there came a hue-and-cry from many a pulpit that painwas God-given , and hence , on moral grounds , to be clung to ratherthan renounced . But the outcry of the antediluvians of bothhospital and pulpit quickly received its quietus ; for soon it wasclear that the patient who did not suffer the shock of painduring an operation rallied better than the one who did sosuffer , while all humanity outside the pulpit cried shame to thespirit that would doom mankind to suffer needless agony . And sowithin a few months after that initial operation at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquest of painthroughout the civilized world . Only by the most active use ofthe imagination can we of this present day realize the fullmeaning of that victory . It remains to be added that in the subsequent bickerings over thediscovery  --  such bickerings as follow every great advance  --  twoother names came into prominent notice as sharers in the glory ofthe new method . Both these were Americans  --  the one , Dr. CharlesT . Jackson , of Boston ; the other , Dr. Crawford W. Long , ofAlabama . As to Dr. Jackson , it is sufficient to say that heseems to have had some vague inkling of the peculiar propertiesof ether before Morton ' s discovery . He even suggested the use ofthis drug to Morton , not knowing that Morton had already triedit ; but this is the full measure of his association with thediscovery . Hence it is clear that Jackson ' s claim to equal sharewith Morton in the discovery was unwarranted , not to say absurd . Dr. Long ' s association with the matter was far different andaltogether honorable . By one of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experimenting with ether as apain-destroyer simultaneously with Morton , though neither so muchas knew of the existence of the other . While a medical student he had once inhaled ether for the intoxicant effects , as othermedical students were wont to do , and when partially underinfluence of the drug he had noticed that a chance blow to hisshins was painless . This gave him the idea that ether might beused in surgical operations ; and in subsequent years , in thecourse of his practice in a small Georgia town , he put the ideainto successful execution . There appears to be no doubt whateverthat he performed successful minor operations under ether sometwo or three years before Morton ' s final demonstration ; hencethat the merit of first using the drug , or indeed any drug , inthis way belongs to him . But , unfortunately , Dr. Long did notquite trust the evidence of his own experiments . Just at thattime the medical journals were full of accounts of experiments inwhich painless operations were said to be performed throughpractice of hypnotism , and Dr. Long feared that his own successmight be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hence he delayed announcing his apparent discoveryuntil he should have opportunity for further tests  --  andopportunities did not come every day to the country practitioner . And while he waited , Morton anticipated him , and the discoverywas made known to the world without his aid . It was a truescientific caution that actuated Dr. Long to this delay , but thecaution cost him the credit , which might otherwise have been his , of giving to the world one of the greatest blessings  --  dare wenot , perhaps , say the very greatest ?  --  that science has everconferred upon humanity . A few months after the use of ether became general , the Scotchsurgeon Sir J. Y. Simpson6 discovered that another drug , chloroform , could be administered with similar effects ; that itwould , indeed , in many cases produce anaesthesia moreadvantageously even than ether . From that day till this surgeonshave been more or less divided in opinion as to the relativemerits of the two drugs ; but this fact , of course , has no bearingwhatever upon the merit of the first discovery of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ether , the honor of the discovery of the beneficentmethod of anaesthesia would have been in no wise invalidated . Anddespite all cavillings , it is unequivocally established that theman who gave that method to the world was William T. G. Morton . PASTEUR AND THE GERM THEORY OF DISEASEThe discovery of the anaesthetic power of drugs was destinedpresently , in addition to its direct beneficences , to aid greatlyin the progress of scientific medicine , by facilitating thoseexperimental studies of animals from which , before the day ofanaesthesia , many humane physicians were withheld , and which inrecent years have led to discoveries of such inestimable value tohumanity . But for the moment this possibility was quiteovershadowed by the direct benefits of anaesthesia , and the longstrides that were taken in scientific medicine during the firstfifteen years after Morton ' s discovery were mainly independent ofsuch aid . These steps were taken , indeed , in a field that atfirst glance might seem to have a very slight connection withmedicine . Moreover , the chief worker in the field was not himself a physician . He was a chemist , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of alcoholic fermentation in vinousliquors . Yet these studies paved the way for the most importantadvances that medicine has made in any century towards the planeof true science ; and to this man more than to any other singleindividual  --  it might almost be said more than to all otherindividuals  --  was due this wonderful advance . It is almostsuperfluous to add that the name of this marvellous chemist wasLouis Pasteur . The studies of fermentation which Pasteur entered upon in 1854were aimed at the solution of a controversy that had been wagingin the scientific world with varying degrees of activity for aquarter of a century . Back in the thirties , in the day of the early enthusiasm over the perfected microscope , there had arisena new interest in the minute forms of life which Leeuwenhoek andsome of the other early workers with the lens had firstdescribed , and which now were shown to be of almost universalprevalence . These minute organisms had been studied more or lessby a host of observers , but in particular by the FrenchmanCagniard Latour and the German of cell-theory fame , TheodorSchwann . These men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the micro-organisms play a vastlymore important role in the economy of nature than any onepreviously had supposed . They held , for example , that the minutespecks which largely make up the substance of yeast are livingvegetable organisms , and that the growth of these organisms isthe cause of the important and familiar process of fermentation . They even came to hold , at least tentatively , the opinion thatthe somewhat similar micro-organisms to be found in allputrefying matter , animal or vegetable , had a causal relation tothe process of putrefaction . This view , particularly as to the nature of putrefaction , wasexpressed even more outspokenly a little later by the Frenchbotanist Turpin . Views so supported naturally gained afollowing ; it was equally natural that so radical an innovationshould be antagonized . In this case it chanced that one of themost dominating scientific minds of the time , that of Liebig , took a firm and aggressive stand against the new doctrine . In1839 he promulgated his famous doctrine of fermentation , in which he stood out firmly against any " vitalistic " explanation of thephenomena , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was merely incidental , andin no sense causal . This opinion of the great German chemist wasin a measure substantiated by experiments of his compatriotHelmholtz , whose earlier experiments confirmed , but later onescontradicted , the observations of Schwann , and this combinedauthority gave the vitalistic conception a blow from which it hadnot rallied at the time when Pasteur entered the field . Indeed , it was currently regarded as settled that the early students ofthe subject had vastly over-estimated the importance ofmicro-organisms . And so it came as a new revelation to the generality ofscientists of the time , when , in 1857 and the succeedinghalf-decade , Pasteur published the results of his researches , inwhich the question had been put to a series of altogether newtests , and brought to unequivocal demonstration . He proved that the micro-organisms do all that his mostimaginative predecessors had suspected , and more . Without them , he proved , there would be no fermentation , no putrefaction  --  nodecay of any tissues , except by the slow process of oxidation . Itis the microscopic yeast-plant which , by seizing on certain atomsof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ofcarbonic-acid and alcohol , thus effecting fermentation ; it isanother microscopic plant  --  a bacterium , as Devaine had christenedit  --  which in a similar way effects the destruction of organicmolecules , producing the condition which we call putrefaction . Pasteur showed , to the amazement of biologists , that there arecertain forms of these bacteria which secure the oxygen which allorganic life requires , not from the air , but by breaking upunstable molecules in which oxygen is combined ; thatputrefaction , in short , has its foundation in the activities ofthese so-called anaerobic bacteria . In a word , Pasteur showed that all the many familiar processes ofthe decay of organic tissues are , in effect , forms offermentation , and would not take place at all except for the presence of the living micro-organisms . A piece of meat , forexample , suspended in an atmosphere free from germs , will dry upgradually , without the slightest sign of putrefaction , regardless of the temperature or other conditions to which it may have beensubjected . Let us witness one or two series of these experimentsas presented by Pasteur himself in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EXPERIMENTS WITH GRAPE SUGAR " In the course of the discussion which took place before theAcademy upon the subject of the generation of ferments properlyso-called , there was a good deal said about that of wine , theoldest fermentation known . On this account I decided to disprovethe theory of M. Fremy by a decisive experiment bearing solelyupon the juice of grapes . " I prepared forty flasks of a capacity of from two hundred andfifty to three hundred cubic centimetres and filled them halffull with filtered grape-must , perfectly clear , and which , as isthe case of all acidulated liquids that have been boiled for afew seconds , remains uncontaminated although the curved neck ofthe flask containing them remain constantly open during severalmonths or years . " In a small quantity of water I washed a part of a bunch ofgrapes , the grapes and the stalks together , and the stalksseparately . This washing was easily done by means of a smallbadger ' s-hair brush . The washing-water collected the dust upon the surface of the grapes and the stalks , and it was easily shownunder the microscope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resembling either fungoidspores , or those of alcoholic Yeast , or those of Mycoderma vini , etc . This being done , ten of the forty flasks were preserved forreference ; in ten of the remainder , through the straight tubeattached to each , some drops of the washing-water wereintroduced ; in a third series of ten flasks a few drops of thesame liquid were placed after it had been boiled ; and , finally , in the ten remaining flasks were placed some drops of grape-juicetaken from the inside of a perfect fruit . In order to carry outthis experiment , the straight tube of each flask was drawn outinto a fine and firm point in the lamp , and then curved . Thisfine and closed point was filed round near the end and insertedinto the grape while resting upon some hard substance . When the point was felt to touch the support of the grape it was by aslight pressure broken off at the point file mark . Then , if carehad been taken to create a slight vacuum in the flask , a drop ofthe juice of the grape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aperture immediately closed in the alcohollamp . This decreased pressure of the atmosphere in the flask wasobtained by the following means : After warming the sides of theflask either in the hands or in the lamp-flame , thus causing asmall quantity of air to be driven out of the end of the curvedneck , this end was closed in the lamp . After the flask wascooled , there was a tendency to suck in the drop of grape-juicein the manner just described . " The drop of grape-juice which enters into the flask by thissuction ordinarily remains in the curved part of the tube , sothat to mix it with the must it was necessary to incline theflask so as to bring the must into contact with the juice andthen replace the flask in its normal position . The four series ofcomparative experiments produced the following results : " The first ten flasks containing the grape-must boiled in pureair did not show the production of any organism . The grape-mustcould possibly remain in them for an indefinite number of years . Those in the second series , containing the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed withoutexception an alcoholic fermentation which in several cases began to appear at the end of forty-eight hours when the experimenttook place at ordinary summer temperature . At the same time thatthe yeast appeared , in the form of white traces , which little bylittle united themselves in the form of a deposit on the sides ofall the flasks , there were seen to form little flakes ofMycellium , often as a single fungoid growth or in combination , these fungoid growths being quite independent of the must or ofany alcoholic yeast . Often , also , the Mycoderma vini appearedafter some days upon the surface of the liquid . The Vibria andthe lactic ferments properly so called did not appear on account of the nature of the liquid . " The third series of flasks , the washing-water in which had beenpreviously boiled , remained unchanged , as in the first series . Those of the fourth series , in which was the juice of theinterior of the grapes , remained equally free from change , although I was not always able , on account of the delicacy of the experiment , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least doubt in the mind as to the followingfacts : Grape-must , after heating , never ferments on contact with theair , when the air has been deprived of the germs which itordinarily holds in a state of suspension . " The boiled grape-must ferments when there is introduced into ita very small quantity of water in which the surface of the grapesor their stalks have been washed . " The grape-must does not ferment when this washing-water has beenboiled and afterwards cooled . " The grape-must does not ferment when there is added to it asmall quantity of the juice of the inside of the grape . " The yeast , therefore , which causes the fermentation of thegrapes in the vintage-tub comes from the outside and not from theinside of the grapes . Thus is destroyed the hypothesis of MM . Trecol and Fremy , who surmised that the albuminous mattertransformed itself into yeast on account of the vital germs whichwere natural to it . With greater reason , therefore , there is nolonger any question of the theory of Liebig of the transformationof albuminoid matter into ferments on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WORT OF BEER " The method which I have just followed , " Pasteur continues , " inorder to show that there exists a correlation between thediseases of beer and certain microscopic organisms leaves no roomfor doubt , it seems to me , in regard to the principles I amexpounding . " Every time that the microscope reveals in the leaven , and especially in the active yeast , the production of organismsforeign to the alcoholic yeast properly so called , the flavor ofthe beer leaves something to be desired , much or little , according to the abundance and the character of these littlegerms . Moreover , when a finished beer of good quality loses after a time its agreeable flavor and becomes sour , it can be easilyshown that the alcoholic yeast deposited in the bottles or thecasks , although originally pure , at least in appearance , is foundto be contaminated gradually with these filiform or otherferments . All this can be deduced from the facts already given , but some critics may perhaps declare that these foreign fermentsare the consequences of the diseased condition , itself produced by unknown causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uphold , I will endeavor to corroborate the preceding observations by aclearer method of investigation . This consists in showing thatthe beer never has any unpleasant taste in all cases when thealcoholic ferment properly so called is not mixed with foreignferments ; that it is the same in the case of wort , and that wort , liable to changes as it is , can be preserved unaltered if it iskept from those microscopic parasites which find in it a suitablenourishment and a field for growth . " The employment of this second method has , moreover , theadvantage of proving with certainty the proposition that Iadvanced at first  --  namely , that the germs of these organisms arederived from the dust of the atmosphere , carried about anddeposited upon all objects , or scattered over the utensils andthe materials used in a brewery-materials naturally charged withmicroscopic germs , and which the various operations in thestore-rooms and the malt-house may multiply indefinitely . " Let us take a glass flask with a long neck of from two hundred and fifty to three hundred cubic centimetres capacity , and placein it some wort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flame of alamp draw out the neck of the flask to a fine point , afterwardsheating the liquid until the steam comes out of the end of theneck . It can then be allowed to cool without any otherprecautions ; but for additional safety there can be introducedinto the little point a small wad of asbestos at the moment thatthe flame is withdrawn from beneath the flask . Before thusplacing the asbestos it also can be passed through the flame , aswell as after it has been put into the end of the tube . The airwhich then first re-enters the flask will thus come into contact with the heated glass and the heated liquid , so as to destroy thevitality of any dust germs that may exist in the air . The airitself will re-enter very gradually , and slowly enough to enableany dust to be taken up by the drop of water which the air forcesup the curvature of the tube . Ultimately the tube will be dry , but the re-entering of the air will be so slow that the particlesof dust will fall upon the sides of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , allowing free communication with the air , and the dust not being allowed to enter , the dustwill not enter at all events for a period of ten or twelve years , which has been the longest period devoted to these trials ; andthe liquid , if it were naturally limpid , will not be in the leastpolluted neither on its surface nor in its mass , although theoutside of the flask may become thickly coated with dust . This isa most irrefutable proof of the impossibility of dust gettinginside the flask . " The wort thus prepared remains uncontaminated indefinitely , inspite of its susceptibility to change when exposed to the airunder conditions which allow it to gather the dusty particleswhich float in the atmosphere . It is the same in the case ofurine , beef-tea , and grape-must , and generally with all thoseputrefactable and fermentable liquids which have the propertywhen heated to boiling-point of destroying the vitality of dustgerms. " 7 There was nothing in these studies bearing directly upon thequestion of animal diseases , yet before they were finished they had stimulated progress in more than one field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afresh the inquiry as tothe role played by micro-organisms in disease . In particular theyled the French physician Devaine to return to some interruptedstudies which he had made ten years before in reference to the animal disease called anthrax , or splenic fever , a disease thatcost the farmers of Europe millions of francs annually throughloss of sheep and cattle . In 1850 Devaine had seen multitudes ofbacteria in the blood of animals who had died of anthrax , but hedid not at that time think of them as having a causal relation tothe disease . Now , however , in 1863 , stimulated by Pasteur ' s newrevelations regarding the power of bacteria , he returned to thesubject , and soon became convinced , through experiments by meansof inoculation , that the microscopic organisms he had discoveredwere the veritable and the sole cause of the infectious diseaseanthrax . The publication of this belief in 1863 aroused a furor ofcontroversy . That a microscopic vegetable could cause a virulentsystemic disease was an idea altogether too startling to beaccepted in a day , and the generality of biologists andphysicians demanded more convincing proofs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ host of other investigators all over the worldentered the field . Foremost among these was the German Dr. RobertKoch , who soon corroborated all that Devaine had observed , andcarried the experiments further in the direction of thecultivation of successive generations of the bacteria inartificial media , inoculations being made from such pure culturesof the eighth generation , with the astonishing result thatanimals thus inoculated succumbed to the disease . Such experiments seem demonstrative , yet the world wasunconvinced , and in 1876 , while the controversy was still at itsheight , Pasteur was prevailed upon to take the matter in hand . The great chemist was becoming more and more exclusively abiologist as the years passed , and in recent years his famousstudies of the silk-worm diseases , which he proved due tobacterial infection , and of the question of spontaneousgeneration , had given him unequalled resources in microscopicaltechnique . And so when , with the aid of his laboratory associatesDuclaux and Chamberland and Roux , he took up the mooted anthraxquestion the scientific world awaited the issue with batedbreath . And when , in 1877 , Pasteur was ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such a wealth ofdemonstrative experiments  --  experiments the rigid accuracy ofwhich no one would for a moment think of questioning  --  going toprove the bacterial origin of anthrax , that scepticism was atlast quieted for all time to come . Henceforth no one could doubt that the contagious disease anthraxis due exclusively to the introduction into an animal ' s system ofa specific germ  --  a microscopic plant  --  which develops there . Andno logical mind could have a reasonable doubt that what is provedtrue of one infectious disease would some day be proved true alsoof other , perhaps of all , forms of infectious maladies . Hitherto the cause of contagion , by which certain maladies spreadfrom individual to individual , had been a total mystery , quiteunillumined by the vague terms " miasm , " " humor , " " virus , " and thelike cloaks of ignorance . Here and there a prophet of science , as Schwann and Henle , had guessed the secret ; but guessing , inscience , is far enough from knowing . Now , for the first time , theworld KNEW , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact science . LISTER AND ANTISEPTIC SURGERYMeantime , in a different though allied field of medicine therehad been a complementary growth that led to immediate results ofeven more practical importance . I mean the theory and practiceof antisepsis in surgery . This advance , like the other , came asa direct outgrowth of Pasteur ' s fermentation studies of alcoholicbeverages , though not at the hands of Pasteur himself . Struck bythe boundless implications of Pasteur ' s revelations regarding thebacteria , Dr. Joseph Lister ( the present Lord Lister ) , then ofGlasgow , set about as early as 1860 to make a wonderfulapplication of these ideas . If putrefaction is always due tobacterial development , he argued , this must apply as well toliving as to dead tissues ; hence the putrefactive changes whichoccur in wounds and after operations on the human subject , fromwhich blood-poisoning so often follows , might be absolutelyprevented if the injured surfaces could be kept free from accessof the germs of decay . In the hope of accomplishing this result , Lister beganexperimenting with drugs that might kill the bacteria withoutinjury to the patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wound was freed from them . How well he succeededall the world knows ; how bitterly he was antagonized for about ascore of years , most of the world has already forgotten . As earlyas 1867 Lister was able to publish results pointing towardssuccess in his great project ; yet so incredulous were surgeons ingeneral that even some years later the leading surgeons on theContinent had not so much as heard of his efforts . In 1870 thesoldiers of Paris died , as of old , of hospital gangrene ; andwhen , in 1871 , the French surgeon Alphonse Guerin , stimulated byPasteur ' s studies , conceived the idea of dressing wounds withcotton in the hope of keeping germs from entering them , he wasquite unaware that a British contemporary had preceded him by afull decade in this effort at prevention and had made longstrides towards complete success . Lister ' s priority , however , andthe superiority of his method , were freely admitted by the FrenchAcademy of Sciences , which in 1881 officially crowned hisachievement , as the Royal Society of London had done the yearbefore . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows , Lister ' s newmethods had made their way everywhere , revolutionizing thepractice of surgery and practically banishing from the earthmaladies that hitherto had been the terror of the surgeon and theopprobrium of his art . And these bedside studies , conducted inthe end by thousands of men who had no knowledge of microscopy , had a large share in establishing the general belief in thecausal relation that micro-organisms bear to disease , which byabout the year 1880 had taken possession of the medical world . But they did more ; they brought into equal prominence the ideathat , the cause of a diseased condition being known , it maybepossible as never before to grapple with and eradicate thatcondition . PREVENTIVE INOCULATIONThe controversy over spontaneous generation , which , thanks toPasteur and Tyndall , had just been brought to a termination , madeit clear that no bacterium need be feared where an antecedentbacterium had not found lodgment ; Listerism in surgery had nowshown how much might be accomplished towards preventing theaccess of germs to abraded surfaces of the body and destroyingthose that already had found lodgment there . As yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which a corresponding onslaughtmight be made upon those other germs which find their way intothe animal organism by way of the mouth and the nostrils , andwhich , as was now clear , are the cause of those contagiousdiseases which , first and last , claim so large a proportion ofmankind for their victims . How such means might be found nowbecame the anxious thought of every imaginative physician , of every working microbiologist . As it happened , the world was not kept long in suspense . Almostbefore the proposition had taken shape in the minds of the otherleaders , Pasteur had found a solution . Guided by the empiricalsuccess of Jenner , he , like many others , had long practisedinoculation experiments , and on February 9 , 1880 , he announced tothe French Academy of Sciences that he had found a method of soreducing the virulence of a disease germ that when introducedinto the system of a susceptible animal it produced only a mildform of the disease , which , however , sufficed to protect againstthe usual virulent form exactly as vaccinia protects againstsmall-pox . The particular disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " chickencholera . " In October of the same year Pasteur announced themethod by which this " attenuation of the virus , " as he termed it , had been brought about  --  by cultivation of the disease germs inartificial media , exposed to the air , and he did not hesitate toassert his belief that the method would prove " susceptible ofgeneralization "  --  that is to say , of application to other diseasesthan the particular one in question . Within a few months he made good this prophecy , for in February , 1881 , he announced to the Academy that with the aid , as before , of his associates MM . Chamberland and Roux , he had produced anattenuated virus of the anthrax microbe by the use of which , ashe affirmed with great confidence , he could protect sheep , andpresumably cattle , against that fatal malady . " In some recentpublications , " said Pasteur , " I announced the first case of theattenuation of a virus by experimental methods only . Formed of aspecial microbe of an extreme minuteness , this virus may bemultiplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left alone without any possible external contamination , undergo , in the course of time , modifications of their virulencyto a greater or less extent . The oxygen of the atmosphere issaid to be the chief cause of these attenuations  --  that is , thislessening of the facilities of multiplication of the microbe ; forit is evident that the difference of virulence is in some wayassociated with differences of development in the parasiticeconomy . " There is no need to insist upon the interesting character ofthese results and the deductions to be made therefrom . To seek tolessen the virulence by rational means would be to establish , upon an experimental basis , the hope of preparing from an activevirus , easily cultivated either in the human or animal body , avaccine-virus of restrained development capable of preventing thefatal effects of the former . Therefore , we have applied all ourenergies to investigate the possible generalizing action ofatmospheric oxygen in the attenuation of virus . " The anthrax virus , being one that has been most carefullystudied , seemed to be the first that should attract ourattention . Every time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of chicken cholera and the microbe of anthraxthere exists an essential difference which does not allow the newexperiment to be verified by the old . The microbes of chickencholera do not , in effect , seem to resolve themselves , in theirculture , into veritable germs . The latter are merely cells , orarticulations always ready to multiply by division , except whenthe particular conditions in which they become true germs areknown . " The yeast of beer is a striking example of these cellularproductions , being able to multiply themselves indefinitelywithout the apparition of their original spores . There existmany mucedines ( Mucedinae ? ) of tubular mushrooms , which incertain conditions of culture produce a chain of more or lessspherical cells called Conidae . The latter , detached from theirbranches , are able to reproduce themselves in the form of cells , without the appearance , at least with a change in the conditions of culture , of the spores of their respective mucedines . Thesevegetable organisms can be compared to plants which arecultivated by slipping , and to produce which it is not necessary to have the fruits or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its artificial cultivation , behavesvery differently . Its mycelian filaments , if one may so describethem , have been produced scarcely for twenty-four or forty-eighthours when they are seen to transform themselves , thoseespecially which are in free contact with the air , into veryrefringent corpuscles , capable of gradually isolating themselves into true germs of slight organization . Moreover , observationshows that these germs , formed so quickly in the culture , do notundergo , after exposure for a time to atmospheric air , any changeeither in their vitality or their virulence . I was able topresent to the Academy a tube containing some spores of anthraxbacteria produced four years ago , on March 21 , 1887 . Each yearthe germination of these little corpuscles has been tried , andeach year the germination has been accomplished with the samefacility and the same rapidity as at first . Each year also thevirulence of the new cultures has been tested , and they have notshown any visible falling off . Therefore , how can we experiment with the action of the air upon the anthrax virus with anyexpectation of making it less virulent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidreproduction of the bacteria germs which we have just related . Inits form of a filament , and in its multiplication by division , is not this organism at all points comparable with the microbe ofthe chicken cholera ? " That a germ , properly so called , that a seed , does not sufferany modification on account of the air is easily conceived ; butit is conceivable not less easily that if there should be anychange it would occur by preference in the case of a mycelianfragment . It is thus that a slip which may have been abandoned inthe soil in contact with the air does not take long to lose allvitality , while under similar conditions a seed is preserved inreadiness to reproduce the plant . If these views have anyfoundation , we are led to think that in order to prove the actionof the air upon the anthrax bacteria it will be indispensable tosubmit to this action the mycelian development of the minuteorganism under conditions where there can not be the leastadmixture of corpuscular germs . Hence the problem of submittingthe bacteria to the action of oxygen comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The questionbeing put in this way , we are beginning to recognize that it iscapable of being solved . " We can , in fact , prevent the appearance of spores in theartificial cultures of the anthrax parasite by various artifices . At the lowest temperature at which this parasite can becultivated  --  that is to say , about +16 degrees Centigrade  --  thebacterium does not produce germs  --  at any rate , for a very longtime . The shapes of the minute microbe at this lowest limit ofits development are irregular , in the form of balls and pears  --  ina word , they are monstrosities  --  but they are without spores . Inthe last regard also it is the same at the highest temperaturesat which the parasite can be cultivated , temperatures which varyslightly according to the means employed . In neutral chickenbouillon the bacteria can not be cultivated above 45 degrees . Culture , however , is easy and abundant at 42 to 43 degrees , butequally without any formation of spores . Consequently a cultureof mycelian bacteria can be kept entirely free from germs whilein contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 43degrees Centigrade . Now appear the three remarkable results . After about one month of waiting the much for the life and nutrition of this organism . In respect to its virulence , it is an extraordinary fact that it disappearsentirely after eight days ' culture at 42 to 43 degreesCentigrade , or , at any rate , the cultures are innocuous for theguinea-pig , the rabbit , and the sheep , the three kinds of animalsmost apt to contract anthrax . We are thus able to obtain , notonly the attenuation of the virulence , but also its completesuppression by a simple method of cultivation . Moreover , we seealso the possibility of preserving and cultivating the terriblemicrobe in an inoffensive state . What is it that happens in theseeight days at 43 degrees that suffices to take away the virulenceof the bacteria ? Let us remember that the microbe of chickencholera dies in contact with the air , in a period somewhatprotracted , it is true , but after successive attenuations . Arewe justified in thinking that it ought to be the same in regard to the microbe of anthrax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its virulence the anthraxmicrobe passes through various degrees of attenuation , and , moreover , as is also the case with the microbe of chickencholera , each of these attenuated states of virulence can beobtained by cultivation . Moreover , since , according to one of ourrecent Communications , anthrax is not recurrent , each of ourattenuated anthrax microbes is , for the better-developed microbe , a vaccine  --  that is to say , a virus producing a less-malignantmalady . What , therefore , is easier than to find in these a virusthat will infect with anthrax sheep , cows , and horses , withoutkilling them , and ultimately capable of warding off the mortalmalady ? We have practised this experiment with great success uponsheep , and when the season comes for the assembling of the flocksat Beauce we shall try the experiment on a larger scale . " Already M. Toussaint has announced that sheep can be saved bypreventive inoculations ; but when this able observer shall havepublished his results ; on the subject of which we have made suchexhaustive studies , as yet unpublished , we shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods  --  theuncertainty of the one and the certainty of the other . That whichwe announce has , moreover , the very great advantage of restingupon the existence of a poison vaccine cultivable at will , andwhich can be increased indefinitely in the space of a few hourswithout having recourse to infected blood. " 8 This announcement was immediately challenged in a way thatbrought it to the attention of the entire world . The president ofan agricultural society , realizing the enormous importance of the subject , proposed to Pasteur that his alleged discovery should besubmitted to a decisive public test . He proposed to furnish adrove of fifty sheep half of which were to be inoculated with theattenuated virus of Pasteur . Subsequently all the sheep were tobe inoculated with virulent virus , all being kept together in onepen under precisely the same conditions . The " protected " sheepwere to remain healthy ; the unprotected ones to die of anthrax ; so read the terms of the proposition . Pasteur accepted thechallenge ; he even permitted a change in the programme by whichtwo goats were substituted for two of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that since his experiments had notyet been extended to cattle these should not be regarded asfalling rigidly within the terms of the test . It was a test to try the soul of any man , for all the worldlooked on askance , prepared to deride the maker of sopreposterous a claim as soon as his claim should be provedbaseless . Not even the fame of Pasteur could make the public atlarge , lay or scientific , believe in the possibility of what heproposed to accomplish . There was time for all the world to beinformed of the procedure , for the first " preventive " inoculation  --  or vaccination , as Pasteur termed it  --  was made onMay 5th , the second on May 17th , and another interval of twoweeks must elapse before the final inoculations with theunattenuated virus . Twenty-four sheep , one goat , and five cattlewere submitted to the preliminary vaccinations . Then , on May 31st , all sixty of the animals were inoculated , a protected andunprotected one alternately , with an extremely virulent cultureof anthrax microbes that had been in Pasteur ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together in oneenclosure to await the issue . Two days later , June 2d , at the appointed hour of rendezvous , avast crowd , composed of veterinary surgeons , newspapercorrespondents , and farmers from far and near , gathered towitness the closing scenes of this scientific tourney . What theysaw was one of the most dramatic scenes in the history ofpeaceful science  --  a scene which , as Pasteur declared afterwards , " amazed the assembly . " Scattered about the enclosure , dead , dying , or manifestly sick unto death , lay the unprotectedanimals , one and all , while each and every " protected " animalstalked unconcernedly about with every appearance of perfecthealth . Twenty of the sheep and the one goat were already dead ; two other sheep expired under the eyes of the spectators ; theremaining victims lingered but a few hours longer . Thus in amanner theatrical enough , not to say tragic , was proclaimed theunequivocal victory of science . Naturally enough , the unbelieversstruck their colors and surrendered without terms ; the principle of protective vaccination , with a virus experimentally preparedin the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memorable scientific battle marked the beginning of a newera in medicine . It was a foregone conclusion that the principlethus established would be still further generalized ; that itwould be applied to human maladies ; that in all probability itwould grapple successfully , sooner or later , with many infectiousdiseases . That expectation has advanced rapidly towardsrealization . Pasteur himself made the application to the humansubject in the disease hydrophobia in 1885 , since which time thathitherto most fatal of maladies has largely lost its terrors . Thousands of persons bitten by mad dogs have been snatched fromthe fatal consequences of that mishap by this method at thePasteur Institute in Paris , and at the similar institutes , builton the model of this parent one , that have been established allover the world in regions as widely separated as New York andNha-Trang . SERUM-THERAPYIn the production of the rabies vaccine Pasteur and hisassociates developed a method of attenuation of a virus quitedifferent from that which had been employed in the case of thevaccines of chicken cholera and of anthrax . The rabies virus wasinoculated into the system of guinea-pigs or rabbits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals . The spinalcord of these infected animals was found to be rich in the virus , which rapidly became attenuated when the cord was dried in theair . The preventive virus , of varying strengths , was made bymaceration of these cords at varying stages of desiccation . Thiscultivation of a virus within the animal organism suggested , nodoubt , by the familiar Jennerian method of securing small-poxvaccine , was at the same time a step in the direction of a newtherapeutic procedure which was destined presently to become ofall-absorbing importance  --  the method , namely , of so-calledserum-therapy , or the treatment of a disease with the blood serumof an animal that has been subjected to protective inoculationagainst that disease . The possibility of such a method was suggested by the familiarobservation , made by Pasteur and numerous other workers , thatanimals of different species differ widely in theirsusceptibility to various maladies , and that the virus of a givendisease may become more and more virulent when passed through thesystems of successive individuals of one species , and , contrariwise , less and less virulent when passed through thesystems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory that the blood of resistant animals mightcontain something directly antagonistic to the virus , and thehope that this something might be transferred with curativeeffect to the blood of an infected susceptible animal . Numerousexperimenters all over the world made investigations along the line of this alluring possibility , the leaders perhaps being Drs . Behring and Kitasato , closely followed by Dr. Roux and hisassociates of the Pasteur Institute of Paris . Definite resultswere announced by Behring in 1892 regarding two importantdiseases  --  tetanus and diphtheria  --  but the method did not comeinto general notice until 1894 , when Dr. Roux read anepoch-making paper on the subject at the Congress of Hygiene atBuda-Pesth . In this paper Dr. Roux , after adverting to the labors of Behring , Ehrlich , Boer , Kossel , and Wasserman , described in detail themethods that had been developed at the Pasteur Institute for thedevelopment of the curative serum , to which Behring had given thesince-familiar name antitoxine . The method consists , first , ofthe cultivation , for some months , of the diphtheria bacillus ( called the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus , in honor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of a powerfultoxine capable of giving the disease in a virulent form . This toxine , after certain details of mechanical treatment , isinjected in small but increasing doses into the system of ananimal , care being taken to graduate the amount so that the animal does not succumb to the disease . After a certain course ofthis treatment it is found that a portion of blood serum of the animal so treated will act in a curative way if injected into theblood of another animal , or a human patient , suffering withdiphtheria . In other words , according to theory , an antitoxinehas been developed in the system of the animal subjected to theprogressive inoculations of the diphtheria toxine . In Dr. Roux ' sexperience the animal best suited for the purpose is the horse , though almost any of the domesticated animals will serve the purpose . But Dr. Roux ' s paper did not stop with the description oflaboratory methods . It told also of the practical application ofthe serum to the treatment of numerous cases of diphtheria in thehospitals of Paris  --  applications that had met with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means had been foundof coping successfully with what had been one of the mostvirulent and intractable of the diseases of childhood . Hence itwas not strange that his paper made a sensation in all circles , medical and lay alike . Physicians from all over the world flocked to Paris to learn thedetails of the open secret , and within a few months the newserum-therapy had an acknowledged standing with the medicalprofession everywhere . What it had accomplished was regarded asbut an earnest of what the new method might accomplish presentlywhen applied to the other infectious diseases . Efforts at such applications were immediately begun in numberlessdirections  --  had , indeed , been under way in many a laboratory forsome years before . It is too early yet to speak of the results indetail . But enough has been done to show that this method also issusceptible of the widest generalization . It is not easy at the present stage to sift that which is tentative from that whichwill be permanent ; but so great an authority as Behring does nothesitate to affirm that today we possess , in addition to thediphtheria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typhus fever , pneumonia , and tuberculosis  --  a set ofdiseases which in the aggregate account for a startlingproportion of the general death-rate . Then it is known that Dr.Yersin , with the collaboration of his former colleagues of thePasteur Institute , has developed , and has used with success , anantitoxine from the microbe of the plague which recently ravagedChina . Dr. Calmette , another graduate of the Pasteur Institute , hasextended the range of the serum-therapy to include the preventionand treatment of poisoning by venoms , and has developed anantitoxine that has already given immunity from the lethaleffects of snake bites to thousands of persons in India andAustralia . Just how much of present promise is tentative , just what are thelimits of the methods  --  these are questions for the future todecide . But , in any event , there seems little question that theserum treatment will stand as the culminating achievement intherapeutics of our century . It is the logical outgrowth of thoseexperimental studies with the microscope begun by ourpredecessors of the thirties , and it represents the presentculmination of the rigidly experimental method which has broughtmedicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arational experimental science . IX . THE NEW SCIENCE OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGYBRAIN AND MINDA little over a hundred years ago a reform movement was afoot inthe world in the interests of the insane . As was fitting , themovement showed itself first in America , where these unfortunateswere humanely cared for at a time when their treatment elsewherewas worse than brutal ; but England and France quickly fell intoline . The leader on this side of the water was the famousPhiladelphian , Dr. Benjamin Rush , " the Sydenham of America " ; in England , Dr. William Tuke inaugurated the movement ; and inFrance , Dr. Philippe Pinel , single-handed , led the way . Moved bya common spirit , though acting quite independently , these menraised a revolt against the traditional custom which , spurningthe insane as demon-haunted outcasts , had condemned theseunfortunates to dungeons , chains , and the lash . Hitherto fewpeople had thought it other than the natural course of eventsthat the " maniac " should be thrust into a dungeon , and perhapschained to the wall with the aid of an iron band rivetedpermanently about his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was held to the narrow limits of his chain for yearstogether in a cell to which full daylight never penetrated ; sometimes  --  iron being expensive  --  the chain was so short that thewretched victim could not rise to the upright posture or evenshift his position upon his squalid pallet of straw . In America , indeed , there being no Middle Age precedents tocrystallize into established customs , the treatment accorded theinsane had seldom or never sunk to this level . Partly for thisreason , perhaps , the work of Dr. Rush at the PhiladelphiaHospital , in 1784 , by means of which the insane came to behumanely treated , even to the extent of banishing the lash , hasbeen but little noted , while the work of the European leaders , though belonging to later decades , has been made famous . Andperhaps this is not as unjust as it seems , for the step whichRush took , from relatively bad to good , was a far easier one totake than the leap from atrocities to good treatment which theEuropean reformers were obliged to compass . In Paris , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authoritieseven to make the attempt at liberating the insane from theirchains , and , notwithstanding his recognized position as a leaderof science , he gained but grudging assent , and was regarded asbeing himself little better than a lunatic for making somanifestly unwise and hopeless an attempt . Once the attempt hadbeen made , however , and carried to a successful issue , theamelioration wrought in the condition of the insane was so patentthat the fame of Pinel ' s work at the Bicetre and the Salpetrierewent abroad apace . It required , indeed , many years to complete itin Paris , and a lifetime of effort on the part of Pinel ' s pupilEsquirol and others to extend the reform to the provinces ; butthe epochal turning-point had been reached with Pinel ' s labors ofthe closing years of the eighteenth century . The significance of this wise and humane reform , in the presentconnection , is the fact that these studies of the insane gaveemphasis to the novel idea , which by-and-by became accepted asbeyond question , that " demoniacal possession " is in reality nomore than the outward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it clear , as never before , howintimately the mind and the body are linked one to the other . And so it chanced that , in striking the shackles from the insane , Pinel and his confreres struck a blow also , unwittingly , attime-honored philosophical traditions . The liberation of theinsane from their dungeons was an augury of the liberation ofpsychology from the musty recesses of metaphysics . Hithertopsychology , in so far as it existed at all , was but thesubjective study of individual minds ; in future it must becomeobjective as well , taking into account also the relations whichthe mind bears to the body , and in particular to the brain andnervous system . The necessity for this collocation was advocated quite asearnestly , and even more directly , by another worker of thisperiod , whose studies were allied to those of alienists , and who , even more actively than they , focalized his attention upon the brain and its functions . This earliest of specialists in brainstudies was a German by birth but Parisian by adoption , Dr. FranzJoseph Gall , originator of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system hasfallen through the exposition of peripatetic charlatans shouldnot make us forget that Dr. Gall himself was apparently a highlyeducated physician , a careful student of the brain and mindaccording to the best light of his time , and , withal , an earnestand honest believer in the validity of the system he hadoriginated . The system itself , taken as a whole , was hopelesslyfaulty , yet it was not without its latent germ of truth , as laterstudies were to show . How firmly its author himself believed init is evidenced by the paper which he contributed to the FrenchAcademy of Sciences in 1808 . The paper itself was referred to acommittee of which Pinel and Cuvier were members . The verdict ofthis committee was adverse , and justly so ; yet the systemcondemned had at least one merit which its detractors failed torealize . It popularized the conception that the brain is theorgan of mind . Moreover , by its insistence it rallied about it aband of scientific supporters , chief of whom was Dr. KasparSpurzlieim , a man of no mean abilities , who became thepropagandist of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and popularity stimulated opposition as well , andout of the disputations thus arising there grew presently ageneral interest in the brain as the organ of mind , quite asidefrom any preconceptions whatever as to the doctrines of Gall andSpurzheim . Prominent among the unprejudiced class of workers who nowappeared was the brilliant young Frenchman Louis AntoineDesmoulins , who studied first under the tutorage of the famousMagendie , and published jointly with him a classical work on the nervous system of vertebrates in 1825 . Desmoulins made at leastone discovery of epochal importance . He observed that the brainsof persons dying in old age were lighter than the average andgave visible evidence of atrophy , and he reasoned that such decayis a normal accompaniment of senility . No one nowadays wouldquestion the accuracy of this observation , but the scientificworld was not quite ready for it in 1825 ; for when Desmoulinsannounced his discovery to the French Academy , that august andsomewhat patriarchal body was moved to quite unscientific wrath , and forbade the young iconoclast the privilege of furtherhearings . From which it is evident that the partially liberatedspirit of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close of the first quarter of the nineteenthcentury , from the metaphysical cobwebs of its long incarceration . FUNCTIONS OF THE NERVESWhile studies of the brain were thus being inaugurated , the nervous system , which is the channel of communication between the brain and the outside world , was being interrogated with evenmore tangible results . The inaugural discovery was made in 1811by Dr. ( afterwards Sir Charles ) Bell , 1 the famous Englishsurgeon and experimental physiologist . It consisted of theobservation that the anterior roots of the spinal nerves aregiven over to the function of conveying motor impulses from the brain outward , whereas the posterior roots convey solely sensoryimpulses to the brain from without . Hitherto it had been supposed that all nerves have a similar function , and the peculiardistribution of the spinal nerves had been an unsolved puzzle . Bell ' s discovery was epochal ; but its full significance was notappreciated for a decade , nor , indeed , was its validity at firstadmitted . In Paris , in particular , then the court of finalappeal in all matters scientific , the alleged discovery waslooked at askance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by the recognized leader of French physiology  --  FrancoisMagendie  --  in the course of his comprehensive experimental studiesof the nervous system , and Bell ' s conclusions were subjected tothe most rigid experimental tests and found altogether valid . Bell himself , meanwhile , had turned his attention to the cranialnerves , and had proved that these also are divisible into twosets  --  sensory and motor . Sometimes , indeed , the two sets offilaments are combined into one nerve cord , but if traced totheir origin these are found to arise from different braincentres . Thus it was clear that a hitherto unrecognized dualityof function pertains to the entire extra-cranial nervous system . Any impulse sent from the periphery to the brain must be conveyedalong a perfectly definite channel ; the response from the brain , sent out to the peripheral muscles , must traverse an equallydefinite and altogether different course . If either channel isinterrupted  --  as by the section of its particular nerve tract  --  thecorresponding message is denied transmission as effectually as anelectric current is stopped by the section of the transmittingwire . Experimenters everywhere soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always happens after a great discovery , afresh impulse was given to investigations in allied fields . Nevertheless , a full decade elapsed before another discovery ofcomparable importance was made . Then Marshall Hall , the mostfamous of English physicians of his day , made his classicalobservations on the phenomena that henceforth were to be known asreflex action . In 1832 , while experimenting one day with adecapitated newt , he observed that the headless creature ' s limbswould contract in direct response to certain stimuli . Such aresponse could no longer be secured if the spinal nervessupplying a part were severed . Hence it was clear that responsivecentres exist in the spinal cord capable of receiving a sensorymessage and of transmitting a motor impulse in reply  --  a functionhitherto supposed to be reserved for the brain . Further studieswent to show that such phenomena of reflex action on the part ofcentres lying outside the range of consciousness , both in thespinal cord and in the brain itself , are extremely common ; that , in short , they enter constantly into the activities of everyliving organism and have a most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Hall ' s discovery must always stand asone of the great mile-stones of the advance of neurologicalscience . Hall gave an admirably clear and interesting account of his experiments and conclusions in a paper before the Royal Society , " On the Reflex Functions of the Medulla Oblongata and the MedullaSpinalis , " from which , as published in the Transactions of thesociety for 1833 , we may quote at some length : " In the entire animal , sensation and voluntary motion , functionsof the cerebrum , combine with the functions of the medullaoblongata and medulla spinalis , and may therefore render itdifficult or impossible to determine those which are peculiar toeach ; if , in an animal deprived of the brain , the spinal marrowor the nerves supplying the muscles be stimulated , those muscles , whether voluntary or respiratory , are equally thrown intocontraction , and , it may be added , equally in the complete and inthe mutilated animal ; and , in the case of the nerves , equally inlimbs connected with and detached from the spinal marrow . " The operation of all these various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or at least in a direction FROM , central parts of the nervous system . But there is anotherfunction the phenomena of which are of a totally different orderand obey totally different laws , being excited by causes in asituation which is EXCENTRIC in the nervous system  --  that is , distant from the nervous centres . This mode of action has not , Ithink , been hitherto distinctly understood by physiologists . " Many of the phenomena of this principle of action , as they occurin the limbs , have certainly been observed . But , in the firstplace , this function is by no means confined to the limbs ; for , while it imparts to each muscle its appropriate tone , and to eachsystem of muscles its appropriate equilibrium or balance , itperforms the still more important office of presiding over theorifices and terminations of each of the internal canals in the animal economy , giving them their due form and action ; and , inthe second place , in the instances in which the phenomena of thisfunction have been noticed , they have been confounded , as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if they havebeen distinguished from these , they have been too indefinitelydenominated instinctive , or automatic . I have been compelled , therefore , to adopt some new designation for them , and I shallnow give the reasons for my choice of that which is given in thetitle of this paper  --  ' Reflex Functions . ' " This property is characterized by being EXCITED in its actionand REFLEX in its course : in every instance in which it isexerted an impression made upon the extremities of certain nervesis conveyed to the medulla oblongata or the medulla spinalis , andis reflected along the nerves to parts adjacent to , or remotefrom , that which has received the impression . " It is by this reflex character that the function to which I havealluded is to be distinguished from every other . There are , inthe animal economy , four modes of muscular action , of muscularcontraction . The first is that designated VOLUNTARY : volition , originated in the cerebrum and spontaneous in its acts , extendsits influence along the spinal marrow and the motor nerves in aDIRECT LINE to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like volition , the motive influence in respirationpasses in a DIRECT LINE from one point of the nervous system tocertain muscles ; but as voluntary motion seems to originate inthe cerebrum , so the respiratory motions originate in the medullaoblongata : like the voluntary motions , the motions ofrespirations are spontaneous ; they continue , at least , after theeighth pair of nerves have been divided . The THIRD kind ofmuscular action in the animal economy is that termed involuntary : it depends upon the principle of irritability and requires theIMMEDIATE application of a stimulus to the nervo-muscular fibreitself . These three kinds of muscular motion are well known tophysiologists ; and I believe they are all which have beenhitherto pointed out . There is , however , a FOURTH , whichsubsists , in part , after the voluntary and respiratory motionshave ceased , by the removal of the cerebrum and medullaoblongata , and which is attached to the medulla spinalis , ceasingitself when this is removed , and leaving the irritabilityundiminished . In this kind of muscular motion the motiveinfluence does not originate in any central part of the nervoussystem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is neitherspontaneous in its action nor direct in its course ; it is , on thecontrary , EXCITED by the application of appropriate stimuli , which are not , however , applied immediately to the muscular ornervo-muscular fibre , but to certain membraneous parts , whencethe impression is carried through the medulla , REFLECTED andreconducted to the part impressed , or conducted to a part remotefrom it in which muscular contraction is effected . " The first three modes of muscular action are known only byactual movements of muscular contractions . But the reflexfunction exists as a continuous muscular action , as a powerpresiding over organs not actually in a state of motion , preserving in some , as the glottis , an open , in others , as thesphincters , a closed form , and in the limbs a due degree ofequilibrium or balanced muscular action  --  a function not , I think , hitherto recognized by physiologists . The three kinds of muscular motion hitherto known may bedistinguished in another way . The muscles of voluntary motionand of respiration may be excited by stimulating the nerves whichsupply them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sourceas a part of the medulla oblongata or the medulla spinalis orexterior to the spinal canal : the muscles of involuntary motionare chiefly excited by the actual contact of stimuli . In the case of the reflex function alone the muscles are excited by astimulus acting mediately and indirectly in a curved and reflexcourse , along superficial subcutaneous or submucous nervesproceeding from the medulla . The first three of these causes ofmuscular motion may act on detached limbs or muscles . The lastrequires the connection with the medulla to be preserved entire . " All the kinds of muscular motion may be unduly excited , but thereflex function is peculiar in being excitable in two modes ofaction , not previously subsisting in the animal economy , as inthe case of sneezing , coughing , vomiting , etc . The reflexfunction also admits of being permanently diminished or augmentedand of taking on some other morbid forms , of which I shall treathereafter . " Before I proceed to the details of the experiments upon whichthis disposition rests , it may be well to point out severalinstances in illustration of the various sources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None can be morefamiliar than the act of swallowing . Yet how complicated is theact ! The apprehension of the food by the teeth and tongue , etc. , is voluntary , and can not , therefore , take place in an animal fromwhich the cerebrum is removed . The transition of food over theglottis and along the middle and lower part of the pharynxdepends upon the reflex action : it can take place in animals fromwhich the cerebrum has been removed or the ninth pair of nervesdivided ; but it requires the connection with the medullaoblongata to be preserved entirely ; and the actual contact of some substance which may act as a stimulus : it is attended bythe accurate closure of the glottis and by the contraction of thepharynx . The completion of the act of deglutition is dependent upon the stimulus immediately impressed upon the muscular fibreof the oesophagus , and is the result of excited irritability . " However plain these observations may have made the fact thatthere is a function of the nervous muscular system distinct fromsensation , from the voluntary and respiratory motions , and fromirritability , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , that the statements and reasonings should be made with the experiment , as it were , actually before us . It has already beenremarked that the voluntary and respiratory motions arespontaneous , not necessarily requiring the agency of a stimulus . If , then , an animal can be placed in such circumstances that suchmotions will certainly not take place , the power of movingremaining , it may be concluded that volition and the motiveinfluence of respiration are annihilated . Now this is effected byremoving the cerebrum and the medulla oblongata . These facts arefully proved by the experiments of Legallois and M. Flourens , and by several which I proceed to detail , for the sake of theopportunity afforded by doing so of stating the arguments mostclearly . " I divided the spinal marrow of a very lively snake between thesecond and third vertebrae . The movements of the animal wereimmediately before extremely vigorous and unintermitted . From themoment of the division of the spinal marrow it lay perfectlytranquil and motionless , with the exception of occasionalgaspings and slight movements of the head . It became quiteevident that this state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external impressions . " Being now stimulated , the body began to move with greatactivity , and continued to do so for a considerable time , eachchange of position or situation bringing some fresh part of thesurface of the animal into contact with the table or otherobjects and renewing the application of stimulants . " At length the animal became again quiescent ; and being carefullyprotected from all external impressions it moved no more , butdied in the precise position and form which it had last assumed . " It requires a little manoeuvre to perform this experimentsuccessfully : the motions of the animal must be watched andslowly and cautiously arrested by opposing some soft substance , as a glove or cotton wool ; they are by this means graduallylulled into quiescence . The slightest touch with a hardsubstance , the slightest stimulus , will , on the other hand , renewthe movements on the animal in an active form . But that thisphenomenon does not depend upon sensation is further fully provedby the facts that the position last assumed , and the stimuli , maybe such as would be attended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : in one case the animal remainedpartially suspended over the acute edge of the table ; in othersthe infliction of punctures and the application of a lightedtaper did not prevent the animal , still possessed of activepowers of motion , from passing into a state of complete andpermanent quiescence . " In summing up this long paper Hall concludes with this sentence : " The reflex function appears in a word to be the COMPLEMENT ofthe functions of the nervous system hitherto known. " 2All these considerations as to nerve currents and nerve tractsbecoming stock knowledge of science , it was natural that interestshould become stimulated as to the exact character of these nervetracts in themselves , and all the more natural in that theperfected microscope was just now claiming all fields for itsown . A troop of observers soon entered upon the study of thenerves , and the leader here , as in so many other lines ofmicroscopical research , was no other than Theodor Schwann . Through his efforts , and with the invaluable aid of such otherworkers as Remak , Purkinje , Henle , Muller , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerve tracts wascleared away . It came to be known that in its essentials a nervetract is a tenuous fibre or thread of protoplasm stretchingbetween two terminal points in the organism , one of such terminibeing usually a cell of the brain or spinal cord , the other adistribution-point at or near the periphery  --  for example , in amuscle or in the skin . Such a fibril may have about it aprotective covering , which is known as the sheath of Schwann ; butthe fibril itself is the essential nerve tract ; and in manycases , as Remak presently discovered , the sheath is dispensed with , particularly in case of the nerves of the so-calledsympathetic system . This sympathetic system of ganglia and nerves , by-the-bye , hadlong been a puzzle to the physiologists . Its ganglia , theseeming centre of the system , usually minute in size and neververy large , are found everywhere through the organism , but inparticular are gathered into a long double chain which lieswithin the body cavity , outside the spinal column , and representsthe sole nervous system of the non-vertebrated organisms . Fibrilsfrom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervefibrils and to accompany them everywhere , but what specialfunction they subserved was long a mere matter of conjecture andled to many absurd speculations . Fact was not substituted forconjecture until about the year 1851 , when the great FrenchmanClaude Bernard conclusively proved that at least one chieffunction of the sympathetic fibrils is to cause contraction ofthe walls of the arterioles of the system , thus regulating theblood-supply of any given part . Ten years earlier Henle haddemonstrated the existence of annular bands of muscle fibres inthe arterioles , hitherto a much-mooted question , and severaltentative explanations of the action of these fibres had beenmade , particularly by the brothers Weber , by Stilling , who , asearly as 1840 , had ventured to speak of " vaso-motor " nerves , and by Schiff , who was hard upon the same track at the time ofBernard ' s discovery . But a clear light was not thrown on the subject until Bernard ' s experiments were made in 1851 . Theexperiments were soon after confirmed and extended byBrown-Sequard , Waller , Budge , and numerous others , and henceforthphysiologists felt that they understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervous system . In reality , however , they had learned only half the story , asBernard himself proved only a few years later by opening up a newand quite unsuspected chapter . While experimenting in 1858 hediscovered that there are certain nerves supplying the heartwhich , if stimulated , cause that organ to relax and ceasebeating . As the heart is essentially nothing more than anaggregation of muscles , this phenomenon was utterly puzzling andwithout precedent in the experience of physiologists . An impulsetravelling along a motor nerve had been supposed to be able tocause a muscular contraction and to do nothing else ; yet heresuch an impulse had exactly the opposite effect . The only tenableexplanation seemed to be that this particular impulse must arrestor inhibit the action of the impulses that ordinarily cause theheart muscles to contract . But the idea of such inhibition of oneimpulse by another was utterly novel and at first difficult tocomprehend . Gradually , however , the idea took its place in thecurrent knowledge of nerve physiology , and in time it came to beunderstood that what happens in the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed universal , form of nervous action . Growing out ofBernard ' s initial discovery came the final understanding that theentire nervous system is a mechanism of centres subordinate andcentres superior , the action of the one of which may becounteracted and annulled in effect by the action of the other . This applies not merely to such physical processes as heart-beatsand arterial contraction and relaxing , but to the most intricatefunctionings which have their counterpart in psychical processesas well . Thus the observation of the inhibition of the heart ' saction by a nervous impulse furnished the point of departure forstudies that led to a better understanding of the modus operandiof the mind ' s activities than had ever previously been attainedby the most subtle of psychologists . PSYCHO-PHYSICSThe work of the nerve physiologists had thus an important bearingon questions of the mind . But there was another company ofworkers of this period who made an even more direct assault upon the " citadel of thought . " A remarkable school of workers had beendeveloped in Germany , the leaders being men who , having more orless of innate metaphysical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the empirical scientist , and whoseeducational equipment included a profound knowledge not alone ofphysiology and psychology , but of physics and mathematics aswell . These men undertook the novel task of interrogating therelations of body and mind from the standpoint of physics . Theysought to apply the vernier and the balance , as far as might be , to the intangible processes of mind . The movement had its precursory stages in the early part of thecentury , notably in the mathematical psychology of Herbart , butits first definite output to attract general attention came fromthe master-hand of Hermann Helmholtz in 1851 . It consisted of theaccurate measurement of the speed of transit of a nervous impulsealong a nerve tract . To make such measurement had been regarded as impossible , it being supposed that the flight of the nervousimpulse was practically instantaneous . But Helmholtz readilydemonstrated the contrary , showing that the nerve cord is arelatively sluggish message-bearer . According to his experiments , first performed upon the frog , the nervous " current " travels lessthan one hundred feet per second . Other experiments performedsoon afterwards by Helmholtz himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bois-Reymond , modified somewhat the exactfigures at first obtained , but did not change the generalbearings of the early results . Thus the nervous impulse was shownto be something far different , as regards speed of transit , atany rate , from the electric current to which it had been so oftenlikened . An electric current would flash halfway round the globewhile a nervous impulse could travel the length of the human body  --  from a man ' s foot to his brain . The tendency to bridge the gulf that hitherto had separated the physical from the psychical world was further evidenced in thefollowing decade by Helmholtz ' s remarkable but highly technicalstudy of the sensations of sound and of color in connection with their physical causes , in the course of which he revived thedoctrine of color vision which that other great physiologist andphysicist , Thomas Young , had advanced half a century before . Thesame tendency was further evidenced by the appearance , in 1852 , of Dr. Hermann Lotze ' s famous Medizinische Psychologie , oderPhysiologie der Seele , with its challenge of the old myth of a " vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newmovement was signalized in 1860 , when Gustav Fechner publishedhis classical work called Psychophysik . That title introduced anew word into the vocabulary of science . Fechner explained it bysaying , " I mean by psychophysics an exact theory of the relation between spirit and body , and , in a general way , between the physical and the psychic worlds . " The title became famous and thebrunt of many a controversy . So also did another phrase whichFechner introduced in the course of his book  --  the phrase " physiological psychology . " In making that happy collocation ofwords Fechner virtually christened a new science . FECHNER EXPOUNDS WEBER ' S LAWThe chief purport of this classical book of the **25;120;TOOLONG was the elaboration and explication ofexperiments based on a method introduced more than twenty yearsearlier by his countryman E. H. Weber , but which hitherto hadfailed to attract the attention it deserved . The method consisted of the measurement and analysis of the definite relation existingbetween external stimuli of varying degrees of intensity ( varioussounds , for example ) and the mental states they induce . Weber ' sexperiments grew out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various sounds , weights , or visualimages depends upon the magnitude of each particular cause of asensation in its relation with other similar causes . Thus , forexample , we can not see the stars in the daytime , though theyshine as brightly then as at night . Again , we seldom notice theticking of a clock in the daytime , though it may become almostpainfully audible in the silence of the night . Yet again , thedifference between an ounce weight and a two-ounce weight isclearly enough appreciable when we lift the two , but one cannotdiscriminate in the same way between a five-pound weight and aweight of one ounce over five pounds . This last example , and similar ones for the other senses , gaveWeber the clew to his novel experiments . Reflection uponevery-day experiences made it clear to him that whenever weconsider two visual sensations , or two auditory sensations , ortwo sensations of weight , in comparison one with another , there is always a limit to the keenness of our discrimination , and thatthis degree of keenness varies , as in the case of the weightsjust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weber determined to see whether these common experiences could bebrought within the pale of a general law . His method consisted ofmaking long series of experiments aimed at the determination , ineach case , of what came to be spoken of as the least observabledifference between the stimuli . Thus if one holds an ounce weightin each hand , and has tiny weights added to one of them , grain bygrain , one does not at first perceive a difference ; butpresently , on the addition of a certain grain , he does become aware of the difference . Noting now how many grains have beenadded to produce this effect , we have the weight which representsthe least appreciable difference when the standard is one ounce . Now repeat the experiment , but let the weights be each of fivepounds . Clearly in this case we shall be obliged to add notgrains , but drachms , before a difference between the two heavyweights is perceived . But whatever the exact amount added , thatamount represents the stimulus producing a **25;147;TOOLONG of difference when the standard is five pounds . And soon for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s curious discovery . Not only did he find that inrepeated experiments with the same pair of weights the measure of " just-perceivable difference " remained approximately fixed , buthe found , further , that a remarkable fixed relation existsbetween the stimuli of different magnitude . If , for example , he had found it necessary , in the case of the ounce weights , to addone-fiftieth of an ounce to the one before a difference wasdetected , he found also , in the case of the five-pound weights , that one-fiftieth of five pounds must be added before producingthe same result . And so of all other weights ; the amount addedto produce the stimulus of " least-appreciable difference " alwaysbore the same mathematical relation to the magnitude of the weight used , be that magnitude great or small . Weber found that the same thing holds good for the stimuli of thesensations of sight and of hearing , the differential stimulusbearing always a fixed ratio to the total magnitude of thestimuli . Here , then , was the law he had sought . Weber ' s results were definite enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of attentionuntil they were revived and extended by Fechner and broughtbefore the world in the famous work on psycho-physics . Then theyprecipitated a veritable melee . Fechner had not alone verifiedthe earlier results ( with certain limitations not essential tothe present consideration ) , but had invented new methods ofmaking similar tests , and had reduced the whole question tomathematical treatment . He pronounced Weber ' s discovery thefundamental law of psycho-physics . In honor of the discoverer , hechristened it Weber ' s Law . He clothed the law in words and inmathematical formulae , and , so to say , launched it full tilt atthe heads of the psychological world . It made a fine commotion , be assured , for it was the first widely heralded bulletin of thenew psychology in its march upon the strongholds of thetime-honored metaphysics . The accomplishments of themicroscopists and the nerve physiologists had been butpreliminary  --  mere border skirmishes of uncertain import . But herewas proof that the iconoclastic movement meant to invade the veryheart of the sacred territory of mind  --  a territory from whichtangible objective fact had been supposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been sounded , however , before a new movement was made . While Fechner ' s book was fresh from the press , stepswere being taken to extend the methods of the physicist in yetanother way to the intimate processes of the mind . As Helmholtzhad shown the rate of nervous impulsion along the nerve tract tobe measurable , it was now sought to measure also the timerequired for the central nervous mechanism to perform its work ofreceiving a message and sending out a response . This was comingdown to the very threshold of mind . The attempt was first made byProfessor Donders in 1861 , but definitive results were onlyobtained after many years of experiment on the part of a host ofobservers . The chief of these , and the man who has stood in theforefront of the new movement and has been its recognized leaderthroughout the remainder of the century , is Dr. Wilhelm Wundt , ofLeipzig . The task was not easy , but , in the long run , it was accomplished . Not alone was it shown that the nerve centre requires ameasurable time for its operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . Thus it was found thatdifferent persons vary in the rate of their central nervousactivity  --  which explained the " personal equation " that theastronomer Bessel had noted a half-century before . It was found , too , that the rate of activity varies also for the same personunder different conditions , becoming retarded , for example , underinfluence of fatigue , or in case of certain diseases of the brain . All details aside , the essential fact emerges , as anexperimental demonstration , that the intellectualprocesses  --  sensation , apperception , volition  --  are linkedirrevocably with the activities of the central nervous tissues , and that these activities , like all other physical processes , have a time element . To that old school of psychologists , whoscarcely cared more for the human head than for the heels  --  beinginterested only in the mind  --  such a linking of mind and body aswas thus demonstrated was naturally disquieting . But whatever theinferences , there was no escaping the facts . Of course this new movement has not been confined to Germany . Indeed , it had long had exponents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Hartley had championed the theory ofthe close and indissoluble dependence of the mind upon the brain , and formulated a famous vibration theory of association thatstill merits careful consideration . Then , too , in France , at thebeginning of the century , there was Dr. Cabanis with histangible , if crudely phrased , doctrine that the brain digestsimpressions and secretes thought as the stomach digests food andthe liver secretes bile . Moreover , Herbert Spencer ' s Principlesof Psychology , with its avowed co-ordination of mind and body andits vitalizing theory of evolution , appeared in 1855 , half adecade before the work of Fechner . But these influences , thoughof vast educational value , were theoretical rather thandemonstrative , and the fact remains that the experimental workwhich first attempted to gauge mental operations by physicalprinciples was mainly done in Germany . Wundt ' s PhysiologicalPsychology , with its full preliminary descriptions of the anatomyof the nervous system , gave tangible expression to the growth ofthe new movement in 1874 ; and four years later , with the openingof his laboratory of physiological psychology at the Universityof Leipzig , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foothold and to have forced itself into officialrecognition . From then on its conquest of the world was but amatter of time . It should be noted , however , that there is one other method ofstrictly experimental examination of the mental field , latterlymuch in vogue , which had a different origin . This is thescientific investigation of the phenomena of hypnotism . Thissubject was rescued from the hands of charlatans , rechristened , and subjected to accurate investigation by Dr. James Braid , ofManchester , as early as 1841 . But his results , after attractingmomentary attention , fell from view , and , despite desultoryefforts , the subject was not again accorded a general hearingfrom the scientific world until 1878 , when Dr. Charcot took it upat the Salpetriere , in Paris , followed soon afterwards by Dr.Rudolf Heidenhain , of Breslau , and a host of other experimenters . The value of the method in the study of mental states was soonapparent . Most of Braid ' s experiments were repeated , and in themain his results were confirmed . His explanation of hypnotism , or artificial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or supersensible influence , soon gained generalcredence . His belief that the initial stages are due to fatigueof nervous centres , usually from excessive stimulation , has notbeen supplanted , though supplemented by notions growing out ofthe new knowledge as to subconscious mentality in general , andthe inhibitory influence of one centre over another in thecentral nervous mechanism . THE BRAIN AS THE ORGAN OF MINDThese studies of the psychologists and pathologists bring therelations of mind and body into sharp relief . But even moredefinite in this regard was the work of the brain physiologists . Chief of these , during the middle period of the century , was theman who is sometimes spoken of as the " father of brainphysiology , " Marie Jean Pierre Flourens , of the Jardin desPlantes of Paris , the pupil and worthy successor of Magendie . His experiments in nerve physiology were begun in the firstquarter of the century , but his local experiments upon the brainitself were not culminated until about 1842 . At this time the olddispute over phrenology had broken out afresh , and the studies ofFlourens were aimed , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troublesome topic . In the course of these studies Flourens discovered that in themedulla oblongata , the part of the brain which connects thatorgan with the spinal cord , there is a centre of minute sizewhich can not be injured in the least without causing the instantdeath of the animal operated upon . It may be added that it isthis spot which is reached by the needle of the garroter inSpanish executions , and that the same centre also is destroyedwhen a criminal is " successfully " hanged , this time by the forcedintrusion of a process of the second cervical vertebra . Flourensnamed this spot the " vital knot . " Its extreme importance , as isnow understood , is due to the fact that it is the centre ofnerves that supply the heart ; but this simple explanation , annulling the conception of a specific " life centre , " was not atonce apparent . Other experiments of Flourens seemed to show that the cerebellumis the seat of the centres that co-ordinate muscular activities , and that the higher intellectual faculties are relegated to thecerebrum . But beyond this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as regards specific faculties , wereobtained from all localized irritations of the cerebrum , andFlourens was forced to conclude that the cerebral lobe , whilebeing undoubtedly the seat of higher intellection , performs itsfunctions with its entire structure . This conclusion , whichincidentally gave a quietus to phrenology , was acceptedgenerally , and became the stock doctrine of cerebral physiologyfor a generation . It will be seen , however , that these studies of Flourens had adouble bearing . They denied localization of cerebral functions , but they demonstrated the localization of certain nervousprocesses in other portions of the brain . On the whole , then , they spoke positively for the principle of localization offunction in the brain , for which a certain number of studentscontended ; while their evidence against cerebral localization wasonly negative . There was here and there an observer who felt thatthis negative testimony was not conclusive . In particular , theGerman anatomist Meynert , who had studied the disposition ofnerve tracts in the cerebrum , was led to believe that theanterior portions of the cerebrum must have motor functions inpreponderance ; the posterior positions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr.Hughlings-Jackson , in England , from his studies of epilepsy . Butno positive evidence was forthcoming until 1861 , when Dr. PaulBroca brought before the Academy of Medicine in Paris a case ofbrain lesion which he regarded as having most important bearingson the question of cerebral localization . The case was that of a patient at the Bicetre , who for twentyyears had been deprived of the power of speech , seemingly throughloss of memory of words . In 1861 this patient died , and anautopsy revealed that a certain convolution of the left frontallobe of his cerebrum had been totally destroyed by disease , theremainder of his brain being intact . Broca felt that thisobservation pointed strongly to a localization of the memory ofwords in a definite area of the brain . Moreover , it transpiredthat the case was not without precedent . As long ago as 1825 Dr.Boillard had been led , through pathological studies , to locatedefinitely a centre for the articulation of words in the frontallobe , and here and there other observers had made tentatives inthe same direction . Boillard had even followed the matter up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him . Now , however , in the half-decade that followed Broca ' s announcements , interest rose to fever-beat , and through the efforts of Broca , Boillard , and numerous others it was proved that a veritablecentre having a strange domination over the memory of articulatewords has its seat in the third convolution of the frontal lobeof the cerebrum , usually in the left hemisphere . That part of the brain has since been known to the English-speaking world as theconvolution of Broca , a name which , strangely enough , thediscoverer ' s compatriots have been slow to accept . This discovery very naturally reopened the entire subject ofbrain localization . It was but a short step to the inferencethat there must be other definite centres worth the seeking , andvarious observers set about searching for them . In 1867 a clewwas gained by Eckhard , who , repeating a forgotten experiment byHaller and Zinn of the previous century , removed portions of the brain cortex of animals , with the result of producingconvulsions . But the really vital departure was made in 1870 bythe German investigators Fritsch and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of animals with a galvanic current , produced contraction of definite sets of muscles of the opposite side of the body . These most important experiments , received atfirst with incredulity , were repeated and extended in 1873 by Dr.David Ferrier , of London , and soon afterwards by a small army ofindependent workers everywhere , prominent among whom were Franckand Pitres in France , Munck and Goltz in Germany , and Horsley andSchafer in England . The detailed results , naturally enough , were not at first all in harmony . Some observers , as Goltz , evendenied the validity of the conclusions in toto . But a consensusof opinion , based on multitudes of experiments , soon placed thebroad general facts for which Fritsch and Hitzig contended beyondcontroversy . It was found , indeed , that the cerebral centres ofmotor activities have not quite the finality at first ascribed tothem by some observers , since it may often happen that after thedestruction of a centre , with attending loss of function , theremay be a gradual restoration of the lost function , proving thatother centres have acquired the capacity to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this capacity forsubstitution , however , and with this qualification thedefiniteness of the localization of motor functions in thecerebral cortex has become an accepted part of brain physiology . Nor is such localization confined to motor centres . Laterexperiments , particularly of Ferrier and of Munck , proved thatthe centres of vision are equally restricted in their location , this time in the posterior lobes of the brain , and that hearinghas likewise its local habitation . Indeed , there is every reason to believe that each form of primary sensation is based onimpressions which mainly come to a definitely localized goal inthe brain . But all this , be it understood , has no reference tothe higher forms of intellection . All experiment has provedfutile to localize these functions , except indeed to the extentof corroborating the familiar fact of their dependence upon the brain , and , somewhat problematically , upon the anterior lobes ofthe cerebrum in particular . But this is precisely what should beexpected , for the clearer insight into the nature of mentalprocesses makes it plain that in the main these alleged " faculties " are not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty " of language is associated irrevocably with centresof vision , of hearing , and of muscular activity , to go nofurther , and only becomes possible through the association ofthese widely separated centres . The destruction of Broca ' scentre , as was early discovered , does not altogether deprive apatient of his knowledge of language . He may be totally unable tospeak ( though as to this there are all degrees of variation ) , andyet may comprehend what is said to him , and be able to read , think , and even write correctly . Thus it appears that Broca ' scentre is peculiarly bound up with the capacity for articulatespeech , but is far enough from being the seat of the faculty oflanguage in its entirety . In a similar way , most of the supposed isolated " faculties " ofhigher intellection appear , upon clearer analysis , as complexaggregations of primary sensations , and hence necessarilydependent upon numerous and scattered centres . Some " faculties , " as memory and volition , may be said in a sense to be primordialendowments of every nerve cell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimate analysis relegates all intellection , in itsprimordial adumbrations , to every particle of living matter . Butsuch refinements of analysis , after all , can not hide the factthat certain forms of higher intellection involve a prettydefinite collocation and elaboration of special sensations . Suchspecialization , indeed , seems a necessary accompaniment of mentalevolution . That every such specialized function has itslocalized centres of co-ordination , of some such significance asthe demonstrated centres of articulate speech , can hardly be indoubt  --  though this , be it understood , is an induction , not as yeta demonstration . In other words , there is every reason tobelieve that numerous " centres , " in this restricted sense , existin the brain that have as yet eluded the investigator . Indeed , the current conception regards the entire cerebral cortex aschiefly composed of centres of ultimate co-ordination ofimpressions , which in their cruder form are received by moreprimitive nervous tissues  --  the basal ganglia , the cerebellum andmedulla , and the spinal cord . This , of course , is equivalent to postulating the cerebral cortexas the exclusive seat of higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safe induction seems to lead , is far afieldfrom the substantiation of the old conception of brainlocalization , which was based on faulty psychology and equallyfaulty inductions from few premises . The details of Gall ' ssystem , as propounded by generations of his mostly unworthyfollowers , lie quite beyond the pale of scientific discussion . Yet , as I have said , a germ of truth was there  --  the idea ofspecialization of cerebral functions  --  and modern investigatorshave rescued that central conception from the phrenologicalrubbish heap in which its discoverer unfortunately left itburied . THE MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE BRAINThe common ground of all these various lines of investigations ofpathologist , anatomist , physiologist , physicist , and psychologistis , clearly , the central nervous system  --  the spinal cord and thebrain . The importance of these structures as the foci of nervousand mental activities has been recognized more and more with eachnew accretion of knowledge , and the efforts to fathom the secretsof their intimate structure has been unceasing . For the earlierstudents , only the crude methods of gross dissections andmicroscopical inspection were available . These could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the keenerinsight of the microscopist alone . And even for him the task ofinvestigation was far from facile , for the central nervoustissues are the most delicate and fragile , and on many accountsthe most difficult of manipulation of any in the body . Special methods , therefore , were needed for this essay , and brainhistology has progressed by fitful impulses , each forward jetmarking the introduction of some ingenious improvement ofmechanical technique , which placed a new weapon in the hands ofthe investigators . The very beginning was made in 1824 by Rolando , who first thoughtof cutting chemically hardened pieces of brain tissues into thinsections for microscopical examination  --  the basal structure uponwhich almost all the later advances have been conducted . Mullerpresently discovered that bichromate of potassium in solutionmakes the best of fluids for the preliminary preservation andhardening of the tissues . Stilling , in 1842 , perfected themethod by introducing the custom of cutting a series ofconsecutive sections of the same tissue , in order to trace nervetracts and establish spacial relations . Then from time to timemechanical ingenuity added fresh details of improvement . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bemade better subject to manipulation by being impregnated withcollodion or celloidine and embedded in paraffine . Latterly it has become usual to cut sections also from fresh tissues , unchanged by chemicals , by freezing them suddenly with vaporizedether or , better , carbonic acid . By these methods , and with theaid of perfected microtomes , the worker of recent periods availshimself of sections of brain tissues of a tenuousness which the early investigators could not approach . But more important even than the cutting of thin sections is theprocess of making the different parts of the section visible , onetissue differentiated from another . The thin section , as the early workers examined it , was practically colorless , and eventhe crudest details of its structure were made out with extremedifficulty . Remak did , indeed , manage to discover that the braintissue is cellular , as early as 1833 , and Ehrenberg in the sameyear saw that it is also fibrillar , but beyond this no greatadvance was made until 1858 , when a sudden impulse was receivedfrom a new process introduced by Gerlach . The process itself wasmost simple , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section with a solution of carmine . But the result was wonderful , for when such a section was placedunder the lens it no longer appeared homogeneous . Sprinkledthrough its substance were seen irregular bodies that had takenon a beautiful color , while the matrix in which they wereembedded remained unstained . In a word , the central nerve cellhad sprung suddenly into clear view . A most interesting body it proved , this nerve cell , or ganglioncell , as it came to be called . It was seen to be exceedinglyminute in size , requiring high powers of the microscope to makeit visible . It exists in almost infinite numbers , not , however , scattered at random through the brain and spinal cord . On thecontrary , it is confined to those portions of the central nervousmasses which to the naked eye appear gray in color , beingaltogether wanting in the white substance which makes up thechief mass of the brain . Even in the gray matter , thoughsometimes thickly distributed , the ganglion cells are never inactual contact one with another ; they always lie embedded inintercellular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the neuroglia . Each ganglion cell was seen to be irregular in contour , and tohave jutting out from it two sets of minute fibres , one setrelatively short , indefinitely numerous , and branching in everydirection ; the other set limited in number , sometimes evensingle , and starting out directly from the cell as if bent on alonger journey . The numerous filaments came to be known asprotoplasmic processes ; the other fibre was named , after itsdiscoverer , the axis cylinder of Deiters . It was a naturalinference , though not clearly demonstrable in the sections , thatthese filamentous processes are the connecting links between thedifferent nerve cells and also the channels of communicationbetween nerve cells and the periphery of the body . The whitesubstance of brain and cord , apparently , is made up of suchconnecting fibres , thus bringing the different ganglion cellseverywhere into communication one with another . In the attempt to trace the connecting nerve tracts through thiswhite substance by either macroscopical or microscopical methods , most important aid is given by a method originated by Waller in1852 . Earlier than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cord degenerates in its peripheral portions . Wallerdiscovered that every nerve fibre , sensory or motor , has a nervecell to or from which it leads , which dominates its nutrition , sothat it can only retain its vitality while its connection withthat cell is intact . Such cells he named trophic centres . Certain cells of the anterior part of the spinal cord , forexample , are the trophic centres of the spinal motor nerves . Other trophic centres , governing nerve tracts in the spinal corditself , are in the various regions of the brain . It occurred toWaller that by destroying such centres , or by severing theconnection at various regions between a nervous tract and itstrophic centre , sharply defined tracts could be made todegenerate , and their location could subsequently be accuratelydefined , as the degenerated tissues take on a changed aspect , both to macroscopical and microscopical observation . Recognitionof this principle thus gave the experimenter a new weapon ofgreat efficiency in tracing nervous connections . Moreover , thesame principle has wide application in case of the human subjectin disease , such as the lesion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by embolisms , or by traumatisms . All these various methods of anatomical examination combine tomake the conclusion almost unavoidable that the central ganglioncells are the veritable " centres " of nervous activity to which somany other lines of research have pointed . The conclusion wasstrengthened by experiments of the students of motorlocalization , which showed that the veritable centres of theirdiscovery lie , demonstrably , in the gray cortex of the brain , notin the white matter . But the full proof came from pathology . Atthe hands of a multitude of observers it was shown that incertain well-known diseases of the spinal cord , with resultingparalysis , it is the ganglion cells themselves that are found tobe destroyed . Similarly , in the case of sufferers from chronicinsanities , with marked dementia , the ganglion cells of thecortex of the brain are found to have undergone degeneration . Thebrains of paretics in particular show such degeneration , instriking correspondence with their mental decadence . The position of the ganglion cell as the ultimate centre of nervous activitieswas thus placed beyond dispute . Meantime , general acceptance being given the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white substance ofthe brain is a mesh-work of intercellular fibrils , a proximalidea seemed attainable of the way in which the ganglionicactivities are correlated , and , through association , built up , soto speak , into the higher mental processes . Such a conceptionaccorded beautifully with the ideas of the associationists , whohad now become dominant in psychology . But one standing puzzleattended this otherwise satisfactory correlation of anatomicalobservations and psychic analyses . It was this : Since , according to the histologist , the intercellular fibres , along whichimpulses are conveyed , connect each brain cell , directly orindirectly , with every other brain cell in an endless mesh-work , how is it possible that various sets of cells may at times beshut off from one another ? Such isolation must take place , forall normal ideation depends for its integrity quite as much uponthe shutting-out of the great mass of associations as upon theinclusion of certain other associations . For example , a studentin solving a mathematical problem must for the moment becomequite oblivious to the special associations that have to do withgeography , natural history , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way in which such isolation may be effected ? Attempts were made to find an answer through consideration of the very peculiar character of the blood-supply in the brain . Here , as nowhere else , the terminal twigs of the arteries are arranged in closed systems , not anastomosing freely with neighboringsystems . Clearly , then , a restricted area of the brain may , through the controlling influence of the vasomotor nerves , beflushed with arterial blood while neighboring parts remainrelatively anaemic . And since vital activities unquestionablydepend in part upon the supply of arterial blood , this peculiararrangement of the vascular mechanism may very properly besupposed to aid in the localized activities of the centralnervous ganglia . But this explanation left much to be desired  --  inparticular when it is recalled that all higher intellection mustin all probability involve multitudes of widely scatteredcentres . No better explanation was forthcoming , however , until the year1889 , when of a sudden the mystery was cleared away by a freshdiscovery . Not long before this the Italian histologist Dr.Camille Golgi had discovered a method of impregnating hardenedbrain tissues with a solution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells and their processes almostinfinitely better than was possible by the methods of Gerlach , orby any of the multiform methods that other workers hadintroduced . Now for the first time it became possible to tracethe cellular prolongations definitely to their termini , for thefiner fibrils had not been rendered visible by any previousmethod of treatment . Golgi himself proved that the set of fibrilsknown as protoplasmic prolongations terminate by freeextremities , and have no direct connection with any cell save theone from which they spring . He showed also that the axiscylinders give off multitudes of lateral branches not hithertosuspected . But here he paused , missing the real import of thediscovery of which he was hard on the track . It remained for theSpanish histologist Dr. S. Ramon y Cajal to follow up theinvestigation by means of an improved application of Golgi ' smethod of staining , and to demonstrate that the axis cylinders , together with all their collateral branches , though sometimesextending to a great distance , yet finally terminate , like theother cell prolongations , in arborescent fibrils having freeextremities . In a word , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offshoots , is an isolated entity . Instead of being in physical connection with a multitude of othernerve cells , it has no direct physical connection with any othernerve cell whatever . When Dr. Cajal announced his discovery , in 1889 , hisrevolutionary claims not unnaturally amazed the mass ofhistologists . There were some few of them , however , who were notquite unprepared for the revelation ; in particular His , who hadhalf suspected the independence of the cells , because they seemedto develop from dissociated centres ; and Forel , who based asimilar suspicion on the fact that he had never been ableactually to trace a fibre from one cell to another . Theseobservers then came readily to repeat Cajal ' s experiments . Soalso did the veteran histologist Kolliker , and soon afterwardsall the leaders everywhere . The result was a practicallyunanimous confirmation of the Spanish histologist ' s claims , andwithin a few months after his announcements the old theory ofunion of nerve cells into an endless mesh-work was completelydiscarded , and the theory of isolated nerve elements  --  the theoryof neurons , as it came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to how these isolated nerve cells functionate , Dr. Cajal gavethe clew from the very first , and his explanation has met withuniversal approval . In the modified view , the nerve cell retains its old position asthe storehouse of nervous energy . Each of the filaments juttingout from the cell is held , as before , to be indeed a transmitterof impulses , but a transmitter that operates intermittently , likea telephone wire that is not always " connected , " and , like thatwire , the nerve fibril operates by contact and not by continuity . Under proper stimulation the ends of the fibrils reach out , comein contact with other end fibrils of other cells , and conducttheir destined impulse . Again they retract , and communicationceases for the time between those particular cells . Meantime , bya different arrangement of the various conductors , different setsof cells are placed in communication , different associations ofnervous impulses induced , different trains of thought engendered . Each fibril when retracted becomes a non-conductor , but whenextended and in contact with another fibril , or with the body ofanother cell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could do  --  precisely as in the case of an electric wire . This conception , founded on a most tangible anatomical basis , enables us to answer the question as to how ideas are isolated , and also , as Dr. Cajal points out , throws new light on many othermental processes . One can imagine , for example , by keeping inmind the flexible nerve prolongations , how new trains of thoughtmay be engendered through novel associations of cells ; howfacility of thought or of action in certain directions isacquired through the habitual making of certain nerve-cellconnections ; how certain bits of knowledge may escape our memory and refuse to be found for a time because of a temporaryincapacity of the nerve cells to make the proper connections , andso on indefinitely . If one likens each nerve cell to a central telephone office , eachof its filamentous prolongations to a telephone wire , one canimagine a striking analogy between the modus operandi of nervousprocesses and of the telephone system . The utility of newconnections at the central office , the uselessness of themechanism when the connections can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your message , perhaps even the crossing of wires , bringing you a jangle of sounds far different from what youdesire  --  all these and a multiplicity of other things that willsuggest themselves to every user of the telephone may be imaginedas being almost ludicrously paralleled in the operations of the nervous mechanism . And that parallel , startling as it may seem , is not a mere futile imagining . It is sustained and renderedplausible by a sound substratum of knowledge of the anatomicalconditions under which the central nervous mechanism exists , andin default of which , as pathology demonstrates with no lesscertitude , its functionings are futile to produce the normalmanifestations of higher intellection . X. THE NEW SCIENCE OF ORIENTAL ARCHAEOLOGYHOW THE " RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX " WAS READConspicuously placed in the great hall of Egyptian antiquities inthe British Museum is a wonderful piece of sculpture known as theRosetta Stone . I doubt if any other piece in the entire exhibitattracts so much attention from the casual visitor as this slabof black basalt on its telescope-like pedestal . The hall itself , despite its profusion of strangely sculptured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may almost always find someone standing , gazing with more or less of discernment at thestrange characters that are graven neatly across its upturned , glass-protected face . A glance at this graven surface suffices toshow that three sets of inscriptions are recorded there . Theupper one , occupying about one-fourth of the surface , is apictured scroll , made up of chains of those strange outlines ofserpents , hawks , lions , and so on , which are recognized , even bythe least initiated , as hieroglyphics . The middle inscription , made up of lines , angles , and half-pictures , one might surmise tobe a sort of abbreviated or short-hand hieroglyphic . The third orlower inscription is Greek  --  obviously a thing of words . If thescreeds above be also made of words , only the elect have any wayof proving the fact . Fortunately , however , even the least scholarly observer is leftin no doubt as to the real import of the thing he sees , for anobliging English label tells us that these three inscriptions arerenderings of the same message , and that this message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divine honors onPtolemy V. ( Epiphenes ) , King of Egypt , B.C. 195 . " The label goeson to state that the upper inscription ( of which , unfortunately , only part of the last dozen lines or so remains , the slab beingbroken ) is in " the Egyptian language , in hieroglyphics , orwriting of the priests " ; the second inscription " in the samelanguage is in Demotic , or the writing of the people " ; and thethird " the Greek language and character . " Following this is abrief biography of the Rosetta Stone itself , as follows : " Thestone was found by the French in 1798 among the ruins of FortSaint Julien , near the Rosetta mouth of the Nile . It passed intothe hands of the British by the treaty of Alexandria , and wasdeposited in the British Museum in the year 1801 . " There is awhole volume of history in that brief inscription  --  and a bittersting thrown in , if the reader chance to be a Frenchman . Yet thefacts involved could scarcely be suggested more modestly . Theyare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the stone , which reads : " Captured in Egypt by the BritishArmy , 1801 . " No Frenchman could read those words without averitable sinking of the heart . The value of the Rosetta Stone depended on the fact that it gavepromise , even when casually inspected , of furnishing a key to thecenturies-old mystery of the hieroglyphics . For two thousandyears the secret of these strange markings had been forgotten . Nowhere in the world  --  quite as little in Egypt as elsewhere  --  hadany man the slightest clew to their meaning ; there were those whoeven doubted whether these droll picturings really had anyspecific meaning , questioning whether they were not rather vaguesymbols of esoteric religious import and nothing more . And it wasthe Rosetta Stone that gave the answer to these doubters andrestored to the world a lost language and a forgotten literature . The trustees of the museum recognized at once that the problem ofthe Rosetta Stone was one on which the scientists of the worldmight well exhaust their ingenuity , and promptly published to theworld a carefully lithographed copy of the entire inscription , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the riddle . It was an Englishman , however , who firstgained a clew to the solution . This was none other than theextraordinary Dr. Thomas Young , the demonstrator of the vibratorynature of light . Young ' s specific discoveries were these : ( 1 ) That many of thepictures of the hieroglyphics stand for the names of the objectsactually delineated ; ( 2 ) that other pictures are sometimes onlysymbolic ; ( 3 ) that plural numbers are represented by repetition ; ( 4 ) that numerals are represented by dashes ; ( 5 ) thathieroglyphics may read either from the right or from the left , but always from the direction in which the animal and humanfigures face ; ( 6 ) that proper names are surrounded by a gravenoval ring , making what he called a cartouche ; ( 7 ) that thecartouches of the preserved portion of the Rosetta Stone standfor the name of Ptolemy alone ; ( 8 ) that the presence of a femalefigure after such cartouches in other inscriptions always denotesthe female sex ; ( 9 ) that within the cartouches the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and ( 10 ) that several different characters may have thesame phonetic value . Just what these phonetic values are Young pointed out in the caseof fourteen characters representing nine sounds , six of which areaccepted to-day as correctly representing the letters to which heascribed them , and the three others as being correct regardingtheir essential or consonant element . It is clear , therefore , that he was on the right track thus far , and on the very verge ofcomplete discovery . But , unfortunately , he failed to take thenext step , which would have been to realize that the samephonetic values which were given to the alphabetic characterswithin the cartouches were often ascribed to them also when usedin the general text of an inscription ; in other words , that the use of an alphabet was not confined to proper names . This was thegreat secret which Young missed and which his French successor , Jean Francois Champollion , working on the foundation that Younghad laid , was enabled to ferret out . Young ' s initial studies of the Rosetta Stone were made in 1814 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s firstannouncement of results came in 1822 ; his second and moreimportant one in 1824 . By this time , through study of thecartouches of other inscriptions , Champollion had made out almostthe complete alphabet , and the " riddle of the Sphinx " waspractically solved . He proved that the Egyptians had developed arelatively complete alphabet ( mostly neglecting the vowels , asearly Semitic alphabets did also ) centuries before thePhoenicians were heard of in history . What relation this alphabetbore to the Phoenician we shall have occasion to ask in anotherconnection ; for the moment it suffices to know that those strangepictures of the Egyptian scroll are really letters . Even this statement , however , must be in a measure modified . These pictures are letters and something more . Some of them arepurely alphabetical in character and some are symbolic in another way . Some characters represent syllables . Others stand sometimes as mere representatives of sounds , and again , in a more extendedsense , as representations of things , such as all hieroglyphicsdoubtless were in the beginning . In a word , this is an alphabet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areaccustomed to ; hence the enormous complications and difficultiesit presented to the early investigators . Champollion did not live to clear up all these mysteries . Hiswork was taken up and extended by his pupil Rossellini , and inparticular by Dr. Richard Lepsius in Germany , followed by M.Bernouf , and by Samuel Birch of the British Museum , and morerecently by such well-known Egyptologists as MM . Maspero andMariette and Chabas , in France , Dr. Brugsch , in Germany , and Dr.E . Wallis Budge , the present head of the Department of OrientalAntiquities at the British Museum . But the task of laterinvestigators has been largely one of exhumation and translationof records rather than of finding methods . TREASURES FROM NINEVEHThe most casual wanderer in the British Museum can hardly fail tonotice two pairs of massive sculptures , in the one case wingedbulls , in the other winged lions , both human-headed , which guardthe entrance to the Egyptian hall , close to the Rosetta Stone . Each pair of these weird creatures once guarded an entrance tothe palace of a king in the famous city of Nineveh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over sometwenty-seven intervening centuries , to the days when the " Cedarof Lebanon " was " fair in his greatness " and the scourge ofIsrael . The very Sculptures before us , for example , were perhaps seen byJonah when he made that famous voyage to Nineveh some seven oreight hundred years B.C. A little later the Babylonian and theMede revolted against Assyrian tyranny and descended upon thefair city of Nineveh , and almost literally levelled it to theground . But these great sculptures , among other things , escapeddestruction , and at once hidden and preserved by the accumulatingdebris of the centuries , they stood there age after age , theirvery existence quite forgotten . When Xenophon marched past theirsite with the ill-starred expedition of the ten thousand , in theyear 400 B.C. , he saw only a mound which seemed to mark the siteof some ancient ruin ; but the Greek did not suspect that helooked upon the site of that city which only two centuries before had been the mistress of the world . So ephemeral is fame ! And yet the moral scarcely holds in thesequel ; for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , behold these mementos of Assyrian greatness fresh fromtheir twenty-five hundred years of entombment , and with themrecords which restore to us the history of that long-forgottenpeople in such detail as it was not known to any previousgeneration since the fall of Nineveh . For two thousand fivehundred years no one saw these treasures or knew that theyexisted . One hundred generations of men came and went withoutonce pronouncing the name of kings Shalmaneser or Asumazirpal orAsurbanipal . And to-day , after these centuries of oblivion , these names are restored to history , and , thanks to the character of their monuments , are assured a permanency of fame that canalmost defy time itself . It would be nothing strange , but ratherin keeping with their previous mutations of fortune , if the namesof Asurnazirpal and Asurbanipal should be familiar as householdwords to future generations that have forgotten the existence ofan Alexander , a Caesar , and a Napoleon . For when Macaulay ' sprospective New Zealander explores the ruins of the BritishMuseum the records of the ancient Assyrians will presumably stillbe there unscathed , to tell their story as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed book may havegone the way of fragile textures . But the past of the Assyrian sculptures is quite necromanticenough without conjuring for them a necromantic future . The storyof their restoration is like a brilliant romance of history . Prior to the middle of this century the inquiring student couldlearn in an hour or so all that was known in fact and in fable ofthe renowned city of Nineveh . He had but to read a few chaptersof the Bible and a few pages of Diodorus to exhaust the importantliterature on the subject . If he turned also to the pages ofHerodotus and Xenophon , of Justin and Aelian , these servedchiefly to confirm the suspicion that the Greeks themselves knewalmost nothing more of the history of their famed Orientalforerunners . The current fables told of a first King Ninus andhis wonderful queen Semiramis ; of Sennacherib the conqueror ; ofthe effeminate Sardanapalus , who neglected the warlike ways ofhis ancestors but perished gloriously at the last , with Ninevehitself , in a self-imposed holocaust . And that was all . How muchof this was history , how much myth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspected to the contrary , no man could ever know . Andto-day the contemporary records of the city are before us in suchprofusion as no other nation of antiquity , save Egypt alone , canat all rival . Whole libraries of Assyrian books are at hand thatwere written in the seventh century before our era . These , be itunderstood , are the original books themselves , not copies . Theauthor of that remote time appeals to us directly , hand to eye , without intermediary transcriber . And there is not a line of anyHebrew or Greek manuscript of a like age that has been preservedto us ; there is little enough that can match these ancient booksby a thousand years . When one reads Moses or Isaiah , Homer , Hesiod , or Herodotus , he is but following thetranscription  --  often unquestionably faulty and probably never inall parts perfect  --  of successive copyists of later generations . The oldest known copy of the Bible , for example , dates probablyfrom the fourth century A.D. , a thousand years or more after thelast Assyrian records were made and read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Assyria  --  namely , Asurbanipal , whose palace boasted a library of some ten thousand volumes  --  alibrary , if you please , in which the books were numbered andshelved systematically , and classified and cared for by anofficial librarian . If you would see some of the documents ofthis marvellous library you have but to step past the wingedlions of Asurnazirpal and enter the Assyrian hall just around thecorner from the Rosetta Stone . Indeed , the great slabs of stonefrom which the lions themselves are carved are in a sense books , inasmuch as there are written records inscribed on their surface . A glance reveals the strange characters in which these recordsare written , graven neatly in straight lines across the stone , and looking to casual inspection like nothing so much as randomflights of arrow-heads . The resemblance is so striking that thisis sometimes called the arrow-head character , though it is moregenerally known as the wedge or cuneiform character . Theinscriptions on the flanks of the lions are , however , onlymakeshift books . But the veritable books are no farther awaythan the next room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of cases placed down the centre of this room . Perhaps it is not too much to speak of this collection as themost extraordinary set of documents of all the rare treasures ofthe British Museum , for it includes not books alone , but publicand private letters , business announcements , marriagecontracts  --  in a word , all the species of written records thatenter into the every-day life of an intelligent and culturedcommunity . But by what miracle have such documents been preserved throughall these centuries ? A glance makes the secret evident . It issimply a case of time-defying materials . Each one of theseAssyrian documents appears to be , and in reality is , nothing moreor less than an inscribed fragment of brick , having much thecolor and texture of a weathered terra-cotta tile of modernmanufacture . These slabs are usually oval or oblong in shape , and from two or three to six or eight inches in length and aninch or so in thickness . Each of them was originally a portionof brick-clay , on which the scribe indented the flights ofarrowheads with some sharp-cornered instrument , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are somewhat fragile , of course , as all bricks are , and many of them have been more orless crumbled in the destruction of the palace at Nineveh ; but tothe ravages of mere time they are as nearly invulnerable asalmost anything in nature . Hence it is that these records of aremote civilization have been preserved to us , while the similarrecords of such later civilizations as the Grecian have utterlyperished , much as the flint implements of the cave-dweller cometo us unchanged , while the iron implements of a far more recentage have crumbled away . HOW THE RECORDS WERE READAfter all , then , granted the choice of materials , there isnothing so very extraordinary in the mere fact of preservation ofthese ancient records . To be sure , it is vastly to the credit ofnineteenth-century enterprise to have searched them out andbrought them back to light . But the real marvel in connection with them is the fact that nineteenth-century scholarship shouldhave given us , not the material documents themselves , but aknowledge of their actual contents . The flight of arrow-heads onwall or slab or tiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that meaning ? These must be words ; but what words ? Thehieroglyphics of the Egyptians were mysterious enough in allconscience ; yet , after all , their symbols have a certainsuggestiveness , whereas there is nothing that seems to promise amental leverage in the unbroken succession of these cuneiformdashes . Yet the Assyrian scholar of to-day can interpret thesestrange records almost as readily and as surely as the classicalscholar interprets a Greek manuscript . And this evidences one ofthe greatest triumphs of nineteenth-century scholarship , forwithin almost two thousand years no man has lived , prior to ourcentury , to whom these strange inscriptions would not have beenas meaningless as they are to the most casual stroller who lookson them with vague wonderment here in the museum to-day . For theAssyrian language , like the Egyptian , was veritably a deadlanguage ; not , like Greek and Latin , merely passed from practicalevery-day use to the closet of the scholar , but utterly andabsolutely forgotten by all the world . Such being the case , it isnothing less than marvellous that it should have been restored . It is but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effected , with Assyrian or with Egyptian , had thelanguage in dying left no cognate successor ; for the powers ofmodern linguistry , though great , are not actually miraculous . But , fortunately , a language once developed is not blotted out intoto ; it merely outlives its usefulness and is graduallysupplanted , its successor retaining many traces of its origin . So , just as Latin , for example , has its living representatives inItalian and the other Romance tongues , the language of Assyria isrepresented by cognate Semitic languages . As it chances , however , these have been of aid rather in the later stages of Assyrianstudy than at the very outset ; and the first clew to the messageof the cuneiform writing came through a slightly differentchannel . Curiously enough , it was a trilingual inscription that gave theclew , as in the case of the Rosetta Stone , though with verystriking difference withal . The trilingual inscription now inquestion , instead of being a small , portable monument , covers thesurface of a massive bluff at Behistun in western Persia . Moreover , all three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in languages that at the beginning of our century were absolutely unknown . This inscription itself , as a striking monument of unknown import , had been seen bysuccessive generations . Tradition ascribed it , as we learn fromCtesias , through Diodorus , to the fabled Assyrian queenSemiramis . Tradition was quite at fault in this ; but it is onlyrecently that knowledge has availed to set it right . Theinscription , as is now known , was really written about the year515 B.C. , at the instance of Darius I. , King of Persia , some ofwhose deeds it recounts in the three chief languages of hiswidely scattered subjects . The man who at actual risk of life and limb copied this wonderfulinscription , and through interpreting it became the veritable " father of Assyriology , " was the English general Sir HenryRawlinson . His feat was another British triumph over the samerivals who had competed for the Rosetta Stone ; for some Frenchexplorers had been sent by their government , some years earlier , expressly to copy this strange record , and had reported that itwas impossible to reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in 1835 Rawlinson scaled the dangerous heightand made a paper cast of about half the inscription . Diplomaticduties called him away from the task for some years , but in 1848he returned to it and completed the copy of all parts of theinscription that have escaped the ravages of time . And now thematerial was in hand for a new science , which General Rawlinsonhimself soon , assisted by a host of others , proceeded toelaborate . The key to the value of this unique inscription lies in the factthat its third language is ancient Persian . It appears that theancient Persians had adopted the cuneiform character from theirwestern neighbors , the Assyrians , but in so doing had made one ofthose essential modifications and improvements which are scarcelypossible to accomplish except in the transition from one race toanother . Instead of building with the arrow-head a multitude ofsyllabic characters , including many homophones , as had been andcontinued to be the custom with the Assyrians , the Persiansselected a few of these characters and ascribed to them phoneticvalues that were almost purely alphabetic . In a word , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , theydeveloped an alphabet , making the last wonderful analysis ofphonetic sounds which even to this day has escaped the Chinese , which the Egyptians had only partially effected , and which thePhoenicians were accredited by the Greeks with having introduced to the Western world . In addition to this all-essential step , thePersians had introduced the minor but highly convenient custom ofseparating the words of a sentence from one another by aparticular mark , differing in this regard not only from theAssyrians and Egyptians , but from the early Greek scribes aswell . Thanks to these simplifications , the old Persian language hadbeen practically restored about the beginning of the nineteenthcentury , through the efforts of the German Grotefend , and furtheradvances in it were made just at this time by Renouf , in France , and by Lassen , in Germany , as well as by Rawlinson himself , wholargely solved the problem of the Persian alphabet independently . So the Persian portion of the Behistun inscription could be atleast partially deciphered . This in itself , however , would havebeen no very great aid towards the restoration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that theinscription is sprinkled with proper names . Now proper names , generally speaking , are not translated from one language toanother , but transliterated as nearly as the genius of thelanguage will permit . It was the fact that the Greek wordPtolemaics was transliterated on the Rosetta Stone that gave thefirst clew to the sounds of the Egyptian characters . Had theupper part of the Rosetta Stone been preserved , on which , originally , there were several other names , Young would not havehalted where he did in his decipherment . But fortune , which had been at once so kind and so tantalizing inthe case of the Rosetta Stone , had dealt more gently with theBehistun inscriptions ; for no fewer than ninety proper names werepreserved in the Persian portion and duplicated , in anothercharacter , in the Assyrian inscription . A study of these gave aclew to the sounds of the Assyrian characters . The deciphermentof this character , however , even with this aid , proved enormouslydifficult , for it was soon evident that here it was no longer aquestion of a nearly perfect alphabet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred characters , including manyhomophones , or different forms for representing the same sound . But with the Persian translation for a guide on the one hand , andthe Semitic languages , to which family the Assyrian belonged , onthe other , the appalling task was gradually accomplished , theleading investigators being General Rawlinson , Professor Hincks , and Mr. Fox-Talbot , in England , Professor Jules Oppert , in Paris , and Professor Julian Schrader , in Germany , though a host of otherscholars soon entered the field . This great linguistic feat was accomplished about the middle ofthe nineteenth century . But so great a feat was it that manyscholars of the highest standing , including Joseph Erneste Renan , in France , and Sir G. Cornewall Lewis , in England , declined atfirst to accept the results , contending that the Assyriologistshad merely deceived themselves by creating an arbitrary language . The matter was put to a test in 1855 at the suggestion of Mr.Fox-Talbot , when four scholars , one being Mr. Talbot himself andthe others General Rawlinson , Professor Hincks , and ProfessorOppert , laid before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assyrian text . Acommittee of the society , including England ' s greatest historianof the century , George Grote , broke the seals of the fourtranslations , and reported that they found them unequivocally inaccord as regards their main purport , and even surprisinglyuniform as regards the phraseology of certain passages  --  in short , as closely similar as translations from the obscure texts of anydifficult language ever are . This decision gave the work of theAssyriologists official status , and the reliability of theirmethod has never since been in question . Henceforth Assyriologywas an established science . **29;202;TOOLONG I. MODERN DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES1 Robert Boyle , Philosophical Works ( 3 vols . ) . London , 1738 . CHAPTER II . THE BEGINNINGS OF MODERN CHEMISTRY 1 For a complete account of the controversy called the " WaterControversy , " see The Life of the Hon. Henry Cavendish , by GeorgeWilson , M.D. , F.R.S.E. London , 1850. 2 Henry Cavendish , in Phil . Trans. for 1784 , P. 119. 3 Lives of the Philosophers of the Time of George III. , byHenry , Lord Brougham , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Observations on Different Kinds of Air , byJoseph Priestley ( 3 vols . ) . Birmingham , 790 , vol . II , pp. 103-107. 5 Lectures on Experimental Philosophy , by Joseph Priestley , lecture IV. , pp. 18 , ig . J. Johnson , London , 1794. 6 Translated from Scheele ' s Om Brunsten , eller Magnesia , ochdess Egenakaper . Stockholm , 1774 , and published as Alembic ClubReprints , No. 13 , 1897 , p. 6. 7 According to some writers this was discovered by Berzelius. 8 Histoire de la Chimie , par Ferdinand Hoefer . Paris , 1869 , Vol . CL , p. 289. 9 Elements of Chemistry , by Anton Laurent Lavoisier , translatedby Robert Kerr , p. 8 . London and Edinburgh , 1790. 10 Ibid. , pp. 414-416 . CHAPTER III . CHEMISTRY SINCE THE TIME OF DALTON1 Sir Humphry Davy , in Phil . Trans . , Vol . VIII . CHAPTER IV . ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY1 Baas , History of Medicine , p. 692. 2 Based on Thomas H. Huxley ' s Presidential Address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 Essays on Digestion , by James Carson . London , 1834 , p. 6. 4 Ibid. , p. 7. 5 John Hunter , On the Digestion of the Stomach after Death , first edition , pp. 183-188. 6 Erasmus Darwin , The Botanic Garden , pp. 448-453 . London , 1799 . CHAPTER V. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY1 Baron de Cuvier ' s Theory of the Earth . New York , 1818 , p. 123. 2 On the Organs and Mode of Fecundation of Orchidex andAsclepiadea , by Robert Brown , Esq. , in Miscellaneous BotanicalWorks . London , 1866 , Vol . I. , pp. 511-514. 3 Justin Liebig , Animal Chemistry . London , 1843 , p. 17f . CHAPTER VI . THEORIES OF ORGANIC EVOLUTION1 " Essay on the Metamorphoses of Plants , " by Goethe , translatedfor the present work from Grundriss einer Geschichte derNaturwissenschaften , by Friederich Dannemann ( 2 vols . ) . Leipzig , 1896 , Vol . I. , p. 194. 2 The Temple of Nature , or The Origin of Society , by ErasmusDarwin , edition published in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Earth . New York , 1818 , p. 74 . ( This was the introduction to Cuvier ' s great work. ) 4 Robert Chambers , Explanations : a sequel to Vestiges ofCreation . London , Churchill , 1845 , pp. 148-153 . CHAPTER VII . EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY MEDICINE1 Condensed from Dr. Boerhaave ' s Academical Lectures on theTheory of Physic . London , 1751 , pp. 77 , 78 . Boerhaave ' s lectureswere published as Aphorismi de cognoscendis et curandis Morbis , Leyden , 1709 . On this book Van Swieten wrote commentaries fillingfive volumes . Another very celebrated work of Boerhaave is hisInstitutiones et Experimenta Chemic , Paris , 1724 , the germs ofthis being given as a lecture on his appointment to the chair ofchemistry in the University of Leyden in 1718. 2 An Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the VariolaVaccine , etc. , by Edward Jenner , M.D. , F.R.S. , etc . London , 1799 , pp. 2-7 . He wrote several other papers , most of which werecommunications to the Royal Society . His last publication was , Onthe Influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a subject to which he had given much time andstudy . CHAPTER VIII . NINETEENTH-CENTURY MEDICINE1 In the introduction to Corvisart ' s translation ofAvenbrugger ' s work . Paris , 1808. 2 Laennec , Traite d ' Auscultation Mediate . Paris , 1819 . This wasLaennec ' s chief work , and was soon translated into severaldifferent languages . Before publishing this he had written also , Propositions sur la doctrine midicale d ' Hippocrate , Paris , 1804 , and Memoires sur les vers visiculaires , in the same year. 3 Researches , Chemical and Philosophical , chiefly concerningNitrous Oxide or Dephlogisticated Nitrous Air and itsRespiration , by Humphry Davy . London , 1800 , pp. 479-556. 4 Ibid. 5 For accounts of the discovery of anaesthesia , see Report ofthe Board of Trustees of the Massachusetts General Hospital , Boston , 1888 . Also , The Ether Controversy : Vindication of theHospital Reports of 1848 , by N. L Bowditch , Boston , 1848 . Anexcellent account is given in Littell ' s Living Age , for March , 1848 , written by R. H. Dana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the discovery of etherization , one for1848 , the other for 11852. 6 Simpson made public this discovery of the anaestheticproperties of chloroform in a paper read before theMedico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh , in March , 1847 , aboutthree months after he had first seen a surgical operationperformed upon a patient to whom ether had been administered. 7 Louis Pasteur , Studies on Fermentation . London , 1870. 8 Louis Pasteur , in Comptes Rendus des Sciences de L ' Academiedes Sciences , vol . XCII. , 1881 , pp. 429-435 . CHAPTER IX . THE NEW SCIENCE OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY1 Bell ' s communications were made to the Royal Society , but hisstudies and his discoveries in the field of anatomy of the nervous system were collected and published , in 1824 , as AnExposition of the Natural System of Nerves of the Human Body : being a Republication of the Papers delivered to the RoyalSociety on the Subject of the Nerves. 2 Marshall Hall , M.D. , F.R.S.L. , On the Reflex Functions of theMedulla Oblongata and the Medulla Spinalis , in Phil . Trans. ofRoyal Soc. , vol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               