@@773482

txt PHYSICAL EDUCATION of them were six feet in height and weighed over two hundred pounds ; others had a stature of less than five feet and weighed under one hundred pounds . Some could lift a thousand pounds and push their weight up between the parallel bars from twenty to forty times , while others could not lift one tenth of this amount or push their weight up once . Had these young men been required to pass a physical examination and come up to a certain physical standard before entering college , the task of devising a scheme of appropriate exercises would have been a simpler one . To expect that a class of individuals varying between these extremes could be grouped together and given the same kind of exercise with any hope of benefiting all seemed to me little less than absurd . Yet this was the Dio Lewis plan , and at that time I had no other system before me in America as a guide . In looking over the records of the students I had examined , I found that the young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from school , and to spend certain portions of the year doing manual labor on farms , or in mills and lumber yards , generally showed a superior physique , unless the work had been excessive and begun at too early a period . Moreover , I found that the 130 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING young men who had been accustomed to special employment , such as blacksmithing , wood chopping , and milking cows , showed a special development in certain parts of the body , as the forearm , upper arm , and back , while they were lacking in the development of other parts . In this way I went through the list , marking the peculiar development that seemed to accompany the special occupations and exercises to which the boys had given attention before coming to college . The conclusion that I reached was this : If actual labor will produce such good physical results in certain directions , why will not a system of exercises in the gymnasium , resembling actual labor , accomplish the same results in opposite directions , and in this way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to develop the individual where he is weak ? With this idea predominating , I began to work for its attainment in 1871 . Owing to a lack of funds , the nearest approach that I could make to the realization of this idea at Bowdoin College was the establishment of a lot of crude pulley-weight appliances of different heights and weights . ' Pulling window weights over a wooden PHYSICAL EDUCATION N'i roller by aid of an iron handle , in a cold , unfinished building , four times a week , did not impress the faculty as an exercise that would be likely to add to the popularity of the required system , and I think that they had some doubt as to the expediency of letting an instructor " who was only a freshman " try the experiment . The experiment was tried , however , and it proved so successful that I was able to leave the department the next year in charge of assistants , who were also students , and spend three months in New Haven , trying to introduce the same system at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be seen that the success of the new movement was largely due to the peculiarity of the exercise and not to any personal force or character behind it . In fact , I now know that , without realizing it , I hit upon one of the great principles that should govern all artificial exercise . After the completion of my medical studies in 1 878 I elaborated my old system of measurements , and had the first patterns of my long-contemplated developing appliances constructed . These consisted of what are familiarly known as chest-weights , chest expanders and developers , quarter circles , leg machines , finger machines , and other devices to the INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING number of forty different pieces . These appliances were first used in my private institution in New York City in 1878 . It would seem that this style of apparatus met a long-felt want , for it immediately sprang into popular favor and was soon copied in one form or another by various manufacturers , and has since been generally introduced into the school , college , athletic club , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in different parts of Europe . To what extent it is now used in the United States may be inferred from the fact that some of it has been put into three hundred and fifty or more institutions , representing a total membership of over one hundred thousand . Thus it will be seen that the individual system of physical training has not been of recent or sudden growth , but is rather one that has been undergoing a process of slow development . When invited in 1879 to take charge of the Hemenway Gymnasium and superintend its equipment , I found both the building and the university spirit admirably adapted to its introduction . The large brick pillars which would have been an obstacle to the class system proved to be especially favorable for the attachment of the chest-weights PHYSICAL EDUCATION and other developing appliances . The wall space readily lent itself to the attachment of the remaining machines , thus leaving the floor space behind the pillars and in the center of the room available for the fixed , portable , and pendent pieces of apparatus . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the equipment was as follows : four hundred and seventy-four lockers , five tub baths , nine sponge baths , twelve bowls , one shower room with ascending douche , two needle baths , and a large central shower bath . The apparatus consisted of eighty developing appliances and different forms of pulley weights ; thirty-eight pieces of heavy apparatus , fixed and portable , such as vaulting bars and parallel bars ; thirty-four pieces of pendent apparatus ( rings , swings , and ropes ) ; one hundred and fifty pieces of light apparatus , such as dumb-bells , clubs , and wands ; six mattresses ; eight bowling alleys ; sixteen hydraulic rowing machines ; a baseball cage , fencing room , sparring room , and running track . How to make this equipment available to the greatest number of students was the next question to be considered . In an institution where attendance at chapel and lectures is optional , it has not seemed advisable to require attendance at physical exercises . There were two other alternatives left INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING for attracting students to the gymnasium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of emulation and competition and offer prizes for those who distinguished themselves in practicing some particular exercises , or to appeal to a still higher motive , namely , the sense of duty which each man owes to himself to improve his physical condition and keep strong and well , that he may be able to bear his burdens in the world and help to advance the average condition of the race . The first plan had in its favor the prestige of many centuries ' use in schools , and is still the great lever , coupled with fear of punishment by being dropped or deprived of a degree , that our colleges and universities apply to keep students up to their work . The second plan was practically untried in the field of education . To be sure , most men come to college to prepare themselves for their life work ; but the idea of training for a contest that is really to begin six or eight years later , without any sign of immediate honor or preferment except what is indicated by a tape measure or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the emulative plan a man is invited , and in fact incited , to compete against others . In the individual improvement plan he is invited to compete against himself , that is , against his own 1351 PHYSICAL EDUCATION physical condition , or his own record of skill , strength , and endurance , taken at regular and stated periods . That we may better understand the individual system in its present form as carried out at Harvard University , it will be necessary to outline one of the physical examinations of a student and see what is done for him . Every student who enters the university is entitled to an examination , and eighty-seven per cent of the whole number avail themselves of this privilege . As soon as the student presents himself at the director 's office ( which is done by application and appointment ) he is given a history blank , which he fills out , stating his birthplace , nativity of parents , occupation of father , resemblance to parents , natural heritage , general state of health , and a list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is absolutely necessary in order for the examiner to put a correct interpretation upon the observations to follow . The student is then asked to make certain tests of the muscular strength of the different parts of his body , and to try the capacity of his lungs . He then passes into the measuring room , and has his weight , height , chest girth , and fifty other items taken . His heart and lungs are then examined before and after exercise , and a careful record made of the conditions of the skin , 136 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING muscles , spine , chest , shoulder blades , feet , and various other parts . All the items taken are then plotted on a chart made from several thousand measurements , and the examiner is thus able to know the relative standing of this individual as compared with others for every dimension taken ; also his deviation from symmetry , and the parts which are in special need of development . To confirm the plotting of the chart and to awaken in the young man a genuine interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each student desiring them , and these are preserved for comparison with those to be taken of him later . From the data thus procured a special order of appropriate exercises is made out for this student , with specifications as to the movements and apparatus he may best use . At the present time this special order consists , for most students , in an illustrated handbook , in which the apparatus , the weights for it , and the times to use it are carefully prescribed , together with such suggestions as to diet , sleep , bathing , clothing , and exercise as will best meet the needs of the individual under consideration . Now we think it will be admitted by all thoughtful persons that one half the battle for the mental education has been won when there is aroused in a 137 PHYSICAL EDUCATION boy a genuine love for learning . So one half the struggle for physical training has been won when he can be induced to take a genuine interest in his bodily condition , ? when he desires to remedy his defects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the firmness of his muscles , and the uprightness of his figure . Whether the young man chooses afterward to use the gymnasium , to run , to play ball , or to saw wood matters little , providing he succeeds in improving his physical condition . The modern gymnasium , however , offers facilities for building up the body that are not excelled by any other system of exercise . The introduction of the new developing appliances has opened up the possibility of the gymnasium to thousands to whom it was formerly an institution of doubtful value . The student is no longer compelled to compete with others in the performance of feats that are distasteful to him . He can now compete with himself , that is , with his own physical condition from week to week and from month to month . If he is not strong enough to lift his own weight , the apparatus can be adjusted to a weight he can lift . If he is weak in the chest or the back , he can spend his time and energy in strengthening those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , he can exercise for an hour , going from one piece of apparatus to another , keeping always within the circuit of his capacity and adding slowly and surely to his general strength and powers of endurance . If the heart is weak , the lung capacity small , the liver sluggish , the circulation feeble , or the nervous system impaired , special forms of exercise can be prescribed to meet these conditions . Gentle running is likewise commonly advised as a constitutional exercise for all those who can take it . This is usually severe enough to start the perspiration and make a bath of some kind desirable . A tepid sponge or shower bath is generally advised , and in our opinion the bath which regularly follows the exercise at the gymnasium , and the habit of bathing established thereby , are almost as valuable as the exercise itself . After a period of six months or more the student returns again to the director 's office and undergoes another examination in order to ascertain what improvement he has made and to receive any new suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the system of physical training carried on at the Hemenway Gymnasium. 139 PHYSICAL EDUCATION For the system of athletics and heavy gymnastics carried on at the college during term time the authorities are in no way responsible . These are managed by the students themselves through their different athletic organizations . The faculty exercises a conservative influence by requiring every man to be examined and to get a certificate from the director of the gymnasium before he can enter as a competitor in athletic contests . By taking this precaution many a student whose zeal for athletics was in excess of his ability has undoubtedly been saved from injury , and the standard of the sport has been maintained . The authorities believe that athletic sports , kept within bounds and carefully regulated , are a valuable adjunct to our system of physical training , and they are constantly making endeavors to increase Harvard 's facilities in this direction . Some of us , moreover , believe that it is more to the credit of a university to have one hundred men who can make a creditable performance in running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to have one man who can break a record , or a team that can always win the championship . The great aim of the gymnasium is , therefore , to improve the physical condition of the mass of our students and to give them as much health , strength , and stamina as 140 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING possible to enable them to perform the duties that await them after leaving college . Having thus given some idea of the practical working of the individual system at Cambridge , let us now turn our attention to a consideration of some of the principles and theories upon which it is founded . " The characteristic physiological property of muscular tissue , and that for which it is employed in the body , " says Martin , ' " is the faculty possessed by its fibers of shortening forcibly under certain circumstances . " This property is called contractility , and upon the full performance of this function depends the healthy condition not only of the muscles but also of the various parts of the body with which they are connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performs its greatest contraction ? First , there must be a succession of strong and oft-repeated stimuli ; second , the muscle must have a load to carry or there must be some resistance to its shortening . This may be illustrated by the experiment so often conducted in the physiological laboratory . Apply a PHYSICAL EDUCATION stimulus to a muscle which has no weight attached to it . The muscle will contract perhaps a quarter of an inch . Now attach a weight of one pound to it and apply the same stimulus . The muscle will contract half an inch . Attach a still heavier weight of two pounds , and when the same stimulus is applied the muscle will contract one inch . And so the experiment might be continued until a weight is attached which will cause the contractions of the muscle to be less and less until they finally cease ; " so that , " continues Martin , " up to a certain limit resistance to the shortening of a muscle makes it more able to shorten , and the greater extension of the muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , puts it into a state in which it is able to contract more powerfully . " Upon the interpretation of this simple physiological fact depends the foundation of two great systems of physical training : one faction advocating that the antagonizing muscles in free movements , without apparatus , furnish all the resistance that is necessary ; while the other faction claims that the resistance afforded by opposing muscles is not sufficient , and that apparatus with weights of some kind is necessary to bring out the working force of the muscle used . 142 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING The latter conclusion is believed by us to be the correct one . The study of the human skeleton as a whole and in parts , the peculiar formation of the tuberosities and prominences of the bones , and the size and strength of the muscles attached to them , all go to show that the limbs were designed not only to be moved but also to help man bear his burden , overcome obstacles , and fight his way in the world . Where do we look for the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in allround , vigorous , manual labor ? " Yes , " as Maclaren says , " exercise , which is voluntary labor , must resemble actual labor , if it be desired to obtain from it the physical advantages which actual labor bestows . " The work done by a muscle in a given contraction when it lifts a weight vertically against gravity is measured by the weight moved , multiplied by the distance through which it is moved . This test furnishes the best means of judging of the efficiency of a system of exercises . We saw in the laboratory experiment that when the muscle simply lifted its own weight it did no work , and that nothing was accomplished when it tried to lift a weight too heavy for it ; but that there was an intermediate weight which it lifted to the greatest height , when it did the greatest amount of work . 143 PHYSICAL EDUCATION What is true of this single muscle is true of all the muscles of the body : there is a certain weight by means of which the different groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given time . If the weight is too light or too heavy the best effect of the exercise is not realized . This may be illustrated by the familiar use of the chest-weights , as " chest-weights " have been mentioned before . If one goes through the movements without any weight the exercise is insipid . If , on the other hand , one loads the boxes up to their full capacity , it will be found that there are but one or two movements that can be made and these only for a minute or so . Now if one carefully gauges his strength to about five pounds ( which is , perhaps , the average weight used in these appliances ) he can go through the full set of exercises ( comprising some forty or fifty separate movements ) and feel that something is accomplished which will prove of benefit . This statement is equally true of all the different developing appliances found in a well-equipped gymnasium ; and to the fact that our modern apparatus can be adjusted to the strength of the strong and the weakness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in need of development may be attributed a large part of the value and popularity of gymnastic institutions . 144 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING But there is another principle now taken advantage of , and to this the modern gymnasium owes a great part of its efficiency . In view of the tendency of the times we can not help thinking that it is a valuable one . In primitive races , individuals of the same tribe bear a close resemblance to each other . As races progress in civilization , difference of function begins to work a difference in structure and we begin to get a marked variation in size , form , and feature . In highly civilized communities the minute division of labor carries this variation still farther , so that it is possible in many cases not only to distinguish the calling of individuals but also to determine , by means of its influence upon their physical structure , the particular branch of that calling in which they are engaged . In other words , men are molded by their trades and occupations , and many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defects due to faulty positions and want of appropriate exercise . Perhaps no class in the community has its physical characteristics more strongly marked than the student class . The type may be distinguished by a drooping head , flat chest , hollow back , and constricted ribs just over the stomach . It is not necessary to look for the causes of these defects . 145 PHYSICAL EDUCATION They are faulty positions while studying , pressure of the desk against the body , the constriction of clothing during the growing period , and the relaxed state of certain muscles and the overstrained condition of others . Most occupations , including that of the student , tend to overwork the flexor muscles and to compress and constrict the body , thus lessening its internal capacity and interfering with the functions of important organs . Similarly the resistance of the clothing , weights lifted and borne on the back or shoulders , and even the use of heavy dumb-bells for health 's sake , all tend to force the ribs downward and lessen the diameter of the thorax . To remedy this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here we touch upon a principle that has escaped the attention of most teachers . If this deformity is brought about by the natural action of the muscles , that is , by their acting centripetally from their origins to their insertions , surely the remedy is to make them act centrifugally from their insertions to their origins . By grasping a bar or a pair of rings above the head , the parts where the muscles are inserted become fixed , and if the muscles contract the parts from which they originated must move . In this case all the diameters of the thorax are 146 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING increased and the chest capacity enlarged . In this principle lies the value to those who are able to use them of the rings , trapeze , ladders , parallel and horizontal bars , and in fact of all the climbing appurtenances . By the invention of the chest expander , chest developer , quarter circle , high pulleys , inclined planes , traveling parallels , and similar apparatus the same principle may be applied by any one , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little more time , but the effect is likely to be more lasting . By the use of the pulley-weight system , resistance may be applied to any part of the body from any direction . In this peculiar property lies its great value as a means of enlarging the thoracic cavity and counteracting the cramping and constricting tendencies of modern occupations . We have dwelt upon these principles at some length because we have reason to believe that they have not been well understood by persons interested in the subject . Still other important theories that have guided us in formulating a system of exercises under the individual method of physical training remain to be presented . So far as we have been able to discover they are based on sound physiological principles . They may be stated in the form of a summary . PHYSICAL EDUCATION 1 . In order to secure the necessary volitional power to start the movement the person should be sufficiently interested in the exercise to give it his attention . Whether the exercise is interesting in itself is a matter of little consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of the muscle there should be a weight or resistance to overcome . In using a weight the muscle gradually acquires the force with which it tries to contract . 3 . The exercise must be performed with sufficient vigor and rapidity to engage the energetic contraction of the muscles employed . When this is done old tissue is broken down and its place is supplied with new material in increased quantity , thus augmenting the size and strength of the muscles . The brain gains the power and energy which the exercise requires it to put forth . q .. Weak parts must first be strengthened , and then as many muscles as possible must be brought into action in order to secure a full-orbed and harmonious development of the whole body . One-sided development is usually attained by robbing some unexercised part of the body of its just share of nutriment . Most persons in their daily occupations use the flexor muscles more than the extensors , thereby cramping the vital organs and interfering with their 148 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING functions . To remedy this tendency the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made to act from the center as far as possible . 5 . A sufficient number of muscles should be called into action at one time to stimulate the action of the heart and lungs and increase the circulation and respiration . This is one of the most important considerations to bear in mind in regard to exercise . To keep up this increased respiratory activity and to aid the heart in removing the waste material and hastening forward the new , the limbs and the walls of the chest must be absolutely free from any ligatures or constrictions . The slightest interference with the action of the respiratory muscles at this time embarrasses the functions of the lungs and heart . This is the reason why loose clothing is always advised for exercise . 6 . A momentary period of rest should , so far as possible , precede all movement in exercise . This is best secured where there is an alternation in the movements , as in walking , running , and rowing . All tetanized movements , such as holding weights , attitudinizing , and standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tone of the muscles by interfering with the nutrition of both muscles and nerves . 149 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 7 . The exercise of the young should be of such a composite nature as to bring about the cooperation and coordination of the muscles . This involves principally the training of the central nerve system ; all gymnastic sports and athletic games that require skill , dexterity , coolness , courage , and presence of mind are included in the requisites for this , and are exceedingly valuable to any system of physical training as adjuncts in the development of character . 8 . All vital processes depend largely upon the maintenance of animal heat . But animal heat is now known to be generated in the blood while passing through the muscles , and not in the lungs , as was once supposed . The full contraction of the muscles greatly aids this function , and helps to force the warm blood through the tissues and back again to the heart . 9 . In order to realize the best results from physical exercise and to keep up the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by a bath or vigorous stroking and rubbing . 1o . In every kind of physical exercise the qualities at first required are the qualities at length developed . Thus , if the exercise requires strength , strength will be the result ; if courage is exacted , 150 INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM OF TRAINING courage will be the outcome ; if quickness , quickness ; and so through the whole range of faculties exercised . The highest development of strength , activity , and grace is , however , not compatible in the same individual , and consequently many persons prefer to sacrifice one in order to gain the other . Robust , vigorous health can be maintained only in a body in which life 's forces are well adjusted and well balanced . 151 CHAPTER VII THE REGULATION AND MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS The primary purpose in the establishment of the Hemenway Gymnasium , as shown in the previous chapter , was to give to all the students of Harvard University facilities for acquiring a symmetrical and healthful physical development . It was no part of its purpose to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ players , or abnormally " strong men . " Yet the work of the gymnasium does connect itself naturally and closely with the matter of college sports and competitive games , and before leaving this part of our subject I wish to consider how these games can be so regulated and managed as to do the greatest good to the greatest number and prove an aid and not a hindrance to the general cause of education . To those who have given the subject little thought this may seem a simple thing to do , but it is one of the most difficult problems our school and college authorities have to solve . Just why this is so // can not be fully stated within the limits of this chapter . Some of the difficulties , however , may be briefly summarized . 1 . The peculiar nature of many of these sports , the tendency being for all antagonistic games to exterminate themselves unless carefully protected by strict rules and regulations . 2 . The natural tendency to professionalism and the accompanying decline of interest in amateur sports . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ancient Greeks to the present day . 3 . The mercenary motives aroused by the pursuit of sport as a business instead of a recreation or a means of physical training , and the many evils of betting . 4 . The prominence given to athletics by the public press . 5 . The attitude of educators and distinguished men in regard to them . 6 . The attitude of the young men themselves . Did space permit , it would be instructive to take up these problems in order and consider the influence they have had upon the growth and character of athletics . We shall treat at length of the last two only , ? the attitude which the educators and the young men have taken toward athletics during 153 PHYSICAL EDUCATION the past twelve years . This will serve as a basis for what we have to say concerning the regulation and management of these important exercises . Notwithstanding the experience of the past and the theories advanced by the best educators , the physical training of the young has been left largely in their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the enthusiasm of youth would furnish all the exercise necessary for the maintenance of health , and until within recent years no recognition has been given to sports by our institutions of learning and no provision has been made for their practice . Their existence has been the result of a struggle between the young blood and the old , in which the former has gradually gained the advantage . Our college faculties have for the most part vigorously opposed every advancement of sport , from the introduction of the bowling alley to the eight-oared racing shell . There is a tradition that the student who brought the first boat to Harvard was suspended from college for six months . But the opposition has not been confined to sport : it has extended to every form of physical exercise . It would seem that institutions of learning have been still hampered by the traditions of the church and the monastery , for every attempt to educate the body 154 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS and to treat it as a coworker with the mind has been frowned upon and discouraged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of physical training were formulated from facts and principles taught in our colleges and medical schools , those institutions have not taken the initiative in this movement for physical education , but have gradually yielded to the pressure of public opinion which a few enthusiasts on the subject have created . Some of our larger institutions have recognized the fact that sports and games make a part , but owing to their necessary and natural limitations only a minor part , of a wise system of physical training . For this reason they have built gymnasiums designed to meet the wants of all classes and have appointed instructors more or less qualified to look after the needs of all students . But gymnasiums cost money and good teachers are not to be had for a small sum . Without the proper equipment and teachers of intelligence and ability , the gymnasium becomes dull and uninteresting and fails to excite enthusiasm in young men already wearied with routine work . When left to itself it soon becomes a training school for specialists and is rarely frequented by those who most need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times has been for athletics , and as these are largely supported by subscriptions , those colleges that were wanting in resources and were not provided with well-equipped gymnasiums urged most strongly the practice of recreative games . It would almost seem that the opinion of college faculties regarding certain sports has been influenced by the standing of their various athletic organizations and by the facilities offered for the practice of certain exercises . Schools and colleges have vied with each other to see which could present to ambitious youths the greatest attractions in this direction , and when it was imagined that the winning of a boat race or a baseball championship would gain for the institution ten or twenty students the victory seemed worth striving for . In such an atmosphere and under such fertilizing influences it is hardly surprising that athletics , a few years from their inception in some of our colleges , acquired a rank growth . The peculiar phases of this growth , and the different conditions under which it flourished before the winnowing and reforming process began , may be inferred from the remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quote them : 156 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS The college is not intended for promoting boating . Yet in college there must come up an interest which promotes physical culture . Young men must have exercise , relaxation , and social pleasures , and they find these in such emulative exercises as boating . We think boating a good thing ; then our maxim is , " A good thing should be well done . " But boating must be a pursuit of the student 's own choosing . I have little faith in forced attendance on physical exercise . To make a success , the student 's heart must be engaged in it . Being voluntary , the boating interest of a college is just what the students make it . Students will give boating its position by the public sentiment they maintain in regard to it . Concentration is a lesson of boating . A man can not pull who can not give his whole mind and strength to the work . We should all be disappointed , even the oldest of us , if our college did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are the sentiments of the late ex-president of Yale College , taken from his remarks ( as reported ) at the inauguration of the boathouse some years ago , and from his speech at an alumni dinner . The ex-president of Columbia is quoted as saying on this subject : I do not think that the athletic exercises of the students interfere at all with their intellectual labors , but rather believe that they are of decided benefit to the young men , augmenting their stock of health and increasing their powers of mental application . We have not found that a fondness for athletic exercises tended to render students indifferent to their progress in class , or influenced them , when exercising their right of selecting subjects for study , to choose easy branches or diminish their application . On the 157 PHYSICAL EDUCATION contrary , we have had to restrain some of our athletes from undertaking more intense application to a wider range of study than we deemed advisable , and some of our brightest graduates have been men who distinguished themselves in athletic sports . We may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-president of Brown University : The multiplication of students ' clubs , associations , and societies that call for intercollegiate games has now reached a point where some kind of restrictive action would seem to be called for . The number of absences required by these games is more than is consistent with the best results of scholarship . Athletic sports are admirable when engaged in as a means to health and physical vigor ; but when pursued for their own sake , or as a preparation for intercollegiate contests to which college duties are to be subordinated , the result can not fail to be mischievous . The ex-president of Princeton University expresses himself very forcibly on this subject of athletics : The keenness of the pleasure felt in athletic sports has led to excesses . The evil has appeared not so much in the exercises of the gymnasia as in their accompaniments , especially the competitive college games . What is immeasurably worse , they come to absorb the interest and enthusiasm of the young men who continue their academic tasks , but continue them as tasks , seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pass at the examination , and ever seeking to be relieved from their lessons to go to more genial pursuits . In the annual report of 1882 ? 1883 the president of Harvard said : 158 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS Intercollegiate contests in athletic sports demand further regulation by agreement between the colleges whose students take part in them . They are degrading , both to players and spectators , if conducted with brutality or in a tricky or jockeying spirit ; and they become absurd if some of the competitors employ trainers and play with professional players , while others do not . The opinion of the authorities of Harvard College upon this subject is perfectly distinct ; they are in favor of forbidding college clubs and crews to employ trainers , to play or row with professionals , or to compete with clubs or crews who adopt either of these practices . They are opposed to all money making at intercollegiate contests , and to the acceptance of money or gratuitous service from railroads or hotels , and therefore to all exhibitions or contests which are deliberately planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gate money . In short , they believe that college sport should be conducted as the amusement of amateurs , and not as the business of professional players . We have quoted at some length the remarks of these college presidents , because we believe that they express not only their own sentiments but also the prevailing sentiments of their respective colleges and of the constituency that supports them . That there is a slight difference of opinion among them and a variance of views as to what constitutes the principal evil in question is apparent to all . That there is any logical sequence between the remarks of the first president quoted , made several years ago , and those of the following presidents may not have occurred to the reader ; but to my mind there 159 PHYSICAL EDUCATION is an almost direct relation of cause and effect between the assertion of President Porter that to make a success of any sport the student 's heart must be in it , and that intensity of feeling which leads President McCosh to regret that " the keenness of the pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a logical sequence between the statement of President Porter , that " a man can not pull who can not give his whole mind and strength to the work , " and the restraint that President Barnard has found it necessary to exercise over some athletes to keep them " from undertaking more intense application to a wider range of study than we deemed advisable , " and the broader assertion of President Robinson that " the number of absenses required by these games is more than is consistent with the best results of scholarship . " When President Porter said to the assembled alumni , " We should all be disappointed , even the oldest of us , if our college did not maintain her preeminence in the coming contest , " he undoubtedly uttered a sentiment which found a response in every undergraduate 's heart . It was a sentiment calculated to arouse the enthusiasm of all those who love their alma mater and to induce them to make every effort to bring victory to her shrine . Under MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS such circumstances it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would lead them to overstep the bounds of moderation and plunge into excess . With a president , a faculty , and a body of alumni urging the students on , but assuming no , responsibility for their action and exercising no guiding influence over than ; with a motto which might well be translated , " Win , win , win ! ? honestly if you can , but win anyhow , " ? we have all the conditions necessary to develop such tendencies as those which called from President Eliot the opinion that college clubs and crews should be forbidden to employ trainers , or to play or row with professionals . The views expressed by prominent men who are interested in youth and education have been largely influenced by their own experiences and the experiences of those with whom they have been associated . As a rule , those who paid the least attention to physical training in their younger days and have suffered from this neglect ever since are the strongest advocates of the unregulated system of athletics . On the other hand , those who entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and perhaps carrying their practice to such an excess as permanently to injure their health are now apt to be the radicals who advocate the total 161 PHYSICAL EDUCATION abolition of all sports and games . Between these classes are those holding every variety of opinion , ? some so absurd as not to be worth mentioning ; but the more conservative sentiments ? those that ask for regulation and reform ? are advanced by men who have been athletes themselves and have practiced the sports not only from love of them but also as a form of exercise and means of development . Perhaps the most serious evil which has threatened the usefulness of athletics has been the attitude of the young men , and especially of our college students , in overlooking the abuses attending them and the necessity for reform . That the stand they have taken has been wrong and has tended to the discontinuance of athletics , no one can deny who has given the subject a careful consideration . But under the circumstances it was perfectly natural that our young men should reason as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfectly logical . They had heard eloquent addresses on the value of health and strength and had read persuasive arguments in favor of physical exercise ; they had seen thousands of dollars given to the education of the mind where one dollar was devoted to the improvement of the body ; every one had said that athletics were good and that they should be encouraged ; but every 162 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS attempt to give them recognition not merely as sports but as essential parts of college training , and to bring them under responsible supervision had been met with sneers of ridicule and contempt . The athletic associations as they exist to-day in our colleges are largely due to the efforts of the students themselves . Rules and regulations have been borrowed from the English and Scotch associations , but the working policy of the different clubs has been shaped principally by the observation of results . College athletics were first practiced for recreation and amusement ; but all sport is spontaneous and arises from the pleasure of acting , and that a number of men would feel like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the fun of it , is not probable . Where the sport or game requires more than one participant , there must be mutual agreement as to the time of meeting , the part to be played by each , and the regularity of practice . To secure such agreement there must be an ulterior motive . The motive may be physical training for the health 's sake . This is a worthy one , but hardly sufficient to bring eight , nine , or eleven young men together at the same time day after day for two hours ' exercise , especially if they enjoyed vigorous health at the outset . A stronger motive C 163 i a ' Its PHYSICAL EDUCATION or stimulus is needed . This is found in rivalry and competition . Class crews , ball nines , and football teams are formed , and the different classes support their respective organizations with money and enthusiasm . Other associations are formed with the same end in view , and finally college or university organizations are formed . To satisfy the desire for competition and to afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matches are arranged between classes and rivals are sought from other colleges . Here the danger begins , and unless the evils are met as they arise the unmistakable tendency is toward professionalism . The approach of this danger is so insidious that both students and faculties are slow to perceive it . A college community is often called a little world in itself , and it is a world governed by the same passions and impulses that rule the world at large . So far as the physical condition of the athletes is concerned , they represent no one but themselves ; but in their efforts to win a victory from their antagonist they represent the ardent hopes of a large constituency . This constituency governs the movements of the athletes and regulates the standard of the games ; it pays liberally for the support MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS of athletic organizations and wishes affairs conducted according to its tastes . A half-hearted game of ball or a spiritless boat race or football contest would be regarded with derision , and a long series of defeats would deprive the athletic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crew , nine , and eleven to do its best to win . The championship is the goal for which all are striving , and every effort must be put forth to attain it even if it has to be accepted by default . The ardent desire for victory gives rise to improved boats , seats , oars , and rowlocks , in order that the crew using them may gain some mechanical advantage over its adversary . The same desire leads the different organizations to avail themselves of technical skill and to seek the services of professional athletes . A few points on the manipulation of an oar , the curving of a ball , or the handling of a bat may bring victory to the favored crew or team . The employment of experts , practice with first-class amateur organizations , and playing with professionals have been found to enhance the chances of success . If two afternoons a week do not afford the necessary practice to enable a team to keep pace with its rivals , six afternoons a week must be devoted to it , and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emulation increases a part of both forenoon and afternoon must be surrendered . But twelve hours a day given to practice for fiftytwo weeks in the year would not make a ball player , an oarsman , or a runner , unless the individual possessed the essential requisites at the outset . To secure at the start an athlete of acknowledged ability is a great gain to an association , and a young man of this class is much sought for . If he is connected with a preparatory school and is intending to go to college , he may be induced to enter a certain institution through the regular channel . If his natural proclivities or his means of living do not incline him toward the institution that most desires his athletic ability , superior social advantages , indirect assistance , or even pecuniary inducements are sometimes held out to him . But good athletes do not abound in fitting schools , and the demand is always greater than the supply . The opportunity of taking a special course , offered by many of our colleges , opens a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regular course . In this way men whose avowed intention is to engage in athletics for pleasure , or as a matter of business , may find entrance to some of our institutions of learning . In some of the colleges where the facilities for i66 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS entering special or graduate courses are not presented , and the competitive spirit runs high , desirable athletes have been engaged and paid a regular stipend for the express purpose of playing ball or participating in other sports . In order to obtain the best practice and experience college men have often availed themselves of the opportunity to play on professional or semi-professional clubs during the long summer vacations . They claim to have received no money for their services and in this way keep up their standing as amateurs in the college clubs . As soon as their connection with college is over , however , some of these men gravitate naturally into professional organizations , and during the past few years a score or more of college-bred men have been playing baseball throughout the country as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the college community that we find existing in the community at large : it is the graded step from the amateur to the professional . Another difficulty that our young men have had to encounter in the management of athletics has been in the collection and disbursement of funds . It is estimated that the annual cost of sustaining the different athletic organizations at Harvard is 167 PHYSICAL EDUCATION about $50,000 , and nearly the same amount is expended by Yale on her athletic interests . Formerly the various organizations were sustained entirely by subscriptions , the undergraduates and graduates from far and near contributing liberally to the support of the crew , the nine , and other teams . This expense fell heavily upon the smaller colleges , finally compelling them to concentrate their energies upon one or two sports . The larger institutions also have felt this pecuniary strain , and to meet it have been obliged to resort to various methods , such as giving entertainments in the form of concerts , lectures , dramatic and gymnastic exhibitions . In this way the lovers of one kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the competitive sports and games , such as baseball , football , and track athletics , have resources within themselves . They are popular with the public , and by conducting them within closed grounds and charging gate money they can be made to pay something toward their own support . In the opinion of many this course is advisable . When college officials venture the assertion that field athletics ought to be self-supporting , it is not surprising that the managers of athletic associations should try to make them so . With this end in view , 168 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS the games are conducted on business principles . The expenditures are kept down to a minimum , while the income is made as large as possible . If a railroad company offers free passes , or a hotel proprietor opens his house to competing athletes , or if retail dealers or manufacturing companies wish to print the programmes free of charge as an advertisement , their propositions are generally accepted as a matter of business ; for money saved is money earned . If popular sports are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In athletics , as in everything else , nothing pays like success . If an ordinary gymnastic exhibition is given , the expenditures are likely to exceed the receipts . Let it be quietly understood , however , that A and B , two heavy-weight sparrers , are going to try to " knock each other out , " and the athletic treasury will be replete . The same is also true of field sports . Nearly all of Harvard 's practice games are sources of expense . A game in the championship series , however , always draws . In this respect the club that holds the college championship has a pecuniary advantage over the others , especially if so situated as to be able to play some of its games in large cities . The need of money and the difficulty of gaining it , either by subscription or by gate receipts , are 169 PHYSICAL EDUCATION strong inducements to struggle for supremacy . Victory means money in the treasury , while defeat means a lingering debt . The managers and officers of the various athletic organizations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They wish to make as good a showing as their predecessors , if not to advance a little beyond them . This means to defeat their foremost adversary and leave their association free from debt . If they do not succeed in accomplishing these two objects , their season 's work is considered a failure , and they get little credit for the time and energy which they have given to the cause , even if they are so fortunate as to escape censure . On the other hand , should they succeed in winning the championship or in vanquishing their strongest opponents at any cost , their cup of joy is full . They are congratulated by students , faculty , and alumni ; the newspapers herald their names abroad ; celebrations and banquets are given in their honor ; their social and business prospects are assured ; and their records and achievements are handed down to future generations . Again we ask , Under such conditions , such allurements , and such incentives , is it strange that our young men should become enthusiastic over athletics and strive for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 170 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS and renown ? Is it not really a foretaste of life in the world at large , and are they not judged by the same standards ? And if we were disposed to moralize at this point , could we not in truth say that their athletic victories , including the preliminary training that leads up to them , are worth a hundredfold more to the present and future generations than many of the senseless baubles and inanities for which the world is struggling ? But the question that most concerns us is , How is this spirit of ambition and rivalry going to affect the general practice of physical exercise ? We have seen that educators are divided in opinion as to the evils which have arisen in connection with athletics and as to the way of meeting them ; while the students , from their standpoint , can see no evils and are practically united as to the manner in which sports should be conducted . It is for us to consider how the different attitudes are to be reconciled and opposing forces brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest degree of excellence in any sport is the thing to be attained ; if the winning of the championship is to be considered the only indication of success ; if the physical supremacy of the few is to be maintained at any cost , and the amusement of PHYSICAL EDUCATION the many catered to ; and if athletic sports are to be pursued as ends in themselves rather than as a means of physical training and development , then the present tendency of athletics is in the right direction . It is the natural process of evolution from crudeness to perfection , such as marks the progress of every art as an art . The popular demand for physical exercise , the enthusiasm of youth , the love of excitement , the pecuniary interest , the influence of a certain portion of the press , and the policy of some of our institutions of learning , all tend to foster the professional spirit . Unless these influences are met by healthful controlling measures , our popular sports are doomed to lose their hold on public interest , and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In considering the remedies for the natural evils that attend athletic sports , our first thought is to let them assume such proportions as to bring about their own reformation . We are told that professionalism is a disease that cures itself , and if one sport sinks into degradation other sports will rise to take its place . We regret that we can not share this faith . Three thousand years have witnessed the invention of but few sports . Ball playing and boat racing have come down to us from distant ages ; and lawn tennis , // one of the most popular games of the present day , is only the revival of a game played by the ancients . We need all our sports . The physical stability of our people is not so well assured that we can allow these health-giving games to lose their hold upon the public . In the light of a constant tendency to degenerate , we believe that the hearty cooperation of all earnest men is called for in an attempt to keep our recreative games up to the amateur or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that prominent educators and college officials recognize athletic sports and come to an agreement as to the part they are to play in a system of education . In view of the prominence given to these sports in our colleges , the expense of maintaining them , and the evils that are associated with them , a college faculty that does not announce its policy and define its position with regard to this question is , in our opinion , false to its trust and shirks a great responsibility . A subject so important and of such great popular interest has naturally not escaped the notice of these faculties . In most of our colleges , if not in all , it has long been recognized that athletics are good and necessary ; in many , if not in most , it has not escaped 173 PHYSICAL EDUCATION recognition that athletic contests need regulating . With this object in view an intercollegiate athletic conference met a few years ago and drew up a set of resolutions , with preambles . These resolutions were finally submitted to the several colleges . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they should be accepted or rejected as a whole , their adoption by any one college depending upon their adoption by at least five others . They were adopted as a whole by Princeton and Harvard , rejected as a whole by Yale , and accepted conditionally by a few of the smaller colleges . One college was in favor of adopting the first resolution but was opposed to the third ; another college approved of the third but condemned the first ; and so on through the entire number . The difficulty was that no one college ( Harvard and Princeton not excepted ) was satisfied with all the resolutions , and that no one resolution was satisfactory to all the colleges . As a result the conference withdrew the intercollegiate resolutions , and each institution was left to stand by its own . The failure of this attempt at joint regulation and control of athletics was due to one great oversight , ? neglect to recognize the part which the students and alumni were to take in the controversy . The 174 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS committee drew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could , and was expected to , govern the actions of its own students . This was perhaps a natural presumption , but it proved to be a misleading one . Faculties and governing boards are influenced largely by the opinions and desires of their constituencies , and no matter how important or necessary the measure , if it fails to commend itself to the average intelligence of the college community , it can not be adopted and sustained . Some of the committee took this lesson to heart , and since that time they have made their appeal to the students and to the community at large . In the meanwhile , the evils which were so apparent to the committee at that time continued to increase until the year 1885 , when the Harvard faculty found it necessary to prohibit all intercollegiate football games until the rules could be improved and provision made to enforce them . This prohibition was maintained for a year . A little later Harvard 's athletic committee was obliged to check certain evils that had become connected with boating ; to take measures to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce the number of games played out of town ; to exclude professional attendants from the floor of the gymnasium , and all 175 PHYSICAL EDUCATION so-called " trainers " from the grounds of the university . Recognizing , however , that the students should have some one to superintend their sports , the committee recommended the appointment of an official trainer , who should be announced in the catalogue and paid by the corporation . Just as the efforts made by Harvard 's athletic committee were beginning to take effect , a committee appointed by the board of overseers in 1888 recommended the prohibition of all intercollegiate contests . The votes of the overseers following this recommendation led to a thorough examination of the whole subject by a committee appointed by the Harvard College faculty . Concerning the report of this committee President Eliot says : This report , with the accompanying statistics , disposed of some of the common objections to athletic sports and intercollegiate contests , demonstrated their general utility , and set in a clear light the improvement of the average physique of the students , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although the report contained many criticisms upon the present management of athletic sports , its general effect was highly encouraging , both to the faculty and to the undergraduates , as to the moral and physical effects of athletics at Cambridge , taken as a whole . It immediately brought about a better understanding between the faculty and the students on the subject of great interest , concerning which there has been much divergence of opinion . Some of the recommendations of the report have 176 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS already been adopted , and others are likely to be . There are still many excesses and evils connected with athletic sports as intensified by intercollegiate competition ; but the faculty take comfort in the general physical improvement which they witness in the average student , and they hold that dyspepsia is less tolerable than a stiffened knee or thumb , and that effeminacy and luxury are even worse evils than brutality . In order that there might be a more harmonious working toward the end in view , the constitution was changed so as to provide for a committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with three members of the college faculty . The committee as thus constituted has entire supervision and control of all athletic exercises , within and without the precincts of the university , subject to the authority of the faculty . This plan has worked admirably at Harvard , and although the new committee has done little more than to follow the lines laid down by the original committee , the regulations have been accepted with a better grace by the students and have been more generally lived up to . Under the protecting influence of this committee and in consequence of the efforts it has made to improve Harvard 's facilities for the practice of athletics , this branch of physical training is now in a flourishing condition . We no longer reckon success 177 PHYSICAL EDUCATION by the number of championships held or the number of records broken , but by the number of men we can induce to take an active interest in the practice of some kind of athletic sports . Concerning the policy and management of the various athletic teams , there is , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ athletic committee should manage and dictate the policy of the ball nine , football team , boat crew , etc. , as long as they make their public appearances in the name of the university . Others claim that this function should fall upon the graduates . Perhaps the largest number believe that the students should manage their own games . Personally we do not favor either plan . Athletic sports have grown so rapidly and developed so extensively during the past few years that it is now impossible for any one committee to keep thoroughly informed on all the details of all the sports , and without a knowledge of these details the committee would be incompetent to act as managers or advisers . Moreover , in our opinion the very nature of these contests precludes any committee composed of faculty members , and appointed to regulate athletics , from assuming to manage the practical affairs of the different clubs and associations . On the 178 MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS other hand , few graduates can afford to give the necessary time , even if they have kept pace with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to give , the chances are that they have not the requisite knowledge and will misuse their opportunity . But experience has shown that the management of the different athletic organizations is too much for the students to assume without the counsel and advice of older heads . Moreover , it should be said that the sole responsibility for the practical working of a team through the entire season ought not to fall upon the captain alone , as is usually the case . The crying need in our colleges to-day in connection with the management of athletics is the advice and instruction of experts . The whole subject has grown beyond the capacity of faculty , students , and graduates , and if athletics are to be pursued along the same line as other branches of education , that is , with a view to attaining the highest degree of excellence , institutions must employ special instructors trained for this service , just as they employ instructors skilled in the teaching of Greek , mathematics , chemistry , and similar subjects . This is a conclusion which we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatly to the difficulty and expense of keeping up an interest in athletics , especially in 179J // the smaller schools and colleges ; and just what its influence will be upon the general practice of physical training is an open question . But it is one of the natural results of a failure to adopt the intercollegiate regulations , and we see no escape from it . If the men appointed to these positions are so fortunate as to have a college education in addition to their training as experts in physical exercises , it will add greatly to their qualifications for college work . If they also have the good sense to work through the student officials , quietly instructing them as to their duties , but keeping themselves in the background and letting those who participate in the sports have the honor and glory of victory , this quality will be highly appreciated by the students and will render the positions of the special instructors at least tenable in case of an overwhelming defeat . The appointment of specialists in athletics will necessarily make the duties of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have the enthusiasm and inclinations of the instructor to keep in check , as well as those of the students . The grand idea of general excellence in several sports requiring different qualifications and contributing to the harmonious development of the whole 18o MANAGEMENT OF COLLEGE ATHLETICS body , which is the highest aim of all advocates of physical training and which the medical director must keep constantly in mind , will in the future be more difficult to put in practice , unless concerted efforts are made in this direction . The move taken by the Y.M.C.A. in establishing the pentathlon , or the general excellence plan , in their athletic sports , is to be highly commended and will partly make amends for their temerity in introducing competitive exercises , with their perplexing problems , into association work . In the management of athletics we may state that inasmuch as these sports are maintained for health and physical improvement , the medical director must decide as to who is fitted to enter contests and who is not . He may also give advice as to the kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and give personal talks or public lectures on the general subject of physiology and hygiene . Beyond this limit he can not go , unless he desires to become his own executioner . The practical management of each sport should thus devolve upon a committee , composed preferably of a recent graduate deeply interested in the sport under consideration , the special instructor or coach , and the student captain of the organization . PHYSICAL EDUCATION The committee should feel free to confer with the medical director and the committee on the regulation of athletic sports . The responsibility , however , for the plan of campaign or policy pursued must rest with the committee of which the captain of the team is a member . This would seem to be the only way to harmonize the diversified interests that are now concentrated about this great subject and to lessen the friction of what now seems to be an inevitable conflict . 182 CHAPTER VIII ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS It is perhaps only natural that the great interest aroused in athletics in the universities and colleges should have extended into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the numerous school athletic clubs , interscholastic state leagues , and national interscholastic athletic associations , with their frequent contests and enthusiastic supporters , we recognize the existence of a movement which must soon be reckoned with in considering the subject of secondary-school education . In fact , many of the problems connected with athletics which have long perplexed the college authorities are now beginning to demand the attention of school-teachers and school-superintendents . In the secondary schools the athletic problems are made even more complicated than those in the colleges in consequence of the youthfulness of the pupils , the want of proper facilities for training , and the inability of the authorities , especially in some of the public schools and private day schools , to furnish 1$3 PHYSICAL EDUCATION immediate supervision of the pupils or have any control over their exercises outside of school hours . The recognized importance of the subject , the difficulties encountered in the way of administration , and the evils that have resulted from want of proper supervision and control of athletics in the preparatory schools have led to an increasing demand from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , higher salaries are offered to-day for men who can take charge of the physical training and athletics in the large fitting schools than are paid to the instructors in the same line of work in many of the colleges . Inasmuch as these schools are far more numerous than the colleges , a large part of the normal work will soon have to be devoted to the training of teachers for this branch of service . Let us therefore consider briefly some of the problems that have to be met in managing athletics in the secondary schools and then see if there is any satisfactory way in which these problems may be solved . It is exceedingly unfortunate for the cause of physical education that the terms " athletics , " " physical training , " and " gymnastics " are used synonymously by the general public . The original Greek word for " athlete " meant " prize fighter , " and later 184 1 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS " one who contended for a prize . " The secondary definition was made to include any one trained to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? one who has great activity and strength , a champion . Originally a gymnast was a trainer of athletes , but later , one who taught or practiced gymnastic exercises for health , defense , or diversion . With the Greeks the term " gymnastics " included such games or exercises as running , leaping , wrestling , and throwing the discus and the javelin . The term " physical education , " as defined by Webster , means " training of the bodily organs and powers with a view to the promotion of health and vigor . " Although the growth and development of these great subjects during the past few years might make them include many more topics and sub-topics with finer distinction as to their meaning , the great fundamental truth would still be that most forms of athletics and many forms of gymnastics refer to contests for prizes or to contests requiring great physical agility and strength , while physical education and most forms of gymnastics refer to the training of the bodily organs and powers with a view to the promotion of health and vigor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definitions in i8 PHYSICAL EDUCATION considering the responsibility of the school authorities and instructors in dealing with athletics . As long as attendance at school is compulsory it would seem to be perfectly reasonable to exact that nothing should be done to interfere with the natural growth and development of the child , and that everything should be done to accomplish the purpose for which the child was sent to school . It is an established fact that school life does tend to retard bodily growth and development and to produce certain organic weaknesses and physical defects . It has also been shown by the extended observation of many investigators in different parts of this country and in Europe , that whatever improves the physical condition of the pupils tends to improve their mental condition , as indicated by the higher rank that such pupils have invariably attained . Carefully selected , well-regulated , systematic physical exercises have long been recognized as the best means of promoting growth and development of the body , and of correcting the defects and deformities that result from the child 's attempt to adapt himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is now recognized also that physical exercise furnishes the best means of renovating and invigorating the brain , through its influence upon the 186 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS respiration , circulation , and digestion . It would therefore seem that some kind of physical exercise is absolutely necessary in order to preserve the health of the child and build and develop the brain , which are the primary objects of the whole school system . In consequence of the neglect of the elementary schools to make provision for physical exercise , many of the pupils come up to the secondary schools with drooping heads , flat chests , projecting shoulder blades , and other school-bench deformities , which must be attacked at once if they are ever to be corrected . Physical defects are so common during the early teens , and they are so easily overcome at this time , that the whole school class should be put through a daily systematic drill with a view to counteracting the evil effects due to the confinements and restrictions of schoolroom life . The best means of furnishing these necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light gymnastics with dumb-bells , wands , and Indian clubs . Some of these exercises should be given daily in the form of drills in one or two ten- , fifteen- , or thirty-minute periods . They should be given by the regular teacher without any apology and simply as a matter of course . Moreover , the pupils who engage in the physical work required should be 187 PHYSICAL EDUCATION given credit for it and for the results accomplished , just as they would receive credit for any other school study or exercise . One object in taking this stand is to impress upon our youth during the formative period the essential unity of mind and body , and to teach them the fallacy of neglecting one in the hope of improving the other . Another purpose for giving credit is to enable the teacher to command the attention of the pupils and present the subject with as much care and thoughtfulness as he would any other branch of instruction . If arrangements could be made for it , each pupil should have a certain amount of individual attention and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be eradicated and lines of special development suggested . One should not insist upon the special work , however , as part of the school requirement unless it is taken as a substitute for the other exercises . The ten- or fifteen-minute drill in the schoolroom should be supplemented by well-regulated plays and games at recess time . We say " well-regulated " plays and games , because it is of the utmost importance that the right games should be introduced at the right time and that they should be checked in case they become too violent , overheating , or exciting . These recess games should be voluntary , and in the 188 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS management of them the school-teacher should take the position of leader and adviser rather than of preceptor . Of course he should be perfectly familiar with all the games taught and should be the willing interpreter of all the rules and regulations governing them . He should encourage the weak and timid and restrain those who are too strong and overbearing . He should be the umpire in all disputes and the ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start impromptu contests in running , jumping , and some of the lighter forms of gymnastics and athletics . He should be the first one to recognize merit when he sees it and to call attention to the fine points and particular excellence of any one 's performance . On the other hand , he should be the first to frown upon anything that looks like cheating or dishonesty , and should immediately visit his disapproval upon any young athlete who gains an advantage by any kind of unfairness . By supervising and conducting games in this way the teacher not only has an admirable opportunity to study the character of his pupils and thus acquire a knowledge which will prove valuable in the schoolroom but also a chance to instill into their minds in connection with their athletic sports the importance of such qualities as promptness , 189 PHYSICAL EDUCATION obedience , alertness , energy , courage , perseverance , and justice . The physical work which we have already outlined should be carried on under the direction of the supervisor or director of physical training as an essential part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Should the school authorities carry the matter of physical training farther and undertake to provide instruction for special athletes , assuming the direction and management of interscholastic contests and athletic games ? So long as competitive athletics are made general in a school , and the competition is among its own members and not between them and other schools , there would seem to be no good reason why the pupils should not be taught how to run , row , jump , fence , box , wrestle , and swim , and to play baseball , football , and other antagonistic games . Indeed , there are many good reasons why all the pupils should be taught these exercises and be encouraged to test themselves by competing with others in trials of strength , skill , and endurance . In order to have these exercises well taught , and the contests well managed , they should be under the direct supervision of the director of physical training and should be supported by the school authorities . 1901 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS While keeping general control of the athletic work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the services of his best pupils as captains , leaders , and assistants . Under this arrangement a sense of proportion could be maintained between the physical and the mental work , and athletics could be made to harmonize with the general school programme . The readiness of school authorities to provide for this extra instruction and supervision would depend upon the willingness of the people , or certain benevolently disposed individuals , to provide the money for it . A great deal may be done toward making certain forms of athletics self-supporting by having them interesting and attractive to the public , but in this also lies a danger . It is a familiar phase of human nature that when a group of boys has conquered one school or community they immediately desire more schools or communities to conquer . It is an appetite that grows by what it feeds upon , and is unfortunately not confined to boys or men individually but sometimes possesses whole countries and nations . When the interest in competitive athletics once passes the boundaries of the school yard or playground there is simply no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But this great expansion and extent 191 PHYSICAL EDUCATION of interest , in our opinion , altogether changes the relation of the school authorities and the director of physical training to the whole subject . So long as the competitive exercises are confined to the school limits and made a part of the regular school programme in the manner shown , the school authorities may well consider themselves responsible for the management of these exercises and the results that are derived from them ; but when one school enters into competition with another , the interest becomes so intensified , the training required so severe , and the risks run so great , to say nothing of the demoralizing effects upon the rest of the school programme , that no school board or school officials alone should be held responsible for the results . The responsibility should be assumed mutually by the parents , school authorities , graduates , and the boys themselves . Having been taught practical lessons in self-government through the school games of the grammar grades , the pupils of the higher schools should be encouraged to try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be difficult to do at first , and many mistakes and blunders will necessarily be made . If , however , each officer appointed will make a report of his various duties at the end of the school year , carefully recording successes , failures , and other // experiences , in a few years it will be possible to outline for the school a policy in the government of its athletic affairs which will be very valuable . In order that more stability may be given to the school athletic organizations , since the students are necessarily a fluctuating body , an athletic committee should be appointed to have general supervision of such matters and keep the officers up to their duties . This committee might well be composed of three former pupils of the school who have had previous experience on some of the school teams , an equal number of undergraduates , the director of the gymnasium or supervisor of physical training , some member of the teaching force , and a member of the governing boards . This committee should draw up a code of rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , place , and conduct of games , the duties of officers , and the general management of athletic affairs . Where there are to be interscholastic contests this committee , or certain members of it , should meet the members of similar committees from the schools comprising the athletic league or association , and draw up regulations governing interscholastic athletic meetings . These regulations should be published and made accessible to every schoolboy in the land who may wish to 193 PHYSICAL EDUCATION become familiar with them . As a basis for the establishment of some such regulations , the advantages of athletics over other forms of exercise and training should be frankly pointed out and acknowledged . The evils and dangers with which the practice of these exciting pastimes are almost necessarily accompanied should also be considered , and every possible arrangement made to mitigate them . But what are some of the benefits to be derived from athletic contests in the secondary schools , and what are some of the evils to be contended with ? Under such a scheme as we have outlined , the pupils will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of calisthenics , gymnastics , and athletics . These formal exercises are intended gradually to train , strengthen , and develop the different parts and organs of the body , and are as essential to a scheme of physical education as reading , writing , arithmetic , and other fundamental studies are to a scheme of mental education . They furnish the best kind of preparatory training for the various kinds of athletic contests , as is proved by the practice of professional athletes and the college ball teams , track teams , and boat crews . Having developed the elements of power through the practice of formal exercises , they should be ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS further developed , tested , and applied through athletic contests and games . Here is where the boy first finds himself , and becomes acquainted with his own powers as distinguished from those of some other boy . In these contests he receives his first great stimulus toward self-activity and self-expression . They pull him out , as it were , and incite him to make greater and greater efforts Formal exercises are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely in the future . Athletic contests are objects of immediate interest and furnish a definite purpose for action . If wisely chosen they also furnish an immed iate incentive for the cultivation of special powers and the improvement of special weaknesses and defects . In team play , especially in the highly organized games , admirable opportunities are afforded for developing many excellent traits of character . In formal exercises one movement follows another in regular sequence , through lines which have been carefully worked out beforehand . In games no two plays or combination of plays are exactly alike . One can never know just what his opponent is going to do , yet what one 's opponent does changes the nature and direction of the game . Each player must decide when and how to act in each exigency that arises , ti PHYSICAL EDUCATION and he must execute his decision promptly and energetically . Alertness , quick perception , forced and prolonged attention , great self-control , self-direction , and even self-sacrifice , are often called for and correspondingly developed . In an admirable address entitled " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inspector Hughes has well said : No other school work defines energy of character more than athletic games . By playing games boys learn to bear defeat bravely and to work harder for victory to-morrow because it has not been won to-day . Final triumph won by persistent practice and patient effort for success fills the young character with the faith and hope that are so essential in the life struggle of later years . The athletic playground is the best place for developing the consciousness of individual power and responsibility , and forming apperceptive centers in the mind , around which may be gathered ideas of the highest social import , ? cooperation , or the organic unity of the race . The boy who is a member of a cricket , lacrosse , baseball , or football team learns in the most definite way that the more completely he develops his powers and the more perfectly he can perform his part , the more certain his team is to win . He learns , too , that one weak player weakens the whole team . Each member thus learns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesson of individual responsibility , and the value of individual power and individual effort . He learns , too , the higher lesson of unity or cooperation as the basis of complete success . Victory results from the combined efforts of thoroughly trained individuals who are working heartily for the accomplishment of a common purpose . Playing games governed by well-defined rules trains character by developing a spirit of hearty submission to law . 1961 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS The high mental and moral qualities as well as the physical stamina acquired through the practice of competitive games have of late years attracted the attention of our great financiers and men of affairs , and many of the college men who distinguished themselves in athletics have been invited to take positions of great trust and responsibility . The knowledge of men , the energy of character , and the executive ability acquired through the practice and management of athletics is of the greatest value to young men who wish to prepare themselves for a business career . We remember hearing the superintendent of schools in a neighboring city say in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get a position in New York City upon the strength of being a Harvard graduate . Finally he happened to mention that he was also stroke oar of his class crew . This , or rather the qualities supposed to belong to a man who could win and hold by hard work such a trying place , secured him his position in the great city . Considering that the great majority of school and college youths are fitting themselves for a business career , where push , energy , courage , coolness , and a rapid and responsible exercise of judgment under trying circumstances count for so much , it would seem that the vigorous training G X97 PHYSICAL EDUCATION acquired through judicious practice of athletics would be almost invaluable . Most of the objections which have been made to athletics have arisen from their excessive rather than from their legitimate use . There are some wellfounded objections which are worth considering . No one will deny that it is a good thing for a boy to learn to run , jump , row , swim , and play ball , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but when they become so all-absorbing as to demand most of his time , energy , and attention , they defeat the very object of their introduction into our schools and colleges . Those engaged in making physical examinations have observed the tendency of certain forms of athletics to produce certain mental and physical results , such as increased energy and activity , sometimes engendering a sort of physical restlessness , and increasing the muscular strength , as well as the length and girth of trunk and limbs , and the strength and capacity of heart , lungs , stomach , and brain . When these same exercises are overdone and the athlete is thereby overtrained , his extreme mental activity lapses into mental dullness or into nervous irritability and lack of control , he loses in weight , and his muscles cease to develop . Overtraining may also cause the heart to become 1981 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS enlarged or unduly dilated , the lungs to become congested , and the stomach to refuse to do its work , thus bringing the man to the verge of a general collapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called an acute attack of overtraining may result from activity prolonged over a term of years , in which case the injury is more lasting . It is a familiar anatomical fact that all organs and parts of the body develop in proportion to their use . Thus the oarsman increases the size and strength of his legs and back , and the gymnast the muscle and breadth of his arms and chest . After this special development has been carried to a certain extent , the parts that have been robbed of their just share of nutriment in order to sustain the increased life of some other part refuse to work unless they can have their proper supply of food . In this way some part that gives out repeatedly in a supreme effort becomes permanently weakened . Given a hundred boys who are trying to outrun , outjump , or outrow each other , and those boys will come to the front whose peculiar development most readily adapts itself to the special sport in which they excel . At least ninety per cent of the boys , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EDUCATION will fail to reach the highest achievement . If , however , the rivalry is intense and the ninety per cent keep on trying , a large portion of these will fall out in the struggle and a few will surely injure themselves . There would be no honor in making a record in any athletic sport or in becoming a member of a victorious athletic team if it were possible for all the boys in the school to do the same thing . No distinction would be gained by doing what any one might do . Where the great desire is to break a record , win a prize , or gain a championship , it is perfectly natural that an ambitious boy , for the sake of his own advancement , should put forth every effort to accomplish the end in view ; and when it is considered that the attainment of such distinction would bring honor to family and friends , to class , society , and school , and that the player is urged on by coaches , trainers , and admiring comrades , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts . Under these circumstances it is not surprising that some boys overdo and are injured . This overdoing by physical exertion is , as already intimated , far more likely to occur in the case of youths of our secondary schools , because of their immaturity . It is a fact well known to anatomists 200 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS that the important bones of the skeleton do not consolidate until between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five . Until this consolidation takes place the different parts of the framework are susceptible of great improvement under judicious exercise and training . But the same bones are just as susceptible of injury or of being deformed if the exercises and training are not judicious . Specializing in athletics at too early an age tends to produce skeletal defects and deformities , which are easily recognized and which often call for corrective treatment to prevent them from becoming permanent . In early youth the ordinary sprains and injuries that occur in the practice of athletics are not of such serious import , because one easily recovers from them . The most serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are those which affect the vital organs . The heart is under a greater strain than any other organ during the period of puberty and throughout adolescence to adult age . The following table shows the weight of the heart at different ages : figure PHYSICAL EDUCATION During the period of puberty the heart actually doubles in size . From this period until the age of eighteen the development of the heart is less rapid and frequently does not keep pace with the growth of the trunk and limbs . Its greatest progressive development takes place between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five . The following table shows the weight of the lungs at different ages : figure The liver , kidneys , and spleen increase proportionately in weight , and consequently in functional power , during the same periods . If extraordinary demands are made upon the heart and lungs before the age of eighteen , as is the case in longdistance running or rowing , too frequent trials in short-distance running , prolonged and persistent attempts at jumping , pole vaulting , wrestling , boxing , football , basket-ball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important organs are likely to be injured from overwork . The heart will become weakened and dilated and more or less violent palpitation will occur , the breathing will 202 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS be short and difficult , and often accompanied by pulmonary hemorrhage , and the individual will be incapacitated for any prolonged muscular effort . The liver and kidneys may also be impaired in their functional capacity if greatly overworked before the age of eighteen . But so great is the recuperative power of nature , especially in youth , that the injury to even these important organs may be repaired if the impairment is discovered in time and the cause of the trouble removed . If , on the other hand , the ambitious schoolboy has more sand than sense and still continues his violent efforts in spite of the warning symptoms , he will become incapacitated not only for all college athletics but for his life work . This sudden breakdown is much more likely to take place if the boy is at the same time ambitious to stand high in his studies or to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ athletics plus some other strain or draft upon the heart or nervous system that occasions the collapse . The treatment for these cases , however , when taken in time , is very simple . It consists in complete cessation from all violent efforts for from six to twelve months , complete rest in a recumbent position for one or two hours in the middle of the day , and indulgence in only 203 PHYSICAL EDUCATION such exercises as can be carefully regulated and controlled . In addition to the objections raised to school athletics from the physical standpoint it is necessary to consider certain objections which are often brought against them because of their moral effects . In the opinion of many the prominence now given to athletics by the press and public , the praise and adulation bestowed upon individual athletes by schools and colleges , the commendation of friends and the worship of comrades , the celebrations and the banquets are having a demoralizing influence upon a large class of our youthful population . A young man whose good work in the class room has never attracted attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into notice suddenly finds himself raised to distinction by an athletic victory . He feels his own importance for the first time in his life , and with this sense of importance comes an increasing appreciation of the method by which he has risen into prominence . Henceforth his presence may be required in the recitation room but his mind and thoughts will be occupied with the scenes of his ephemeral triumphs . It is claimed , too , that athletic contests not only fascinate the participants but allure hundreds of non204 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS athletic youths from their studies and thus interfere with the serious intellectual work of the schools ; that the protestations of the instructors are of no avail , for on the subject of sports the whole country seems to be against them ; and that , indeed , many teachers have felt obliged to ally themselves with this athletic movement in order to have any influence over their pupils . Some of these objections may be well founded but others are not . The newspaper prominence given to schoolboy athletics has been greatly modified within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school season there are published in the newspapers many more pictures of schoolboy and schoolgirl orators , poets , and class-day officials than of schoolboy athletes . The enthusiastic admiration of physical vigor and athletic prowess and agility is perfectly natural to youth , because it is youth 's own province . All the glory of this kind that is ever attained must necessarily be attained in youth , because adult age brings other duties and responsibilities and a growing disposition to use the mind more and the body less . In our opinion a much greater evil than any that has been mentioned in connection with school and college athletics is the tendency to magnify the 205 PHYSICAL EDUCATION importance of victory and to be indifferent to the means by which it is frequently attained . A victory won by hard work and faithful training ? which is only another term for correct habits of living ? is deserving of the highest approbation . It indicates better blood , better muscles , better brain , better everything that is worthy of emulation and perpetuation , whether possessed by our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumph of these good qualities through trickery and fraud should meet the condemnation of all lovers of manly sport and manly virtue . The pernicious custom of betting is partly responsible for the desire to win at all hazards , and although there is very little betting among the supporters of the schoolboy athletes there is enough of it among our college students to give a peculiar coloring to all forms of amateur sports . The acknowledgment of a foul or a fault on the part of a player is not yet considered a point of honor , and any little trick or deception that may be used to help win the game is quite readily overlooked or forgiven by the supporters of the victorious team . It is well known that in baseball much of the coaching that is given to the men running bases , and the cheering and music that are supposed to keep up the courage of the favored ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS team , are really given to disconcert the opposing players . This line of conduct has nothing to commend it and greatly detracts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sufficiently alert to find his way unaided around the bases , and the cheering should be reserved for the performance of work well done . To keep up a continuous volley of cheering , shouting , and catcalling throughout the progress of an athletic contest , for the purpose of giving courage to one 's own team and of striking terror to the hearts of the opponents , is an empty and silly custom . It can be compared only to the beating of the tom-tom in early Indian warfare to fire the hearts of the braves , or to the blaring of trumpets , clanging of gongs , and beating of drums and other ear-splitting instruments with which the Chinese soldiers formerly hoped to frighten away their adversaries . Another evil in connection with secondary-school athletics is the readiness on the part of some of the school authorities to use the athletic teams as a means of advertising the school . This is an evil , however , that pertains rather more to the private than to the public schools . To have a victorious baseball nine or football @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attract the attention of 207 PHYSICAL EDUCATION parents who wish their sons to have a good physical education and be made strong and vigorous but when it is considered that in most schools the athletic teams represent only those composing them , that the members of these teams usually have good physiques when they enter the school , and that little or nothing is done to improve the physical condition of the great majority of the pupils who really need it , the hollowness and insincerity of the whole affair become painfully apparent , at least to the teachers of physical training . When the desire and enthusiasm for victory are so strong as to lead an institution to import athletes for the purpose of securing winning teams in baseball , football , and other games the sports have lost their significance , and the whole transaction reflects nothing but discredit upon all who were instrumental in bringing it about . The moral effect upon the pupils and the school community would be much better if the whole athletic team were hired outright to play for their amusement ; for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereas the methods that are sometimes used to draw athletes to a school and pass them off as bona fide students are thoroughly dishonest and are always followed by a train of evil consequences that are ruinous to amateur sport . 208 ATHLETICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS Happily , through the vigorous method pursued during the past dozen years to check this evil , it is now somewhat abated , but strenuous efforts would still seem to be necessary to demonstrate to some of our youths the utter uselessness of victories secured through other means than honest efforts where the best men win . In conclusion , it seems to us that the most desirable thing to do is to get all athletics out of school and college politics and treat them as an essential part of a complete system of physical training . This implies at once a recognition of their importance and a consideration of the good points to be preserved and the evils to be eradicated . It also implies the hearty cooperation of the school authorities , school graduates , and the parents and pupils in an attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contests , indoor and outdoor , may easily be arranged for all classes of pupils , so that every one in the school may experience the stimulating effect of taking part in some kind of physical competition . The chief aim of the director of such sports should be to see that all of the contestants are divided in groups and that each group has , as far as can be determined without a trial , an equal number of strong and weak boys . 209 PHYSICAL EDUCATION With a determination on the part of those most interested in the welfare of our youths that athletic sports shall be rightly managed , much good will result from the practice of these invigorating exercises . On the other hand , if they are left wholly to the management of inexperienced youths , or to men who wish to exploit them for their own advancement or to cater to the popular love of excitement and amusement for a pecuniary consideration , the good which results will certainly be mixed with evils which will be detrimental not only to those engaging in athletics but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and colleges . Will our secondaryschool authorities have the good sense to realize that athletics can not be eliminated from school life , and unite with others in trying to check the abuses and direct the uses of this important adjunct in education ? We can not help thinking that they will . CHAPTER IX MILITARY DRILL IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS Long before the Civil War many academies in the southern states were pursuing the European plan of devoting special attention to military science . At the outbreak of the Rebellion , while the North was obliged to look for its officers to the small nucleus graduated from West Point , the South had , in addition , the well-trained students of the state academies to command its regiments . In the opinion of military men the early successes of the southern army were largely due to this fact . Many of our northern citizens were so much impressed with the utter lack of military training on the part of our educated young men at the beginning of the war that efforts were made as early as December , 1861 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter was acted upon by the boards of education in New York and other cities , and referred by them to special committees . In the January following , Governors Andrew and Morgan recommended legislative action on the subject . PHYSICAL EDUCATION In 1863 military drill was established in the Boston schools . At the termination of the war it was considered desirable by the general government that some of the army officers not otherwise employed should be detailed to teach military science to the students of such colleges as desired it , so that educated men might have a better knowledge of military discipline and drill than former graduates had received in these institutions . Many of our schools and colleges applied to the government for officers and began the experiment of making military drill a part of the regular curriculum . How far this experiment has succeeded from the military point of view we must leave those who are interested in our volunteer militia to answer . Our purpose here is simply to call attention to the fact that the primary object of establishing the drill in our schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to give instruction in military tactics to educated young men in order that they might be of service to the country or community in case of an emergency . The war not only gave an incentive to the practice of military drill but it also furnished a great stimulus to all forms of physical exercise and especially to athletic contests and games . 212 MILITARY DRILL IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS As the occasion which gave rise to a call to arms became more remote and the real object of the drill lost its significance , those who advocated its maintenance in the schools claimed for it superior advantages as a physical exercise . In the city of Boston the committees to whom the subject of military drill in schools had been referred placed considerable stress upon this point . We here quote a few lines from their published reports as compiled by the principals of the public Latin and high schools for boys . In 1873 the committee reported as follows : Your committee believe that the drill , as now carried on , proves to be not only the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time it inculcates a more manly spirit in the boys , invigorates their intellects , and makes them more graceful and gentlemanly in their bearing . In the report for 1874 there is a similar statement , while the committee of 1875 further urged the continuance of military drill : We trust that the drills will be kept up , believing that committees having them in charge will see that no form of gymnastics could be substituted from which the boys would derive such benefit . In 188o the committee again approved : The establishment of the military drill is one of the few provisions made by the school board for the physical training of the pupils under its charge , and no one who has observed the soldierly bearing of the members of our school battalions can have any 213 PHYSICAL EDUCATION doubt of its value as a means of securing a full and symmetrical development of the physique . Notwithstanding the fact that half of the members of these committees were physicians , one may venture to differ with them absolutely as to their conclusions concerning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order that we may approach the discussion of this subject more intelligently , let us inquire briefly into the physiology of exercise , and consider some of the facts which observation and experience have determined . Exercise in its simplest sense may be defined as " muscular movement produced by muscular contraction . " According to the physiologists , the property of contractility is inherent in the muscular substance , but in normal life the manifestation of this property is immediately determined through the influence of the nervous system . . . . A nervous impulse originating at the brain or spinal column travels along the nerves to their terminal expansions in the muscular fibers ; on its arrival at the muscular fibers , the nervous impulse is converted into a muscle-impulse . . . . Between the reception of the nervous impulse and the initiation of the visible contractile movement an interval elapses known as the " latent period , " which ( according to Helmholtz ) is probably occupied by molecular changes in the fiber preparatory to its alteration in form . At the close of the latent period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . The contraction of the 214 MILITARY DRILL IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS individual fibers produces changes in the form of the entire muscle , shortening the distance between its two extremities by increasing its thickness and slightly reducing its bulk . In the voluntary muscles ( according to Weber ) each contraction is compound in character , being composed of a series of rapid contractions , due to an equally rapid succession of nerveimpulses . During muscular contractions certain chemical changes take place in the muscle substance , although the exact nature of the metamorphosis has not been determined . It is known , however , that the blood escaping from muscles in action is much darker than the venous blood of muscles in repose , and that it contains a much greater proportion of carbonic acid . It is also known that a greater amount of oxygen is absorbed by the muscles during the period of contraction , and Gaskell 's experiments have demonstrated that the flow of blood through muscles is increased at the time of their shortening . Thus we see that the simplest muscular moveents involve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement originates , in the nerve fiber that transmits the impulse , in the muscle fibers that contract , and in the blood vessels that dilate in response to the stimulation . The experimental researches on a single muscle in the physiological laboratory have given us an epitome of what 215 PHYSICAL EDUCATION should take place throughout the system at large in order to realize the best results from exercise . There must be consecutive action of , and harmonious relation between , the nervous , muscular , and vascular systems in every effort to improve the physique and render the individual energetic , healthy , and strong . How to attain this threefold result is the problem that the instructor of physical training has before him . If you lift your arm by flexing it at the elbow , the arm is raised because the biceps muscle contracts , but the fibers are not hard and tense and there is little evidence of an increased circulation . This would be termed a movement , ? almost a passive movement , ? and is what might be first advised to restore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single group of muscles from atrophy . It is the basis of the " movement cure " as founded by Ling , of Sweden . If you contract the muscles of the arm rapidly and energetically , you give exercise to nerve centers and nerve fibers , but the muscles are not efficiently used and the blood supply is not much augmented . By pursuing this method the nervous system may sometimes be improved and the muscles made responsive , but activity will be attained at the expense 216 MILITARY DRILL IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS of endurance . This is the basis of the Delsarte ' system of physical culture now so popular in the schools of elocution . Now grasp a heavy dumb-bell or weight in the hand and elevate it slowly to the shoulder . In so doing you bring about an energetic action of the flexor muscles , but the nervous system is not especially active , and though the blood vessels of the arm are gorged with blood the circulation is not much improved . By pursuing this method the muscles may be increased in size and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will lack heart and lung power , and be constitutionally weak . This is the result of the " heavy weight " system as formerly practiced and advocated by Dr. Winship . Now if the arm is alternately contracted and relaxed while using a lighter weight , the blood in the arteries is pushed forward into the veins and through the veins into the heart . When it arrives at the heart , that organ is stimulated to contract with greater energy , and a proportionally greater amount of blood is sent back to the arm . By following this method the blood vessels in the parts PHYSICAL EDUCATION used may be greatly increased in size and capacity , but if many muscles are called into play at the same time , the brain and central nerve system will lack their proper share of blood , and power to continue the effort for any length of time will be wanting . This , in a word , is the chief defect in the system of " light gymnastics " advocated so earnestly some twenty years ago by the late Dr. Dio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and applied to the whole body , represent , we believe , the fundamental principles of four great systems of physical training , ? each method being admirably adapted to meet the special wants of certain individuals , but wholly unreliable when applied indiscriminately to all classes in a community , and in some cases followed by fatal consequences . To select at once a system of exercise that will do no harm to any one and yet be beneficial to all is a difficult task ; yet we shall come nearer to doing the greatest good to the greatest number if we follow what may be termed the " physiological method . " 1 Our principal objection to military drill as a physical exercise is that it does not to any extent meet the physiological demands of the body . In other MILITARY DRILL IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS words , it is not of sufficient interest as a means of physical development to arouse any moral earnestness and enthusiasm on the part of the boys . The exercise of the manual is not performed with sufficient force and rapidity to insure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially a one-sided exercise , bringing into excessive action the elevators of the right scapula , the deltoid , biceps , flexors of the forearm , wrist , and fingers of the right side ; while the other muscles , excepting the legs on parade days , do not get sufficient employment to keep them in good condition . It does not increase the respiration and quicken the circulation to a sufficient extent to secure the constitutional benefits that should accrue from exercise . During the drill the clothing is buttoned close round the chest and natural respiration is hindered . The muscles are not alternately contracted and re ' axed but are tetanized , or kept in a state of proonged tension . This , as we have seen , not only mpairs the tone of the muscles used , but also puts n additional strain upon the brain and nervous ystem at a time when both should be as much lieved as possible . Finally , the mere exercise of e manual of arms does not give sufficient breadth nd scope of movement to secure the cooperation of 219 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the central nerve system it is of little or no value . Coolness , courage , presence of mind , and that rapid and responsible exercise of judgment in emergencies , so valuable to the man of business as well as to the soldier , are not developed by the drill itself , although we admit that other moral attributes ? such as obedience , patience , fortitude , and forbearance ? may be brought to a high degree of perfection . The community at large has long entertained the idea that there is something about military drill that makes young men erect , or , as the committee previously mentioned were pleased to express it , " makes them more graceful and gentlemanly in their bearing . " To take from the drill one of the best attributes that have commended it to parents and teachers is a matter of regret , but unless we have been misled in our observations there is nothing in the drill itself that tends to make one erect or graceful . On the other hand , we are prepared to maintain that it tends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to give him drooping and rounded shoulders . This view was long since brought to the attention of military authorities , and a set of calisthenic exercises , or free gymnastics , designed to correct this tendency has been incorporated into all the treatises 220                     