@@23614

Interlude Arthur Koestler T HE weather had been abnormal for some time . At first the weather reports contained merely the usual statements about " the hottest 11th September since 1885 , " " the worst Atlantic gale in twenty-seven years , " and the like , based on data which were assembled by bearded men in meteorological offices who were probably called " Meteorological Registrars " or " Assistant Weather Statisticians , " and whose one ambition in life was to be able to announce " the 15th July with the heaviest snowfall on record " ; though there was presumably also an oppositional faction among them who were passionately searching for a " 15th July nearest to the statistical average " and for " the most normal summer since 1848 . " It must also be assumed , given the mentality of pre-Pubertarian man , that the two factions who called themselves respectively the " Apocalyptists " and the " Normalists " hated each other with as much idealism and venom as any two rival political parties , philosophical schools , government departments , or literary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an uninterrupted series of victories , and visibly getting the upper hand . The " hottest I 1 th September since 1885 " was soon followed by " the hottest of any September day since 1852 , " and this by " the hottest September on record . " By that time the daily weather report had gradually migrated from its traditional place at the bottom of the first column on the last page to the top of the front page . The bearded Assistant Weather Registrars were having the time of their livesand beginning to dream of the Legion of Honor or the C.B.E. ; for just like the lucky gambler at the roulette table or the winner of a lottery , they felt that in some obscure way this sensational weather was all their own doing . Few other people , however , seemed to share in their feeling of elation . The heat and the drought ( caused by the smallest amount of rainfall in any September since 1866 ) killed the late crops , burned some of the most renowned English lawns , and laid a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dreary consequences : municipal warnings to save water and electricity , followed by reductions in the industrial power supply , and so on . The European public , which during the last few years developed a violent allergy to all kinds of rationing , saving , and public-spirited exhortations , became increasingly irritable and weather-conscious . Swarms of helicopters and airplanes were mobilized to make rain by sprinkling silver nitrate and dry ice on the mean little cirro-cumulus clouds high up in the troposphere , but all they achieved were short local thunderstorms and a number of casualties among the rain-makers themselves , who got caught in the small but violent atmospheric sneezes which their chemical snuff produced . The newspapers published their stock pieces about sun spots , eleven-year cycles , and magnetic disturbances , while ignorant rumor spun yarns about the mysterious aftereffects of the latest X-bomb trials and radioactive clouds . These rumors were fed by the exciting controversy between This section of Mr. Koestler 's forthcoming book , The Age of Longing , is an interlude , a satiric commentary standing as a separate part of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background since Darkness at Noon . the American and the Commonwealth* press about the recent X-bomb explosion in the Ural Mountains . It had been an unusually gigantic bang , whose tremors had been recorded by seismographs over half the earth , and which had been wrapped in an equally enormous and dense cloud of official silence on the part of the Commonwealth . A full week had passed before a short , laconic statement by the Commonwealth News Agency mentioned in an almost deprecatory manner that the biggest-ever X-bomb had been exploded in a routine trial with " satisfactory results . " But no sooner had this statement been made public than the U. S. State Department released a series of photographs to the press . These photographs had been taken by one Captain Bogarenko of the Commonwealth Air Force who had been sent on a high-altitude reconnaissance mission over the trial area and , on seeing what there was to be seen , had suffered such a shock that he decided on the spur of the moment to desert . He had headed southward , refueled twice in Oral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U. S. Legation . T HE photographs showed no particular horrors . The high-altitude panoramic view displayed a rather lovely valley surrounded by rugged mountain peaks , and a medium-sized crater in the center of the valley . Round the crater there could be seen faint , concentric rings as in bird's-eye views of volcanoes , which obviously marked the area of devastation . Under the magnifying glass , however , there appeared in the devastated areas tiny specks of a regular shape , and it was the sight of these which had aroused Captain Bogarenko 's curiosity and induced him to circle lower and lower , in defiance of his explicit instructions and of the dangers of radioactivity . The remaining photographs , taken from medium and low altitudes , revealed the startling fact which was responsible for Bogarenko 's flight abroad . The site where * The official change of name from " Union of Social . ist Soviet Republics " to " Commonwealth of Freedom-loving People " ( or " Free Commonwealth " for short ) , foreshadowed by similar changes in official terminology , was decreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial bomb had been exploded was the approximate center of a large , modern , thickly-populated industrial town . Judged by the number and size of its buildings , this town must have housed at a conservative estimate at least five hundred thousand people . Though only a few of the buildings had remained standing , it was easy to see that they were recently erected ferro-concrete structures : large regular cubes and long , brick-shaped buildings equipped with power plants , transformer installations , and high-tension wires ; in other words these buildings had obviously been factories and laboratories . The whole town had a strictly geometrical , semicircular layout which showed that it had been planned and built for some definite purpose . Captain Bogarenko , who was a nice and energetic but not a very bright man , had come , while he circled over the dead town , to the conclusion that it had been built , populated , and equipped with all modern conveniences for the express purpose of being destroyed as an experiment . Though he considered this procedure unnecessarily wasteful and cruel , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have passed over it with a shrug , as he had often done before when faced with similarly puzzling decisions of his government ; in fact this kind of energetic shrug which involved the whole upper part of the body was Captain Bogarenko 's most expressive gesture . However , as he lowered his plane to almost roof-top level , he saw here and there a few human shapes emerge from the rubble and crawl among the charred corpses . They had probably been attracted by the roar of the plane and tried to signal for help , but somehow their gestures and the way they moved did not seem right , for every single one of the dozen or so of these shapes crawled on all fours , obviously unable to rise to its feet . Whether they were insane , blind , in great pain , or all of these together , it was impossible to determine ; at any rate they gave Bogarenko the creeps and made him turn the nose of his plane toward Persia , with " the balance of his mind temporarily disturbed , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verdict of suicide . Only when it was too late , and he had already delivered the photographs and his somewhat incoherent report , did the truth dawn on him . The truth was of course that the town had not been destroyed on purpose , but had blown up by accident . It had in fact , as the photographs unmistakably showed , not been a real town but an enormous assembly plant for X-bombs and probably other experimental weapons , purposely built in one of the most inaccessible areas of the Ural range . Its existence had for some time been known to the competent American authorities , but this knowledge had been kept secret by them . It was quite inconceivable that the Commonwealth government should have deliberately destroyed its latest and biggest effort of safeguarding Peace Through Strength . Some of the capriciously unstable tritiron nuclei must have got out of hand ; or maybe some of the physicists on the spot had decided that the most reasonable course for them to take was to blow themselves up , plant and all . However that may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the weather statisticians , " the biggest bang in recorded history , " and a severe setback to the Commonwealth . v OR a full week after publication of the photographs , there was again complete silence from the Commonwealth . Then another bomb exploded , this time a metaphorical one : a diplomatic bombshell . It came in the form of an official Commonwealth communiqu ? , addressed to the world at large . It stated that the Commonwealth government 's " Commission of Inquiry into the Recent Explosion in the Territory of the Autonomous Republic of Kasakstan " had produced irrefutable evidence to the effect that this explosion had been caused by a high-powered nuclear bomb of American type , which had been dropped from an aircraft belonging to the armed forces of a " hostile power . " This unprecedented act of criminal aggression had caused the " death of tens of thousands of men , women , and children " who had been engaged in a peaceful large-scale irrigation project to transform the barren mountain area into fertile vineyards and cotton plantations . The Government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all necessary steps of self-protection and retaliation against the hostile power responsible for this cowardly crime of undeclared warfare . As a precautionary measure it had ordered a partial mobilization ofits armed forces and closed the frontier of its territory to all traffic , telegraphic and telephonic communications . On the same day the Commonwealth press carried a short notice in small type to the effect that the director of the Commonwealth News Agency , which had issued the original communique about the " successful trial , " had been arrested for having published " misleading information referring to the causes of the explosion , " and had confessed his crime . Naturally the Commonwealth government 's new disclosure had caused widespread indignation , panic , and disorder in both hemispheres . The general strikes in France and Italy were accompanied by huge peace demonstrations which clashed with the police , smashed the windows of several U. S. consulates , and burned several consignments of American orange juice in the ports . The French extreme Left asked that the President of the U. S. A. should be immediately tried as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be declared neutral territory , and that it would be a good idea for the American President to meet the new Father of the People to discuss world peace . A progressive pacifist organization launched an appeal for funds to send relief to the devastated town as a gesture of international good will . This appeal found an exceptional echo ; money and gifts poured in from every country of the globe , like sacrificial offerings to placate the gods and deflect their wrath . And as charitable gifts are always accompanied by sympathy and good will , the Commonwealth had never stood higher in the public 's favor for many years past ; even her most fanatic enemies had to admit that her leaders had , on this occasion at least , shown a remarkable restraint by not going immediately to war . The United States government of course cut a deplorable figure in all this general excitement . The more they kept repeating , " We have n't done it , " the more suspect they became in the eyes even of their sympathizers . Matters were made worse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of some appropriation committee or other , who , in the course of a television interview , declared with great solemnity : " I know as a fact that our conscience is clean in this matter . It must have been done by somebody else . " 11111 -- -INTERLUD E 51 This seemed to knock the bottom out of the official theory that the explosion had been caused by an accident , which by that time nobody believed anyway . " In a planned socialist industry no accidents are possible , " the new Father of the People declared in a massive four-hour speech , two full hours of which were devoted to a bitingly ironic discussion of the main events of history in the light of the State Department 's " accident theory " : " No doubt from now onward all children in the so-called schools of the so-called United States will be taught that Brutus killed Caesar by accident ( laughter ) , that the Emperor Nero put fire to Rome by accident ( laughter ) , that Titus destroyed Jerusalem by accident ( laughter ) , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and so on . By the time he arrived at Napoleon 's burning of Moscow by accident , and being destroyed by the Russian armies by accident , with another hour of examples to go , everybody in the audience was hoarse , faint , and weeping with laughter . From then onward no progressive-minded person could mention the accident theory without blushing ; the very word " accident " had become an international joke . This , incidentally , had been the new Father of the People 's first public speech , and it had struck a sensationally novel tone : the public was delighted to discover that the somewhat monotonous and didactic style of his predecessor was to be replaced by the delicate humor of what came to be known as " Socialist Sarcasm in the Service of Peace . " Almost immediately Socialist Sarcasm became the approved style of Commonwealth public life , letters , and art . The whole Commonwealth press published portraits of Serafin Panferovich Polyushkin , a Stakhanovite of sarcasm who had committed five hundred and forty-seven sarcasms in a single hour ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their posts and delivered to public contempt for " insufficient attention paid to the struggle on the Socialist Sarcasm front . " But all this merriment did not alter the fact that war might break out from one moment to another . The people listened to the flood of Socialist Sarcasms with chattering teeth . Somewhat belatedly , the State Department advanced the proposal that an international Commission of Experts should investigate thecauses of the disaster , and submit its findings to the world . To everybody 's relief , the Commonwealth government accepted the suggestion at once . The Security Council , which had not met for several years , was resurrected in haste to decide the procedure to be followed . The debates , however , dragged on , for the two principal parties were unable to agree on the exact wording of the resolution . The resolution submitted by the U. S. A. proposed " that all available information and full co-operation should be given and extended by the organs of the Commonwealth government to the Commission in order to facilitate its investigations on the spot " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information and full co-operation should be given and extended by the organs of the Commonwealth government to the Commission in order to facilitate its investigations . " The Commonwealth resolution was the first to be put to the vote ; but although the difference between the two texts consisted merely in three words , the U. S. A. and its client states voted against the resolution , whereupon the delegates of the Commonwealth indignantly walked out . Thus once again the U. S. government stood branded before progressive world opinion as the saboteurs of peace and international understanding . j UST at the moment when the tension had become well-nigh unbearable , the Commonwealth government issued a new communiqu ? which caused enormous surprise and a world-wide sigh of relief . It stated that the Commission of the Commonwealth Government Experts had terminated their inquiries into the recent explosion in the territory of the autonomous Republic of Kasakstan and had confirmed its earlier findings according to which " this explosion had been caused by a high-powered nuclear bomb of American type dropped by an aircraft belonging to the armed forces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had found additional and irrefutable evidence which enabled it to identify the hostile power in question ; it was the Rabbit Republic . The main evidence was the discovery , arrest , and subsequent confession of the pilot himself who had committed by order of his government this criminal and cowardly act . Losing control of his craft subsequent to the dropping of the bomb , he had bailed out over a deserted range of the Urals , and after wandering about in the mountains for several days , had been discovered by a Commonwealth Security Patrol , still carrying in his wallet the written order for the dropping of the bomb , together with a detailed map of the location . On his arrest the pilot had declared : " I admit that I have committed a crime against humanity by order of my criminal superiors and want to clear my conscience by a full confession exposing the devilish machinations of my government against the Commonwealth of Freedomloving People . " His public trial would take place within the next few days . As already mentioned , the surge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drowned the feeble squeak of protest from the government of the Rabbit Republic , which was promptly overthrown and replaced by members of the Unified Party for Peace and Progress . When the new government asked the Commonwealth Army for help and protection against the enemy within , a request which was generously granted before it was even made , the U. S. A. and her client states were only too glad to confine themselves to the handing in of their routine protest-notes on printed forms and to leave it at that . These printed protest-forms which had lately come into diplomatic usage , and which simplified to a considerable extent the work of the various chancellories , were modeled on the accident report forms of motor car insurance companies . The somewhat stilted formulas used on these occasions were all set out on the forms in beautiful italic type , and only the date , the nature , and place of the alleged violation of the treaty , law , or legitimate interest in question , had to be filled in by hand . The protest forms were of five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C " ( cool ) , " S " ( sharp ) , " G " ( grave ) , " G2 " ( very grave ) , and " GS " ( grave and very sharp ) . As a rule , diplomatic controversies consisted in the successive exchange of these protest-forms running through part or whole of the gamut , from " F " to " GS2 " ; and by the time a G2 or GS2 was handed in , the measure against which the original protest was directed had of course become a generally accepted fait accompli . The cumbersome coded instructions which inearlier days governments used to send to their ambassadors abroad were now reduced to laconic messages based on the language of a popular card game , the most usual of which was " raise him by two . " T uus once more the clouds had passed , but again only metaphorically . The real cloud in question  --  that curious spiral-shaped cloud which Captain Bogarenko 's photographs had shown hovering like a coiled serpent over the dead town , kept haunting the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or drift away ; and if so in what direction ? In spite of all the reassuring statements by experts , who ridiculed the notion that a radioactive cloud which had been observed more than a month ago in the distant Urals should exert any influence on the climate in Western Europe , the superstitious public mind continued to suspect some mysterious connection between the super-bang and the abnormal weather . At last , on October 2 , the hottest autumn spell in the history of weather recording came to an end . Rain fell abundantly , the temperature cooled down to normal , the Assistant Weather Statisticians of the Normalist faction began to creep out of their dens and to prove that , by taking the last winter equinox as a starting point , the total amount of rainfall and the mean temperature in the shade , computed over the whole period , came closer to the ideal average than in any other year since 1903 . Unfortunately , within a fortnight from the first rainfall , a hitherto unknown form of influenza epidemic began to spread new disquietude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average course of the disease was a mild three-day attack with the usual symptoms of a common cold , though accompanied by higher temperatures . This was followed by a period of apparent recovery , lasting from ten to fifteen days , during which the patient displayed symptoms of a pleasurable overexcitation as if under the influence of an intoxicating agent . The third and final phase was characterized by vomiting , violent headaches , and disturbances of vision of the neuralgic type : the patient 's visual field appeared as if cut into half either horizontally or vertically and , while in one half vision remained normal , in the other half it was distorted , blurred , or completely blacked out . These symptoms again lasted from ten to fifteen days and were followed by , as far as anybody could say , complete recovery . The mortality rate was low , and in the few cases in which death occurred , it was due either to secondary complications or to constitutional weakness . Unfortunately , one of the first people who fell ill with this new type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commentator put it , " had swallowed more radish soup than any other living person on earth . " * This led to a new wave of superstitious rumors , so stubborn and widespread that the new epidemics came to be known as " Bogarenko 's disease " ? regardless of the unanimous opinion of the whole medical profession , according to which radioactive infection could never produce these symptoms . Incidentally , the virus of " Bogarenko 's disease " was soon afterwards isolated by Kronenberg and Diet ! of Johns Hopkins . It turned out to be a virus which had been driven crazy by the unending spate of new antibiotics and the effort to keep abreast with them by developing new and better drug-resisting strains . Thus the unfoundedness of the public 's apprehensions was once more demonstrated beyond doubt . Nevertheless , the public remained nervous and apprehensive ; and its apprehensions grew when , at the beginning of November , the thoughtful British government decided to provide every holder of a National Registration Card with a pocket Geiger-counter and an anti-radiation umbrella , free of charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the first of a series of broadcast talks , was designed to get the public into the habit of thinking in terms of modern weapons , and to give people a feeling of safety and self-assurance . " You all remember , " he concluded his speech , " what a hellish nuisance it was to carry our gas masks * " Radish soup " was a popular slang word of the period , of somewhat obscure origin , but probably originating in England and modeled on " pea soup " ? the cockney word referring to the thick , yellow texture of the London fog . Before they had their first real taste of it , people in Europe had no very clear ideas about diffuse , atmospheric radioactivity ; they imagined it variously as seated in a cloud , mist , or dense fog . Hence the expression " radium soup , " which soon became transformed into the more homely " radish soup . " during the whole of the last war although the occasion to use them never came . I hope that these new gadgets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you will keep them nevertheless handy and in good repair , if for no other reason than that they cost a lot of money , and this money comes ultimately from the taxpayers ' , that is your own , pockets . " This speech caused a number of indignant protests from bishops and clergymen because of the unprecedented use of the word " hellish " in a broadcast talk . " Where will we be , " wrote the Archbishop of Canterbury , " if members of the Cabinet give the nation the example of using bad language ? " The matter was raised in the House of Commons at question time , when several young Labor members tried to defend the speech on the grounds that expressions like " Hell , " " Go to Hell , " " What the Hell , " etc. , had become so firmly incorporated into American parlance and hence into fictional literature , that they could hardly be considered any longer as bad or offensive language . " But this country is not America , " answered several voices from the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Broadcasting Corporation had to apologize ; so everybody was satisfied and the whole matter was soon forgotten . B UT not so in France , where some enterprising private firms opened a line in Geiger-counters and anti-radiation umbrellas , and made a roaring trade in them . Unlike the solid and clumsy British G-counters which looked like grandfather 's watch complete with utility chain , and made everybody 's pockets bulge , the French variety was disguised as fountain pens for men , and as lipsticks or compacts for women . One firm even produced them in the shape of ankle bangles which were supposed to start jangling like castanets when radioactivity was about . As for the umbrellas and parasols , there was no limit to fantasy in their shape , color , and design ; and as the action of these umbrellas depended on a built-in electric circuit which was supposed to absorb or deflect radiation , it was only logical to use the current to feed at the same time a tiny camouflaged radio-receiver . The boulevards had never been more enchanting than on these late , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gay , open parasols , everyone surrounded by a faint aura of music from the Radio Diffusion Nationale  --  like a procession of figures on a musical clock . It hardly seemed to matter that the delicate G-counters kept going haywire all the time and indicating deadly doses of radiation whenever the vacuum cleaner or the refrigerator was turned on . The umbrellas , on the other hand , had a tendency to charge the people who carried them with static , which sometimes discharged itself in cracking sparks at a handshake , kiss , or other bodily contact . This was of course a heaven-sent gift to cartoonists and the song writers ; " My Radioactive Baby " became the popular hit of the season . Soon , however , the usual strident voices from the Left were raised in protest . These professional spoil-sports and fun-killers , who would never let people quietly enjoy themselves , pointed out that " the masses " were unable to afford these expensive gadgets and were therefore left without protection , while survival had become a luxury reserved for the privileged bourgeoisie . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gadgets sold to the gullible public were completely ineffectual , which somewhat spoiled the argument ; for if they were really useless , then obviously rich and poor were in the same boat , and democratic justice was re-established . Then came the famous " Scandale des Parapluies " ? the disclosure that one of the main shareholders in the company which produced the umbrellas ( " Societe Anonytne pour la Fabrication des Parapluies Anti-Radioactives , " abbreviation : " SA PAR " ) was the Radical Socialist Minister for War . The government was forced to resign , there were more strikes and demonstrations ; finally the new government gave a solemn promise that Geiger-counters and anti-radiation umbrellas of the most reliable make would be distributed free of charge to every citizen as soon as supplies were available in sufficient quantities . But now both the independent and thedependent Left raised a new hue and cry : they charged that the government 's statement was the clearest proof of its policy of war and aggression in the service of the bankers of Wall Street . Whereas the moderate Left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this unproductive way instead of concentrating all efforts on raising the standard of living , the extreme wing exhorted the masses " to refuse to accept the sinister gadgets of the imperialist warmongers and thereby to become accomplices of their aggressive designs . " The whole controversy , however , remained largely theoretical , as the first consignments of government-supplied counters and umbrellas had already been cornered by the black market and smuggled into Belgium , where they were sold at a handsome profit . T nus the golden autumn days passed like a procession of pilgrims , occasionally frightened by marauding tribesmen , sometimes anxious , sometimes gay , exhilarated by adventure , and increasingly tired by their journey into the unknown . As the days passed they became shorter , and there was a curious air of finality about this shrinking of the span , by a few minutes each day , between the rising and the setting of the sun , and the steady lengthening of the night . Of course , after the winter solstice the process would be reversed ; but who could nowadays be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory had been followed by the strangest epidemic ever known ; now there were all kinds of curious disturbances in radio-reception , and jagged stars or lightning bolts appeared across the television screens . In the end all these mysteries turned out to be quite unconnected , except in the superstitious public 's mind , with the coiled spiral cloud in the Urals . Nature herself seemed to wage a war of nerves on her latest prodigal offspring , as if to discourage his incestuous poking in her sacred nuclear womb . How to Recognize a Communist " I was told by my Soviet superior never to read the Daily Worker , or any liberal publication , or to express any liberal thoughts , or even give any thought to liberal ideas myself . " ? Harry Gold , testifying in the trial of Abraham Brothman , November 20 , 1950.                     