@@488237

EISENHOWER has lost considerable ground to Adlai Stevenson among the country 's college editors since May , but a majority of them still like Ike . Yet Stevenson 's gains can not be attributed to his campaign ; nine out of ten made their decision at convention time . These conclusions are drawn from a poll of college editors taken this month and compared with one taken last spring by New York University ( Nation , May 12 ) . The second poll drew fifty-two replies  --  sixteen from the Northeast , nine from the Midwest , ten from the South , fifteen from the West and five from border states . This distribution follows closely that of the first poll . This month Eisenhower prevailed by a margin of thirty-three to twenty-two . When forty-four editors responded last spring , the President had a better than two-to-one edge . In this month 's poll , Richard Nixon came in for a good deal of abuse from Stevenson supporters , as did the President 's capacity for leadership . None of the pro-Eisenhower answers mentioned Nixon . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editor from Illinois : " In general , I approve of the 1952-56 Administration and see no reason to shift into neutral while we 're travelling in high . " The world situation was used heavily as an argument by both sides . Eisenhower supporters maintained that their candidate 's experience and prestige abroad made him essential at this time . Many Stevenson backers condemned Dulles ' administration of foreign affairs . The Suez crisis came up frequently . The candidates ' honesty , intellect and personality received more attention froth the editors polled than did specific issues . Most of the answers ignored the President 's health and the merits or demerits of Estes Kefauver . Only a handful mentioned H-bomb tests and the draft . There were , of course , exceptions . One Ivy League editor , whose paper supported Roosevelt , Wallace and Stevenson in the last six elections , went Republican this time : " Over the last four years , the Republicans have given expression to the will of the people with their program of moderate conservatism . But at the same time , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best interests of the country . . . . " On the Stevenson side ( as opposed to the anti-Nixon , anti-Dulles , anti-Big Business line ) , one Eastern women 's college editor wrapped it up this way : " Stevenson , the liberal intellectual , rep-Barrett resents the type of candidate .. absent from the White House for too long . I should like to see a real ' mind ' in the Presidency . " There was a small but eloquent minority which favored Stevenson rather as if he were the lesser of two evils . One Chicago man wrote : " I ca n't stand Ikel He 'd make a good king . . . . " Another Mid , Westerper commented , " I do n't support Stevenson so much as I do the Democratic Party . It seems to me that Stevenson has lowered himself immeasurably during the course of the present campaign . " Thirty-seven editors reported that they would split their ballots as against fifteen who said they would vote straight . Three had not decided . Most of the split-ticket advocates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory of poor candidates somewhere along the line . The central argument for straight voting was fear of a " do-nothing " government resulting from a White House-Congress split . The tone of the young journalists ' comments indicated that they considered themselves keenly interested and at least moderately well informed on politics . But a majority could not attribute such virtues to collegians as a group . By a margin of thirty to twenty-three they agreed that " college students are generally apathetic to politics . " Two said they did not know . But most editors indicated that November 6 would bring a return of apathy . One wrote : " Though the urban , supposedly sophisticated environment of New York City should be enough to bring young persons out of their intellectual cocoons , obviously the effect is not great enough to overcome their political insensibilities . The fault is certainly not with communications . . . . Either the educational job is an inadequate one ... or this generation of new and potential voters is a selfish and self-satisfied one . " A Kentucky editor noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was an increased interest compared to out-of-state students . Georgia is the only other state allowing eighteen-year-olds to vote . A reply from there said most students are not apathetic . The replies indicated no geographic pattern . Schools from the same region and type of community often yielded opposite answers . The same was true about the various kinds of institutions ? private , public , denominational or secular . The majority of the editors reported fairs to some extent , or encouraged student interest in politics in other ways , such as " **29;1509;TOOLONG " editorials , straw polls , the printing of absentee voter regulations and the encouragement of partisans to debate their positions in print . All of this , be it remembered , in the face of reader disinterest .                     