@@476432

FOR the March 4 , 1951 , issue of This Week , a magazine that goes as a supple-ment to over ten million readers of Sunday newspapers , the editor , William I. Nichols , wrote an article ( later reprinted in the Reader 's Digest ) called " Wanted : A New Name for ' Capitalism . ' " Arguing that the word is no longer the right one to fit our present American system , because in too many people 's minds , especially in other parts of the world , " it stands for the primitive cconomic system of the ninteenth century , " Mr. Nichols asked : " How shall we describe this system ? imperfect , but always improving , and always capable of further improvement ? where men move forward together , working together , building together , producing always more and more , and sharing together the rewards of their increased production ? " He said he had heard various suggestions , such as " the new capitalism , " " democratic capitalism , " " economic democracy , " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and " productivism , " but wondered if there might not be a better term . And he invited readers towrite in their own suggestions in a coupon printed in the magazine . Fifteen thousand coupons came back with suggestions . " Never in my whole editorial experience , " said Mr. Nichols afterward , " have I touched so live a nerve . " Perhaps one reason for this extraordinary response was that the idea of asking readers to do something simple and easy about an idea thrown at them ? " as if it were a box-top contest , " as Mr. Nichols said ? was an apt journalistic stroke . But surely it also suggested the existence in the United States of a very widespread feeling that we 've got something here ? something working reasonably well and at any rate going full tilt ? that defies all the old labels . And I suspect that one reason why so many people feel this way is that here in the United States we have not been constructing a system . as such , but tinkering with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old system to make it run better ; and that accordingly we have arrived at a transformed product which might be likened to an automobile continnally repaired . while running , by means of new parts taken from any old car which seemed to suit the immediate purpose of the repairers , with the result that in the end it is hard to say whether what we have is a Buick or a Cadillac or a Ford . This patchwork process has been going on for a long time . In the nineteenth century we had in the United States a combination of federal and state and local governments ? the federal component being small and very limited in its duties ? which left business to operate pretty much as it pleased . But these governments permitted business men to organize corporations which were given special rights and privileges , and while these rights and privileges worked wonderfully in providing incentives for men to build up lively and inventive businesses , they had other unforeseen effects . They made the lone workman , whose income was determined by the Iron Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they gave an enormous share of the fruits of the enterprise to this employer ; and they also gave huge power to the men who controlled the supplies of money without which the employers found it difficult to operate . At the turn of the century America seemed in danger of becoming a land in which the millionaires had more and more and the rest had less and less , and where a few financiers had a strangle hold , not only on the country 's economic apparatus , but on its political apparatus too . This outraged the democratic spirit of the country , the national sense of fair play . So we went to work to change things ? not by revolution but by a series of experimental revisions of the system . The reform movement in the early years of this century ? that revolt of the American conscience which was kindled by Theodore Roosevelt , the elder LaFollette , and Woodrow Wilson ? did not propose to scrap the nation 's economic and political machine and build another , but rather by a series of adjustments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat . Later , when the machine broke down badly after 1929 , the repair work was resumed . Some of the reconstruction undertaken then was pretty drastic , and some was undoubtedly foolish , but the same basic principle of unrevolutionary and unsystematic and experimental change prevailed . After years of this , there MAGAZINE was considerable uncertainty whether the engine would ever run again without wheezing and knocking ; but when World War II came along , we discovered that if Washington jammed the accelerator right down to the floor boards the engine began to run smoothly and fast . And when the war was over , and Washington released the accelerator , it still hummed . What had happened to bring about this astonishing result ? The answer , in brief , is that through a combination of patchwork revisions of the system ? tax laws , minimum wage laws , subsidies and guarantees and regulations of various sorts , plus labor union pressures and new management attitudes ? we had repealed the Iron Law of Wages . We had brought about an automatic redistribution of income from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not stall the machine but actually stepped up its power . Just as an individual business seemed to run best when it plowed part of its profits into improvements , so the business system as a whole seemed to run better if we plowed some of the national income into improvements in the income and status of the lower income groups , enabling them to buy more goods and thus to expand the market for everybody . We had discovered a new frontier to open up : the purchasing power of the poor . That , it seems to me , is the essence of the Great American Discovery . And it has its corollary : that if you thus bring advantages to a great lot of previously underprivileged people , they will rise to their opportunities and , by and large , will become responsible citizens . II T T PRESENT we have a very large and power-ful central government . It continues to expand as if in response to some irresistible law of growth ? not only because of the obligations which war and cold war have imposed upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and more urbanized people with more and more com-plex institutions . The government regulates business in innumerable ways . It constantly interferes with the operations of the once almighty economic law of supply and demand , the law of the market place . It provides all sorts of subsidies and guarantees to groups THE UNSYSTEMATIC who have convinced it , rightly or wrongly , that they need such help . And furthermore it acknowledges two great responsibilities , the recognition of which was forced upon us during the miserable years of the Great Depression . One of these is a responsibility for seeing that people in an economic jam are helped to their feet ? if not by their relatives and friends , or by local relief , or by state relief , then by federal relief if necessary . And the other is a responsibility for seeing that the economic system as a whole does not break down . The government therefore maintains certain control powers over the national economy as a whole ; and in a time of emergency like that which has followed the onset of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not try to run our individual businesses ( with certain exceptions such as the atomic power industry , which for security purposes is an island of socialism in a sea of private management ) . For we recognize that our businesses are better run if they remain in private hands . The past dozen years or so have offered a triumphant demonstration of the validity of this belief . For they have seen privately managed American business not only do a brilliant job of huge-scale war production , but also foster a startling variety of advances in technology . Nor , for that matter , does the federal government take over the power of our state and local governments , though it subsidizes them to do many things which they can not adequately do unaided . So there is a wide distribution of governmental powers . Our road system , for instance , is part local , part state , and only in minor degree federal . Our university and college system is partly state-run , partly independent . And our school system is mostly locally run ( by local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore we have an extraordinarily wide and proliferating assortment of voluntary institutions , associations , and societies which in their manifold ways contribute to the public good . Not only universities , schools , churches , hospitals , museums , libraries , and social agencies in great variety , but also societies for the protection or promotion of practically everything ; if you want to feed European children , or protect our wild ducks , or promote zoning systems , or agitate for more freedom for corporations , or extend church work , or make boys into Boy Scouts , or save the redwoods , you will find a private organization dedicated to this purpose , and sometimes there will be several of them . or There are also the foundations , offspring of idealism and the estate tax . And an endless range of trade associations , professional associations , alumni and alumnae associations , service clubs , and lodges . As a people we are great joiners , campaigners . and voluntary group helpers and savers and reformers and improvers and promoters . Get together halfa-dozen like-minded Americans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary , a national program , and a fundraising campaign . Nor is it easy to draw a sharp line between the voluntary organizations on the one hand and either business or the government on the other When a good part of the money contributed in a Community Chest campaign comes from local corporations , and a mighty foundation draws its resources from an automobile company , and the private airlines fly on airways maintained by the federal government , and a university may be partly state-supported and partly privately supported ( and in addition may be subsidized for certain research work by the federal government ) , the lines are blurred indeed . And people from all kinds of outfits may work hand-in-glove . To offer a single instance of the sort of interlocking work that is constantly being done , I have before me a report of a conference on aviation health problems . It was conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health ( a private institution ) , and it brought together a variety of professors from various institutions , representatives of the Navy , Air Force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of airlines , manufacturing companies , and insurance companies . That sort of collaboration goes on every day the country over . Under such circumstances it is fair to say that the moral and intellectual strength of the United States is based in considerable degree upon private organizations which are as consecrated to the idea of public duty as governmental ones could be , and in part perform services almost indistinguishable from governmental ones , but provide at the same time vastly more diversity and flexibility of approach , and vastly more opportunity for the free play of individual talent and interest , than could be harnessed in any other way . And also , perhaps , that the strength of our system as a whole is related to the very fact that it has developed in such a pragmatic , diverse , and even haphazard way that you ca n't put a label on it . OVER every proposal for a further change in the complicated design of the national economic machine there is hot argument . Will this measure undermine the incentive to work and save and invest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Does this group of people , or this industry , really need aid ? Can the government afford it ? Does it set a good or a bad precedent ? People can get apoplectic over such issues ? and no wonder , for the development of this new American system is highly experimental , and we do n't know whether we can continue to make it work . Take a look at a few of the uncertainties . During the postwar years inflation , though never acute , has been almost uninterrupted , and in sum has been a serious menace to our economic health . We do n't know whether we can maintain our fast pace without continuing inflation . Even before the Korean war we had pretty nearly reached the limit of taxation ? the limit beyond which the burden would become so intolerable that the incentive to produce would be weakened and tax evasion would become a monumental rather than a minor problem . We do n't know whether we can reduce this load or increase our productivity fast enough to take care of it . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ease up on military expenditures , we do n't know whether we could step up domestic production fast enough to prevent a depression If total war should come , we do n't know whether the federal debt would become so astronomical that the credit of the federal government would be shaken . In any case , we do n't know whether the government has taken on so many financial responsibilities , since it added to its own previous authority much of the authority once exercised by Wall Street , that there is not a danger of a new kind of panic and financial collapse at some time in the future ? a panic resulting from the inability , not of private financiers , but of public financiers , to maintain the values they have undertaken to guarantee . We think we know a great deal more about economics than we did a generation ago , but we can not be surer that we are living in a New Era than were the moguls of Wall Street who cherished that innocent faith in 1929 . And in addition , we do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disadvantaged men and women degenerates into a demoralizing policy of handouts to people who would rather accept federal bounties than extend themselves . Some are sure we have already crossed this line ; others are sure we have n't . So it is just as well that every time we tinker with this experimental system there should be energetic and protracted debate . But the fury of our political campaigns , and the angry disputes over this or that congressional bill , detract our attention from a remarkable fact : that despite the purple language which is tossed about , very few Americans seriously propose any really wholesale change in our evolving American system . ( And at that , our stormiest debates in recent years have not been over domestic policy but over foreign policy , or over the supposed influence of American Communists and their friends and alleged friends over foreign policy . ) There is a large amount of antipathy to the Administration in power in Washington . There are numerous people who would like to curb federal power , repeal various laws now on the books , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others who want the government to take on new labors and new powers , like that of running a great medical insurance program . Yet the vast majority of Americans agree that the government should continue to accept an over-all responsibility for the satisfactory operation of the national economy ; that it should continue to accept responsibility for relief when necessary ; that it should supervise and regulate business to some extent ? but that it should keep its intervention limited , and should let the great bulk of business remain under private management . The seething debate is over how much of this and how much of that we need , but the area of virtual agreement is very wide ; and this includes allowing have a great one of the mightiest advantages 01 is the way in which it diffuses very widely the decision-making power and the opportunities that go with it . In short , that the direction of progress is now different from what people had supposed it was . Yet the delusion persists that the trend of the times is toward socialism , and perhaps  - -  n @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living wonder of the world ; though Britain , cialist leadership had to come to us al aid ; though , as Isabel Lundberg ) 47 , we are in a position to offer ods and expert technological ser. - ns to whom the Russians , for all If material benefits , could not is a shoelace                     