@@493802

WILL COMMUNISM WIN IN ASIA ? THE TRAVELER from India arrivesStr ht Indian diplomats , that the coalition is by Michael aig in Hongkong with a sense of libera- a representative government in which tion and delight . In contrast to the apathy and fatalism of the Indians the Chinese seem vital and purposeful . The women in tiny houseboats and crowded bazaars are always cheerful . The farmers working in black tunics and broad hats in the yellow rice paddies are friendly and full of laughter . There is poverty everywhere but little squalor . One senses a belief in the greatness of China , a hardening of the moral fiber of the nation , a national ambition beneath the loyalties tapped by failing dynasties , from which a revolutionary movement can draw sustained strength . In Hongkong , tradition stands unperturbed beside rev ? olution . The territory is indefensible , yet new build ? ings are made to last a century and more . In their marble halls conservatives carry on a roaring trade ac ? cording to the new rules laid down by Peking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mem ? bers of the Hongkong Cricket Club once again draw stumps promptly at four for tea . Thirty miles inland Communist soldiers guard the frontier with loaded rifles . The traveler , staring across at the bare mountains , must remember that Hongkong is not China , and that it offers no clue to China except for the vitality of the Cantonese . Refugees flood back and forth across the frontier , journalists pass in and out , seamen bring back stories from every port of call , traders keep open lines of information . From these people the traveler can gather the scattered pieces of a missing picture . It must be fragmentary . It is often contradic ? tory . The traveler can not analyze it , interpret it or even assess it . He can only pass it on for what it is worth . This is one such account . The Communist Party is in full power in China today . It is strong in North and Central China . In South China a traditional spirit of revolt against central author ? ity has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North . Yet no organized opposition confronts the Communists as they once confronted the Kuomintang . By ripping up the railroads they were able to isolate the Nationalist Government . Today for all the guerrilla bands , the railroads are operating again . Communications have been restored , inflation has been checked . Yet the Communist Party shares power with no other group . It has recruited a new class of officials without surrendering to them any real authority . It rules through a coalition . But the notion , spread by hired labor " ; the middle-class peasants who depend on the labor of others ; the independent peasants and the farm laborers . The last two groups are being organized in Poor Peasants Leagues to carry through an agrarian revolution . The filet stage of this revolution is the rent reduction and refund campaign . In theory it acknowledges the rights and functions of the landlords . In practice it leads to land distribution . Rent refunds leave the landlords insolvent . And after public trials where peasants are encouraged to accuse landlords of stealing livestock and grain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of their land . Land distribution has been carried out in the Old Liberated Areas of North China which the Communists held before the 1948 sweep . It is now in operation in the new areas of Central and South China . Its comple ? tion is set for 1953 . At the same time the Government is pressing ahead with the next stage of the agrarian revolution , the organization of Public and State Farms . Two State Farms have been organized in North China with 16 tractors and eight combine harvesters apiece . Thirteen State Farms have been established in other prov ? inces . In Manchuria in addition to the State Farms ( the sovlchoz ) , each country and province has one Public Farm ( the kolkhoz ) . As Communist power is consoli ? dated and managers are trained , collective farming will be extended through all China . Meanwhile individual peasant proprietors are being organized in Labor and Mutual Aid Associations to develop a collective spirit . Lastly the Chinese Communists are moving into the realms of thought control and the secret police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indoctrination . The press and radio are declared to be " weapons in the class struggle " and report world developments through the eyes of Tass . The universities teach Soviet genetics and biology . In the middle schools , where the main effort is being made , all teachers attend re-orientation courses ; textbooks are completely revised ; students are taught that Russians in ? vented electricity and the radio . Young children are taught by special games and charades , new songs , folk tales bent to the Soviet line and well-printed comic books that tell the story of how Timur and his gang caught the American spy and all the wonderful things that the soldiers of the Peoples Liberation Army do when they come to a Chinese village . The Secret Police is less ruthless and cruel than that of the Kuomintang -- and more effective . Spies listen in the bazaars , children are taught to report on their par ? ents , violating China 's most sacred values . It is hard to believe that the Russians can be restrained for long fromimposing on China their own hellish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people but on his fellow spies , and each acts as an agent provocateur , pro ? voking unrest in order to punish it . The Chinese Communists have not yet abused the power they have gained . They are not corrupted by cynicism and love of force as the Stalinists of Eastern Europe and Russia . They are wholly unlike the puppet rulers of North Korea who accept torture as a matter of course . Mao Tse Tung , whose entire family was ex ? ecuted by Chiang Kai-shek , is said to bring to Com ? munist dictatorship the tradition of a scholar and a poet , and the conviction that because society is to blame for human corruption , no man is beyond redemption . The Taiping and Boxer rebellions were marked by violence . The Nationalists shot scores of " foreign devils " when they took power . In contrast Mao insists that the Chinese must distinguish between Americans and their Government . The last picture in the comic book shows the fattened landlord finding happiness at last in tilling the good earth beside his former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unheard of in Chinese officialdom , is seen in Hongkong as a key to Communist success . How long can it last ? The Ceeluiseedete are faced by the same disillusion ? ment that weakens the free nations of Asia . They too promised a new age of plenty following victory , and they too are presiding over falling standards-of-living . The new age of plenty is now postponed for five years . But the Chinese are like the citizens of Missouri who need to be shown results . Workers are embittered over lower real wages . They did well under the labor bosses of the Kuomintang . When the Communists won they struck for greatly in ? creased wages . Industry was threatened and the Com ? munists enforced wage cuts , first in Government enter ? prises , then in privately-owned factories and mills . To increase productivity the Government has enforced speed-ups , lowering base rates ; raising norms and pro ? moting stakhanovism , while reducing food rations . In a nation where tuberculosis and consumption ravage weakened bodies , there are limits beyond which workers can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes and falling prices . Taxes may be no higher than in the days of the Kuomintang , but they are fully collected and supplemented by forced subscriptions to victory bonds . Farmers who always withheld some grain throughout the year have been compelled to market their reserves , forcing prices down . This year crops are good but 20 percent will go to the Government . Soldiers are also restless . They were promised demo ? bilization after victory but they must be kept in service , partly because of military needs , partly because there is no available land and no new industry to absorb the five million men now under arms . The cost of main ? taining the army takes close to half the Chinese national budget . But demobilized soldiers in China have a way of becoming bandits and guerrilla fighters after months of idleness and discontent . The landlords , of course , suffer the most . Most of them are hard working farmers , and the break-up of their holdings is likely to lower production . Yet the Communists must break the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dying peacefully , the desperate landlords are burning their warehouses , slaughtering their livestock , destroying their crops and fleeing to join guerrilla bands in the hills . There are still other factors working against the Communist regime . It has challenged the secret so ? cieties which for centuries have been the real rulers of village life in settling disputes and maintaining order . It has attacked the tradition of filial piety which has been the root of corruption and incompetance in China but also a source of stability . In these ways it has created many enemies , ready to strike back when garrisons are transferred to far off battlefronts . In addition the Communists face the technical diffi ? culties that contributed to the fall of the Kuomintang . Turbines , generators , looms and locomotives are wearing out . The trucks that move troops and goods in the re ? gions between the railway lines lack replacements and spares and new tires . An American tire salesman who arrived unannounced at sunrise in Hongkong on my plane was visited the same morning by three purchasing agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a tribute to the competence of the Communist regime and a sign of its hard times . As fighting develops on the Korean front these hardships are bound to increase . As tensions rise the strands that tie the Communist bureaucracy to tolerance are likely to break . The Gov ? ernment is stirring up a campaign of bitter hatred against the United States . Soon the provincial governor com ? mitted to deliver more grain , the army commander ordered to produce what the Russians call " unanimous volunteering " for the Korean war , the police official responsible for suppressing rumors and riots are certain to turn to force and fear . Until now , Chinese who threw a blanket over their radios and listened to the Voice of America had nothing more to fear than hours of argument ? ment with an official . Now they face arrest and months of labor in a re-orientation camp as " backward ele ? ments . " Spreading defeatist rumors becomes a serious crime . The New China News Agency reports that 50 percent of the landlords are sabotaging the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law landlords who organize resistance to the program and destroy live ? stock and grain may be shot . So the Chinese Communists may be driven down the Moscow road of ever-increasing terror and violence by the inescapable problems of Asia and the inexorable laws of development of the police state . These are the impressions of trained observers in Hongkong concerning developments in China . If they are accurate what will be the effect of these developments on the Communist potential throughout Asia ? Probably very little . Accounts of oppression in Russia arouse little concern in Asia . The atrocities of Ho Chi Minh and the North Koreans are regarded more favorably than B-29 satura ? tion raids . The Indian member of the International Military Tribunal for the Far East , we should remember , absolved Japan from all charges of aggression on the ground that her belligerence was an inevitable reaction to Western imperialism . Today , Asian Communism , for all its excesses , may seem no more alien than a form of capitalist democracy transplanted from the West . Asians , with little experience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are more concerned with China 's ability to achieve its eco ? nomic and social objectives . They will be aroused only by Communist aggression against the free nations of Asia . So gar we have been lucky . Thanks to the stupidity of Moscow and its insistence on slavish subordination to Russia 's national interest , the Communist parties of free Asia have battered themselves into bloodiness against the powerful national movements . They were hurled against the independence movements during the war . They tried to destroy the leaders who liberated Asia . In the chaos that followed liberation they ruined their chances when Zhdanov called for terror and vio ? lence in 1948 . Strikes , sabotage and assassinations were launched in India , Pakistan and Ceylon . Burma and Malaya were thrown into Civil war . The new Govern ? ment of Indonesia was attacked at the height of its struggle against Dutch rule . And yet Communism is gaining in Indo China . It is strong in Ceylon . It is growing in Pakistan where Soviet pressures are increasing and the Right is successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Indo China falls . Beyond Singapore revolt is still simmering in the scattered islands of In donesia . In India the Communists were able to take effective control of Hyderabad , a state the size of Mas ? sachusetts . It has taken two full army divisions , shoot ? ing Communists on sight for the past two years to prevent Hyderabad from becoming the Yenan of India . The chief strength of Communism in China was its early creation of an army of its own . The lack of Com ? munist armies has been a critical weakness in non-Communist Asia . Moscow now recognizes this . The Cominform states that the path taken by the Chinese people is the path for all Asia to follow . The creation of Communist armies has not been easy . But now the Communists hold frontiers in common with the majority of Asian nations , across which arms can be shipped . The emerging frontier between Communist China and India in Tibet is critical and weakly held . Across the frontier is the feudal state of Nepal , the unsettled state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists are certain to concentrate their forces . As in Europe , if the free nations of Asia see no prospect of maintaining their independence , the im ? minence of Communist power may encourage appease ? ment and sympathy for Communism rather than resist ? ance and the determination to make democracy work . Early this year a group of self-appointed patriots in the small oil-rich by Jean town of Bartlesville , Oklahoma , noted that copies of the Neu Republic , The Nation and Soviet Russia Today could be found on the shelves of the Bartlesville library . They moved into action against 59-year-old Ruth Brown , town librarian for 31 years . At a meeting of the City Commission , a newly-formed " Citizens ' Committee " made its report : The Nation and the New Republic had long been " peddling the prattle " of the Communists , and the presence of these magazines and Soviet Russia Today was an opening wedge to " a fifth-column invasion of the library . " Later , the committee added the Negro Digest and Consumers ' Research to the list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The City Commission began its investigation of the matter by removing the files of these magazines from the library to study their contents . At the same time , it turned its attention to the 1920 public-library ordinance which gave misconduct and neglect of duty as the only grounds for dismissal of a librarian . On June 14 , the City Commission repealed the 1920 ordinance . By the terms of a new library ordinance , the City Commission assumed full control of the library , with the provision that library employees could now be fired without any statement of cause . On July 10 the Commission dismissed the old library board , and appointed a new one . On July 25 , an hour after she had appeared before an executive session of the Commission , Miss Brown was notified that she had , been fired . Bartlesville began to choose up sides . To many citi ? zens , Miss Brown had been as much a local institution as the library . One of the most prosperous towns in Oklahoma , Bartlesville is the capital of the Phillips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the town are college-trained executives , administrators , geologists and engineers . As the oil companies grew , the town and library grew with them . No objection had been made to Miss Brown or the publications on her library shelves until she had participated in group discussions on race relations . About 900 of the 19,000 citizens of Bartlesville are Negroes . The local YWCA sponsored a few inter ? racial projects . When a faction of members demanded that all inter-racial activities be discontinued , the YWCA board called for a vote on the question , and members , 2 to 1 , upheld the projects . In February the same fac ? tion attempted to stop the use of Community Chest funds for the library and asked for dismissal of Miss Brown because of her participation in the discussions on race relations . When this failed , the attack on the contents of the library began . When Miss Brown appeared before the private meet ? ing of the City Commission , it was apparent that the magazines were only a secondary complaint . Commis ? sioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on race relations . It may be according to the Bible and the Constitution , but it is not according to the wishes of the majority of the people of Bartlesville . " Miss Brown agreed to answer any questions about the operation of the library orally , but asked the Commissioners to submit any questions on her personal views such as her attitude toward the Negro race in writing , to be answered in writing since there was no stenographer at the meeting to record the interrogation . " We considered that insub ? ordination , " Mayor E. S. Dunaway says . Miss Brown was promptly fired . About 150 supporters of Miss Brown attended the next meeting of the Commissioners , on August 7 . Mayor Dunaway said , " We expected a large crowd , and I had policemen with tear gas bombs at the dance hall where                     