@@494523

14 What the President and Mr. Dulles Do n't Know by HANS J MORGENTHAU THE CRISIS through which the foreign policy of the United States is passing and the prevailing unawareness of its gravity and of its very existence are rooted in two misunderstandings and misuses of American democracy . They.affect the very essence-of democratic government . ' One concerns the position and functions of the President ; the other , the relationship between foreign policy and domestic politics or , in general terms , between the requirements of sound policy and the will of the majority . The major weaknesses of American foreign policy can be traced to one or the other or both of these misunderstandings and misuses . Democratic government is government by popular choice , choice of men and , through it , choice of policy . A government which can keep itself in power regardless of the prefdrences of the people is not democratic at all ; a government whose choice by the people does not also imply a choice of policy is but imperfectly so . It follows that a perfectly democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that those who have been elected to govern stand for one set of policies and those who have been rejected at the polls are committed to another set of policies . The candidates for office have been judged by the policies with which they are identified and , by their ability to carry them through and at the next elections they will again be judged by these criteria . The government of the United States , as presently constituted on its highest level , is not perfectly demo cratic . The President has been re-elected not because he stands for specific policies which the electorate prefers HANS J. MORGENTHAU is director of the University of Chicago Center for Study of American Foreign Policy . to those of his opponent , but because he is committed only to general aspirations shared by all men of good will . It is exactly this lack of partisanship , this commitment to unexceptional generalities which imply no commitment to anything concrete in terms of policy , which have made him into the incarnation of the nation 's better self , the symbol of its nobler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of particular foreign policies executed or proposed , but as a symbol of the nation 's longing for peace , as the man who had brought it to Korea and would preserve it elsewhere . This popular image of the President reflects Mr. Eisenhower 's own conception of the Presidency in theory and practice . Supported by an optimistic philosophy , unaware of man 's propensities for evil and the tragic dilemmas of human existence , he has limited himself , by and large , to the enunciationof general principles , leaving the political task of their implementation to subordinates or to nobody in particular . His interest in factual informatiqn and day-by-day administration has been sporadic , and his intervention in the formation of policy has generally been reserved for crisis situations . Thus the President , by divorcing his person and his office from the partisanship of politics , has transformed the character of politics itself . Politics has lost its fanatical partisanship and bitter animosities , and the warming benevolence of a President who appears to be above politics envelops the nation as in a union sacree . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the substance of American foreign policy that it is informed by the same philosophy of abstention , con ciliation , and pacification as is his domestic one Conciliation and pacification as ends in themselves can , under certain circumstances , be virtues at home ; they are , except under the rarest of circumstances , vices abroad . And one may well speculate whether the price the nation will have to pay in the long run even for its present domestic tranquillity in terms of moral stagnation , intellectual sterility , issues unrecognized , and problems unsolved will not turn out to be vastly ' excessive . The price we must pay for international tranquillity as an end in itself is not a matter of speculation but of historic experience . Optimistic assumptions about human nature may be able to support for a while domestic policies carried on in a civilized Western society . They are bound to be disappointed on the international scene . For here conciliation and peace can hardly ever be ends in themselves , but must be sought as the by-product of a political settlement which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the incentive to seek redress by force . At home and abroad , the President 's philosophy spells avoidance of problems , abstention from action , tranquillity as an end in itself . Yet what can be tolerated in the short run at home ? for here the agencies for thought and action other than the President continuously operate on behalf of the United States ? becomes a mortal danger abroad . For if the United States does not reflect on the problems which concern it and try to solve them on its own term &; the enemies of the United States do so reflect and act . International peace and tranquillity achieved at the price of abstention from thought and action , then , are tantamount to retreat and surrender . THE CORRUPTION OF BIPARTISANSHIP T HE NEW conception of the Presidency not only impairs the freedom of choice at democracy 's decisive moment , the Presidential elections , and , leads to impotence in its application to foreign policy ; but it also impairs the day-by-day democratic processes by destroying the functions of the opposition . Historically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in foreign policy . Bipartisanship , as originally conceived at the end of World War II , carried the negative impli- cation that a foreign policy ought not to be opposed by one party for the sole reason that the President and Secretary of State belonging to the other party were carrying it out . In positive terms bipartisanship implied that the opposition party should support sound foreign policies and oppose unsound ones , regardless of the party affiliation of those carrying them out . Conceived in these terms , bipartisanship recognized the elemental fact that the consequences of foreign policy are not limited , as are those of many domestic ones , to a particular segment of the population identified with one or the other party , but affect the whole nation for generations to come . Bipartisanship drew from this fact the sound and indispensable conclusion that party strife for its own sake must stop atthe point where the whole nation meets other nations in defense of its interests and its very existence . However , bipartisanship , as originally conceived , never did imply that the opposition should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foreign policy pursued . Nor did it imply that the opposition should forego what is not only its privilege but also its mission , whose fulfillment is indispensable for the proper functioning of the democratic process : to submit alternative policies for the Administration to adopt or . else for the people to support by changing the Administration . An opposition which does not perform these two functions deprives the people in yet another way of that choice of policies essential to democracy . This is indeed what the opposition has been doing in the present crisis . It has abdicated its mission , confounding bipartisanship with conformity . What have its titular head and its leaders in Congress contributed to public enlightenment , to the clarification of the issues , to intellectual and political pressure upon the Administration ? What the policy of the British Labour Party is in this emergency we know . But what is the policy of the Democratic Party of the United States ? The answer is simple and disquieting : there is no such policy . Nor is the picture which the mass media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notable exceptions notwithstanding , the abdication of judgment and will of the political opposition is duplicated here . Everybody seems to emulate the President 's example and rise above politics , sharing in the nobility of his sentiments and general objectives . The result is national unity , paid for with the life-blood of the democratic process . For this is not the unity of a people who , after weighing the alternatives , have decided what they want and how to get what they want . It is rather like a fog that makes us all brothers in blindness . Yet among those whose duty it is to lead by criticizing and proposing ? the public officials , politicians , correspondents , columnists , commentators , academicians the failure is one of will rather than of judgment . Of those who keep silent or speak only by indirection so great as to confUse the ignorant and to be intelligible only to the informed , the great majority know the awful truth . Why is it that none of the policy-makers who express their misgivings and forebodings freely in private has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? And what of all the others who have to risk much less ? They have all become the victims of Mr. Eisenhower 's conception of the Presidency , just reaffirmed by an overwhelming victory at the polls , which allows only of whispered hints at some isolated deficiency here and there and must regard political attack and even frank debate , the very dynamics of democracy , as a sacrilege against the spirit of the nation , incarnate as it is in the person of the President . The debilitating effect which a new conception of the 16 Presidency and the corruption of bipartisanship reflecting it has had upon the foreign policy of the United States is , in turn , reflected and aggravated by a new conception of the office of the Secretary of State and a new method of . . . gaining public and , more particularly , Congressional support , in the conduct of foreign policy . DISORDER IN THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE T HE CONCEPTION which Mr. Dulles has brought to his office in one-respect curiously duplicates Mr. Eisenhower 's conception of the , Presidency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day-by-day operations of policy formation ' and execution . What Gettysburg and Augusta are for the President , all the capitals of the world are for the Secretary of State : respectable escapes from the daily responsibilities of government . Here , however , the analogy ends . For while Mr. Dulles has shut himself off from the regular departmental channels of information and advice , he has kept a monopoly on major policy decisions and taken an unprecedentedly large part in certain phases of their execution , so large a part as to keep him from his desk for about one-third of his tenure of office . The results have been unfortunate in four different respects . The Secretary of State has been unable to perform adequately the very functions of policy formation which Reprinted from St. Louis Post-Dispatch " But How Did We Get Here , Foster ? " THE NEW REPUBLIC he considers his exclusive prerogative . Not even the wisest and most experienced of Secretaries of State can afford to dispense with the information and advice of his subordinates ; and the most traveled of Secretaries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and greater self-confidence of Mr. Dulles have not compensated for this deficiency . In consequence , Mr. Dulles has not had the time nor the incentive , in terms of new knowledge and new ideas , to deal constructively with the drastic changes which have occurred in recent years on the international scene . This is one of the reasons why his tenure of office has been outstanding not for bold initiative and innovation in policy but rather for the virtually mechanical continuation of established routines long after they had served their purpose . Mr. Dulles ' assumption of the role of roving ambassador and ubiquitous negotiator has impaired the performance of his functions in yet another way . There is great wisdom , reflecting the nature of things , in the tradition which requires the head of the foreign office to stay at home , reflect , and decide , and the ambassadors to go abroad and negotiate . This division of labor not only frees the head of the foreign office from preoccupation with details obstructing his over-all view of foreign relations , but also protects him from involvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the routine of diplomacy . Mr. Dulles , by doing what ambassadors are supposed to do , has not been able to do the job which only he could have done . Furthermore , he has wasted the prestige of his office on a multitude of minutiae magnifying them far beyond their intrinsic importance . He owes his unpopularity abroad and the foreign mistrust of his word in good measure to that assumption of functions which no Secretary of State ought to assume . The Secretary of State has also been unable to exert effective control over his department . on behalf of his own policies . Mr. Dulles has sought to carry the formation of policy in his own head and leave the implementation of the policy through day-by-day administration and execution to his subordinates . Yet in actual performance policy formation can not be so neatly separated from implementation , and those who control the day-by-day operations of the Department uncontrolled by the Secretary become , by the very logic of their functions , makers of policy on their own . The permanent functional and frequent physical separation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his subordinates into a sort of collective leadership performing the institutional functions of the Secretary without his permanent control and without his authority . Thus the Undersecretary of State , the Counselor , the Legal Adviser , certain Deputy Undersecretaries and Assistant Secretaries , severally or collectively , have , been carrying out functions which ' only the Secretary should perform and can perform successfully . DECEMBER 17 , 1956 Such a state of affairs is fraught with danger under the best of circumstances , that is , when the Secretary and immediate mmediate subordinates see eye to eye on policy ; for it is bound to result in misunderstandings , misinterpretations , disorganization , and the incoherence of policies . However , the circumstances under which Mr. ' Dulles ' system has operated were never of the best , and they were never worse than they are today . For reasons which shall be discussed in a moment , Mr. Dulles has consistently appointed to key positions in his department men who are out of sympathy with his own policies . This being so , it is but natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are often infused with the spirit of their opponents . The Secretary 's policies have sometimes been so completely perverted by his subordinates that deliberate sabotage provides the only plausible explanation . The effects of this situation are clear to see in the present crisis . The Department of State has ceased to function as the instrument of a viable American foreign policy . It is split into two factions , committed to radically different and mutually exclusive policies . One faction looks at ' the recent trend of American foreign policy with an alarm and despair which have been echoed in. these pages . The other faction welcomes that trend , being in good measure of its own making , with enthusiastic expectations . One day , one faction seems to prevail ; another day , the other , and there is nobody above them to mold out of the welter of opinion a foreign policy capable of execution and promising success . These weaknesses have been compounded by the revival of a propensity which has at times exerted a strong influence upon the conduct of American foreign policy : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to manipulate it with a lawyer 's tools . It would certainly be preposterous to suggest that lawyers can not make great statesmen and diplomatists , the pages of history are full of them . But those lawyers were transformed by their political experience into something more than lawyers ; they were able to transcend the limits of their craft . It is the strength and weakness of Mr. Dulles that he has brought to his office a first-rate legal mind which excels in negotiations and in deft maneuver but fails in the constructive tasks of statesmanship . It is one of his great failings that he has staffed many of the top positions in the Department and has chosen as his personal advisors , few as they are , able lawyers of a similar bent of mind . For the lawyer 's mind is uncongenial to the very nature of foreign policy . The lawyer sees reality dissolved into a sequence of isolated " cases , " each to be dealt with on its " merits . " Thus Great Britain and France have committed " aggression " against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it Little does it matter that this " case " has a history which , antedates the invasion of Egypt and that it will make history long after the last British and French soldiers have left Egyptian territory . Let us first closetjata : President Eisenhower and Secretary of State Dulles confer at the White House on the Middle East crisis . this " case " by restoring the status quo ante the invasion , and we shall then turn to the next ' case " if and when it arises . The subject matter with which the lawyer thus endeavors to deal being a continuum of which the particular " case " is an organic and inseparable element , the lawyer 's method is singularly inadequate to deal with it . Its political manifestations are the conception of policy as the reaction to the initiative of others ; improvisation , since before a " case " arises there is nothing to be done ; aversion to long-range planning , since the scope of action is limited by the dimensions of the " case " and when the " case " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The lawyer is particularly adverse to long-range planning that entails risks and requires daring because he has been conditioned in dealing with his clients ? and is not the government just another dient ? ? to chart a course that avoids trouble , minimizes risks , and is plainly calculable . He plans foreign policy as he would plan an estate . Examining a plan for action , he sets himself the task of finding its faults in terms of these criteria , and he can not help finding them in any plan for international action . For such is the nature of foreign policy that success must be paid for with troubles , risks , and the threat of the unknown . To be fearful of that price means to do nothing , and the lawyer 's caution becomes the paralysis of the statesman . THE DILEMMA OF POPULAR SUPPORT T HESE deficiencies which have sapped the strength of American foreign policy are overshadowed in lasting importance by a dilemma which is , as it were , built into the constitutional and political system of the United States : how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the requirement of popular and , more particularly , Congressional support . The problem of how to reconcile these two factors which in the nature , of things can not be fully reconciled has bedeviled the conduct of American foreign policy since Washington 's day . For if American statesmen go too far in complying - c. ? 18 the requirements of sound foreign policy , they are likely to lose the support of opinion at home ; if they go too far in accommodating that opinion at the expense of what sound foreign policy requires , they risk jeopardizing the interests of the country and thus the support of opinion as well . HE task of the statesman , then , is two-fold : to impress upon the people the requirements of sound foreign policy by telling them the facts of political life and what they require of the nation , and then to strike a compromise which leaves the essence of a sound foteign policy intact . It must be said , and it is being said with deep regret by one who expected great things in this respect from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and skillful Secretary of State , that the present Administration has completely failed in both tasks . It is this failure which is in good measure responsible for the revival of an obsolete and pernicious philosophy of foreign policy within the government , for the recent disasters which have befallen the foreign policy of the United States , and for the popular ignorance of the bearing of these disasters upon the future of America and of the world . That the Administration has failed to educate the people hardly needs to be argued . Official statements have been consistently at odds with the facts and their import for the interests and policies of the United States . Let anyone make a compilation of the official statements about the Suez Canal crisis and compare them with the facts as reported ' by the same newspapers ! Let anyone undertake a history of world affairs since 1953 , using only official statements and forgetting everything else he knows , and what a m ? lange of fiction and caricature we would get ! In one word , the public-relations expert has taken over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise between the requirements of foreign policy and the preferences of pUblic opinion the Administration has likewise failed . The Secretary of State has been haunted by the memory of his able and high-minded predecessor who failed in the task because he failed to marshall public opinion in support of sound policies and compounded his failure when in the end he even embraced unsound ones without gaining popular support . Mr. Dulles resolved not to repeat . that failure . He would first , get popular and , more particularly , Congressional support at whatever cost and then , with the home front secure , face the nations of the world with the right policies . The plan was ingenious but doomed to failure on two counts . Its success was predicated upon the possibility of appeasing the Republican enemies of American foreign policy as it had developed since 1939 , and that possibility never existed . No concession could reconcile these men to the active involvement of the United States in the affairs of the THE NEW REPUBLIC world , to its risks , liabilities , opportunities , and rewards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeased . Yet by trying to appease them , Mr. Dulles destroyed the very instrument without which no foreign policy could be successfully pursued , his own department , and narrowed his freedom of action to such an extent as to foreclose any fresh initiative , any creative response to novel situations . The destruction of the Department of State proceeded in two stages : the elimination of most of the able and experienced members of its higher ranks and the appointment to key positions of men whose main qualification is sympathy with the philosophy and policies of the irreconcilable opposition . Thus foreign aid is administered by a man who does not believe in foreign aid , the Refugee Act is administered by ' a man who does not believe in immigration , some key men in the Far Eastern Division do not believe in negotiatiohs with Communist China , and the only visible qualification of the present Undersecretary of State for his eminent position is the Hoover name which evokes memories dear to the opposition . The purpose of these appointments was to commit the opposition to the support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they committed a powerful group within the Department to the support of the opposition policies . The opposition , far from giving hostages to Mr. Dulles , has imprisoned him in a cell of old ideas and old policies from which he could not move when the momentous opportunities of recent years ? the atomic stalemate , the new Soviet policies , the stirrings of Asia and Africa , the disintegration of the alliances , the rise of Germany and Japan -- knocked at the door .                     