@@493757

WANTED : A BLUEPRINT war started in Korea . The daring action by ' Robert of President Truman in promptly committing our fighting men received almost universal support throughout the country . During this entire period , US forces have been engaged in combat . Most of the time we were on the defensive , and public opinion was strongly behind a rapid acceleration in mobilization of our manpower and productive resources . Yet , there is serious question whether the mobilization program developed at home has properly paralleled military activities on the fighting front . If we have failed to make the necessary progress in mobilizing our vast resources in support of our fighting forces , why have we failed ? What has gone wrong ? What lessons have we learned which may help us in the difficult days ahead ? It is not a simple and overnight task to expand our total productive capacity and to divert our raw materials and machinery and manpower from peacetime production to military production . There is no magic formula which changes an automobile factory on a moment 's notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Nathan , president of Nathan Associates , consulting economists , former Deputy Director of OWMR and chairman , WPB Planning Committee , is author of " Mobilizing for Abundance " and co-author of " Palestine : Problem and Promise . " arsenal . We found that out during the initial war period in the early forties . It really was not until well into 1943 that the peak level of armament production was reached in the United States . Allowing for all the difficulties and problems , progress this time has been far less than it should have been . Certainly , more progress was made in the first six months of mobilization this year than in the same length of time in 1940 . But we should be able to move faster and more effectively because of the very benefits of the relatively recent war-production experience . More important , in 1940 the United States was at peace and had only some kind of an indefinite goal of providing assistance to those who were resisting the aggression of the German Armies . This time the US has been engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or at least should have had , some reasonable ideas of our political and military objectives . There is little basis for self-congratulation and complacency because we may have done a little better than we did before . Statistics are not available on armament production , month by month , so it is not known exactly what has happened to the curve of military output . Figures on the output of finished items would not be important anyhow in the very early months of mobilization . Much more important is the evidence of actions taken to step up production substantially next month , in three months , in six months or a year hence . What is the progress on setting objectives , securing appropriations , placing contracts , initiating conversion of plants , expanding productive capacity , stockpiling strategic materials , preparing control techniques and developing effective governmental organizations and personnel ? Surely , against such criteria , we have not done very well . The most Important single factor behind our lagging effort has been the persistent absence of a schedule or program of needs . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of requirements . No one can say that progress has been lacking because Stuart Symington and his associates in the National Security Resources Board have been unwilling to push vigorously in support of military production . Symington is as ardent and determined a supporter of bigger military production as one can find anywhere in Washington . There is much room for improvement throughout the mobilization agencies , but no matter how perfect they might have been , their efforts would have been limited by the absence of a program of military needs . The problem of setting target goals is by no means abstract or theoretical . Requirements must precede appropriations . Orders can not be placed with industry until the money is appropriated . Factories are never made ready for military production until the orders are placed . Expansion of new capacity takes lots of time . Civilian output must be curtailed in tune with expanding war production . Mobilization is not an easy job , and it all depends on military requirements . It is high time for our top military , political and economic strategists to reach agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for a really effective mobilization program . Certainly , those in charge of our international policies must have a fairly clear idea by now of what our political commitments are and might be . It should be possible for our top military strategists to translate these political commitments into total military requirements . Then through co-operative effort , the military strategists and the production staff should be able to lay out some kind of a time schedule for the fulfillment of these objectives ? a schedule which will be both ambitious and feasible . Of course , no one knows precisely what our requirements will be 6 months or 18 months from now . Conditions will , change . Nonetheless , we certainly must have some idea now of what we need . For instance , how many men do we need in uniform ? Should we be building a military machine of two , three or five million men at this time ? Having decided on the total goal , the time schedule of recruitment can be determined on the basis of organizational facilities and equipment limitations . Through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is needed and those who know what can be accomplished under a vigorous effort , some time schedule of manpower mobilization can certainly be developed . The same can be done for armament . Should we be shooting for the production of 500 planes a month in the middle of 1951 , or the end of 1951 ? Or should we be shooting for 2,000 planes a month in the middle of next year ? These questions can be answered within a reasonable range of accuracy . It was done before , and it can be done again . The production planners , by working daily with the military strategists , can set up time schedules , goals or objectives month by month , or quarter by quarter or half-year by half-year . Having such goals scheduled out in the future , we will then understand how big the job is , and what 's going to be needed in terms of expansion of facilities , conversion of facilities , curtailment of civilian production and consumption or the types of measures to fight inflation . Without such goals , we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the lack of objectives which , more importantly than any other factor , explains our lagging mobilization effort . Military spending has been increasing at a snail 's pace . President Truman , some time ago , stated that we would be spending at an annual rate of $30 billion for military purposes by the middle of 1951 . The way we are now going , it is likely that military spending will not reach , let alone exceed , an annual rate of $25 billion by next June . Obviously , military spending is not an end goal in itself , but it is the important measure and reflection of the number of men in uniform and of the flow of armaments out of our factories . On the basis of scattered information about scheduled inductions of new men into the armed forces and fragmentary reports on orders already placed for military procurement , progress is likely to continue to be very slow for some months . Not only are we not reaping satisfactory end results now , but we are not laying the groundwork for satisfactory end results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . American Industry demonstrated during World War II that , once it is given the orders for military production , it can do an amazing job . Of course , many employers are enjoying such outstanding prosperity in meeting civilian demand that they are not particularly anxious or willing to take military orders . That can be readily overcome . The real truth of the matter is that the volume of orders placed to date has been so small as hardly to challenge American industry . In traveling around the country and talking with businessmen , one finds that an amazingly small proportion of American factories has received orders for military production . Maybe there has not been enough speed in ordering or aggressiveness in forcing business to take orders , but that is not where the major difficulty lies . Until now , there have not been clear-cut , ambitious requirements , and appropriations have not been large enough to call for an effective , though partial , mobilization of our productive capacity . We de net Deed an all-out , total mobilization in order to get going . Actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have rapid total mobilization . At present price levels and with existing facilities plus selective expansion , a peak rate.of military spending of around $150 billion a year could probably be reached . Such a goal has not been set , and it is hoped that total mobilization will not be necessary . One might question whether we can reach a $40-billion annual rate of military spending as quickly as we could a total objective of $150 billion a year . Perhaps , the speed and degree of acceleration can not be so great if our objective is smaller , but it need not be much slower . When total military appropriations slightly in excess of $30 billion were enacted last summer , lots of people thought that most of this would be spent in fiscal year 1951 . Actually , some of that money is for planes and tanks and other items which will not be delivered until well into 1952 and probably even into 1953 . There may be no actual production of some finished items by the end of the current fiscal year . It takes time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build new ones . That is all the more reason why there has to be a schedule of requirements and appropriations and contracts projecting well into the future . Unless , and until , we have a set of objectives , tentative as they may be and subject to revision , precious weeks and months will be wasted in costly dillydallying . We certainly will not go all-out in the expansion program for more steel and aluminum and copper without a set of military requirements . We have already heard the same old story by the leaders of the steel industry that military requirements are taking an extremely small proportion of total steel production and will continue to take a relatively limited supply so that the industry need not worry about any major expansion . The same is going to be said by other critical bottleneck industries . Likewise , unless our goals are clear , conservation programs and anti-inflationary measures will represent only halfway steps which will not do the job . We are wasting valuable time , and we are going to continue to waste time until the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know we have to work hard and effectively . How are these goals going to be established ? Actually , in World War II it was not until President Roosevelt himself determined upon a set of objectives that we went all-out in our mobilization effort . Many military and production people looked upon President Roosevelt 's objectives as something fantastic and unachievable and unrealistic . All of those objectives were not achieved , but they did give the country something to shoot at , and without them we never would have gone so fast and so far in producing the armaments which were so essential for winning World War H. In World War II , there was no organizational set-up in which the production experts and the military experts ever sat down together to arrive at goals which were both feasible and ambitious . Now we do have such a mechanism in the National Security Council . Mr. Symington , who is the top man in production , is also a member of the National Security Council . President Truman should call upon this Council , working in the closest co-operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the National Production Authority , to arrive at a set of requirements both consistent with our political commitments and production possibilities . This is not an easy job to achieve , but it is achievable . It will depend on the State Department and the Defense Department and the National Security Resources Board staffs working as a team , day by day and hour by hour . Such a program is not going to fall out of a clear sky . It is going to take lots of brain work and paper work and ' really intensive effort . Success is not going to be achieved overnight , nor is it going to be achieved at all unless President Truman calls for the job to be done and insists on the necessary co-ordination for doing it . The deesloPmelet of a schedule of military requirements will not solve all our problems . But it will clarify the issues and provide the basis for intelligent policies and programs all along the line . The requirements will have to be known of essential industries such as electric power , railroads , petroleum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be established in basic industries , and the material and equipment needs for such expansion must be fixed . A program of export needs will have to be determined in line with our Marshall Plan and Point IV objectives . The needs for the maintenance and repair of farm and industrial facilities must be known . A schedule of minimum consumer needs should be prepared in case of all-out mobilization . Then , policies and controls essential for fulfilling these objectives will have to be worked out . It all adds up to a very big job , but the need for a schedule of military requirements is first on the list . .                     