@@487526

TO BEGIN a report on contemporary Spain by discussing the military picture is certainly to put the cart before the horse . Yet those who feel that the Franco dictatorship must not be associated with the Western powers in any kind of alliance will find a valuable argument in the military picture . So perhaps one may be allowed to take that argument first . The Spanish army was described as " the strongest army in Europe " in the House of Commons last month , and the M. P. who used the phrase urged that this army , Franco 's army , be given military supplies . The American and British politicians who have visited Madrid in a steady stream for the last two or three years have urged much the same thing . Franco has usually treated them handsomely . " A very , very lovely and lovable character , " Representative James J. Murphy of New York called him last September ; Senator Brewster , a month later , found him looking " like a New York banker and a good deal milder than I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain should be made a member of the AtBASIL DAVIDSON is a staff correspondent of the New Statesman and Nation ( London ) and author of the recent book " Germany : What Now ? " He went to Spain at the request of The Nation . In a second article , to appear next week , be will discuss the economic crisis in industry and agriculture . lantic Pact . Even if Franco 's rule is despotic , they argue , at least it is efficient  --  and it is strong . But that is precisely what the regime is not . The consensus of reliable Allied opinion is that several years and mountainous expenditure would be required to make Franco 's army strong and efficient in the purely technical sense , leaving aside all question of morale and loyalty . The navy can be dismissed , for nobody , not even Senator McCarthy or Lord Vansittart , could expect anything of Franco 's navy . It has only a few old hulks in service , and the maneuvers last month revealed that it was incapable of taking a convoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force any importance , and air-ground cooperation is apparently something that the Spanish general staff has only heard about . There are a few good pilots , some of whom now fly the reasonably efficient internal air services  --  with Bristol " Pegasus " machines ; and it goes without saying that more could be trained , given the necessary facilities . But the government has almost no fighting aircraft of any kind . There is one first-class airfield with multiple runways at Barajas on the outskirts of Madrid , the product of American engineering ; some others could be soon put in first-class condition , but most fields are hopelessly primitive landing strips . That Franco 's army is large is almost proverbial . It has to remain large , not only to keep the rising generation under its thumb but also because it could only be demobilized into unemployment , and the regime can not 692 stand much more unpopularity . Franco has generally tried to keep two age-classes mobilized , but.at present he probably does not have more than one and a half age-classes under arms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Guardia Civil , both well equipped with small arms and automatics . This means that Spain 's total armed strength fluctuates between three and four hundred thousand men , according to the rate of intake and release . The army is organized in twenty-two divisions  --  usually reckoned as of ten to eleven thousand men each . Eight corps of two divisions each are on the mainland of Spain , four divisions are kept in Spanish Morocco . There are also an armored and a cavalry division . Since Franco 's most obvious rival for the army 's favor , the " strong " General Varela , is commander-inchief of Morocco  --  to which Franco , to all intents and purposes , has banished him  --  the Moroccan divisions are composed mainly of garrison troops not fit , for various reasons , for combat service . As regards equipment , all authorities agree that the situation could hardly be worse . While the supply of rifles is probably adequate , there is a drastic shortage of all the weapons which gave the infantry greater firepower in the Second World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than a sprinkling of light machine-guns and other automatics ; it has no modern anti-tank equipment ; its armored division was described to me by an expert as " a complete washout , " the armor consisting of a handful of German Mark IV 's which are regularly trotted out for the annual parade in Madrid . For artillery it has only the cast-offs contributed by various nations to the Franco forces in the civil war , including a few 88-mm. anti-aircraft cannon . Lacking all modern equipment  --  and indeed , mechanical equipment of any kind  --  the Spanish army has of course had no training in the use of new weapons . That is why its commanders are pressing the United States for at least a few deliveries : if full-scale military aid is asked for later on , there ought to be some officers and men who know which end the bullet comes out of . The whole system of command is as appallingly out of date as the weapons . Staffs are overweighted with elderly general officers . Officers ' pay is so low that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to another job in the afternoon . The basic annual pay of a full colonel , for example , is 21,000 pesetas ( the exchange rate should probably not be reckoned at less than forty-five or fifty to the dollar ) ; and I gather that a colonel counts himself fortunate if with allowances he gets 3,500 a month . Junior officers are lucky if they can collect 2,000 pesetas a month . These men study little and tend to study the wrong things  --  the lessons of the civil war , for instance , rather than those of the last world war . This attitude is not due to innate obtuseThe NATION ness , for Spaniards are not obtuse : it is the result of the introverted nature of the dictatorship . To study American or British tactics -- democratic tactics , much less Russian tactics  --  would be almost a political betrayal . VRANCO 'S army , then , is today little more than a very large number of men who are trained in parade drill and carry rifles . The cost of equipping it with modern weapons and of training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to be paid to make it fit to fight . But it would not be the biggest item . Those who want the Spanish army to be able to move quickly and also to obtain supplies from inside and outside Spain will have to build several thousand miles of road . Existing roads and railways radiate from Madrid like spokes from the hub of a wheel ; there are few or no transverse roads connecting the spokes . In addition , at least two or three modern arsenals with ancillary plant must be constructed . The sum of all these necessary expenditures is anybody 's guess ; in my opinion it would not be less than two billion dollars . The Spanish railways give the traveler , perhaps more directly than anything else , a sense of the country 's terrible physical deterioration . Up-to-date statistics are not available , but the figures for 1947 , which are reasonably accurate , will stand well enough for the current year . The right of way is in a shocking state of disrepair : in 1947 it was officially estimated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and they are still required . The number of locomotives and cars under repair is known to be continually increasing , and new construction  --  averaging since the civil war forty locomotives and two thousand cars a year  --  has not always kept pace with the need for replacements . The downward trend of the supply of broad-gauge rolling-stock may be seen from this table : 1936 1939 1945 1946 1947 Locomotives . . 2,800 1,837 2,783 2,792 2,689 Passenger coaches .... 4,383 1,740 2,797 2,719 2,742 Freight cars ... 69,222 41,700 75,526 70,240 69,213 While I was waiting in the station at Castillejo , I was joined by a German , a Moravian Volksdeutscher who had come to Madrid as Slovak consul in 1943 . Together we strolled past a line of freight cars on a siding . A little cloud of smoke billowed from one of the axle-boxes , then burst into flame . I waited for someone to rush up to put out the fire , but no one came . " They must have lit it for some purpose , " said the German prudently ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves . " He beckoned to the stationmaster , who was washing his hands under a tap , but got no response . When he had finished washing his hands , the stationmaster went back to his office , saying over his shoulder that axle-boxes often caught fire and the fire always went out , as this one would , as soon as the oil was consumed . " There you are , " the German said , " that 's Spain . There is a fire , and no one bothers to put it out . That 's Europe too . " If all the money needed for equipment , training , and transport were made available by the United States , and could be spent efficiently in spite of the corruption of the Spanish administration , the question would still remain : Would Franco 's army prove a useful ally ? After the expenditure of two billion dollars And five years ' time  --  the minimum requirement  --  would Franco 's army be able to take the field in a third world war ? Some might say that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not think itis . The factor of morale is not really a doubtful one , Given the Spanish character and tradition , it may be argued , a Spanish army would always fight for Spain . But to fight for Spain today is to fight for Franco ; and Franco 's regime has certainly failed to capture the loyalty of more than a small minority of the Spanish people . That minority , moreover , is not made up of people who fight in the ranks of the army . There is overwhelming evidence that the great mass of the people  --  and therefore the great mass of the soldiers , armed or unarmed , tanks or no tanks  --  see in the Franco dictatorship no more than the symbol of their desperate impoverishment . It is too much to expect that such an army would fight for its oppressors.                     