@@488264

RESIDENT TRUMAN 'S proposal that in the corn- ing year the North Atlantic Treaty countries be given $2,500,000,000 in economic aid . was whittled down by Congress to less than half , and American . aid will take the form chiefly of ready-made armaments . Meanwhile the European countries are expected to step up their own rearmament in a big way . How much will France be expected to spend ? 800,000 million francs , a trillion , or more ? Nobody can yet say . The cost of the war in Indo-China alone is reckoned to be close to a billion francs a day . And prices in France are going up and up and up . M. Courant , the Minister of the Budget , announced the other day in a moment of indiscretion that France 's expenditures. in 1952 would total at least 3,500 billion ' francs , and that it therefore faced a deficit of 1,400 billion francs ! A current wisecrack is that a French Finance . Minister can qualify only by graduating in astronomy and astrology . These troubles are not confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain melancholy satisfaction in bemoaning similar , or worse , trouble in Britain ? " We 're in a. damnable mess , but just look at the English ! " The common view is that if Mr. Attlee decided on an election , it was because for Britain too " days of destiny " were in the offing , as Rene Mayer said they were for France when he-returned from Ottawa . There 's this difference : France had its election in June , and the Parliament that resulted has proved so unmanageable that no major decisions at all could be taken during its September session . Only two significant votes were taken  --  one granting state subsidies to religious schools , which had the im : mediate effect of smashing the precarious " Third Force " majority that had emerged from the election and creating an ad hoc majority including the Gaullists ; and another adopting by the overwhelming majority of 410 votes to 200 the application of the sliding scale to wages . At this point the government gave up . It asked that it be given time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ till the first week in November . M. Edgar Faure , the Minister of Justice , declared the ' Sliding scale " a piece of insanity " and the vote instituting it an example of the worst type of party demagogy , " We ca n't turn inflation into a permanent institution ! ' ! he exclaimed . Having sent the bill to Oie Senate , the govern- , - ALEXANDER WERTR is one of The Nation 's European correspondents . 348BY ALEXANDER WERTH ment hopes to kill it when it comes up for its second reading . But whether " permanent " or not , inflation has become an institution . To keep general discontent within . reasonable limits , at least during the present period of " waiting " and " reflection , " the government consented to raise the minimum wage 15 per cent , to 20,000 francs a month . Government employees ' wages have been stepped up 12 per cent , at the cost of 135,000 million francs a year , and practically all through French " industry in the last month wages have been raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases even more . In terms of real wages this means very little . How much the cost of living has really gone up in the last six months is almost impossible to say  --  the employers ' , the government 's , and the trade unions ' figures are all different  --  but 15 per cent seems a conservative estimate . Only the matter does not end there . The readiness with which the employers increased wages was of course largely due to their knowledge that they were not losing much , since prices on everything were going up very rapidly . ( This readiness , it is true , was also stimulated by clear signs that all the trade unions were getting together for " united action , " a matter on which we are likely to hear a good deal more in coming weeks . ) Indeed , no sooner had the new wages been fixed than the govefnment announced a 22 per cent increase in the price of steel and a 20 per cent increase in the price of French coal . Gas and electricity have gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the prices of all basic foodstuffs are rapidly rising . Few are the people in Paris Who have managed to buy a pound of sugar in the last week ; shops and wholesalers have " frozen " their stocks in anticipation of a 15 or 20 per cent rise . For the third time in little more than a year newspapers have raised their prices  --  an ordinary paper now costs 15 francs , the Monde 18 francs , and the Paris Herald , Tribune . 30 francs ! Especially among publishers of the smaller journaux d'opinion , which stand for real intellectual freedom in France but are threatened with bankruptcy owing to the exorbitant cost of newsprint , feeling is strong against the government , whose " subsidies " to the paper manufacturers have done the newspapers no good , and against the United States , whose " anti-social " waste of ' newsprint is held responsible for throttling those European papers which have no big financial interests behind them to see them through , When it is argued that France 's salvation will be in expanding production and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports are not all that easy to expand , and that dollars are needed for raw materials . The million tons of coal . recently " granted " to French industry by the United States will have to be paid for in dollars , and more dearly than French coal . Many besides Communists have been led to wonder whether East-West trade , now almost at a standstill , can not be developed . " Decisions " will have to be taken when the Assembly meets again in November . There is vague talk about all sorts of things that may , or may not , be decided . Even rationing is talked of -- a word inseparable in the French mind from " black market . " It is also rumored that conscription may be put up from eighteen months to two years . But what majority and what government will take these decisions ? Above all , who is going to take the decisions which would wipe out , or at any rate greatly reduce , the budget deficit of 1,400 billion francs ? The general political trend in Europe may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election is bound , to have the most far-reaching repercussions here : a Tory victory would create a " climate " eminently suitable to a Gaullist or near-Gaullist government . Whatever party is in power , it is generally felt that nothing can provide a lasting solution to France 's  --  and Europe 's  --  ills short of a real East-West d  --  tente , a slowing down of rearmament , and a revival of some degree of confidence . In theory , some of the deficit might be wiped out by drastic financial and fiscal reforms  --  raising the rates of existing taxes , stricter fiscal control , and above all an extension of heavy taxation to the peasantry . But the peasants are largely the clients of the rightist parties ; and there are many other snags of the same kind . Politically there are three possibilities : ( 1 ) a center-right coalition , complete with the Gaullists  --  which would , sooner or later , lead to a quasi-dictatorial regime , economically not very different from Franco 's , if the French working class allowed it ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through the burying , by the M. R. P. and the Socialists , of their respective clerical and laique hatchets ; ( 3 ) a new election . This last has been talked about as a serious possibility . But if French democracy is to survive , the second solution seems at the moment the most promising . Only , as the Socialists , through M. Christian Pineau , put it , it is no use squeezing France too hard : To demand from France an effort which , if brought about , would make her more vulnerable even than if she refused to do anything is shortsighted . I do n't think Frenchmen should quarrel about the choice of solutions all of which are impossible . They must do their best in every field rearmament as well as economic revival and financial reform , but their partners must realize with what terrible dangers France will be threatened if reasonable limits are exceeded . One question is worrying a great many Frenchmen today , and that is whether the United States  --  by its present . ' squeeze "  - -  is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Tory victory in Britain will make that easier . But what kind of Europe shall we have then ? O N ALL levels in Paris discussions are continuing round the problem of German unity , raised with such " brutality " ? as the French would say  --  by the Grotewohl proposal , and kept alive by the inevitable controveries raging round it in Germany itself . In French opinion , it is more important that Iran or Egypt  --  though the " revolt of Islam " is not something France can treat with indifference , with French North Africa " next . " But Germany is even nearer home , and what is happening there has shaken the French more than anything else for a long time . Not that all reaction 's to German unity are the same : far from it . Fundamentally , everybody in France who remembers the division of France into two " zones " agrees that the drift toward German unity is entirely natural . Having accepted this , many also consider that France 's policy should be to derive the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcefully expressed by M. - Robert Borel in the Monde and shared , it seems , by far more French political leaders than would like to admit to it openly . At the other extreme is the view , expounded , for example , by M. Servan Schreiber in the pro-American Paris-Presse , that whether German unity is natural or not , it must be prevented at any price . German unity , to Schreiber , means German neutrality . This in itself would deal a death blow to the European army and the Schuman Plan : without a substantial West German contribution , a European army will be out of the question ; France will inevitably also become neutral , and the whole of Western Europe will consequently be thrown open to a Soviet invasion , with America washing its hands of it in disgust . Therefore , , whatever the private hankerings of the German people , France must impose on West Germany the acceptance of a West European Federation , complete with a federal army , a federal Parliament , and so on ; Schreiber claims that if there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of the French people would " probably " be in favor . - M. Borel , on the other hand , starts with a point conveniently overlooked by M. Schreiber  --  namely , that West Germany is infinitely more interested in joining up with East Germany than with France and Benelux . Also , the two writers ' arguments have different premises : M. Schreiber assumes that the Russians want to invade Western Europe and will certainly do it if they have enough atom bombs by 1953 or 1954 and if there is no adequate land army in the West to stop them . M. Borel , on the contrary , assumes  --  and in this comes closer than M. Schreiber to the official French view  --  that Russia does not want a world war either now or later , and that , moreover , the United States , whether it likes it or not , must inevitably consider a Russian attack on Western Europe as a =us belli . He therefore sees the possibility of a lasting peace betwen- , the United States and the Soviet Union in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Yugoslavia and taking in Germany , Austria , and Switzerland , and in. he subsequent extension of this " neutral zone " to include the whole of Western Europe . As long as the Red Army is halfway across Germany , he says , one must be extremely doubtful about French " neutralism " ; with the establishment of a neutral belt  --  its status to be surrounded , of course , by a number of international safeguards  --  neutralism becomes a much more plausible policy . Since German unity will , in M. Bores view , quite inevitably be attained , and Bonn is therefore- most unlikely to commit itself to the European army , the whole American idea of building up forty-five divisions in Western Europe by 1953 is based on false assumptions and must be drastically revised . Why not , then , simply return to a national French army , and abandon the ideaof a French-Italian-Benelux army , which is all that the " European army " would now amount to ? Bore ! also sees in the neutrality of Germany and the " semi-neutralization " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a " guaranty of West European neutrality " ? a means of cutting the financial knot which today is strangling Western Europe . In Washington all this must sound like a dangerous heresy . In France , however , the prospect of a united Germany has raised a multitude of questions which the French public are in no mood to dismiss lightly . With West German participation in the defense of the West becoming more and more problematical , the French : public is less sure than ever ' that an all-out rearmament effort by the Western democracies is the best means of avoiding a war . ( As for " winning " it , France is n't really interested . ) The main snag to accepting the unity of Germany is the question whether adequate guaranties could be obtained against its " spontaneous " rearmament later ; American unwillingness to enter into such an arrangement would naturally jeopardize any solution of the German problem through neutrality .                     