@@493879

PHILIP MURRAY : THE NATURE OF : LEADERSHIP IT IS HARD on occasions such as this of ' the spirit . Millions of workers by Adlai Stevensonto distinguish between the lasting dark- have a personal dignity their fathers ness of loss and the passing darkness of its shadow . Our lives take their meaning from their interlacing with other lives , and when one life is ended . those into which it was woven are also carried into darkness . Neither you nor I , but only the hand of time , slow-moving , yet sure and steady , can lift that blanket of blackness . . . . Phil Murray was more than the president of the CIO , more than a leader and spokesman for organized labor . Those of you who worked with him knew him first and foremost as a trade unionist , a man of sagacity at the bargaining table , a militant leader in your times of stress , and a shrewd conciliator who could bring home the bacon . Those of you , among the thousands who called him " friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughtful adviser , a generous man with a boundless sense of humor and kindness . As time softens the first sadness of his death , I think we can better see Phil Murray in perspective , and describe him properly in terms that would have embarrassed this unassuming man in his lifetime . In the truest sense of the words that we often abuse , Phil Murray 's life was a success story . The world is better off because he lived in it . Without that fact as a basic ingredient , you can not give validity to a success story . Too often , in judging what man is a success , we think in terms of the market place , and measure him a success who has moved into the big house on top of the hill . Too often we count him a success because he moved into the big house . But the test is rather " how and why . " And Phil Murray 's success in life can not be measured in a probate court . The inspiration in Mr. Murray 's life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a boy humbly born in another country could come to America , his knuckles blackened with the coal dust of the Scottish pits , hew out an illustrious career for himself in service to his fellow man , and die a man of simple tastes and modest means , but leave a legacy of material goods in the homes of millions of workers in these United States ? not only material goods measured in wages , in pension benefits , and other gains for the workers he led , but the goods . never knew because , Phil Murray and others like him helped these workers to stand on their own feet . My acquaintance with Mr. Murray was not intimate and my contacts were few . ' Perhaps that qualifies me all the better to comment on what to me was his most conspicuous quality . Humbly born , after a stormy life of democratic leadership and great achievement he humbly died . Yet it has been too often true that the very humbleness , even the disadvantages , of a man 's beginnings have led him to abuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rust of pride , and we know those who , in telling of their having " come up the hard way , " acknowledge in the telling that they have lost the lesson of their experience . Phil Murray 's humility was deeper rooted . It did not change with the seasons of experience or the years of growth . He knew that in our system of things the conferring of authority on particular individuals is largely accidental , that its compliment is slight , and that the man who exercises it is no different from his fellow men or from what he was himself before he assumed the role of leadership . It was often remarked , and to some it seemed strange , that the president of the CIO was moved easily to laughter and not infrequently to tears . Perhaps his greatness found its sustenance there , or at least its reflection ? for it is emotions that link us closest with each other . So much of democratic leadership is just the understanding of the people 's needs and hopes , the looking to them rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength , the maintaining of a oneness between leadership and following . No democratic organization can afford the risk of leadership which lacks humility . It is that element which gives men ? which gave Philip Murray ? the ability to lead a people who distrust the power to command . His was not an easy career . The path of the man who chose a career in organized labor in Murray 's youth was not strewn with NLRB orders directing an employer to bargain . Too often the life of the labor organizer was more akin to the career of an underground leader , in terms of frustration , even terror . What motivated and sustained him in the long struggle ? What was the guiding purpose that drove him on with a disregard for self that resulted finally in death ? I suspect it was to bring dignity and meaning into lives assigns of Mark Hanna , but they could never convince themselves . When SEC lads get gleeful they wonder if maybe Hanna is an investment trust . The next morning they wake up and feel different , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an investment trust getting all dirtied-up mining coal , which it does , and nobody ever heard of a family holding company that has its members on the boards and executive committees in steel , rayon and plastics , and runs a fleet of lake boats which Hanna does . Clearly , Humphrey is at home in the banking and investment fields , in industry and in business . He is also used to a free hand with Hanna ; as Humphrey told a Fortune writer : " We have no fixed long-term policy . ? . A chart would just destroy our freedom , and if we do n't write down the way it 's supposed to be , we can do it the way we want . " These " hard-money " men will turn the " hard-money " theory into practice in the Treasury and by abdicating authority to the Reserve Board . Traditionally , Treasury Secretaries have viewed their responsibility in the debt-management field as that of obtaining credit for the federal government at the least possible cost to the taxpayers . This attitude has brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the bankers and the Reserve Board , both of whom favored higher interest rates . There will be no such conflict with Humphrey in Treasury . On November 22 , 1952 , the New York Times , speculating on the methods he would use , reported . that Humphrey felt " the Federal Reserve Board should set the nation 's financing policies . " This means that , regardless of the needs of the people as seen by the elected representatives , he believes that Federal Reserve should be free to set the terms upon which the Administration 's financial requirements are to J. be met . Despite the fact that the Reserve Board is only a quasi-governmental agency , that its membership is predominately drawn from the banking'community , Humphrey would permit the Board freedom to veto major social welfare and economic programs . Sen. Paul Douglas ( D , Ill. ) , who- has angered many liberals by his advocacy of more freedom for the . FRB , has , nevertheless , recognized this as one of the major dangers of such independence . The " independence " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility that the Federal Reserve System might follow policies which were directly at variance with - important policies of the executive department and which might tend to defeat an over-all economic program that met the approval of a majority of the American people . But though acknowledgin , g the existence of this possibility , Senator Douglas minimizes the threat:11 . In practice , however , this is not a , real danger . . . Congress can always use its investigatory and legislative powers to bring about a change in Federal Reserve policies if these should at any time prove to be seriously at variance with important ' national policies . Nevertheless it is a fact that if the Federal Reserve had the freedom in 1947 which it is now seeking , and may obtain , the postwar housing program would most likely have been impaired . Veterans had returned from the war and the many new families were forced to live in hovels , shacks , or double up in rooms . In recognition of the dire need for new construction , Congress eventually passed the Taft-Ellerider-Wagner housing bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the economy . With the scuttling of the OPA and the failure to carry out-the direct controls of the Wyatt housing program , inflation spiralled prices . On December 8 , 1947 , the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , Marriner Eccles , appeared before the House Banking and Currency Committee and told the ' members : " One of the most inflationary factors ? perhaps the most inflationary single factor ? in the present situation is excessively easy mortgage credit for housing . " He then advocated : " . . . the program of the Veterans Administration for old and new houses and the loans on new housing under Title IV of the National Housing Act should be revised . so as to reduce the demand for housing and thus bring prices down . " ( If Eccles , as chairman of the Federal Reserve had had the freedom to determine the nation 's financing policies that Humphrey now is reported as proposing , the . Taf tEllender-Wagner housing bill would have been modified and seriously restricted . In operation , Eccles ' policy would have permitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunate enough to possess large cash balances would have obtained the restricted supply of labor and materials . With the considerable back-log of demand for luxury housing , it is certain that housing prices would have risen . In his own department Humphrey would also let business rule . The Wall Street Journal , November 22 , 1952 , quoted a close associate of the incoming Treasury Secretary as saying : " On the national , debt he will get together the best banking brains . to tell.tt*khat is best . He 's not going to make any:decisions : * himself . One-half of the investments of all commercial banks in the United States are in interest-bearing federal government securities . Ever since World War II bankers and insurance executives have been fighting to raisg the interest rates and increase their yields on government . securities . Few taxpayers seem to understand that increased rates to service the national debt inflate the profits of the banks and insurance companies7-and that it is the , taxpayer who must pay the cost of such an increase . To have these same bankers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Market Committee , " determine interest rates and , in the Treasury , establish debt-management policy may be likened to having organized labor establish and administer labor-management laws . So . flagrant a yielding of government responsibility to the private financial interests of the country would have disastrous consequences for group after group . What it would mean to our small " country " banks was pointed out in 1949 by Dr. John Clark , one of the President 's Economic Advisers and himself an official of a small bank : , our bond portfolio , which I think is- fairly typical of the small bank , is more , than 10 times the total capital funds of the institution . That is how far the government bond represents the assets of the average American bank today . The very idea that they might find the market slipping away- from under them is all that is needed to send them into a panic . . . every time I drop in and talk to a banker , I find he is worried about the latest rumor about something that is going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . The future of the small country bank is bound up with the welfare of the farmer . Currently the farm-credit situation is already a sore point with many farmers . The Farm Credit Administration reported interest rates on farm mortgages averaged 4.7 percent in March , 1951 . Since then average rates have risen another- one-half percent . Back in the 1930s Congress appropriated funds for . farmers to pay interest in excess of three percent . Farmers complain about the lack of intermediate credit ? three- to five-year loans ? tp , buy equipment and livestock , to change production patterns and undertake conservation . The demand for this type of credit has been increased as a result of flood and drought losses . A " tight " money program , restricting supply and raising interest . rates , will not serve to meet farm needs . The future Of small business depends on the money and credit policies of the new Administration . Meeting the short and intermediate credit needs of small business constitutes a major activity of large commercial banks and is the principal lending activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans to small businesses are repayable on demand or have a maturity of one year . A policy that restricts the supply of funds available for loans and ' makes credit more costly would hit small businesses immediately . Unless small business is able to ' obtain , ' with relative freedom and at relatively low interest rates , the capital required for starting new businesses , or modernizing and expanding its plants , the accelerated tendency toward mergers and economic concentration noted by the Federal Trade Commission , in its 1948 study , would proceed at a faster tempo . The veteran , whether he is endeavoring to start a new business or buy a farm or a house for his family , would find " tight money " restrictions a severe barrier . For some years the Mortgage Bankers Association has been pushing for an increase in the interest rate of the VA four percent and the FHA .4.5 percent government insured loans . It is probable that the bankers would get such an increase under the new Administration . A small rise in interest rates on long-term loans increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And since the new Administra : ' tion will be seeking to restrict purchasing power , it seems likely that government insurance for such loans may well be curtailed as a deterrent to borrowing . A system of " indirect controls " would have the advantage , in addition , of providing the perfect " out " for a pseudo-liberal Republican Administration . Absolved of responsibility for decisions as to the allocation of resources , or the distribution of the national income , the government could refer the welfare of all groups of citizens to the judgment of the " market . " That this " market " is rigged against labor by reason of Taft-Hartley restrictions , let , alone the unequal , economic strength of the parties , or that the consumer faces a monopolistically dominated and price-administered market need only be deplored ? and that 's all . The Committee for EcoriomiE Development favors " indirect controls " because it ' says " government should not make decisions that are better left to the market . " A serious , risk of the " hard-money " program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And a recession , in turn , can not be arrested simply by revers. ing the process . It is possible that even as the new Administration assumes power , deflation ? not inflation ? will be faced . Here Eisenhower 's key policymakers may have no workable answer . The only sound weapon in combatting deflation is to increase spendable income . This could be accomplished through ( a ) increasing wagesions and unemployment benefits Or ( bi - ; increasiti4ovemment spending through public investment or ( c ) a considerable cut in taxes . The first . to recourses are unpalatable to " hard-money " people , and the third would involve deficits of startling Magnitude ' and a sacrifice of American security in an unstable world A - bard-  , money " approach could mean hard times for the Amer ; ican people .                     