@@236533

<P> Shirtsleeved , tousled , and bright-eyed with the dream that gave Germany its V-2 and the U.S. its first orbiting satellite , bull-shouldered Wernher von Braun paced the yellow-walled office in Building 4488 , nerve center of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency at Huntsville , Ala . Already on his cluttered mahogany desk last week was a new satellite assignment : preparing a Jupiter-C to power Explorer II into space late this month . More work was on the way ; called by the telecommunications room , Space Engineer von Braun hurried down the hall , talked to Defense Department Missile Director William Holaday in Washington , turned to an aide with the heady news that two more Huntsville rocket projects had been approved ( " O.K. on No. 8 and No. 10 " ) . Back in his office , Von Braun flopped into a chair behind a huge pile of congratulatory messages , found just a moment to reflect on the fantastic rush of events . " Oh , to be in space this week , " he grinned . " It 's so quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Planet Earth . Under the impetus of the satellite Explorer 's fiery success came the first federal space agency , the Senate 's first space committee , the first Democratic and Republican attempts to stake political claims on space-and a full-throttle U.S. Army drive to exploit its satellite success after months of telling itself that it was the Pentagon 's stepchild . Army brass marched with a color guard into a Capitol Hill hearing room to present a new service flag to the House Military Appropriations Subcommittee . Patrols of Army public-relations officers prowled Pentagon corridors , passing out word that , given the chance , the Army could develop a rocket motor to put a 15-ton satellite into space with a man aboard . The Air Force stood that sort of talk as long as it could , then leaked a story about using its Thor intermediate-range ballistic missile to put up a 1,000-lb. satellite as early as June . The Army promptly upped the ante to 1,500 Ibs. - and the Pentagon 's interservice storm signals were flapping furiously . <P> A Broomstick Would Do . Yet for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole broad front of U.S. missilery felt a new nearness to space as Explorer radioed back its readings ( see SCIENCE ) . And of the legions of scientists , generals , admirals , engineers and administrators at work on missiles and man-made moons , German-born Wernher von Braun , 45 , best personified man 's accelerating drive to rise above the planet . Von Braun , in fact , has only one interest : the conquest of space , which he calls man 's greatest venture . To pursue his lifelong dream , he has helped Adolf Hitler wage a vengeful new kind of war , has argued against bureaucracy in two languages and campaigned against official apathy and public disbelief on two continents through most of his adult years .                     