@@477336

Water ? our most carelessly wasted resource ? is fast becoming our most precious one . Already it sets the limits for growth of many cities and industries . . . and nobody is yet doing anything effective to prevent a real catastrophe about twenty years from now . IF THERE is one thing which the ordinary American city-dweller never eitoks about tram one end of the year to the other , it is water . He turns on the tap , and water pours ; he turns off the tap incompletely , and it drips ; he flushes the toilet , and it roars . Every so often , some politician or city planner makes a speech warning people not to waste water , but nobody pays much attention . To most Americans today , pure , palatable water in unlimited quantities is a kind of birthright , like citizenship , and not even the Supreme Court can ever take it away . No following generation of Americans is ever likely to share this luxurious attitude . We are rapidly running out of good water . More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to curtail their water service . Near Chicago , where artesian wells flowed under their own pressure a hundred years ago , new wells must go down 2,000 feet to reach the water table . Dallas is already . pumping the salt-tainted Red River into its mains , and New York faces the likelihood that eventually it will have to purify the polluted Hudson to slake its growing thirst . In Mississippi , wells are now 400 feet deeper , on the average , than they were only ten years ago . Denver , eager for new industry , has been turning away manufacturers whose production processes involve a heavy use of water . All along the Atlantic Coast , as the water table falls , the ocean is pushing in to the underground reservoirs . In Dade County , around Miami , high salt content in the wells threatens the crops on irrigated farms . Inland , oil-field brines often seep into the deep wells . Marianna , Arkansas , tastes salt when it turns on the tap , and one Texas community was forced to drill three dozen new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off to the reservoirs , the rivers fall : in the summer of 1957 swimmers waded across the Delaware at the point where General Washing ton took his famous ferry ride . WHERE IT ALL GOES A LARGE , rich suburb of New York has already experienced the ultimate horror . On October 29 , 1957 , the city reservoir of Orange , New Jersey , became . a muddy hole ; and two days later , one of the city 's four artesian wells ran dry . Orange turned desperately to the state of New Jersey for help , which was forthcoming ? but only after the city had pledged to reduce its consumption by 500,000 gallons a day . Water shortages , obviously , can be caused by either of two things : too much consumption or too little supply . Both are operating in America today . Our demand for water is increasing at a fantastic rate , and we are channeling our resources to meet our needs at far less than maximum efficiency . According to the latest report from the United States Geological Survey , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallons a day from the nation 's streams , reservoirs , and underground storage . Of the total , roughly 10 per cent goes into homes for drinking , washing , and sprinkling the lawn . The rest is divided more or less equally between farms and factories . Sixty years ago , the average household used ninety gallons of water per head each day . Today we have 35 million bathrooms , we buy millions of dish washers and washing machines , air conditioners and automatic lawn sprinklers ? and the per capita use of water has risen to 148 gallons a day . El Centro , California , which would be miserably uncomfortable without air conditioning ( summer temperatures rise to 115 degrees ) holds the world 's record for domestic water use-600 gallons a person a day . And while consumption per capita goes up , our population is rapidly rising , currently at the rate of three million a year . The increase in domestic water consumption , however , is small beside the growing thirst of commerce . American industry now uses 110 billion gallons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in 1900 , and almost halt again as much as it used in 1952 . Nearly all manufacturing requires some water , and many processes demand amazing amounts . A new oil refinery in Delaware takes in as much water as a city of two million people . Each ton of paper drinks 65,000 gallons . Steam plants for producing electric power consume 91 gallons for every kilowatt-hour sent out on the lines . Gunpowder costs 100 gallons of water a pound . With the depletion of high-grade iron ores in the Mesabi Range of Minnesota , the emphasis is shifting to taconite processing , a procedure which demands three times the water used at present in that district . And the new plastic and atomic industries are the worst water hogs of all . By 1975 , unless manufacturers cut clown their water consumption , our factories alone will tap 275 billion gallons a day ? if they can find it . On the farms , irrigation canals and pipelines are stretching out farther every year . Some 34 million acres of farmland in this country are artificially watered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly spreading from the dry West ? where irrigation has reclaimed great stretches of previously useless land ? to the more humid East . Recurrent droughts in Eastern farm areas since the war , plus the development of more efficient pumping equipment and lightweight pipes , have led to a four-fold increase in the amount of irrigated land on the Atlantic side of the Mississippi . In Indiana , where there were less than 5,000 acres of irrigated land in 1950 , there arc now 25,000. and farm experts foresee an increase to 80,000 by 1965 . In the West , too , more and more water is being demanded of the earth . In 1941 , 420,000 acre-feet of water were pumped out of the ground in Santa Cruz valley , Arizona ; by 1949 , withdrawalshad reached the rate of 1,250,000 acre-feet a year . ( An acre-foot is the amount of water necessary to cover one acre to a depth of one foot . ) During this period , rainfall replenished the underground reservoirs at the rate of only 215,000 acre-feet a year . On the high plains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserves twenty times as fast as nature can replenish them . To this kind of arithmetic , there must be an end . HOW RESERVOIRS ARE RUINED W E HAVE long ceased to live on our water " income " ? the annual rainfall . TodJ.y we are drawing heavily on our water " capital , " the underground reservoirs built up by natural processes over thousands of years . In fact , of course , the situation is not so hopeless as the statement sounds . Our water income actually far exceeds our needs ? if only we could channel all of it to our spigots . The average daily rainfall onto the United States is considerably more than the 240 billion gallons we withdraw . But most of that rainfall runs off to the sea without ever passing through a water main . Water is available for our use only during that relatively brief time between its fall from the heavens and its arrival in the oceans . The more rapidly it runs off , the less of it we have . Forested watersheds hold great quantities of rainfall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humus ? and release it slowly to the streams and rivers and underground reservoirs . Cut-over forest land holds little water ; the rainfall runs off it quickly , in soil-destroying , gulley-digging torrents . We have already sheared off most of the 822 million acres of virgin forest we found in this country , destroying the sponge-like forest floor which held back the run-off . And the suicidal process continues . Some large timber and paper companies today practice a highly publicized form of good forestry on their own lands , but many of these still overcut the small farmer 's woodlot or timberland , let to them on contract . Dr. McArdle of the U. S. Forest Service classifies most of today 's cutting as " far from good . " Water is held for future use not only by the " plant robe " which normally covers the ground . but also by certain natural reservoirs , especially swamps and marshes . Here , again , we have been abusing our heritage . More than 82 million acres of swamps have been drained for farmland , and millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and creeks have been bulldozed out of existence . is spreading over hundreds of thousands of acres . It is n't possible to recharge a water table through six inches of concrete . An overgrazed pasture or cut-over forest , where the rainfall runs off immediately instead of soaking in , starves the underground reservoirs in much the Another kind of natural reservoir is the aquifer ? an underground deposit of rain water which has , through the course of ages , seeped through the soil and porous stone until it is trapped by an impervious layer of rock . Some aquifers are like oil fields ; they can be tapped by wells ? and once drained , the water can not be replenished within any foreseeable period . Others are like great Liquid lungs , breathing water both in and out ; they soak up the surface moisture and release it gradually to streams and rivers ? thus helping to keep the flow of our water courses relatively stable . This complex system is being interfered with nearly everywhere in the United States , with results that are as dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being drained faster than they can be replenished . Elsewhere the natural supply of water to these underground storage tanks is being curtailed ? by new highways , parking lots , air fields , and other construction whichsame way . In a few localities , as we have shown , so much fresh water has been pumped out of the ground that it has , in effect , left one of those vacuums which nature traditionally abhors . As a result , salt water has crept in from the sea , through deep-buried layers of porous sand or rock ? and wells in some parts of California and along the Atlantic coast have begun to pump worse-than-useless brine . Most of us , of course , still depend for the greater part of our water on surface streams . rather than the vaults of the aquifers . But it has been an 04,1p. immemorial habit of human be-ings not only to drink out of streams , but also to dump their sewage and other wastes in the same place . This was tolerable so long as the country was sparsely settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of our streams are polluted to the point where they are suspect for human consumption unless chemically treated . Already many Americans are drinking what may be accurately ? if disgustingly ? described as treated sewage . WHERE IT CAN BE SAVED DAMAGE done over a century can not be repaired in a year or two . Even the most immediate , thorough , and expensive national water program would not deliver its benefits for ten to twenty years . Since we have no such program ? Washington has n't yet begun even to draft one ? we must resign ourselves to at least a generation of relative water shortage in the land of plenty . There are palliatives , very well in their place , so long as we do not regard them as solutions . We can drastically reduce water waste by conturners . Peeping Torn statisticians say that we use three times as much water as we really need for our morning shower . Leaky taps , which account for 20 per cent of domestic water waste , could be made a misdemeanor punishable by a stiff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the private swimming pool in the back yard ; lots of us may be able to afford it economically , but hydrologically it is too expensive . Water engineers are unanimous in their opinion that both waste and consumption would decline sharply if households and factories had to pay for their water by the gallon , rather than on the usual franchise basis . Water rates should be eliminated everywhere from the general real-estate tax package , and meters should be installed to measure and charge for water according to the amount used . On the farm , too , water economies can be achieved . Open irrigation ditches lose water through seepage , vegetation along the banks , and the inevitable evaporation . Water is saved wherever pipes are substituted for ditches . Out in the range area , where water is scarcest , underground reservoirs arc being drained needlessly , either to establish " prior use " under Western laws , or as part of ill-advised reclamation projects . Industry , however ? which is guilty of the greatest waste ? could accomplish the greatest savings . Steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water to make a ton of steel ; but in California , where water is tight , the inappropriately named Fontana Mills have learned to make do with 1,000 gallons per ton . Again , steam generating plants ordinarily use 91 gallons for each kiloWatthour of electricity produced , but power plants in areas hard pressed for water turn out the same current with one-tenth the water consumption . Most industrial use does not pollute water to the point where it must be poured out to sea . Many factories could re-use - over and over again much of the water that goes through their pipes . Even sea water can be used in certain operations , and a Texas refinery has contracted with the city of Amarillo for a supply of used water from the sewage disposal plant . As yet , however , only one tenth of one per cent of the water used by industry is reclaimed sewage . Literally billions of gallons of safe , pure water could be saved every day , if industry would where possible content itself with water good enough for factories but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , temporary improvements can be wangled from nature . Where the aquifer has been contaminated with salt water , artificial recharging may keep the wells in business for a few more years . It may eventually be possible to recharge some depleted underground reservoirs by the diversion of flood waters ? though no such experiment has yet fully succeeded , despite many theoretical discussions in hydraulic engineering journals . Cloud seeding may enable its to divert to the land some of the rain that now falls on the ocean . River pollution can and should be reduced . And , of course , great dams , artificial reservoirs , and aqueducts will keep increasing our apparent supply of water . Dramatic as they are , however , surface reservoirs make poor substitutes for natural subterranean storage vaults : evaporation loss is high , and silt accumulates rapidly , cutting down the storage capacity . If the day ever comes when nuclear energy can provide cheap power in unlimited quantities , we may be able to handle our water problems by distilling sea water or by irradiating great quantities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? or pleasant to think about , at best . Indeed , they may well create more sinister situations than they solve . WHO HAS TO DO WHAT T HERE is only one way to avoid a water crisis in the coming years : a national water policy carried out on all levels of government , and including new measures of reforestation and conservation . We must slow down that part of the water cycle between the cloud and the sea , during which water is available to us . We must regulate our water use instead of merely supplying water to all and sundry on a catch-as-catchcan basis . Experiments have verified the long-term value of reforestation . In the White Hollow Watershed of Tennessee the Forest Service permitted 1,700 acres of badly treated land to revert to nature . Where the land was Bullied , the Service planted trees . Fifteen years later , severe summer storms no longer started torrents rushing down the hillside . Instead , the water flowed off evenly , at one-tenth the speed . The total amount of water coming down from the hillside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streams ran full for ten times as many days . Every protected swamp , every untouched woods , every revived forest adds to the water-holding capacity of the land . And the land cover can be made more efficient by sound watershed engineering ? building a small reservoir in an upland hollow , controlling a disintegrating gully , dredging rivers , constructing Iloodways , stabilizing stream banks , creating a peaceful rather than a violent landscape . Such engineering has already begun under the Watershed Protection and Flood Control Acts of 1954 and 1956 . These laws give the federal Soil Conservation Service a modest budget for technical advice and assistance to local groups planning watershed improvements . But a great deal more legislation will be necessary before federal help is really an important factor in water-short areas . At present , no fewer than twenty-five different federal agencies deal with some phase of the water problem ? flood control , reclamation , navigation , water pollution , and so forth . All of them do valuable work , but each operates independently , with its eye on its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned with water policy as a whole : indeed , the federal government historically has shown little concern over the total quantity of water available to homes , farms , and factories . We need , first of all , an act of Congress establishing a national water policy , and perhaps an independent agency to turn that policy into a program . Even the most rigorous national policy , however , will leave most of the actual work of water conservation and control to the state governments . A few of them are already busy on the job , most notably California , where the crush of population threatens a water calamity . California 's master plan , which contemplates a population of 40 million , calls for the construction of 200 reservoirs and an aqueduct system , the entire project to cost $8.6 billion at current prices . Iowa and Pennsylvania , too , have assumed state-wide authority over water development , and New York has reserved a state veto power over all new water systems . ( New York also has vast state forest preserves , protecting its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the same river basin . Today they squabble with each other about their withdrawal rights ? the dispute between Arizona and California over the water in the Colorado River is a recurrent feature of the Supreme Court calendar . Eventually , however , they will have to learn to work with each other , to protect the watersheds and safeguard the joint supply . incodel , which administers the Delaware River and its headwaters , is a functioning example of what the states ? in this case , New York , New Jersey , and Pennsylvania ? can accomplish together once they understand their joint interests . Meanwhile , the municipalities , cities , towns , and villages , must recognize their obligations . Water supply is a regional , not a local problem . There can be little progress in water planning so long as every incorporated entity seeks out its own private waterhole . Under the supervision of state authorities , whole clusters of communities should be planning , building , and operating their common water supply systems . Co-operation , supervision , and control are the key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop to the haphazard hijacking of convenient water . Until we learn to ignore artificial boundaries ? to see that the watershed , not the user community , is the central element ? we can not hope to plan a future free of water shortages . IN A few areas , water scarcity is already a hindrance to progress . Plans to process oil shale deposits in Colorado may well founder for lack of water . Out on the edges of the great Western range , the desert creeps further into the grassland every year . Most communities , though , have scarcely felt the pinch as yet . There is no great hardship , after all , in a temporary ordinance ? common , these clays , in Eastern cities ? which forbids people to water their lawns except after dark . But these bits and pieces of municipal law foreshadow a cramped future , unless we act sensibly and soon to avoid a real crisis . Led by Dr. Paul Scars of Yale , ecologists have been warning us for years about the danger to civilization inherent in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sahara . Among the greatest monuments left behind by the dead nations of antiquity are the aqueducts ? notably in Italy , Spain , and the Middle East ? which multiplied as a failing civilization outgrew its water supplies . Our ingenuity has stripped the ground cover and dried the land infinitely faster than our ancestors could manage such destruction . We must now use that ingenuity to conserve and restore the balance of nature . Without such ingenuity , without a well-financed , well-conceived national water program , we will inevitably drink our way into a water famine . And it will be too late to plan America 's future on the day the taps run dry . 