@@487653

? Mexico City W WEEKS AGO , with the b world furious over the invaof Egypt , the Syrian , army cut a major oil supply by the simple edient of blowing up three pturipstations on the Iraq Petroleum company 's pipeline across Syria . It estimated that this will throttle per cent of Iraq 's petroleum ex- : s for six months and cost the q treasury eighty million dollars loyalties . Nevertheless , anti-West-feeling is so strong in those parts t the Iraq gdvernment swallowed injury with no more than faint test . renewal of hostilities in Egypt d release further violence first Middle East oil companies ? some cooler , Arab head points t. that there are more profitable ys ' than by , destruction of ac-plishing the same anti-Western With the precedent of Nas-nationalization of the Suez still glowing in Arab minds , what would happen , for example , if Nationalist like Mossadegh were ce again to raise the slogan of oil priation ? The possibility has diverted . to Western observers . In-a U. S. news magazine recently ht it appropriate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the spe-cat citing facts and figures to dem- ' strate the folly of nationalization all Arabs within reading distance . Tony or no , it 's highly possible t one or more Arab nations will de to take over foreign-owned properties , and it 's worth while at moment to evaluate the accomp-ents of Petroleos Mexicanos met ) , Mexico 's government-d oil company , during the n years since President Car-reluctantly signed the order expropriating what is today the sixth largest oil industry outside the Soviet sphere . In 1958 , Lazaro Cardenas was trying to carry through his basic program of agrarian reform in the face of a dangerously anarchic domestic situation . To take over an industry for which Mexico lacked equipment , personnel and capital , and to risk international boycott and foreign intervention , seemed incredibly foolhardy ; in fact , the decision to do so came as a complete surprise to the foreign-owned oil companies . The expropriation was the culmination of a prolonged strike in the industry . It was precipitated by the refusal of the foreign oil companies to accept a decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awarding more pay to the workers . After , the expropriation decree , the companies , ( of which there were about a score ) , capitulated , but by then the oil was in the fire , and President Cardenas refused to backtrack . The government was launched on a stormy career as producer , refiner , exporter and distributor of oil . WHAT kind of job has Mexico done with the oil industry ? U. S. oil-industry economists are inclined to take a dim view . The case against Pemex has been made as follows : Since the government took over from private enterprise , production has fallen off drastically . In 1921 , output of crude oil and natural gasoline reached a peak of 29 million ( metric ) tons per year ; during the last three years , production has averaged about 13 million tons . Income from exports of crude-oil and products is far less than during the roaring twenties , when 500,000 barrels a day left Mexican ports . Current exports are edging up towards 100,000 barrels a day . Refinery output fails to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country has been importing about 30,000 barrels per day of petroleum products at an annual cost of nearly seventy million dollars  --  a heavy charge on Mexico 's vulnerable balance of payments . Insufficient refinery capacity , is only a symptom of Pemex 's most serious problem : lack of investment capital . This dearth of funds manifests itself also in a crippled exploration program , antiquated and inadequate transportation and lack of eouipment for the development of proved resource4 . All this in turn boils down to the simple economic fact that . Pemex does n't earn enough profits , either to plow back into the business or to attract outside investment . Why does n't PeMex make money. ? The answer lies in a price policy that eschews what private-enterprise economists would call reasonable profits and , in effect , subsidizes the Mexican economy at the expense of the oil industry . The price of leaded gasoline , including taxes , is less than 18 cents ( U.S. ) per gallon . Kerosene , major fuel in a country with little water power , no coal and exhausted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been supplied to the nationalized railways for many years at extremely low prices . The net effect of this price policy is that the per-barrel return , in the form of direct profit on sales , is probably lower for Pemex than any other ' oil company in the world . Prices have been kept so low that when Pemex imported Seventy million dollars worth of petroletun products last year and distributed them through its regular marketing channels , the net loss to the company was twenty-one million dollars . As long as PemeX maintains this unbusinesslike price policy , it will be unable to earn the capital necessary for expansion , and the gap between production and consumption ( in The NATION creasing about 9 per cent anually ) will continue to expand . Instead of being a net earner , Pemex will be a net spender  --  a sad state of affairs fot what was once a flourishing business . This , in substance , is the case m2 de by critics of nationalization , and it supports their contention that Mexico would have been far better off if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonial nations , take heed ! THE CHARGES are met here with indignation . Almost to a man , the IVI , xican is loyal to what he feels is his industry , and underlying his at-tit ide are the material evidences of another set of facts and figures : r.t is true that production has dropped since the boom days of 1921 . It is also true that it had dropped lor g before expropriation ; from 200 million barrels in 1921 to less than thirty-five million in 1932 . Nowhere else , not even in revolutionary Russia , did production ever decline so much so quickly . The initial drop has been attributed to foreign business men reducink , their investment in the face of union harassment . Far more significant , however , is the fact that in 1921 almost all the 200 million ba ? - rel3 came from the amazingly rich Golden Lane area on the gulf coast ? an area which a few years later was producing mainly salt water because of over-exploitation . The fabulous Dos Bocas well in this region could n't be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day onto the landscape until it exhausted itself . Another factor contributing to the decline was lack of investment in exploration and development of reserves . During the pre-expropriation era ( 1901-1937 ) , four major zones were discovered and development was confined to these established areas . But under Pemex 's regime , concentrated exploration has resulted in the discovery of four new major producing areas , equivalent in potential to those already exploited . These new areas include almost a hundred oil fields , and reserves have climbed to 2,886 million barrels . Despite lack of capital , boycotts and almost insuperable difficulties in securing personnel and equipment , production ha : ; risen since 1937 from forty-six million barrels to last year 's ninety-one million . Drilling last year was highest in history , 639,414 meters , compared to the previous high of 538,000 meters in 1926 . As regards the drop in exports , part of the explanation lies in the development and industrialization of Mexico . During the twenties , almost all production was exported ; last year the domestic market consumed sixty-five million barrels , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in export decline were a lack of tankers , limited market for Mexico 's major surplus of heavy crudes and an international boycott against Mexico 's oil during the years immediately following expropriation . Necessity for imports of refined products is due less to lack of refinery capacity than to inadequate transportation facilities between population centers and refineries , which were originally located for the convenience of export-minded pri ' vate companies without regard for domestic needs . Previous to 1938 , all Mexican refineries were on the Gulf coast with the exception of Atzcapotzalco , supplying Mexico City . This refinery , which in 1938 had a capacity of 14,000 barrels per day , now produces 100,000 barrels . Total refinery capacity , mostly de-developed since expropriation , is now 225,000 barrels per day . Pemex has been concentrating a major part of its admittedly inadequate investment capital on coping with the problem of imports and dollar drain . New refineries have been built in strategic locations and pipelines connect coastal refineries with industrial centers inland . A single lubricants refinery recently completed at Salamanca , in the state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be completed this year will cut forty million dollars from the annual bill for imports . Mexico 's aim of oil autonomy is close to realization . It is true that Mexico 's task has been made infinitely more difficult by the low-price policy . No one is more aware of this than the Mexicans . It would have been very convenient for Pemex to raise its prices along with the 548 per cent rise in cost of living since 1939 . That it did not indicates that values other than profits determine its policy . Industrialization here depends on cheap oil . There is inadequate water power and no coal . The impetus given industry and agriculture by eighteen years of subsidies from the government oil monopoly is incalculable . As a domestic fuel , kerosene is replacing charcoal and wood , . . . natural resources almost exhausted in Mexico . To aid a reforestation program , Pemex sells kerosene below cost . In 1937 , the price of gasoline in Mexico City was 20 per cent higher than the average price in the United States . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mexican . It 's worth noting that as regards labor conditions in Mexico , the average wage in privately-owned manufacturing industries during 1955 was about a dollar a day ; in the oil industry it was over four dollars . This contrasts sharply with pre-expropriation wage scales , when oil worker salaries were equal to or lower than prevailing inadequate wages . Pemex has a program of worker benefits unique in Mexico . It includes free schooling , free medical care for workers and their families , pensions and a savings fund . Last year , the company spent five million dollars on medical care and schooling for the 35,000 oil workers and their families . Finally , there is the question of direct taxes paid by the industry to the federal treasury . In terms of national gain , it is revealing to cowpare the figures for the periods before and after expropriation . From 1900 to 1937 , private companies produced 1,895 million barrels of oil , mostly for export , on which federal taxes were paid amounting to 77 million pesos . From 1938 through 1955 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on which taxes were paid amounting to 5,000 million pesos . It is this kind of responsibility to its workers , to the public and to the nation that makes Pemex popular here . Most Mexicans think that the government 's expropriation of the oil industry is one of the best things that ever happened to the country . A return to private ownership is unthinkable . The exploitation of Mexico by private companies before 1938 can-not be compared with modern investment procedures in the Middle East ; nor can Arab rulers , taking a fifty-fifty split of fabulous profits , be compared with Mexico 's progressive President Cardenas . Nevertheless , Arab leaders studying the history of Mexico 's government-owned and operated oil industry might find something in it other than a warning .                     