@@431456

A BRITISH exporter , visiting Lisbon on business , was met at the airfield by his local representative . On the drive to town the Englishman complained that for many weeks his letters had gone unanswered . " And with good reason , " the Portuguese business man replied . " I was not around to answer them , having spent the last two months in jail . " " What on earth for ? " asked the astonished visitor . " Nothing serious . Some critical remark of mine about the regime was reported to the political police . As a matter of fact , I was quite comfortable in jail . Food was of the best . But I was rather annoyed that upon my release I was presented with a bill for my board . " This episode at once highlights the similarity and the difference between the regime of Doctor Antonio de Oliveira Salazar and other dictatorships ? including both the Communist and the prewar fascist variety on which the Portuguese setup is , or was , frankly modeled . In Portugal there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the censor 's office . Salazar 's " International Police for the Defense of the State , " commonly known by its Portuguese initials as the PIDE , has spies and agents everywhere , with ears out for any murmur of disaffection . A single indiscreet word overheard by one of these agents can land a citizen in jail . However , such offenders are usually restored to circulation after a period of corrective custody , without preferment of formal charges . And , on the other hand , people strongly suspected of major opposition to the government can avoid trouble with the PIDE simply by keeping their mouths shut . To outright physical coercion the Portuguese dictator prefers , when possible , less obvious methods of moral and economic pressure . Diehard nonconformists are presently faced with professional and financial ruin . The " corporate state , " whatever its drawbacks , lends itself admirably to this type of control . Nevertheless on occasion the regime can " get tough . " Last year , when dockyard workers in Oporto struck for higher wages , several score of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cape Verde Islands and Africa without semblance of a trial . Fortunately such drastic action is rarely called for . There is no capital punishment in Portugal . Both Salazar and his subjects share the traditional aversion to violence that distinguishes the Portuguese from their Spanish next-door neighbors . In sharp contrast to Spain , Portuguese revolutions , coups d'etat , and even civil wars have mostly been quite orderly and humane , with only a token minimum of shooting . In Portugal as in Spain bullfighting is the favorite national pastime . But Portuguese bullfights , unlike Spanish , are strictly gore-less . The bull is not for killing and a matador who let a horse get hurt would be booed from the ring for his clumsiness . The same might have  | happened to Salazar , had he spilled blood after the manner of his good friend General Franco or his late friends Mussolini and Hitler . Instead , by his " moderate " technique , he has kept himself in power for almost a quarter of a century , so that he is now Europe 's senior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal attributes of a totalitarian demagogue . An economics professor at Coimbra University in 1928 , he was called in by the army leaders to save the country from bankruptcy . After stabilizing the currency and balancing the budget , he proceeded to take over complete control , without stepping out of character as a shy , retiring scholar . Even today he seldom appears or speaks in public , but communicates mainly through his devoted subordinates , men like War Minister Santos Costa . IN ALL dictatorships the naked power mechanism of the police state is more or less artfully concealed behind an ornamental facade ? the regime as portrayed in its own propaganda . The standard props of the set are : monumental architecture , including some model housing projects ; public works , including at least one superhighway , designed primarily for show , with utility incidental ; and an elaborate political , social , and economic superstructure , sound-tracked with highly specialized terminology . In arranging his facade , Salazar has been greatly helped by natural environment . Portugal is southern and Latin , yet almost everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flavor of its own that differs sharply from the Italian or the Spanish . The Portuguese themselves ascribe the difference to the impact of the Atlantic Ocean , so unlike the landlocked Mediterranean . Their country , they say , should have been named Atlantis . Hemming the westernmost rim , Portugal is Europe 's first line of defense against the encroaching elements . The breakers pound its jagged shoreline from a clean sweep of three thousand miles , the tradewinds blow the salty tang to the farthest inland point , and every peasant has the horizon eyes of a sailor . As Europe 's first great navigators , the Portuguese blazed the water route to India and Cathay , and this early association with the Far East has subtly fused into the cultural pattern , adding oriental twists to art and architecture , endowing the people with a philosophic forbearance that is utterly un-Western . This influence has largely determined the Portuguese attitude toward peoples of other races and skins . The Portuguese have never subscribed to the myth of white supremacy or drawn the color line . Their vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands in many oceans and enclaves in India and China , have so far largely escaped the disorders that are breaking up other colonial empires . The colored races of the Portuguese colonies have never experienced the assumption of racial inferiority and therefore do not have to fight for racial equality . Few cities can rival the charm of Lisbon , the Portuguese capital . Built , like Rome , on seven hills , its baroque palaces and churches and moldering Moorish forts are mirrored in the Tagus River estuary , which is wide and deep enough to harbor all the navies of the world , In pleasing contrast to the older quarters are the spacious squares and boulevards and imposing public buildings of the modern town . From outskirts clustered with new housing developments , a four-lane superhighway leads to Estoril , the lavish playground of exiled kings . The Portuguese insist they were tidy long  | before Salazar decreed that houses be repainted every two years . Whatever the explanation , the country looks almost as clean as Switzerland , with little of the display of poverty found throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent NATO conference , when the beggars were locked up for the duration . Yet Portugal has one of the lowest living standards in Europe , with a per capita daily diet of barely 2,400 calories ? l00 calories below the minimum subsistence level set by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization . Moreover , this diet is woefully deficient in fats and proteins . Though Portugal escaped the war , conditions are worse now than they were before and the downward trend continues . The only indices that stay high are the birth and illiteracy rates . The population , now just over eight million , crammed into a total area of 34,000 square miles , grows by about 90,000 a year . The illiteracy rate has long been stationary at around 60 per cent . Salazar is not only opposed to any effort to stem the natural increase of population , but as a staunch admirer of the medieval theocratic state he also mistrusts public education as a source of social unrest undermining the influence of the Church . In these views he is fully seconded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cerejeira , Catholic Primate of Portugal . II PART from its marked clerical and medievalist strain , Salazar 's political , social , and economic superstructure was essentially copied from Italian Fascism and , to a lesser extent , from German Nazism . Salazar 's National Union corresponded to the Fascist or Nazi party . The blackshirt Milizia and brownshirt Sturmabteilung were matched by the greenshirt Portuguese Legion . The counterpart of the Italian Dopolavoro or the German Kraft durch Freude was an organization called " Joy Through Work . " Most important of all , in setting up his " Estado Novo " ( new state ) Salazar took over from Mussolini the entire concept of the corporate state , which he developed and applied with a seriousness never attempted in Italy itself . Salazar 's enthusiasm for Fascist forms ? he promulgated his corporate constitution in 1933 ? was matched by his active sympathy for Franco in the Spanish civil war and for Hitler and Mussolini in the early stages of World War II . The first blow against the Spanish Republic was plotted in Estoril by Franco 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plane crashed during takeoff from nearby Sintra airport just as the rebellion got under way ; and the subsequent main supply lines for Franco 's forces ran through Portugal . In 1939-41 Portuguese War Minister Santos Costa , who is still on the job , not only applauded Axis victories , but denounced the Western powers in the most abusive terms and voiced his enthusiasm for integration of Salazar 's " Estado Novo " in Hitler 's " New Order . " The Portuguese people , it should be noted , never shared these feelings and were overwhelmingly pro-Ally from the outset . As Axis war fortunes waned the Portuguese government shifted its stand . But even as late as 1944 Salazar conceded the Allies an airbase in the Azores only under the threat of " Operation Life-Belt , " the plan for seizure of the islands . Subsequently General Jose Gordinho , Governor of the Azores , incurred the unforgiving ire of Santos Costa by his friendliness toward the Allied base authorities and zealous cooperation with them . In April 1947 Gordinho was arrested on charges of " conspiracy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mysterious circumstances . Gordinho 's  | widow accused Santos Costa of murdering her husband . Though the woman was silenced , the War Minister seemed for the moment seriously compromised . But just then an American military delegation deplaned to decorate Santos Costa for his " services " to the Allied cause in connection with the Azores base . Previously he had received high Nazi decorations . After the war , Salazar , in deference to the times , coined the term " organic democracy " to describe his system , which he had previously defined as " antidemocratic and antiliberal , " and the Portuguese Legion lost much of its swagger and taste for fancy uniforms . There were even vague promises of free elections . However these half-hearted efforts to dissemble kinship with the fallen dictatorships touched neither the one-party system nor the corporate state . To Salazar the corporate state represents the nearest possible approach to the guild system , that bulwark of well-ordered medieval society . Within the corporate framework the entire economically engaged population is organized into corporations or syndicates , each of which is pledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade or profession . However in practice the membership has never been granted any degree of democratic control and the corporations are creatures of the state , run by officials appointed through the Ministry of Corporations . Such appointments are generally based on personal influence and patronage with little reference to the appointee 's qualifications or the wishes of the members . Membership in the corporation , including payment of dues , is compulsory . While the funds thus collected are supposed to cover social benefits and unemployment insurance , most of the money actually goes for administrative overhead , chiefly in the form of salaries for an inflated corporate bureaucracy . The annual cost of this cumbersome apparatus , which at every level parallels the government administration , is estimated at two billion escudos , equal to one-third of the national budget . Under the corporate setup the whole field of human economy , from farming and handicrafts to foreign trade , is snugly divided into watertight compartments , wherein the local corporations tell the producer what and how much he may produce , to whom he shall sell the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , neither buyers nor producers are free to trade in an open market but must deal where they are told to deal , selling or buying prescribed quotas at fixed prices . No wholesaler dealing in grain , for example , may exceed his purchase quota unless he can find some other wholesaler with an unfilled quota which he is willing to turn over to him for a commission . The red tape and paper work involved in this procedure beggar description ; the consequence is to stifle initiative and substantially weaken the incentive to improvement and efficiency . THE antisocial effects of the corporate system are most striking in agriculture , which provides 48 per cent of total employment and one-third of the national income . It has retarded the adoption of improved farming methods and led to gradual soil exhaustion , reflected in a year-by-year decline in yields per acre . Though the system hobbles legitimate free enterprise , it nonetheless affords unlimited scope for personal enrichment through graft and corruption to persons with proper connections . Moreover the stringent press cen- sorship shields such activities from public knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lushest pickings have been in foreign trade . Merchants who wish to sell or buy abroad must deal through someone with an export or import quota in order to obtain the necessary customs license . This usually involves paying commissions which may range as high as 50 per cent of the sale or purchase price . Two cases involving malfeasance in connection with foreign trade operations are now before the courts . In one case a high corporate official is charged with accepting a 400 , - 000-escudo bribe from a group of grain importers to release a shipment of spoiled grain . In the second case , the former president of the meat packers ' corporation is accused of taking a five-million-escudo commission from Argentine beef exporters and their Portuguese customers in return for import licenses , and with embezzlement of an additional halfmillion escudos of government customs revenues . The press has virtually ignored these episodes and in both instances the charges will probably be dropped " for lack of evidence . " The commercial advantages Portugal enjoyed as a neutral in wartime enabled a privileged few to amass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole . There are now a dozen private individuals worth more than one billion escudos ( approximately $33,000,000 ) each . Their combined personal incomes add up to more than half the annual national budget ( currently approximately six billion escudos or around $200,000,000 ) to which their contribution is small under the present tax laws . Not for nothing does Callouste Gulbenkian , international oil mogul and candidate for the title of world 's richest man , choose to live in Portugal . The top dozen are followed by a few hundred smaller fortunes . Then comes a statistical nose dive to the general depressed level , with little in between . Portugal lacks the economic and political stabilizer of a large and prosperous middle class . III AT A glance the country would seem ripe for the growth of an underground movement of the extreme left . But while it is hard to assess actual Communist strength , two local factors have apparently thus far retarded its growth : the previously mentioned Portuguese aversion to violence and bloodshed , and the still powerful hold of the Catholic Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sapped by the Church 's all-out support of Salazar . Of late communism appears to have made some headway among workers and intellectuals , including university students , mainly in the guise of the " National Democratic Movement , " a " front " of the familiar type . The Communists possess virtually the only effective underground organization , which publishes a regular weekly paper , Voz , and also issues many leaflets . On the eve of the NATO Conference , Lisbon was blanketed with a four-page manifesto captioned : " Peace Pact and No Atlantic Pact ! " carrying such slogans as : " More bread , fewer cannon ! " By comparison , the liberal and democratic opposition elements are severely handicapped , seeming to have neither the training nor the capacity for underground work , though their potential following is great . Last summer the anti-Communist liberals tried to enter a candidate in the presidential elections occa- sioned by the death of aged General Carmona , Salazar 's long-term figurehead . The liberals ' choice was Admiral Quintao Meireles , the country 's most distingished naval officer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meireles pledged his loyalty to the Salazar constitution and strongly attacked the Communists who put forward their own candidate , Professor Ruy Luis Gomes . Despite this stand and solemn promises by the government that the opposition would enjoy full freedom of speech and assembly , the Admiral 's initial campaign statement and all subsequent statements were suppressed by the censorship . Opposition campaign posters were torn down by the police . The opposition was able to hold only two election rallies ? both in Lisbon and both in a private parking lot , applications for other facilities having been rejected . Only ticket holders were allowed past the heavy police cordon at the entrance . Nevertheless more than twelve thousand attended each rally and those unable to gain admittance were backed up in the adjoining streets for many blocks . The parking lot owner who had made his property available was later subjected to police " investigation . " Meanwhile , in spite of protests , the names of opposition sympathizers were stricken wholesale from the voters ' registries . Finally , when Admiral Meireles discovered that opposition watchers would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted to attend the counting afterward , he withdrew his candidacy . Since the Communist candidate had previously been disqualified , the field was clear for Salazar 's nominee , General Craveiro Lopes , who was elected without contest . Subsequently a number of the Admiral 's backers were arrested , though the Admiral himself was never touched . For venturing to report the government 's treatment of the opposition in the election campaign , Adolfo de Rosa , Lisbon correspondent for the United Press for thirty years , had his press credentials and filing privileges withdrawn as of January 1 , 1952 . THE dictatorship has made a shambles of cultural life by wholesale dismissal from schools and universities of teachers and professors whose ideas are not attuned to the official viewpoint . Many works of leading Portuguese authors , living and dead , have been banned by a censorship which combines political bigotry with the most priggish kind of Roman dogmatism . In matters of morals Salazar tries to be more holy than the Pope . Two years ago , when Dr. Egas Moniz , the noted Portuguese brain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was allowed to print only the briefest report of the event and the government itself took no official cognizance of this signal honor to one of its citizens . For Dr. Moniz has never concealed his antipathy for the dictatorship , which has so far banned the publication of his memoirs and requires him to submit all his scientific papers and articles to the censor . Since the war there has been no censoring of outgoing press dispatches . But no local paper may print news displeasing to the dictatorship , regardless of the source . When President Truman made a statement to the effect that he still did n't care for the Franco regime but he understood how Spain fitted into the Western defense framework , the Portuguese censor cut out the derogatory reference to Franco and left the rest of the remark , giving readers the impression that Truman was wholly favorable to Spain 's admission to NATO . Secretary of State Dean Acheson , in his speech at the opening meet- ing of the - NATO session , defined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as " a creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and added : " Being confronted and endangered by one of the oldest types of political institutions , a rigid military autocracy ruled by police power , NATO bespeaks the will of the democracies to safeguard their Freedom . " These references were missing from the published Portuguese translation . While I was in Portugal , opponents of the regime , ranging from Monarchist to Socialist , asked me : " How can the United States and the West in their efforts to defend democracy and combat police power ally themselves with Salazar ? Is n't this a contradiction in terms ? " I replied that they could scarcely expect the United States to step in and change the Portuguese form of government or refuse to accept Portugal as an ally until such a change occurred . There were far bigger issues at stake . And I reminded them that compared with a Communist dictatorship the Salazar regime was mild indeed . While some agreed , others insisted that any alliance with Salazar was a betrayal of democratic principles which nothing could justify . In their consuming preoccupation with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminded me of an old Russian saying : For the mouse no beast is fiercer than the cat . The democratic opposition leadership includes some of the country 's noblest spirits and foremost men of letters and science , many now living abroad in exile . Even those at home have developed an emigre psychology and somehow lost touch with political realities . If militant democracy were effectively mobilized to assert its claims , backed by popular pressure , Salazar could not gainsay it . The pinions of his dictatorship have already been loosened by world events . But instead of organizing its potential strength , the opposition looks for foreign intervention to force the man out , or failing that , lives in the expectation that the army , which put the professor in office , will presently tire of him and send him back to his university lectern . AMERICA can not settle Portugal 's domestic problems , nor refuse to collaborate with Salazar and . Franco any more than it can with Tito . At the same time alliances with such countries impose special responsibilities on our policy-makers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wartime tendency to whitewash Stalin and his regime simply because he was our military ally against Hitler . The adherence of Portugal , with its island bases , is essential to Western defense . But we should not give the Portuguese people the impression that in payment for this we have pledged uncritical support to Salazar 's dictatorship . While accepting the necessity at this stage for dealing with the present regime , we should make it clear that NATO members may not ignore or flout the basic democratic principles and aims set forth in the North Atlantic Preamble . Otherwise NATO is doomed to become no more than a military alliance .  |                     