@@264378

Seventeen months after the career of Army Dentist Irving Peress became a public issue , the U.S. Senate 's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations last week issued its report on the case . The subcommittee found what had been obvious from the first ( TIME , March 8 , 1954 ) : the promotion and honorable discharge of Major Peress , after he refused to answer questions about Communist affiliations , was entwined in red tape , not in Red subversion . <P> " Individual errors in judgment , lack of proper coordination , ineffective administrative procedures , inconsistent application of investigating regulations , and excessive delays , " were the subcommittee 's words for it . Army Secretary Robert Ten Broeck Stevens ( or his Defense Department superiors ) , said the report , should be " criticized for the delay of almost one year before the facts concerning the Peress case were publicly released . " It added that former Army Counselor John Adams showed " disrespect for this subcommittee " when he chose to disregard a request from Wisconsin 's Senator Joe McCarthy that Peress ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances of snarled red tape : e.g. , " the failure of Major Stambaugh , G2 , First Army , upon receipt of Peress ' DD Form 398 ( in which Peress refused to list organizations to which he had belonged ) , to initiate action looking to cancellation of active-duty orders . " <P> Six members of the subcommittee , including McCarthy , signed the report . But Ohio Republican George Bender , who holds the Senate seat previously occupied by Robert Taft , refused . The subcommittee , Bender pointed out , had found nothing to substantiate Joe McCarthy 's screams that " a secret master " of the Pentagon had controlled the Peress case . The report , said Bender , should have spelled out the obvious fact that " not one iota of evidence was revealed to indicate any subversion , collusion , or Communist conspiracy concerned with the handling by the military of the Peress matter . "                     