@@476809

by profession an economist and economic historian . The bulk of my aca-demic life has been taken up with studying the world 's economic development during the nineteenth century . I have just ended three years ' work on the Soviet Union and Communist China . The task there was not to study Communist economies but to discern , if possible , the shape and prospects for change in the whole societies now dominated from Moscow and Peking : their politics , social life , foreign policy , and their economies . The title of this article reflects perhaps the most important single idea about Communism which I have acquired during these three years of study . I believe that Marx failed to understand the farmer . From that misunderstanding has flowed a century of Communist theory and practice . And , more important , from Communist theory and practice has arisen a set of problems whose solution or failure of solution may well wreck the international Communist movement ? or force profound and wholesome change upon it . Perhaps the most dangerous enemy of Communism is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union itself , China , and Northern Vietnam . He will certainly not revolt on his own under present circumstances ; but even a police state can not make him increase his output on the scale Communist plans require , The passive figure of the peasant , trapped in totalitarianism , is joined as a potentially mortal enemy of Communism by the farmer in the Free World ? notably in the underdeveloped areas and perhaps most notably , at the moment , by the awakening Indian peasant . This , in any case , is my theme . I should like to develop it by tracing out how Communism has come to tangle at cross purposes with the peasant ; the consequences of this generally quiet struggle ; the problems which it creates for the Communist leadership ; and the opportunities it opens to the Free World . The story begins with Marx himself . There is an excellent book by David Mitrany called Marx Against the Peasant . Mr. Mitrany 's book examines the trouble Communism had from the beginning with agriculture and the farmer . Marx 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretentious style of Germanic scholarship ? is essentially a simple one . He believed that by an inevitable series of class struggles , bourgeois capitalism had conquered feudalism ; and that the urban working class , created by industrial capitalism , would inevitably inherit power and authority when capitalism had dug its grave . This theory represented Marx 's reading of British history as he looked backward and forward from the middle of the nineteenth century . As he wrote he could see in England a decline of the political power of agriculture and an increasing dependence of Britain on imported rather than home-produced food . This ? plus the fact that he was a bookish city fellow ? led him to dispose of the farmer , in his theory and his prescriptions for the future , in a highly casual way . For example , the Communist Manifesto of 1848 , in making its recommendations for the future , simply had this to say about agriculture : The establishment of industrial armies , especially for agriculture . Combination of agriculture with manufacturing industries ; gradual abolition of distinction between town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population over the country . T N SHORT , Marx 's notion was that history would make of the farmer simply an industrial worker of one sort or another ; and lie could embrace the farmer ultimately in the same formula he mechanically applied to the industrial working class . The farmer , with his passionate desire to own his own piece of land and to till it in his own interest , annoyed Marx . As a theorist of history , Marx found the farmer out of place ; and there is a note of human irritation and annoyance in Marx 's treatment of him . Marx allowed no special place for him and for agriculture in his major writing . One can dispose of such matters with ease ? in theory . But the practical politics of Marxism , from the very beginning , ran into trouble with the peasant of Central and Eastern Europe . Before the revolutions in Russia of 1917 , Marxist politicians had the greatest difficulty in gaining any significant base of support among the peasants . The real discontents of European peasants , focussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties which grew up in the fifty years or so before the first world war . These parties were generally non-Marxist and , often , anti-Marxist . Except For a brief flirtation with the notion that the Russian village organization ? the mir ? could be built into a Socialist state , Marxist ideas did not harmonize naturally with the impulses of the European peasant . Brushing the peasant aside as a kind of miscast rural industrial worker , Marxism abandoned him to other leaders . Two Practical Politicians N ow comes a monumental irony of modern history . Without the peasant 's unsatisfied desire to own his land , there would not have been a Russian revolution in 1917 and , almost certainly , the Bolsheviks would not have triumphed in the Communist phase of that revolution in November 1917 . Not Marxism or Socialism or Communism , but the peasant 's great longing for land was the most powerful single engine of the Russian upheaval of 1917 . In 1917 Lenin perceived this fact . He was thoroughly prepared to junk or alter Marxist theory in the interests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he - managed to harness a good deal of the discontent which had infected the peasant-born Russian armies ; and he used this non-Marxist ? almost anti-Marxist ? motive to seize power . Lenin 's 1917 slogans were : Land , Bread . and Peace . Despite seventy years of Marxism . in the showdown Lenin rated the peasant 's desire for land the most effective political force to which he could appeal . In China the peasant was even more important to Communist victory than he was in Russia . At first , the Chinese Communists sought to achieve power by mobilizing strength in the ' cities . They organized the industrial workers and infiltrated union organizations in the approved manner . It took a whole series of defeats , starting in 1927 , to disabuse them of this strategy . The emergence of Mao-tse Tung between 1927 and 1935 developed directly from his two perceptions : ( 1 ) that the desire of the poor peasant for a hit of land which he could call his own was a powerful political force ; and ( 2 ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had a chance to build an effective military establishment in the countryside , with which he might ultimately seize power . This strategy was re ( Yarded for some time in Moscow as unorthodox . From a Western point of view , however , there is nothing inconsistent with Communism about it . Lenin in his own way was equally flexible in his Marxism . The underlying truth is , of course , that long before 1917 and long before 1949 , when Communism was victorious in China , Communism had ceased to be a philosophy of history and an ideological movement in the Western sense . It had become primarily a tactical conspiracy , by a self-appointed elite , for the pursuit and maintenance of power . As such , it was prepared to make its slogans fit its power requirements . Lenin , Stalin , and Mao all did this when occasion demanded . We are confronted , then , with a first-class irony of modern history . Marxist theory had ? and has ? no sympathy or interest in the desires of the farmer . Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large part by harnessing to their purposes the peasant 's aspiration for his own land . W HAT happened to the peasant . once the Communists took over ? In Russia . Lenin found himself by 1921 in a position of crisis . The cities were not receiving their normal supply of food from the peasants , and famine stalked the land . Under the impact of wartime Communism , industry had fallen to about 20 per cent of prewar output . Perhaps most important , Lenin faced serious opposition within the ranks of his party . There were many in the Communist rank and file who had helped make the revolution of November 1917 but were angry and distressed in 1920 and 1921 to see emerge a bureaucratic dictatorship rather than the humanistic regime for which they had fought . In this period of crisis , Lenin ruthlessly crushed his political opponents , but appeased the peasants ? for the moment . He launched a New Economic Policy one of whose aims was to induce the peasant to produce again for the urban market . Between 1921 and 1929 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had gained in the revolutionary year of 1917 for his own benefit and that of his family . He sold his grain on an open market , paying a fixed tax in grain which he generally judged to be fair . The more able and vigorous peasants acquired land and grew relatively well-to-do ; and Russian agriculture , sustained by individual incentive , revived . Miracle by Brute Force w rrx the launching of the First Five Year Plan in 1929 all this changed . Stalin had triumphed as the sole successor to Lenin after four years of bitter infighting within the Communist party . With his personal authority assured he turned to the problem of building a heavy industry in Russia and fastening an effective political control over the country . Whatever Stalin 's economic reasons for the collectivization of agriculture may have been , there is no doubt that one of its primary purposes was to guarantee political and social control of the Russian peasantry . From a Communist perspective the Russian peasantry enjoyed an unnatural and dangerous freedom in the 1920s . The result was , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stalin 's testimony to Churchill , ten million Russians died . More than that , there was a 20 per cent fall in agricultural output . And as Khrushchev revealed in September 1953 Soviet farm production has never really recovered from the blow of collectivization . How could Russia achieve its extraordinary industrial and military growth since 1929 with stagnant or even declining agricultural production ? It could do so because Stalin launched industrialization at a peculiar moment in Russian history . The Russia which the Communists inherited was normally a grain-exporting nation . Before the first world war Russian grain exports were as high as 10.000,000 tons , and even in the midst of the First Five Year Plan Stalin could wring 5,000,000 tons of grain exports a year from the Russian soil and ? at the cost of some starvation ? from its peasants . The Soviet leadership has chosen to eat its way through its natural grain exports since 1929 . And it has converted Russia into a country which may import more farm produce than it exports . A second factor made Stalin 's policy workable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards , the Russian standard of food consumption as of 1928 could he compressed and reduced without actually causing chronic starvation . This is another margin which the Russian Communists exploited . Third , Russia began in 1929 with a sufficient industrial capacity to avoid the need for an expanding foreign trade during its First Five Year Plan . It could produce a high proportion of what it needed for industrialization from its own plants . A decline in agricultural exports in Russia did not , therefore , make industrialization impossible . F OR twenty-five years , then , Russia has been able to afford an unproductive and enslaved agriculture . Now , however , history is beginning to catch up with Stalin 's ruthless decisions of 1929 . The population in Russia has continued to rise and people have moved into cities . It is clear to Moscow 's planners that the smoldering , unproductive peasantry is a serious and costly problem . No issue since Stalin 's death has used up as much Soviet newsprint as the agricultural problem . It does not threaten immediate crisis in Russia : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer feel the same complacency that Stalin did about the consequences of collectivized agriculture . Much the same is true of Communist-dominated Eastern Europe . There , too , Communist collectivization policies , al though somewhat less drastic than Stalin 's , have broken the link between the peasant 's effort and his return ; and agricultural output is sagging . There , too , in the post-Stalin period the newspapers are filled with stories of agricultural shortage and low productivity . It is symptomatic of the agricultural decline in Russia and Eastern Europe that , after breaking from Moscow in 1948 , Tito almost immediately began to back-track on collectivization . There is every evidence that Tito learned rapidly that a system which does not appeal to the peasant 's self-interest is a costly totalitarian luxury . The men in Moscow face , then , a significant dilemma . They know that high agricultural productivity demands that the Russian and Eastern European peasant be given real incentives to work hard and to produce efficiently . More than that , these concessions must appear to the peasant as permanent enough . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has been beatendown and imprisoned for many years by the Communist leadership . He knows all too well the usual tricks of stick and carrot . His productivity can not he turned on and off like an electric light switch . But if the peasant is to be given stable incentives , Moscow has to accept two major consequences : ( 1 ) The degree of political and social control in the countryside must be lifted so that the peasant can enjoy an important degree of individual freedom . ( 2 ) Goods the amount of production going into heavy industry and armaments must be relatively reduced in favor of consumers ' goods . Together these decisions involve , if they are taken ? and they have not yet been taken ? a significant reversal of political , social , and economic policies which Communism has systematically followed wherever it has seized power . A T PRESENT Communist leadership in Moscow and Eastern Europe has acknowledged that the problem exists ; but it has drawn back from a fundamental solution . Moscow has by no means decided to reverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment and the incentives he requires if food is to be produced efficiently on the desired scale . Nevertheless the discussion in the Soviet and satellite press reflects a recognition that for the long pull the situation of agriculture under Communism is unsatisfactory , even dangerous to the leadership . Thus the Russian arid Eastern European peasant has demonstrated that he can not be quickly converted into a rural industrial worker according to Marx 's formula , even by the full power of a modern totalitarian state . As Mitrany concluded : Marx 's analysis of the evolution of agriculture has nowhere been proved right ; his prescription for the organization of agricultural production has never come to be practiced as part of a normal economic evolution . The Marxist view of the political standing of the peasants has been made ridiculous by the dependence of the Communist advance on the peasants ' revolutionary impetus and action ; while its expectation of a natural alliance between proletariat and poor peasants , as a result of class division in the village , has , in spite of much Communist effort , nowhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I N THE Far East the Chinese peasant is be-ginning to make a similar demonstration . This is a different and more serious matter than it is in Europe , where the problem does not threaten an immediate major crisis . Russia and Eastern Europe can , in extremity , produce enough and export enough industrial goods to buy food abroad . To some extent this is what Russia is now doing . It is , of course , grotesque that Russia and Eastern Europe should become food-importing areas ; but the situation in China is , from the Communist point of view , vastly more dangerous . There , too , the Communists , once they had effectively seized power , turned on their peasant support much as Stalin did in 1929 . They made good their promise to redistribute land from the rich to the poor peasant in 1949-50 . But they did not redivide the land because they wanted a nation of small independent proprietors . They did it in order . to wreck the social , economic , and political power of the village gentry and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of substantial amounts of land . In this way , agents of Peking supplanted the complex and diffuse authorities of village life . When this job was done they began immediately to push the peasant into collectivized farms . The Chinese Communist model is drawn from Eastern Europe rather than the Soviet Union . Its key institution is the producers ' co-operative , from whose total output a family receives a share . At first the share is computed according to the amount of land and equipment the family puts into the cooperative . plus the amount of labor contributed . But it is official policy that shares will rapidly become proportional to current labor , not past capital contribution . The family will then lose not only its capital but also its feeling of connection between output and effort . It is a share in the total that each family gets ? a total averaging the vigorous and wreak , the conscientious and lazy . The producers ' co-operative is buttressed by policies which require the peasant to sellall his marketable output to the government at low fixed prices ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit what he can buy , through the spreading monopoly of government stores . There is not the slightest doubt that the Chinese peasant dislikes this collectivized organization of agriculture ; and there is not the slightest doubt that the Chinese Communists have the intention and the ability to complete the process of collectivization they have begun . The latest statements indicate that they expect to place more than half of China 's peasants in producers ' co-operatives by the end of this decade ; and the government monopoly of the grain trade is already a universal fact . W HY have the Chinese Communists betrayed their peasant supporters ? Why are they taking risks with the level of agricultural output in China by damaging the peasant 's incentive to produce ? They have launched this policy of collectivization for two reasons . First , they feel that unless the peasant is collectivized he will not be under Communist political control . Some 80 per cent of the people of China are peasants ; that is , about 500,000,000 people arc in rural families . In such a nation a free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a denial to the Communists of their victory . Second , the Communists have decided to build , as a matter of over-riding priority , a heavy industry base : both to supply their armed forces and to guarantee that China can later continue to industrialize out of its own resources . This requires that the government control intimately the agricultural output of the country and that the government be in a position to use it for its own purposes : to ' sell abroad for arms and machinery ; to feed the army , the Communist administration , its horde of men in forced labor , and the rapidly growing cities . The government in Peking does not appear confident that it can achieve , this control over output unless collective farms are installed . Peking appears willing , in short , to risk less output if it can fully control what there is . This is a greater risk for Communist China in the 1950s than it was in the Soviet Union during the 1930s . Whereas the Soviet Union could achieve its industrialization plan with a 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a 10 per cent increase . This is so because , unlike the Soviet Union , Communist China must increase its foreign trade to industrialize and because population is growing so rapidly in China . Peking now claims a population increase of 2 per cent per year , which means an extra twelve million mouths to feed . What will happen if agricultural output does not increase by 10 per cent ? We should be quite clear that up to a point the Chinese Communists can and will balance their books with starvation . In fact , to some extent , this happened last spring and is likely to happen again next spring . A Communist control apparatus can handle a high degree of discontent ; and starvation is chronic in China . There are , however , two dangers to Peking . First , a sustained failure of output to increase or a substantial decrease could create so vast a hunger in China that even a Communist control system could not prevent some kind of crisis . Second , a demonstration that Communist techniques in Asia lead to chronic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas that Communism holds the key to rapid economic growth . It is this belief which is one of Com-b munism 's greatest assets in the Cold War : in Southeast Asia , in the Middle East , in Africa , and even in Latin America . Revolution by Consent THE most important conclusion at which I have arrived from three years ' immer-sion in the study of Communism is this : it lies within the capabilities of the United States and the Free World to shatter the belief in Communism as the unique method for rapid development . And we can do this over the next decade ? by , say , 1965 . The faith and judgment which lie behind this conclusion stem not only from knowledge of how the peasant 's human response to Communist methods has affected agricultural output . This conclusion is supported by results already achieved in the Free World , notably in India , by the techniques of freedom , the method of individual consent . India has begun its attempt to industrialize in a way exactly opposite to Communist China . China is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital , for the First Five Year Plan , primarily into agriculture . China is forcing its peasants into collectives , by threat and force . India is trying to induce the peasant to improve his methods , to increase the use of chemical fertilizers , to install new irrigation facilities , to double-crop his land . All this is done painstakingly by education and example . THE results thus far are remarkably hope-ful . The substantial increase in agricul-tural output planned in India for the First Five Year Plan has been achieved in three years ; and the evidence is that a constructive chain reaction is sweeping the Indian countryside , far beyond the ? demonstration villages . The returns are not yet in ; but there is a distinct possibility that this truth will become evident : in underdeveloped areas , starting from scratch , with a population predominantly made up of peasants , the method of consent is not only right morally , it is right technically as well . A Free World economic program , with strong U. S. support , might demonstrate this simple truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These two great nations are simultaneously attempting a radical transformation . Over the next decade they plan to put themselves in a position where economic growth will be relatively automatic . Throughout Asia , and throughout the vast underdeveloped portions of the world , the relative performance of Communism and Democracy at this monumental task will be closely watched and weighed . Even Communist totalitarianism can not afford enough policemen to follow the peasant about in his daily round and make him produce what economic growth requires . The devices of a police state , which work with tragic efficiency in urban areas , adapt with difficulty to the countryside . In short , the fact that Marx was a city boy gives the Free World the chance to destroy in the next decade the myth that only Communist brutality can raise an underdeveloped area into self-sustaining growth . And if that myth is dissipated , the chance that Communism will gain power in the underdeveloped areas , whose destiny will determine the long-run balance in the world 's power , will be much reduced , if not once and for @ @ @ 