@@487534

THE Russian-American conflict hangs heavily over Asia , as it does over the entire globe . It affects all decisions , impinges upon every people and every problem . At this moment , in Korea , it threatens to erupt into a disastrously generalized war . But it is by no means the main source of peacelessness in Asia . If this conflict were effaced from the scene tomorrow , there would still be no peace in Asia- . The peoples of that heaving continent would still be seeking to transform their . outworn social systems ; they would still be struggling to overcome the backwardness which condemns vast : and growing populations to chronic poverty . In company , with the rest of the world , Asia would still have to be embarking upon the formidable business of raising the standard of living of its people and of reshaping the globe out of the ruins of the age of empire . There are in all this too many knots that can not be untangled and have to be cut . There are too many conflicting interests that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war in China and the colonial wars in Indo-nesia and Indo-China have shown . These issues are deeply rooted in Asia 's own past , in its relations with the Western world , in the great revolutionary changes through which it is now moving with such travail . They represent some of the greatest human problems of our century . They are an integral part of the world crisis that arises from the fact that the structure under which the world grew and functioned-for nearly three centuries has toppled . The old systems and the old forms of power no longer work . They have to be replaced by new systems and new forms of power that will work . In Asia this issue is posed in its most pressing , most spectacular , , most explosive form , because in Asia the whole social and economic order based on Western empire has been destroyed . The question here , therefore , is not what kind of " negotiated settlement " between Russia and America can produce peace in Asia . It is rather what kind of world organization can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most rational possible way . It is not a matter of what Russians and Americans can agree on , but of what the Asian peoples themselves need and of what they need to do . It is not a matter of defining HAROLD R. ISAACS is a foreign correspondent formerly with Newsweek . He is the author of No Peace for Arid ' and other books . the terms and boundaries of a new Russian-American balance of power , but of advancing the cause of a new global balance in human affairs , primarily through narrowing the gap between the economically backward and the economically advanced countries of the world . This transformation would be difficult and violent enough even if the shadows of a new world war were not closing upon us . If the events in Korea touch off the bigger war that everybody fears , obviously it will end any effort to move consciously toward visible goals . We shall in that event simply careen on toward unknown destinations . We are too much at the mercy of irrational factors to be able to know with any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But assuming , as we doggedly must , that this - immediate crisis can be surmounted and that we will win through to the crucially needed interval of time in which to seek more tolerable solutions , we can restate the premise that the basis of an ultimately fruitful peace in Asia will be laid by actions now that advance these objectives : 1 . Final elimination of all surviving remnants of imperialist rule and foreign domination . - 2 . Extension of the national revolutions in Asia , to bring about drastic changes in the systems of land tenure , taxation , and credit , and the creation , directly out of the popular movements in the villages and towns , of new democratic institutions of self-rule at the local as well as the national level . - 3 . Long-range , large-scale , and internationally integrated plans for economic development , based not on narrowly conceived national economic units but on rationally planned industrialization and an intelligent international division of labor . 4 . Provision of large and long-term international credits to be used in U. N. programs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs of reform . This is , certainly , a tall order that will take a long time to fill . But Asia is a tall problem that has been a long time growing . In everything that we or the Asians do now , we eitheemove toward these objectives or away from them . Opportunism and corruption in nationalist regimes , the course of events in China : , Korea , Indo-China , decisions on Formosa , can not be regarded eclectically . They all set patterns . They determine mutual attitudes , as between social classes and between nations . December 16 , 1950 They set new forces in motion . They either advance the cause of an ultimate democratic solution for Asian and world problems or they retard it . In effect , we are either struggling to lay the foundations for a real peace in Asia , and therefore in the world , or we are merely trying to thwart the Russians at this point or that point . There is a big difference . In the one case , if we govern our present actions by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whatever the difficulties , dangers , and costs , of achieving our best purposes . In the other case we shall simply continue to pour out our human , material , and moral substance in the sterile battles of a power struggle without end . F ROM the Asian point of view , the Russian-American power struggle is a major obstacle in the path of everything Asia needs and everything Asia needs to do . Nationhood , as such , is a blind alley for everyone , but more particularly for the new nations emerging so tardily in Asia . Their real chance to grow is not in the creation and hardening of their new and bootless sovereignties but in the existence of a hospitable world community engaged in overcoming the anarchy of divided nation-states and clashing national economies . There is no such community in sight : the power struggle is keeping it from being born . That struggle is paralyzing real effort at reconstruction . It is draining off into armaments the resources Asia and the rest of the world need . Under its impact Asia remains a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asians have had more than enough of playing the role of pawns and victims in the wars and rivalries of the West . When all else has been said about Russian cynicism and U. N. morality , this is still the essence of what has happened in Korea . The self-interested maneuvering of the powers , now as in the past , presses Asia 's internal struggles into grotesque shapes . Russian pressure prods the North Koreans into a disastrous war . It imposes a totalitarian cast on the Chinese revolution and forces it into an isolation dangerous for China . Everywhere the Kremlin cynically manipulates parties and popular movements to serve Russian national ends . American pressure in the recent past tried to keep Chiang Kai-shek 's Kuomintang regime damped on the backs of an unwilling people , and today in Indo-China it is supporting a French power that the people reject . Asian Communists , like the present leaders of China , have of course openly aligned themselves on one side of the conflict . But one can be sure that some among them already know , and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to their own future prospects . The Chinese Communists will remain wedded to the Russians for a long time , but it will not be a happy marriage nor will its issue serve China well . In non-Communist minds , on the other hand , an 553 equation is tending to rise between Russian power and American power ; they fear and mistrust both . In one sense this is an advance , because in the process a great many non-Communist Asians are shedding some of their past illusions about Russia . In place of the self-professed great friend of the anti-imperialist movements of colonial peoples , they are beginning to see the grim outlines of the new totalitarian imperialism whose object is Russian control of Asia . But on the other hand most of these same Asians tend to see in the United States the heir to the Western imperialism of the past , the great conservative capitalist colossus , to be feared because of its very size and wealth , shot through with racialism , interested only in extending its power or in countering the expanding power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American action in Korea was diluted by mistrust of accompanying American actions in Formosa and ludo-China . Even the American action in . Korea itself has been freely distorted , especially in some Indian thinking , into an act of aggression designed to secure bases for a war against Russia and China . But Korea aside , there is enough truth in the rest of this picture , enough support for it in past and present American actions in Asia , to give Americans pause and to indicate the direction our policy must take if it is to be more fruitful . It is a matter of putting our finger on the points of contact at which Asian and American self-interest can join and serve common purposes of greater human welfare . This was never a simple matter . - In our fumbling around in Asia since the end of the Japanese war we have managed to make it a good deal less simple than it was . In this period the United States , at first the object of the most bounding Asian hopes , has won for itself suspicion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not great or numerous enough , we have created new ones to overcome . In the same interim the non-Communist Asian nationalists have also demonstrated their weaknesses . The gravest of these is their unwillingness or inability to 554 see their own revolutions through to their logical next steps , especially in the critical spheres of land tenure , rural credit , and taxation . Too many of them have thought that the requirements of the nationalist overturn were- satisfied once they had displaced the foreigners in positions of power and profit . They have been unwilling to go on and begin forcing , at the necessary pace , the changes in internal social relations which must follow if a start is to be made in improving the people 's lot . Faced with inhospitable anarchy abroad and insistent discontent within , not a few Asian nationalist intellectuals have retreated into a shadowy half-world . They take refuge in a peculiarly hopeless kind of new Asian isolationism . They make false assumptions of moral and cultural superiority by which they try to obscure from themselves the harsh realities of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American policy , drastic changes the essence of the opportunity which the Communists are quick to grasp and then to subvert to their own , and Russian , ends . The conservative nationalists are too closely tied , often , to the landholders , usurers , and other wealthy classes to exact froth them the price of revolutionary change . The Communists have no such inhibitions ; they offer leadership ini bringing about initial changes which at least look like the changes the people want and need . The conservative nationalists tend to see in large-scale foreign aid a way of bringing about needed improvements and development without transforming the social relations they do not wish to disturb . In the absence of such aid they plead their-helplessness . The Communists , on the other hand , once they have won popular support , have no hesitation in ruthlessly imposing upon the people themselves the cost of new economic development , however great this proves to be in human life and hardship . This is the essence of totalitarianism  --  transformation through enslavement . Because of the size of the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia , a backward country which made itself over into a great power in a single generation , powerfully attracts certain types of Asian intellectuals , dedicated , desperate , and , more obscurely , power-hungry . It is not difficult for them to spread a self-deceiving gloss ' of devotion to a better future over a form of enslavement that parades in the name of liberty , accomplishes its purposes by postponing any actual freedom to a remoter future , and . justifies meanwhile the grossest kind of tyranny . The ideas of freedom and mass welfare were in any case never conspicuously present either in the older Asian societies or in Asian experience under Western rule . It is a somber possibility that the totalitarian method will imposeitself , almost by default , on the present Asian circumstances . This tends to happen , as it did in China , The NATION as the result of wholly Indigenous circumstances . Russia does not create these conditions ; it simply benefits from them . In the absence of any effective alternative , the sheer pressure of mass misery , swelling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation after another down this road , if not under Communist auspices then under other forms of tyranny . T HE problem before us and before the non-Communist Asian nationalists is the problem of the effective alternative . Asian life today is in considerable part what Western imperialism made it . The age of empire bequeathed to Asia a legacy of lopsided and inadequate economies and productive systems , poverty , illiteracy , and a minimum of political institutions and administrative skills from which the new nations might make a fresh start . At the same time the breakup of the world balances created by the age of imperialism has dislocated the economy of the world as a whole . The enormous disparity between the American productive system and the productive level of the rest of the world has opened an abyss into which we can and shall fall unless by heroic efforts in the coming generation we succeed in bridging it . The United States has inherited the power of declining Europe ; it has also inherithel Europe 's accumulated debts to the peoples of the backward continents . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on how we settle these accounts . , This raises a series of big questions : Has Western industrial civilization , built by Europe in the first place on empires and the exploitation of colonial resources , the capacity now to create out of itself a new world system in which the backward countries can develop their own productive forces ? Has Russian totalitarianism pointed the way out for the backward nations , or are there , in the combined resources of Asian nationalism and the West , the makings of a different approach ? Can the gigantic task of overcoming - Asian backwardness be achieved by methods based upon the expansion of democratic-popular institutions and human freedom ? The answers to these questions are by no means assured . The evidence to date is not encouraging . Not a single one of the new non-Communist Asian nationalisms has so far shown signs of a real ability to break through the shell of the old society with the speed and dynamism that the situation demands . As for the United States , it has yet to define in its present actions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to Asia . The Russian impact and example and the crisis of the backward countries are threatening to drag us into a totalitarian epoch in which , whatever else occurs , human values we want to preserve and extend are menaced with extinction . What we have to see is that this threat is a product of the crisis in our own society . Our problem is to transform our power into a lever that will help us and the world move toward more humanly tolerable solutions . This is the context in which the Russian-American conflict is taking place . This is the gauge by which we can measure the Russian and American relation to the issues facing us and size up what we do against what we seek . This is the way we can continue trying to make sense out of increasingly senseless circumstance . In the present state of the power struggle there is nothing realistic about seeking " cooperation " from Russia or a settlement that can be negotiated across a conference table . To begin with , there is no such thing as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of it , there can only be shifts in the relationship of force . " Deals " in this situation are necessarily fragile and are usually at the expense of other peoples who in this day and age are disconcertingly unwilling to bear the cost . The key to the situation lies in the fact that the issues at stake can not be decided by war either , since we have reached the point where war is universally self-defeating . For all the alarums , Russia certainly is counting upon winning out not by victory in a war but as a result of the self-destruction of the West . We have to undertake not to be obliging in this respect . The creation of " situations of strength " is one way of defining the course we have to follow ; it still has to include the military factor to a substantial extent . But this has to be subordinated to political and economic " situations of strength , " without which military forceis futile . That was the lesson of what happened in China . That is the lesson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall learn again , from new disasters , if we pursue our blind effort to keep French force paramount in Indo-China as a " bulwark " against communism . By slow stages and after many hard knocks American policy-makers have moved a little way toward the premises of a more fruitful policy in Asia . It has taken crashing events to impress upon them that Asia holds . a new and primary place in world affairs and has to be brought into a new balance in American thinking . Even now this lesson is only half-learned . But Dean Acheson has spoken several times of identifying this country with the Asian revolutions . President Truman has told us that at Wake be undertook to impress upon General MacArthur that Asia is " more than a military problem , " and at San Francisco he said again that what the United States wanted to do was to help Asians raise their standard of living . These are sensible words . But our trouble is not-the words ; it is the actions to suit them . We can not keep on talking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the French in Indo-China . We can not talk about wanting to help Asia and then spend a few millions for a gleaming idea like the Point Four program- while we pour billions into arms . We can not speak of our wish to join hands with progressive forces- in Asia and then establish our closest affinities with the forces represented by Chiang Kai-shek , Syngman Rhee , Elpidio Quirinom , 556 Bao Dai , and Marshal Pibul of Siam . By doing so . we lose our moral credit and , in effect , abdicaie to the Communists . The only way to avoid doing this is to make our actions conform to our long-range objectives , assuming that these will serve huinan welfare in Asia as elsewh  --  re . The immediate present , however ,  - -  is completely- over- ' shadowed by the imminent threat of an extended war . If that threat materializes , we shall have our choice of disasters , not of policies that can help lead us toward a more fruitful peace . It is because they see this so dearly that at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avert this outcome . At present it is impossible to know whether General MacArthur 's ill-conceived and ill-timed " victory " offensive has tendered all their efforts fruitless . The Chinese Communist aggression in Korea may have been designed to secure more limited objectives , but the Moscow-Peking axis is just as subject as we are to the irrational pull of events out of control . In effect , their Move will have forced , the bigger conflict upon us . If , however , this crisis too can be surmounted and we can advance into anotherperiod of uneasy but precious The NATION time , we can still try to find the way to begin building the basis of a more fruitful partnership between ourselves and the peoples of Asia . This would mean pursuing a policy toward China that is hard-headed but founded upon a determination to avoid the embroilment that only Russia can ardently desire . It means giving Russian-Chinese relations a chance to nourish all the contradictions and conflicts inherent in them . It means seeking an exit from the trap we are in in Indo-China by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. N. in to give that country a freer chance to determine its own fate . It means in the rest of non-Communist Asia faunching a large-scale program of economic aid through the U. N. on the basis of specific and drastic internal reforms . These are the visible openings leading to the road that can take us toward ultimate peace in Asia . Instead of allowing the Russian-American conflict to fix the terms of our relations with Asia , we should begin to see to it that our relationship with Asia would fix the terms of that conflict . The openings are there , fitfully seen now . By the time this article appears , they may'no longer be visible .                     