@@487540

A NY serious approach to a negotiated peace with Russia must take Germany as its starting-point . However critical the situation in other parts of the world , the future status of the now divided Reich is the primary issue between East and West , and the success or failure of efforts to resolve It will decide whether we face peace or war . Developments in Asia have distracted people 's attention from Germany . The tremendous question of German remilitarization has been considered chiefly in connection with France 's differences on this score with Washington . ? - The fact that the rearmament of Germany is a direct threat to Russia and a major obstacle to an agreement has been largely overlooked . It is actually such an insuperable obstacle-That it might even become a cause of war . While the existence of an armed East German r ? police force has doubtless been a factor in the decision of the Atlantic powers to create West German divisions as part of a " European army , " the chief reason is the supposed threat of Russian invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of a rearmed Germany allied with the West may precipitate rather than prevent Russian attack . During the whole period of tension and dispute which began with the great powers ' occupation of the Reich , the Soviet Union has been adamant against allowing Germany to rebuild its military power . Last summer in Paris I was told of a remark made privately by a Soviet marshal in Berlin to a French general , before relations between the former allies had cooled to the present glacial stage . " You must realize , " said the Russian , " that just as the Americans can never permit us to reach the ? Atlantic , we can never tolerate the resurrection of an armed Germany . This is one of the permanent articles of our foreign policy . " Even before the war ended , when the Allies first engaged in a general ' discussion of what peace should mean , Russia would make no concessions on this point . . The Americans went to Yalta with the Japanese conflict dominant in their thoughts . The British were chiefly interested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empire . The Russians concentrated on obtaining assurances that an aggressive Germany should not rise again to threaten the security , of its neighbors . They yielded on many other matters , as was revealed in the papers of Harry Hopkins , but were intransigent on Germany . The first Steps toward a plan for the joint occupation and control of Germany after the Hitler regime should be destroyed were taken at the conference of Foreign Ministers ' held at Moscow in 1943 . Secretary of State Cordell Hull , who presented the American views about Germany to Mr. Eden and Mr. Molotov , did not conceal his opinion that the Allies would find it hard to work together , but he hoped the sufferings inflicted on all by the Nazi aggressor would cause them to sink their differences . Once the German question was settled , the other post-war problems would appear relatively minor , and he believed therefore that the three big powers ? France was not a party to the discussions  --  must do everything possible to maintain their unity against an enemy whose bellicose energies had survived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the split that appeared later between the victors , one Must recall the decisions on Germany taken at the Yalta and Potsdam conferences . At Yalta ? February 4 to 12 , 1945 ? the feelings aroused by five years of war and the 576 death of millions of men and women on the battlefields and in Hitler 's concentration camps found expression in the solemn declaration : " It is our inflexible purpose to destroy German militarism and Nazism , and to insure that Germany will never again be able to disturb the peace of the world . " This pledge should have ruled all future deliberations about the treatment of Germany , but it has been largely forgotten in the endless ' controversy over who is responsible for the mounting threat of another war . Yalta also produced some precise , practical directives . Germany was to be permitted no armed forces , no general staff , no military equipment ; Nazi and militarist elements were to be " removed from public offices and from the economic life of the German people " ; German industry that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed under international control . " Only when Nazism and militarism have been extirpated " would Germany be received into the comity ' of nations . When the heads of the Big Three met again  --  at Potsdam , July 17 to August 2 , 1945 ? the situation had been changed by the unconditional surrender of Germany . I am not one of those who believe that the demand for unconditional surrender , formulated originally , and most emphatically , by President Roosevelt , had fatal consequences . The dissension that so soon arose had its origin rather in the provisional character of the support given to the Yalta and Potsdam agreements from the beginning . However , Potsdam confirmed Yalta . The preamble to the Potsdam agreement reads : " The purpose of this agreement is to carry out the Crimean Yalta declaration on Germany . German militarism and Nazism will be extirpated and the Allies will take in agreement together , now and in the future , the other measures necessary to assure that Germany will never again threaten her neighbors or the peace of the world " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded abolition of current manifestations of German militarism and fascism , but sought to uncover , the underlying causes of the German threat . Their goal was the destruction of the continuing elements in German society The NATION , which had enabled the Reich to rearm after each war and make new attempts to subjugate the world by violence  --  namely , the great landed proprietors and the great industrial trusts . It is impossible in the space of an article to recount the many disagreements that gradually wore away the Yalta and Potsdam decisions . It is difficult , too , to establish the responsibility . Russians and Americans , Grotewohl and Adenauer , Communists and anti-Communists have tossed the blame for what has happened back and forth between them . Mistakes were made at the beginning , such as the division of Germany into four parts , the dangers of which were pointed out by Churchill , and the vacillation between the Morgenthau plan for the " pastoralization " of the country and the opposite extreme of restoring its industrial capacity . The exclusion of France from the Potsdam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be bound by the Potsdam agreement . The Anglo-Americans Maintain that in all important matters the Russians were the first to take unilateral measures  --  citing in particular Soviet dismantlings of German industrial plants , nationalization of industries , the levying of reparations upon current production , and the drastic land reforms . But future historians may challenge this contention , for the record shows that Anglo-American action in some cases and French action in many preceded corresponding Soviet measures . For example , a bizonal economic council - was set up in the west on May 29 , 1947 ; a similar council was set up in the east on June 15 . The Charter of Frankfurt establishing a bizonal economic administration with legislative and executive branches was promulgated on February 9 , 1948 ; three days later a Soviet decree empowered a German ' economic commission to issue directives to the whole east zone . The fact is the Potsdam agreement was whittled away , bit by bit , by both sides ; the initial breaches can not be attributed solely to the Russians . T HE Foreign Ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at London in December , 1947 , preceding the definite abandonment of a four-power policy in Germany , exposed clearly the underlying reasons for the break which was to come , and at the same time pointed the way to a possible return to collaboration . From the beginning of ? the occupation two antagonistic tendencies have characterized the policy of Russia and the Western powers . Russia has never ceased demanding the political unity of Germany . The Americans and British have tried again and again to get the Russians to accept economic unification . Political unity versus economic unity : this issue is roughly the boundary line between the two approaches to the problem of Germany . The Moscow conference deadlocked ostensibly on the questions of industry levels and reparations . But 578 throughout the seven endless weeks of discussion all the problems  --  political structure , demilitarization , economic unity , reparations  --  appeared inseparably mingled . However , Moscow began in an atmosphere of amiability : Vishinsky smiled , Molotov , unbent , the foreign correspondents were permitted to file their dispatches uncensored . But two days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine " of containing communism , by force if necessary , and the mood at Moscow changed . The dispute over reparations became stubborn and acrimonious . The Russians insisted on reparations taken from current German production in addition to expropriation of German property in the eastern zone . Marshall and Bevin refused to yield an inch on reparations and wrangled endlessly over the amounts each victor had taken already . The unwillingness of the Western Allies to bargain on the reparations issue doomed the conference . But perhaps it was doomed anyway by each side 's growing suspicions of the other 's ultimate aims . These suspicions dominated the London conference which followed . There the chief matters in dispute were the form and prerogatives of a provisional German government . All four powers favored  --  or pretended to favor  --  a politically unified Germany . But only in principle , and on terms that would secure the interests of each . Actually , as related above , the division of Germany had already begun and Potsdam had been scrapped . The London conference revealed the dangerous intention that lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , in particular , France wanted a loose federation , with large powers left to the constituent states ; Russia wanted a centralized Germany . But each side was already preparing to use Germany , even at the cost of strengthening it , to defeat the power policies of the other . When the conference began to go to pieces , Molotov tried a maneuver to rescue it , becoming suddenly aware that the end of four-power rule in Germany was imminent . He put forward a series of proposals for the creation of German administrative departments  --  finance , currency , trade , and so forth  --  as foreseen in the Pats-dam declaration , plus a plan for a consultative assembly in Berlin composed of representatives of the Lander , the democratic parties , and the trade unions . But the Western Ministers rejected this as a typical Russian ' move to win time and divide the Allies . And then unexpectedly , on the demand of General Marshall , the London conference adjourned sine die with a terse announcement that the Western powers , in view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Soviet delegates , reserved the right to proceed with the economic consolidation of their part of Germany  --  plus the Russian zone if Moscow chose to come along ; without it , if not . The break at London marked the real end of fourThe NATION power control in Germany and the real beginning of undisguised cold war . From diplomacy Moscow passed to counter-action . On March 20 , 1948 , Marshal Sokolovsky , after a bitter tirade against the Western powers for wrecking the four-power system , marched out of the room where the Council of Control was meeting . The stage was set for the blockade of Berlin , the air lift , and the suicidal competition for German favors . A S THE situation worsened , Germany became at once the principal bone of contention and the arbiter Of Europe . No one has characterized this development more incisively than Senator George G. Sadowski of Michigan . " It would truly appear , " he said , " that Germany has divided the Allies into four zones . Instead of the Big Four being strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans who in the long run will decide the fate of the Allies . " The total failure to carry out the purposes formulated at Potsdam must be clear to all readers of The Nation from the articles by ; ' Carolus " that have been appearing in this magazine over the past two years . No keener analyses have been printed by an American publication . Moscow 's reaction to the final collapse of Potsdam was to " put the squeeze " on the Western powers in Berlin . Although the Berlin blockade and the subsequent Allied air lift ostensibly resulted from a dispute over the use of a railway and over Russia 's claim that Allied currency was being smuggled into the Soviet zone , its fatal consequence was the creation of two entirely separate Germanys , each with its own currency and eventually with its own government . And both of the new German states have learned that the hostility between the two blocs gives them the opportunity to play a decisive part in European politics . The problem of Germany would appear hopeless but for certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Paris session of the U. N. Assembly in the autumn of 1948 , when the Berlin blockade dominated the thinking of all delegates , Foreign Minister Bramuglia of Argentina , at that time president of the Security Council and principal mediator between East and West , declared : " The difficulties have not been caused by the Russians . " The prevailing view in Paris was that the immediate differences leading to the blockade could probably have been conciliated if the Allies had not made up their minds to the creation of a West German state , a final blow to the Potsdam concept of political unity . To discuss those differences in the context of the whole German issue , as Russia demanded , would have forced the Western powers to reconsider their strategy , to return to the idea of unification , a peace treaty , and a withdrawal of the armies of occupation . By the fall of 1948 all of these alternatives had become unacceptable . Suspicion of Russia 's purposes , toDecember 16 , 1950 gether with the whole program of consolidating the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to permit a new attempt at conciliation ; at least until the Western alliance should be crystallized . , - 10R all these reasons , the initiative had to come from the Russians if new negotiations between Moscow and the West were to be attempted . Given the political situation existing in the United States and the temper of the country , the first move could not be made by Washington . The theory had been laid down that negotiations were possible only between equals ; that until the West was as well armed as the East there was no use discussing a settlement . On November 3 , in Moscow , Mr. Gromyko prOposed that the Big Four meet to consider Germany . Obviously this was the first question demanding negotiation ; the one which has been from the beginning the - focus - of the whole European conflict . Implied in Gromyko 's statement was at least some advance toward acceptance of the idea of federating the two Germanys . Sources close to the Russian embassy in Paris have intimated that the Kremlin demand for " - equality " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken literally ; the principle of equality invoked by the Foreign Ministers of the Eastern bloc when they met at Prague on October 22 might be interpreted to mean representation in proportion to population.579 To dismiss Russia 's proposal as just another obstructive maneuver is to ignore the fact that the Kremlin has never felt sure of the loyalty of East Germany and has not forgotten the lessons of the past . Stalin once told Benes that he " would not even trust a Communist Germany . " The Russians , like the French , have experienced more than one German invasion , and the horror of the summer of 1941 is still a vivid memory . The division of Germany into two states ; each with its own army , or security police , or whatever it may be called , can not please Moscow . The most immediate danger is offered by West Germany , inflamed by anti-Communist propaganda and coveting ' the fertile fields of the East ; but East Germany could be aroused by a call for the reconquest of the frontier provinces now incorporated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus in proposing a return to Potsdam , at least in the sense of restoring a policy of collaboration among the Big Four to prevent the rise of German military power , Russia is only serving its own interests . These interests are also those of the West . The specter of a remilitarized . Reich haunts every European Foreign Office . If the United States rejects a negotiated agreement with Moscow on the German issue , it will not only risk a - third world war , to be fought not on the borders of Asia but in the heart of Europe ; it will also risk fighting the war without dependable allies .                     