@@476569

WHEN American booksellers added up sales figures for the year 1949 they discovered that four out of the five best-selling titles of non-fiction ( excluding " Zoo " and Canasta books ) were religious titles . Each year since then religious books have climbed to the shelf of the ten best-sellers of fiction and non-fiction alike . Last year , topping them all , was the new Revised Standard Version of the Bible , whose million-copy first edition not only set a record for size but even so was n't big enough to go around . On February 22 of this year , The New York Herald Tribune 's best-seller list had as its four non-fiction leaders : A Man Called Peter , This I Believe , The Power of Positive Thinking , and the Revised Standard Version of the Bible . Twenty-five years ago the book world would have looked with incredulity at such a record . Professor Halford E. Luccock of Yale recently went so far as to say , in Publishers ' Weekly , that in the current interest in religious books we are witnessing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mood , and taste which have occurred in centuries , taking place not as changes in literary trends have usually occurred , over a generation or half a century , but telescoped into a very few years . " Literary trend or no , the phenomenon of religious books ranking high in best-seller lists does make people ask , Are we in for a revival of religion ? Not in my twenty-five years of religious-book publishing have I so often been asked as now , Who buys these books and why ? Before we answer these questions , let ustake a look at the figures for the sales of religious books as compared to the total output . The Department of Commerce figures for the years 1927 , 1937 , and 1947 afford a fair sampling . ( In using these figures , the nearest thousand will be given and the term " religious book " will also include philosophical books and Bibles ; otherwise fair comparisons are impossible . Both cloth and paper-bound books are included and a book is a book if it contains sixty-four pages or more . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year of Sinclair Lewis ' Elmer Gantry and Will Durant 's The Story of Philosophy , 21,045,000 copies of religious books were sold , or 9.6 per cent of the total sale of 219,276,000 copies of books of all classifications . In 1937 , a year made famous by Margaret Mitchell 's Gone with the Wind and Dale Carnegie 's How to Win Friends and Influence People , the sale of religious books had dropped to 12,523,000 copies or 6.5 per cent of the sale of all books of 197,259,000 . Came 1947 , when The Miracle of the Bells and Peace of Mind led off the best-sellers , and the total for religious books jumped to 42,543,000 , or 8.7 per cent of all titles , which totaled 487,216,000 . The 1947 religious-book volume was more than twice the 1927 volume and nearly three and a half times that of 1937 . Here is a table showing the relation of religious-book sales to total sales for all the years for which comparable figures are available . No tabulations were made during the second world war and those for 1947 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peak reached nine years after the close of World War I ; then a slumping off through the depression years ; and again , since 1935 , a gradual increase in religious-book sales as compared to the total output of hard-bound books ( with the percentage down somewhat in 1947 , as would be expected because of a vast distribution of technical books and G.1. textbooks ) . IF IT seems to you ? as it well may ? that these percentage figures indicate no very remarkable increase , you must remember that they do not include as religious books a great many books that carry a religious and inspirational message . For example , more clergymen probably read and quoted from the one-volume Arnold Toynbee , and from Lecomte du Noiiy 's Human Destiny , than from any two out-and-out religious books published during the same period . In fact , the Reverend Louie D. Newton , one-time president of the Southern Baptist Convention with eight million conservative constituents , went so far as to say in 1949 that Toynbee 's Study of History was " about the most religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no way of knowing how many of the 110,000 who bought a copy of Human Destiny during its first year of publication did so because it had been recommended by a clergyman ; there is no way of knowing how many of the 450,000 who received a copy from the Book-of-theMonth Club ? and found time to read it ? were convinced again , or for the first time , of some of the claims of religion . But certainly to a great many readers it was a religious book . What ; after all , is a religious book ? Technically speaking a religious book is produced by a religious writer , advertised and reviewed mainly in religious periodicals , and sold through religious book outlets to religious people . Would Peace of Mind be so classified by the U. S. Department of Commerce ? Surely it would n't by the book trade . For booksellers it is " non-fiction " or " general . " On the other hand . that Rabbi Liebman was a religious man and that he wrote the book for religious reasons , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countless readers for spiritual food , there can also be no doubt . Certainly it was the book 's attempt to bring orientation and spiritual equanimity ? which are concerns of religion ? that accounted for its sale within two years of 600,000 copies . Furthermore , the statistics of religious-book sales do not include novels ; and the large sale of many novels with avowed religious themes has been a striking phenomenon of the past decade . The year 1942 had three best-selling novels with such themes , The Song of Bernadette , The Robe , and The Keys of the Kingdom . The following year came The Apostle , the second volume in the Sholem Asch trilogy on Jesus , Paul , and Mary . Since then , we have seen the publication of such other successes as The Miracle of the Bells ; The Bishop 's Mantle ; The Big Fisherman ; The Razor 's Edge ; Cry , the Beloved Country ; and Henry Morton Robinson 's The Cardinal , which ( in both cloth and paper editions ) sold well beyond a total of half a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacular in sales has been The Robe by Lloyd Douglas . Published in 1942 , it was on the best-seller lists for thirty-two months , an all-time record For fiction . For a while this novel of the time of Christ was being printed in lots of 50,000 copies , with presses running continuously ; its total sale is now well over two million copies and its estimated reading public more than ten million . THESE people knew nothing about the discouraging first efforts of Lloyd Douglas in getting a novel accepted for publication . This clergyman-author wrote to me in 1928 , shortly after his book Those Disturbing Aliracles was published , to say that this book , like his earlier religious books , did n't seem to sell much beyond his own cono- ffreation and circle of ministerial friends ; he wondered if he could get his religious message to a wider group if he put it in fictional form . What did I think ? Mindful of the sales record made by another preacher , Henry van Dyke , who had had the same idea in writing The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get to work . In due course his fiction effort , entitled Thirsty Fish , came in for a reading . It was returned for revisions and again submitted . This time two of my colleagues also read it and we agreed it was not suitable for publication . A second New York publisher also declined it . Finally it was accepted for publication by William Colby , a Chicago editor astute enough to see its possibilities and patient enough to get it properly reworked . The title was changed to Magnificent Obsession and Lloyd Douglas soon found his larger " congregation " of readers ? and also kept his publisher 's head above water during the depression years . That book was followed by Green Light ; then came The Robe and , in 1948 , The Big Fisherman . In each of his novels , Lloyd Douglas exemplified in terms of characterization the struggle to find meaning in life . Whether or not his books will be lasting literature , he has become one of the best-known writers of his generation . In a list of best-selling authors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of number of books and number of times each book appeared on best-seller lists , he ranked fourth , and that rating was made before The Big Fisherman was published ( top of the 1948 fiction list and next to top in 1949 ) . Were such a study made now he would probably move up to second place , with Winston Churchill ( the American novelist , not the English statesman ) first . The best of recent novels " with a purpose " is probably Alan Pawn 's Cry , the Beloved Country . The Associated Press reviewer , William G. Rogers , writing early in 1950 about the previous year 's undistinguished output of fiction , urged readers to go back to Paton 's 1948 novel . Steadily , without the help of a book club or a big promotion campaign , this beautiful book has worked its way past the - quarter of a million mark . Not only fiction but juveniles as well have reflected the public 's interest in religion . One God , by Florence Mary Fitch , Small Rain , illustrated by Elizabeth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , edited by Louise Raymond , are examples . Several able illustrators have done versions of the life of Jesus and such a definitely religious book as Little Lost Lamb by Margaret Wise Brown has won its way at all age levels . S TILL another sign of the times which does not show in the statistics is the considerable number of writers . who , after establishing their reputations with nonreligious books , have turned to dealing with religious themes . Dorothy Sayers has movedaway from mystery stories to write religious essays and dramatizations of the life of Christ and of the formulation of the Nicene Creed . All of Aldous Huxley 's books for fifteen years ? especially The Perennial Philosophy ? show how profoundly the basic assumptions of religion have affected Huxley 's living and writing . To a greater or less degree this shift in emphasis has been manifest in the work of Evelyn Waugh , C. S. Lewis , T. S. Eliot , W. H. Hudson , Vincent Sheean , and Thomas Sugrue . Two sharply contrasting writers , Whittaker Chambers and Elizabeth Gray Vining , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Crown Prince are surely animated by a religious spirit . Especially noteworthy are the religious books of Gerald Heard , who turned from scientific reporting and anthropological writing in 1940 to publish The Creed of Christ . His genius consists not only in a vast erudition ? H. G. Wells once said that Heard 's mind was the best informed of this generation ? but also in his spiritual synthesis of modern knowledge . He correlates the findings of the scientists , the psychologists , and the mystics . One of the most impressive signs of the current boom is the increasing demand for the so-called inspirational book . Seventeen years ago when I contracted with Dr. Emmet Fox to publish The Sermon on the Mount , he prophesied that itiwould sell a million copies . I smiled indulgently , but soon that smile will happily be on the other side of my face . Books such as this never get on best-seller lists , but they move out in a steady stream from bindery to bookstore to bedside table . Or take the best-selling book ever published by Alfred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Gibran . Another " inspirational " book , it is a stock item checked regularly by that firm 's travelers ; no store would be without it . it is the joy of a publisher 's heart . making up for the loss on many a new novel . It is the perennial found most frequently , perhaps , in a bookstore 's religious book department . Especially noteworthy is the growing interest in sermons . / have often told aspiring authors that sermons are to be heard , not read ? unless , perhaps , to prime some other preacher 's pump . But Peter Marshall 's book of sermons , Mr. Jones , Meet the Master , was listed among the best-sellers for many months . More than a hundred and fifty thousand of the laity have bought it . And , confusion worse confounded , this record breaks another publishing axiom ? that posthumous books are hard to sell ; Dr. Marshall died more than a year before the book was published . A current best-seller is Mrs. Marshall 's biography of her husband , A Man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , plus additional material taken from his sermons . A 1942 best-seller was Harry Emerson Fosdick 's On Being a Real Person and in 1949 his book , The Man from Nazareth , was distributed by the Book-of-the-Month Club . Another established religious book author , E. Stanley Jones , published three volumes of daily devotions during the forties , one of which , A bundant Living , has sold three-quarters of a million copies . The growing interest in devotional books has brought forth dozens of books , one of the best being Thomas Kelly 's A Testament of Devotion . The wide distribution of the books of another Quaker , Elton Trueblood , has made him more often quoted than any other contemporary religious leader , " according to the Saturday Review . And the nation 's leading theologian , Reinhold Niebuhr , could know that his Gifford Lectures on The Nature and Destiny of Man were being read by university presidents as well as Main Street clergymen . T HEOLOGY , once the queen of the sciences , is coming back into vogue , with non-churchmen even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for these has just been published by Daniel Williams , What Present-Day Theologians are Thinking . Some of the most popular theological writing appears in The Interpreter 's Bible . This million-dollar project is edited by George A. Buttrick and will consist of twelve volumes , of which four have already appeared . This commentary is written largely by clergymen who are , theologically speaking , not so far to the right as some of the seminary professors . In the current swing of the theological pendulum to the right , vast numbers of inquiring minds are left inquiring . " Neo-orthodoxy " has tried to find authority in the Bible ? not the Bible of the Fundamentalists , to be sure , but the one revelation of God . This Biblical theology is not likely to redeem the masses , despite the brilliance of Reinhold Niebuhr and his neo-Barthians . Their two saints , Augustine and Calvin , lived as now in times of vast revolutionary changes when evil seemed to be a lap or two ahead of good , leaving fallen man far , far away from God . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? be it ever so subtle , is not likely to win people 's allegiance . Other Protestants seek an authority in a revived church and a spate of books on Ecumenicity shows eager and hopeful minds looking for union beyond denominational differences . In the meantime people go to church not only for theological or authoritarian reasons but also because with others in corporate worship they find spiritual refreshment . They find it even in what Gerald Heard calls " ad hoc " churches like Alcoholics Anonymous . In fact the AAs comprise the most exciting modern movement in religion . After eighteen years they have 150.000 members in 4,500 groups in the United States and forty-one other countries . Their book , Alcoholics Anonymous , tells the story of the beginning and early history of the movement and is the best modern testimony I know of the power of religion to save sinners . Ever since Noah got drunk men and women have been dying of alcoholism . Now , in our quarter of the century , religion , medicine , and psychology have together diagnosed the disease and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been deeply moved by a religious experience . For them God is not primarily a theological concept but a power in time of need . A MONG the most popular authors of the past few years have been four Roman Catholics : Thomas Merton , the late Fulton Oursler , Bishop Fulton J. Sheen , and Henry Morton Robinson ? each with books whose primary appeal is to Roman Catholics or at least readers interested in Roman Catholicism . Here is an interesting phenomenon , worthy of careful examination . Thomas Merton joined the Roman Catholic Church in November , 1938 . Ten years later the story of his spiritual quest was headed for best sellerdom . In fact , during Lent of 1949 The Seven Storey Mountain was selling at the rate of 2,000 copies a day with over 150,000 copies in print . This year , the sequel , The Sign of Jonas , describing his life in the monastery and his ordination as priest , is also climbing the best-seller lists . Why have these autobiographies of a young intellectual who joined the Trappists brought paradoxical fame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because people are curious to know why men become monks ? particularly in one of the most austere orders ? Or are Merton 's readers riding a groundswell of world-weariness and looking for a safe place to beach their boats ? Or just expressing a normal interest in well-written autobiography ? Actually Merton 's vocation may be that of the successful writer rather than the anonymous contemplative ; part of the appeal of these books lies in the candid way he projects this inner conflict onto their pages . " That Many readers should regard the Trappist answer as the true and only answer of spirituality is the danger and possible demerit of the book , " wrote another convert to Roman Catholicism of The Seven Storey Mountain , adding wryly , " Trappists should keep silent . " But there is no dodging the fact that Merton has found a way of life which has meaning for him and in speaking with profound assurance is able to draw to his table countless thousands of the hungry ones . And who is not hungry at times ? Even envious of a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Many commentators have tried to account for the big boom in sales for this kind of book , " Catholic culture in the United States , " wrote the Reverend Harold C. Gardiner , S.J. , literary editor of the Jesuit weekly America , " is showing every year more unmistakable signs of flowing over into creative literature . " And Michael Williams , founder and for many years editor of that liberal Catholic journal , Commonweal , commented , " Catholicism in the United States has become perhaps the paramount factor in the worldwide work and influence of Catholic Christianity . . . . Catholic literature has now entered a veritable new epoch of significance and importance . " T His big boost in the distribution of Roman Catholic books is worthy of further comment . Frederic G. Melcher , editor of Publishers ' Weekly , recalls that thirty-five years ago , when he was manager of W. K. Stewart 's bookstore in Indianapolis , hardly a Roman Catholic hook to laymen was sold , even though religious books were featured . " I could n't sell a Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has done with their expensive two-volume set ! " Fifteen years ago the late Eugene F. Saxton , a leading trade-book editor of his time , could say that there was little demand for Roman Catholic books except Missals and devotional books . In fact Roman Catholic books were then thought of as little black-bound books with gold edges . But not now Roman Catholic books are printed and bound , packaged and promoted , as any trade book would be . They are better written , better edited , and often published by the big trade houses . More Catholic bookstores are in business and the steadily increasing number of religious book departments in general bookstores and department stores has helped the cause of Roman Catholic literature . So have five book clubs with Roman Catholic specialties . Most important , the Roman Catholic schools have been steadily adding to the stream of book-minded people not averse to paying three dollars for a religious book . Thus an increasingly literate and sophisticated laity has responded to books on the ancient faith when published in modern style and format . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an indication of a swing to Rome . But while the statistics of the Catholic Directory do show a year-byyear increase in new members from outside the fold , these figures are exceeded , according to Protestant statistics , by those of converts to Protestantism . Statistics of church membership can never gauge spirituality but it is evident that membership in all Christian churches is growing at a faster rate in the United States than the over-all population . This growth , coupled with the steady increase in the number of those graduating from school and college , naturally widens the market for religious books in all categories . One by-product of best-selling Roman Catholic books has been an increasing consciousness on the part of American Roman Catholics of their place in the sun . So much so that another best-seller of 1949-50 , Paul Blanshard 's American Freedom and Catholic Power , appeared to many Roman Catholics like a dark cloud along the horizon . Although Blanshard , a non-Catholic , denied that he was discussing Roman Catholicism as a religion , and insisted that he was treating it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused by Roman Catholic reviewers of fomenting prejudice . The very controversy his book aroused stimulated its sale , in spite of the fact that the power which Blanshard discussed was strong enough to keep the book from being advertised in some papers and necessitated its being sold only from under the counters of some stores . And now Blanshard has been answered by James M. O'Neill while another writer , the late Thomas Sugrue , in his A Catholic Speaks His Mind , has given a word of wisdom to all religionists , evincing more concern for the inside than the outside of the ecclesiastical cup . A LTOGETHER , one can hardly take a long and careful look at the record of the book industry during the past twenty-five years and gainsay a growth in religious concern throughout the nation . To what shall we attribute this ? Ordinarily it is attributed to fear and frustration ? the fear of war , and the frustration that comes from a sense of individual helplessness before the massive and arbitrary forces that seem to many people to rule their lives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , finding that the science which had seemed to offer them a material world of all good things could also release hell on earth , have lost their former faith in science , and now look elsewhere for an altar . Their search may not take them as far as a church and its clergyman , but they can browse in a bookstore without embarrassment or buy a religious book without making a public confession of faith . In recent years , furthermore , science has affected faith in another way . Following Darwin , many scientists began to think of the paraphernalia of religion as outdated . But during the past twenty-five years some of the leading scientists have been writing books that show they find it intellectually possible to believe both in Galileo and God . Certain scientists who have also been philosophers , like Jeans , Eddington . Whitehead , Milliken , and du Noiiy , have published new affirmations of belief in the spiritual nature of the universe . And this from the camp of the astronomers and physicists , whence men had once marched out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them are still marching as before , and naturalistic positivism as a philosophy is still reputable in the universities . Nevertheless those young people who have a natural bent toward religion need no longer feel that their studies lead them inevitably toward agnosticism . And as the intellectual climate changes , the faith and practice of the believer again can find a place in the sun . Likewise , psychology in the past quarter of a century has helped the cause of religion . Freud , who had challenged religion , was in turn challenged by his pupil Carl Jung . This Zurich psychologist , writing in 1933 on Modern Man in Search of a Soul , gave now oft-quoted testimony that the chief problem of all persons over thirty-five who came to him for psychological help was that of finding a religious outlook on life . At about the same time an industrial psychologist , Henry C. Link , took a long look at the failures and frailties of God-forsaking man and prophesied a return to religion . Dr. Link discovered , as did Fene/on more than two centuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While most psychiatrists acknowledge the importance of religion it is likely that the majority of them still regard it as a therapy . " If you can believe in God , fine . " they say . " If you can have a religious experience , fine . Do n't concern yourself as to whether it is real or not ? it will help you . " Yet any preacher worth his psychological salt these days has a book on counseling , and he may join one of the latest of book clubs , the Pastoral Psychology Book Club . Peace of Mind climbed to best-sellerdom because of this growing feeling that religion must have valid psychological insights . So did Norman Vincent Peale 's A Guide to Confident Living , and when this Fifth Avenue preacher applied psychological insights to the solving of personal problems , many thousands were interested , bought his book , and pondered . Or were they already pondering and thus felt that the book voiced their own conclusion ? A publisher seldom knows whether an author is speaking ahead of his time or sensing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thought . At any rate , during my twenty-five years of religious-book publishing I have observed that both scientists and psychologists increasingly reflect the public 's renewed interest in religion and add to it by the books they are inspired to write . I have seen religion again become a respectable field of inquiry , even though the agnostic may still point to crudities in the faith and practice of some believers . THERE is a further reason , I think , for this renewed interest in religion , beyond fear and frustration and beyond this new intellectual frame of reference . It results from the " one-world " consciousness that our century is moving into so rapidly . We are aware now , as mankind never before has been , of our close proximity to other races and religions . We are learning from them and absorbing some of their faith . The Hindus and the Moslems and the Buddhists are viewed with lessening antagonism and heightening appreciation , and their saints and seers are read for more than " comparative " interest . This broadening horizon makes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong creedal fence about itself . Two results can be observed . Either the fence is strengthened ? there is a recrudescence of creedal affirmation ? or else the gates are opened and the field expanded to absorb the new world view . In its growth the Christian church has often thus adapted itself to new cultural patterns . Perhaps it will in our century . But in the meantime many who are seeking a religious faith are unable to find it in institutional churches , and therefore turn to books that speak to their condition . They are , of course , small in number when compared to MAGAZINE the millions that are satisfied with dogmatic religion , but they are nevertheless a growing group of literate men and women who want a faith more commensurate with this new world view . The shrinking globe has also brought us nearer to some of the great religious leaders of our day . The response of Americans to Gandhi in India and Schweitzer in Africa has been astounding in view of our presumed absorption in material things . When Albert Schweitzer visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press and public alike ? not as a tired , disheveled missionary to Africa but as one of today 's truly great men with a vital message for a tired , disheveled world . His own books , biographies of him , and anthologies of his work have been for sale everywhere . In Schweitzer as in Gandhi , the world was sensing spirituality at its best and paying for the privilege of participating in it through the printed page . " Ours is a generation , " wrote J. Donald Adams in The Shape of Books to Come , " that is surfeited with facts and starved for vision . " Writers like Dr. Schweitzer bridge the gap between facts and vision . That their books are being read is a highly encouraging fact . A religious editor who compiled an anthology of proverbs more than three hundred years before the Christian era also had something to say on this same subject . One parable he copied down reminded him of the time when his ancestors had been driven out of Jerusalem to be the displaced persons of their day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote , " the people perish . "                     