@@487611

- MANKIND at the present time is faced by dangers to the whole species so great that the avoidance of them- ought to be the common aim of all the powers . The facts are - known to everybody who chooses to know them , but for reasons of propaganda they are not adequately emphasized on either side of the Iron Curtain . It is true that they have been stated in Western countries but not in such a manner as to influence poliCy . They have been stated more clearly and forcibly in America than in any , other country , but they do not seem to have made any impact upon the average Congressman or the average American voter . The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists , month by month since Hiroshima , has published detailed and reasoned warnings , but this journal has a very small circulation since it appeals only to those who wish to know rather than to shout . It is true that some influential people who are not scientists have become aware of the situation brought about by the new methods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents what is most intelligent in big business , has said at the end of an irrefutable piece of reasoning , " In short , even if we defeated Russia  --  communism would win . " * The supreme fact that governments can not bring themselves to face is that In an article Peace Must Be Pursued , U. S. News and World Report , Marcia 18 , 1954. their aims can no longer be achieved by . war . This applies equally to Communist and anti-Communist powers . Perhaps Mr. Weir may be right in saying that if the United States were victorious in a great war communism would still win , but it should be added that there is no probability of anybodybeing victorious . Consider what is likely to happen in the first week of a world war . New York , Washington , London , and Moscow will probably be wiped out . A great deal of the Caucasus oil will be set a-blaze , and communications will be disrupted both in Russia and in Western Europe . Such parts of the populations as survive the bombs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anarchic violence . All great states will disintegrate , as Rome disintegrated in the fifth cmtury . Communism and modern capitalism alike will disappear . The United States , Western Europe , Russia , and China will all suffer catastrophically , and nothing will emerge that any of these governments desire , WHY is it that although this is obvious to anyone who takes even a- little trouble to study the situation , governments and public alike continue to talk and think in terms of war ? Among- the Western powers this is largely due to the fact that any talk about the futility of war sounds like defeatism and may be regarded as an argument for appeasement . I suppose that the same considerations apply to the politically active part of the population of the Communist countries It seems , on both sides , as if the only alternative to war were abject surrender . There is , however , another alternative . It is that both sides should recognize , and should be known to rec -- ognize sincerely , that war has become futile . Neither side alone can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so gives an impression of weakness . It is here that neutrals can , if they will , save both camps from destruction . Neutrals have two advantages over the powers in either camp . The first advantage is that they can urge the destructiveness and futility of war without incurring the odium of seeming to advocate cowardly submission. , The second . advantage is that they can speak to governments on both sides without being thought to be actuated merely by bias . This is especially important as regards Communist countries , for in them public discussion and controversy play no part . While relations between East and West remain as strained as they are at present nothing that the Western democracies can say to Russia or China has any weight if it is an appeal toreason rather than to force . Neutral governments , on the contrary , can speak in identical terms , to both Communist and non-Communist powers , and can - avoid the suspicion that they are concerned to promote the . success of either side . - If I belonged to one of the neutral countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other neutral government that might be willing to listen , to take very active steps to , - persuade both sides simultaneously to abandon . the threat of war as an instrument of policy . The first step should be to appoint a commission to investigate the probable effects upon neutrals of a world war I should hope that a number of neutrals would join in this , but the work could be . done by any one or two of them  --  for example , by India and Sweden , jointly or separately . Nobody can doubt that a world war would bring great hardships to neutrals , perhaps as great as those which would be suffered by belligerents . It would therefore be a rational act from a traditional a point of view to investigate these possible hardships and to inquire whether they could be averted or mitigated by anything except the prevention of world war . I should hope that a commission , if appointed , would find that it could not , confine its inquiries to the effects of war upon neutrals , I believe that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with those of potential belligerents , and that it would be -- forced into some kind of forecast of the course of war if one took place . I do not mean that the neutrals should predict the yictory of this side or that . I believe that a victory for either side is out of the question , and I think this would be evident to any intelligent neutral not blinded by the passions which are producing the East-West tension . The commission should preserve a most meticulous impartiality . Its inquiries should be technical and dispassionate . Its members should be few and should be eminent in various relevant directions . There would have to be military , naval , and air experts , a first-class nuclear phySicist , ea bacteriologist , - an economist , and a man of experience in international politics . A body so composed could , I ? am convinced , draw up- a report which would ma ' e the futility of world war undeniable by anybody who studied it . The report should be presented to all governments likely to - be belligerents in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their opinion of the report . ' If they concurred in its findings-7-and it would surely be very difficult for them to do otherwise  --  the powers on .. each side would be so informed . I- do not believe that at the present moment either side desires a great war ; Malenkov has expressed the opinion that it would be a disaster . But on each side there is a suspicion that the other side is not sincere . Neither Russia nor the United States is convinced that the other will not start aggressive war at any moment . It is this mutual suspicion which must be allayed if war is not to break out sooner or later through some rashness or some inadvertence . I think that this mutual suspicion could be very much diminished if both sides simultaneously expressed agreement with the findings of the neutral commission . IT MAY be feared that neutral governments will shrink from a task which is likely to offend the most powerful nations of the world , for there is one mat- ' ter-on which all the powerful nations appear to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against morality and decency . For this reason any neutral nation undertaking such a task will need courage . But courage is needed in order to stay alive . Passive poltroonery leads straight to death . Courage for war is common to the greater part of mankind . Is it utopian to hope that some neutral nation or nations may - show a much smaller degree of courage in the interests of peace ? lhave mentioned two nations which 1 think might possibly be induced to act in the sense that I have been advocating . They are Sweden ' and India . Neither is perhaps wholly neutral. , Sweden 's - sympathies are Western and India 's sympathies are Eastern ; but both are legally neutral , and in cooperation they might display a genuine impartiality . I have encountered among Swedes a sentiment which , though irrational , is not unnatural Sweden has not been at war since 1814 , and there are not a few in Sweden Who have a sort of shame in the thought that they have had no shire in The NATION the arduous heroism of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a work - for peace as the suggested commission could perform , it would appear at once in the very forefront of heroism , and of a heroism that would be constructive , non-violent , and in the service of humanity as a whole . I do not see that national self-respect could demand anything better . The government of India , while not strictly pacifist , is profoundly affected by the doctrine of non-violence as preached by Mahatma Gandhi . To show to the world convincingly that war will not only be horrible and cruel and destructive but will also be futile from a governmental point of view would be a fitting tribute to the memory of Gandhi and one which would enhance the moral stature of India among the nations . The scheme which I have been proposing , even if completely successful , R4113 ' THE Moscow citizen , opening his Pi avda of November 29 , must have rubbed his eyes : here , on the foreign-news page , were two columns devoted to ? The National Holiday of the Peoples of Yugoslavia ' ' Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few months ago , under the headline " Statement by Tito , President of Yugoslavia , " Pravda had reported Tito as saying in effect that Yugoslavia did not wish to play into the hands of people anxious to increase international tension and that it had no intention of joining the Atlantic Pact , Tito also welcomed the increasingly " normal " Soviet-Yugoslav relations . But the November 29 article , which was writtenby a well-known Soviet war correspondent named Kraminov , went far beyond politely recording an official Yugoslav statement . The author recalled with warm emotion the happy days when Russia and Yugoslavia loved each other deeply and was sure that under the surface this feeling was still alive . Speaking would be only a first step . If each side were convinced that the other side realized the uselessness of war from the point of view of its own aims and ambitions , it would become possible to negotiate with some hope of reaching-solutions . I do not venture to suggest what these solutions should be . There are problems which , in the present temper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these is the unification of Germany . But no problem is insoluble where there is mutual goodwill and where concessions are not re- garded by one side as a triumph and by the other as a disgrace . The truth is so plain and simple that it seems as if governments must in time become aware of it . the Communist and non-Communist worlds can live together or die together . There is no other possibility . When both sides realize this , it may be hoped that they will choose to live rather than die . of the liberation of Yugoslavia from the Germans eleven years ago , he stressed the heroic struggle of the Partisans and referred with moderation to the aid given them by the Soviet forces . The appearance of this story in Pravda is of greater significance than might appear to the uninitiated . The account of events in 1943 and 1944 was in agreement by and large with the official Yugoslav contention that the country was mainly liberated by the Yugoslays themselves , even if cthe intervention of the Red Army was of decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion that the Red Army was an " auxiliary force , " and not the other way- round , was calculated to be a sop to Yugoslav pride . As to what happened later , Kraminov was discretion personified . Without going into any details . he simply said that relations between the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia suddenly became " unfriendly . " And in recent years this unfriendliness had " played into the hands of the enemies of both countries  --  those who hoped to exploit the situation with a view to pursuing their policy from positions of strength against the Soviet Union and the People 's Democracies and those who wanted to weaken and isolate Yugoslavia . " With respect to the recent overtures made by the Soviet Union toward " normalizing " Soviet-Yugoslav relations , Kraminov - commented on the favorable response which these offers had met from the Yugoslav government and continued : " Trade between the two countries is now being developed , and there is a marked extension of cultural con- tacts . The two governments agree that friendly relations must be based on equal rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What followed , Kraminov said , was written more in sorrow than in anger . On November 13 the Soviet government proposed a conference of all European countries with a view to establishing a system of collective security . The peace-loving peoples of Europe warmly approved of this proposal , and " a number of European governments accepted . " But unfortunately not Yugoslavia . While the Yugoslav government " welcomed and supported the idea of the conference " and considered that it would " contribute greatly to the diminution of international tension , " it felt that since numerous European countries had refused - the Soviet invitation , it might be best to postpone the conference till some later date . At this point the Pravda article , having pieviously sunk all past differences , changed its tone and insisted that to ' postpone the all-European conference till after the ratification of German rearmament would " make such a conference aimless . " The article did not mention Tito or any other Yugoslav leader . It was calculated to appeal especially to ex-Partisans , who are prominnt in the Yugoslav Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were " Cominformist " in 1948 when the break with Russia occurred and have continued to be so on the quiet . Even Serb peasants have a feeling of anti-German Slav solidarity and a soft spot for Russia . There is no doubt that the Kremlin is doing its best  --  and with considerable success  --  to strengthen the bonds ber tween Russia and all other Slav peoples , who may not love Russia very much but who do not love Germany at all . Is the ultimate object of its overtures a Soviet-Yugoslav military alliance ? 