@@476599

wHAT explains the spectacular contrast between continental Europe 's rapid recovery up to 1951 and her all-butcomplete economic stagnation since then ? In al l the discussions of Europe 's economic plight , in this country or abroad , this is the one question that no one ever seems to ask . Yet it is the key to an effective policy of American aid , and it should be the central question now that a new Administration is engaged in re-thinking our entire foreign policy . The question is particularly pressing because our economic policy so far , ever since the end of ' World War II , has been based upon exactly the opposite expectation : that European recovery to prewar levels would be extremely difficult , but that further growth would be easy , once the prewar standards had been restored . Most of the criticism of the Marshall Plan , for instance , centered on the projected speed of recovery . Most European and many American economists felt it was quite unrealistic to expect that Europe would recover twice as fast after World War II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , while massive , was not going to be much larger than the total of American and British loans to continental Europe in the early twenties . And destruction was immeasurably greater . But that economic growth would be rapid , once recovery had been achieved , nobody seemed to doubt . At that , even the most enthusiastic supporter of the Marshall Plan and ECA might have despaired of reaching the recovery goals if he had expected , back in 1947 , that Russia 's satellites in Eastern Europe would be forbidden by their Master to join in the effort . Yet although the ban deprived Western Europe in one blow of her best markets and herlargest and cheapest sources of foodstuffs , the recovery goals of the Marshall Plan were reached ahead of schedule . By the spring of 1951 ? just three years after ECA had got under way ? per capita production and consumption in Marshall Plan Europe had increased by more than one-third and had reached the levels of 1938 . Only western Germany took a little longer ? until 1952 ; but German recovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low point that industrial production had to he more than doubled to reach prewar dimensions . These were totally unprecedented rates of recovery . And although they could not have been achieved without the dollars of the Marshall Plan ? let alone the stimulus of hope , courage , and leadership that America provided ? they were much too spectacular to be attributed to American aid alone . Indeed , the recovery testified to so much European energy , resourcefulness , and hard work as to dispose , once and for all , of the slogan that " Europe is finished . " But this has made all the more puzzling the failure of the automatic growth which was expected to follow . The European economy has been , during these past two years , in " complete stagnation " ; and this , the term used by the eminent government-appointed Europeans who make up the UN 's Economic Commission for Europe , is euphemism . Actually , almost every European country has barely been able to avoid sliding backward . Altogether , what has happened to the European economy during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singular and baffling phenomena in all economic history : country after country moving forward at unprecedented speed until it had restored prewar per capita production ? and then stopping as suddenly as if it had run into a brick wall . AN D this is exactly what has happened , ex- cept that the wall is in the imagination and the emotions and thus , while invisible , is much harder to break through . For forty years Europe has been looking backward ? toward the Golden Age of " prewar . " For forty years the word " prewar " has expressed the summit of human aspiration and achievement , especially in the economic sphere . Indeed no European under fifty-five can remember a time when " prewar " was not the goal and the standard . This made recovery efforts easy ; for recovery is restoration ? a movement toward prewar conditions . But if the goal lies in the past rather than in the future , new growth is hard to work for and even hard to imagine . Some months ago I sat down with a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States to study the American economy . Most of the group were boys who had just graduated from college ? boys so young as to remember World War II only as a childhood experience . Yet as they talked about " prewar " as the goal for this , the measurement for that , the ideal for something else , it suddenly dawned on me that " prewar " did not mean for these youngsters " before World War II . " It meant " before World War I " ? the Golden Age of 1913 . Whenever anything was suggested that did not seem to head toward this 1913 goal , these young men immediately stiffened and became suspicious . This tendency to look backward shows in the workers ' tenements that arc being built in Paris today , which copy the horrible cold-water flats of 1900 to the point of having one toilet for six or eight apartments . It shows in the rebuilding of Germany 's most thoroughly destroyed city , Cologne . In the wasteland around the Cathedral new office buildings arc going up everywhere ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these brand new buildings are set on the old street lines , so that the maze of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century streets is faithfully preserved ? streets which are too narrow to permit automobiles to pass , streets which run straight for fifty yards and then veer off at a ninety-degree angle , streets so dark as to deprive the new buildings of light and air . Yet the alderman MAGAZINE who showed me around did not seem to understand that anything else could be done . " Obviously we have to try to restore prewar conditions as much as we can , " he said . Lest any of us feel superior , let us recall our own experience . We too , in this country , have known something like a prewar fixation : its name was " 1929 . " For ten depression years , " 1929 " was our utopia , the restoration of which seemed the sum of our economic possibilities and hopes . This paralyzed our vision and our ability to move forward , very much as Europe 's prewar aim paralyzes the Europeans . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a more restrictive cartel system than any that Europe has known . Our economists told us that ours was a " mature economy , " a euphemism for a stagnant economy . Our population forecasters predicted a sedately growing , if not a static , population ? and we built our consolidated high schools on the basis of their forecasts , to our present chagrin . Many a business man refused to make any capital investment , no matter how attractive , if it would enlarge capacity beyond the dimensions of 1929 . If you are disposed to blame the Europeans for the fondness with which they look backward , recall our own mood in the nineteen-thirties ; and then remember that Europe has not endured a mere decade of hard times , but forty years of war , revolution , tyranny , and destruction . Yet the prewar fixation of continental Europe , though quite understandable , is a major threat to the stability and defense of this country and of the Western world . The main goal of American economic policy toward Europe must be to help overcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backward , and to tap for new economic growth the tremendous energy that produced European restoration ; in short , to help make Europe capable of breaking through the invisible wall . To this end , three things must be done : First , there must be some tangible assurance that money will maintain reasonable purchasing power . Second , mass distribution must take the place of class distribution . It must become recognized that selling is not an ignoble activity ; indeed , that it is the duty of a business man to create and expand his market . And fiscal policy must encourage consumption instead of throttling it as it does today in major European countries . And third , a most radical change is needed in the method of recruiting management . Europe suffers from a desperate shortage of management personnel ? one might even say a desperate shortage of management itself as we know the term . And the major cause of this shortage is the absence of opportunities to rise from the ranks ; in short , the class structure of European industry and business . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and why they are vitally important . EVERYBODY knows that successive waves of inflation have wiped out savings and capital investments in many conti-nental countries , if not in most . An investment of $1,000 made in 1913 in the local currency would have disappeared altogether in Germany and Austria by now ; would have shrunk to $30 in Italy and to $60 in France . That this has virtually destroyed the old European middle class and in turn has created social tensions is also familiar to all of us . But very few people in this country realize the tremendous psychological effect which the destruction of faith in money has had on the entire economy and on its ability to expand . In the first place , almost everyone with any money at all tries to avoid investing it in his own country . How many billions of European refugee capital there are in this country , in Canada , in Tangiers , in Argentina , in Panama , and in a dozen other overseas hiding places , nobody tries even to estimate . But the amount of gold buried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or sewn into the mattress by French shopkeepers and housewives has been figured to be at least Four billion dollars ? some estimates run even higher . This is quite a bit more than all the American aid France has received under the Marshall Plan . Had this gold been put into productive investments , France would not have needed any foreign aid to recover . Altoget ? er continental Europe simply will not produce the capital she needs for economic expansion unless her people regain confidence in the future purchasing power of the currency . The lack of faith in money explains something else , too : why the investments actuallymade in Europe today are so often unproductive . Instead of putting his capital into research or into new machinery ? investments which would take ten or fifteen years to pay off ? the European is likely to go in for " flyers " in the hope of making a quick killing of one hundred or two hundred per cent in a year or two . As a result , all over Europe there is a kind of pseudo-prosperity. an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are likely to be salted away in a Venezuelan holding company or in Canadian gold mining stock . Of all the changes in European economic habits during the past forty-years this is probably the most pronounced ; for nineteenth-century Europe owed much of its economic strength to its habit of preferring solid , longterm investment in productive assets to speculative flutters . It is also a very harmful change . For what . Europe needs , in order to be able to expand , is the kind of investment that will not show spectacular results overnight ? investment in research , in new processes , in new machinery , in new products and new distributive systems . And the lack of faith in money also accentuates the European tendency to look backward . For one of the things that make " prewar " such a magic term is precisely that before World War I money was money . In 1913 one could know what to expect to get for it . As a result , most Europeans today ? even people who are much too young to remember I 938 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods which did not exist in prewar days are unwelcome because nobody can figure out whether they are being offered at reasonable prices or not . A Belgian department store manager , for instance , told me last - winter that he found electric refrigerators almost impossible to sell . People really wanted them , he said , but shied away because they could n't ' figure out whether the present price would have been cheap or dear when prices were " normal . " And lie added a shrewd observation : Our people are very much like the American tourist who has to convert European prices into dollars and cents to find out whether he would pay more back home . ' Only our ' back home ' is 1913 . " Unless the Europeans regain faith in the future purchasing power of their money , the European economy can not obtain the capital it needs , the capital will not be invested productively , and Europeans will not be able to look ahead and move ahead . AN AMERICAN visitor to Italy would probably be astonished to find that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager even though the domestic market takes 70 per cent of their product . But this fact is merely characteristic of the prevailing continental European attitude toward the marketing and distribution of goods . This attitude reflects the still-prevailing belief that the " middleman " is unproductive and parasitic . But it reflects , too , something more fundamental ? the belief that the market is God-given and immutable , both in total size and in composition . God apparently created a luxury market , a peasant market , a worker market , and so on ? each of a definite size and incapable of expansion , each with the goods proper to it and each with needs , wants , and desires fixed once and for all . Actually the market which the average European business man considers to be God-given is the market of 1913 . And the very fact that he is dominated by this idea makes it virtually impossible for him to look forward . In addition , there are several European countries ? especially France and Italy ? in which the tax system blocks the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living , and paralyzes effective methods of distribution . For it is based on a series of taxes on distribution , amounting in their total to 50 or 60 or 70 per cent of the retail price of manufactured goods . Since the taxes are normally levied every time the goods change hands ? from the raw material to the final retailer ? the French and Italian " transaction taxes " are low only when production and distribution are unspecialized and inefficient , and rise to astronomical heights wherever efficient production and distribution methods are used . The result is that neither French nor Italian workers can buy much with additional earnings ; and as a natural consequence they refuse to work more than they must in order to buy their bare necessities . You might think that French and Italian industrialists would be outraged by such a system and - would attempt to mobilize consumers to change it , as Americans would do . But no ? they all seem to take it for granted . This tendency to regard the market as static is all the more amazing because most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty years have been successes of distribution . They were achieved by men who refused to accept the market as God-given either in size or in character , and who went out and created new markets for new products . Witness the success of the Italian automobile industry , which made one of the poorest Continental countries the most motorized one ; or the success of Thomas Bata , the Czech shoemaker who sold his product through shoe stores rather than through " shoe salons " which workers and farmers were too bashful to enter , and through this and other devices made people buy a pair of shoes a year when they had previously bought one to last a lifetime . And witness , too , the way in which a Swiss grocer by the name of Dutweiler has shown that the European housewife likes to buy packaged and branded groceries by the self-service method ? and buys much more if only she gets low prices and assured quality . In Italy the most conspicuous success story today is that of a manufacturer of motor-scooters . First made only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact they are being exported to the United States despite the freight charge and tariff . The price of these machines ? which are beautifully engineered and carefully built ? is about $125 apiece ; Detroit could hardly compete with that . Yet when the manufacturer found himself last year with a backlog of orders which it would take eight or nine months ' production to meet , he cut the price by 20 per cent . His argument was one that no American business man could have improved on : " The time to cut prices is when your market is expanding . " But the most impressive lesson is that of Germany . For the tremendously rapid German recovery can not he attributed just to " German industriousness " or " the German will to work " ? though both undoubtedly exist . There is also the fact that , alone among the major Continental countries , Germany has a marketing system that really distributes : a mass-marketing system rather than a class-marketing system . And she has no sales or transaction taxes whatever Instead she has higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate and on private incomes ? and the taxes arc scrupulously collected . But since they arc graduated , the worker keeps a good part of whatever money he earns . And the absence of sales taxes means that he can buy goods with his money , which gives him the incentive to work more and earn more ? an incentive conspicuously lacking in France or Italy . These achievements are familiar to business men and governmental economists throughout Europe . But they are not , so far , being widely imitated . By and large , neither the typical European business man nor the European economist or government official has yet grasped what we in this country have been learning over the past thirty years : that mass production is based squarely upon mass distribution and impossible without it . In France and Italy , where distributive facilities are almost completely absent in the small towns and the workers ' quarters , the best way to achieve mass distribution would probably be through mail-order or catalogue selling . Almost everywhere in continental Europe it would probably require installment credit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on obtaining the maximum market rather than the maximum profit on a small quantity . Whatever the methods used , Europe desperately needs a distributive revolution brought about by aggressive and creative marketing . ... 0 N THE importance of restoring Europe 's faith in money most thoughtful Europeans agree . On the need for creative marketing a good many of them agree ? though they find a hundred reasons why it can not be achieved in Europe . But if you were to say that the biggest shortcoming of the European economy is a shortage of management , few Europeans would understand you , let alone agree with you . Their steadfast reaction would be the answer a Belgian manufacturer gave me : " But I have never had any difficulty finding a man who wants an executive position . " Indeed most Europeans would not even realize that his answer had nothing to do with the question . Yet almost every Productivity Team that has come to the United States under the auspices of the Marshall Plan to study the causes of our high American productivity has remarked again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our economic success could not be applied in Europe for lack of management personnel to do the work . And every team of American experts that has been sent over to study the European economy has come back with the conclusion that lack of management is the principal key to the troubles of the European economy . In the United States we have today , proportionately , about four times as many technicians , managers , and executives as in 1913 . In continental Europe this group is proportionately smaller ? probably quite a bit smaller ? than in 1913 . We may have more managerial and technical people than we need ? in public relations staffs , for example . But there can be little doubt that the proportionate increase in the number of educated and technically trained people has been a major cause of our economic advance . And certainly Europe ? if only to run its present economy effectively ? needs at least twice as many people capable of executive and technical performance as it has . We are accustomed , in this country , to thinking of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the failure of European business to expand . But cartels are inevitable so long as there ' is a shortage of management . For the cartel , and the cartel alone , enables the European economy to function despite such a shortage : In the first place , the cartel does away with two-thirds or three-quarters of the job of management ? marketing , labor relations , pricing , product development , etc . And whatever management problems are left ? for instance , financing ? are in many cases handled by the cartel for its members through the anonymous but all-powerful cartel secretariat . If , as Americans have long claimed , European expansion is not possible without abandonment of the cartel system , then European expansion is not possible without a tremendous increase in the supply of management people . B UT Europe can not get this increase without changing a basic social concept : that business management must be recruited exclusively from the " educated classes . " As I pointed out in Harper 's Last year , Americans who are impressed by the class divisions which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readily people there can move from class to class . In many sectors of European society , opportunities to rise from the bottom are real , if not plentiful . But business tends to be an exception ? to constitute a closed social system in which the classes are water-tight , a caste system which is as much taken for granted by the European socialist as by the business executive . A few months ago I talked with a vice president of the Federation of German Trade Unions . The Federation might be called the biggest capitalist in West Germany , for it owns at least a quarter , if not a third , of the share capital of West German industry . This vice president spoke at great length about the importance of opportunities for advancement , and about the tremendous danger the caste system in industry presents to German social and economic stability . But when I asked him how the trade unions pick the management people to run the enterprises controlled by them he answered without a moment 's hesitation , " Of course all the people we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " ? an almost untranslatable term which implies both inherited gentility and university education . And the man ? who himself had begun working life as a tailor 's apprentice when twelve years old ? seemed totally unaware of any inconsistency . In fact he went right on telling me how impressed he had been , when visiting the United States , to find that a foremanship in industry was not just the final job for an older worker but might also be the first rung on the management ladder . The fact that executive and management people are recruited exclusively from the educated classes means that the talents , resources , and abilities which are to he found in 90 per cent of the population are lost to business . The other 10 per cent may be very good in quality . Man for man , European management is far from being inferior to American management ; only in France is it still true that business careers are shunned by the ablest of the young people . But however effective each individual in the privileged group may be , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of talent and ability . And as a result of two wars the educated classes have been so pitifully thinned as to be totally inadequate today , numerically , for the needs of the present economic system , let alone for its expansion . Furthermore , the denial of opportunities to the rank and file is a major cause ? though of course by no means the only one ? of the class hatred and class tension between management and worker . For it forces the abler workers into opposition to the " system . " If this deep class hatred , which many observers regard as Europe 's most dangerous illness , is to be eased , there must be a deliberate attempt to create opportunities for advancement . Clearly this will be a slow and difficult task . It is one on which American advice will be especially resented . But nothing is likely to be done unless America takes the lead . w HAT , specifically , can America do to help Europe overcome these obstacles to economic expansion ? For the average European the best guarantee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee of its convertibility into the American dollar . Of course it would be impossible for this country to give such a guarantee for any European currency as such But we need not aim at making the franc , the lira , or the mark , as such , convertible into dollars . It should be possible ? and possible at a fraction of the cost of the Marshall Plan ? to provide a kind of limited guarantee which would give the European owner of capital enough confidence in his currency to make constructive investments in his own country . It should , for example , be possible to build up a guarantee fund in dollars for all investments made in a Marshall Plan country that meet standards laid down by our economic agency for Europe . The European investor would neither expect nor need a complete guarantee . Probably a guarantee of the purchasing power of one-third or one-half of his investment would be adequate ? and even then the risk of total war would have to be excluded . It should be possible to build up such a guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 2 per cent or so of ate investments made by the Europeans , especially if we had one such fund for all of Europe rather than different funds for individual countries . Such an approach would meet with resentment on the part of European governments who would feel that it involved our interfering with their sovereign control over their currencies . There might be resentment , too , over our dealing with Western Europe as a unit instead of dealing with the European countries one by one . But however disturbing these resentments might be to the European governments and to the harassed American diplomats who would have to deal with them , the advantages would outweigh the disadvantages . As regards distribution and marketing , it would probably be wise to focus new American aid on investment in new and better marketing and distribution facilities . This might mean investment in mail-order selling in France for example , or in new pricing methods in Holland . The money might go to a manufacturer , to a co-operative , or even ? as was proposed by some people in ECA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build a retail organization outside the cartel and to sell below cartel prices . But whatever the form used , American aid should shift its focus from the improvement of productive facilities to the improvement of distributive facilities . Finally , there would seem to be only one way to bring about a change in the recruitment of management : to make it a condition of every American grant ? whether made to improve marketing facilities or indeed to buy military equipment ? that the recipient should develop a systematic policy of finding people in his employ who are capable of becoming technicians or executives , and of training , developing , and promoting these people . We should furnish all the technical and training assistance we can give ? this is a field where American business has a lot to teach ? hut the job can be done only by the Europeans themselves . All we can do is to insist upon it and be willing to help . A MERICAN economic aid to Europe after the war centered , at first , on repairing physical destruction , rebuilding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power dams , roads , airports . This was the logical and right thing to do at the time . And furthermore it was easy . A machine works just the same way in Ber- 0oamo as in Cincinnati ; even the Communists could not plausibly say the repair of physical destruction was " American imperialism . " Then we went into a second phase : rendering technical assistance to improve productive efficiency . We offered to Europe such things as " scientific management , " better production methods and the equipment to use these methods , industrial engineering , and production controls . This was much less easy to do , for these new methods meant in many cases changing the way things had " always been done " ? and that provokes resistance . it also meant that most of the Americans sent to Europe were technicians talking about tools ? and this in turn greatly strengthened the European conviction that America is a gadgeteering nation . In fact one of the greatest needs today is for us to send to Europe people who , while competent as engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just gadgets ; that both its foundations and its goals are social and moral . Still this second step was necessary , for Europe needed better production methods very badly indeed . Now it is time for our aid to go into a third phase . Aid in repairing physical destruction and aid in improving technical productivity have gone about as far as they can go . The expansion which is now required can not be brought about by continuing along the lines of the Marshall Plan . There must be a fresh approach to the question of European aid . I have no space here to speak of the need for a change in our American tariff policy to make this country " the good creditor " that it must he if the Europeans and ourselves are to work together in a satisfactory partnership . Or of the need for our helping Europe to support the burden of necessary armaments , and to stanch the steady hemorrhage of the Indochina war . But I do recommend that we do all we can to restore the Europeans ' faith in money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe comparable to the one this country has undergone during the past forty years ; and to offer wider opportunities for advancement from the ranks in industry . For unless we base our foreign economic policy on giving Europe the means with which to batter down the invisible wall which today keeps her imagination , her energy , and her economic abilities imprisoned within their " prewar " confines , we shall never see the economically viable and independent Europe on whose strength our very survival may depend .                     