@@487561

THE eighth session of the North Atlantic Council concluded its work on November 28 ? in the words of C. L. Sulzberger of the New York Times , " after much discussion and little agreement . " Significantly it was Britain 's attitude that was reported to be " negative , " and " amiable but aloof . " Little attempt was made to conceal or minimize the sharp differences between Britain and America . ANDREW/ ROTH , a staff contributor , was for a number of years The Nation 's correspondent in the Far East . He is now living in London . December 8 , 1951 What are the causes of the undeniable tension ? It is the habit of most American reporters in London to suggest that apart from the Communists everyone in Britain loves the United States except a small group of " Bevanites " on the left wing of the Labor Party . It is worth while therefore to consider the source of the following remarks : As the balance of strength between the United States and this country has changed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , less comradely in matters of vital interest to the whole Commonwealth . . . . The dominating factor in future defense planning  --  the atomic weapon in all its forms  --  has been treated as an American monopoly , despite the scientific achievement and strategic bases that Britain contributes . .. . It should . . . be the British purpose to discuss with the Americans not only the grand strategy of defense but the grand strategy of settlement Stalin insists , and Beria has again insisted , on the possibility of peaceful coexistence . Is coexistence on such terms the most that can be hoped for in the lifetime of Stalin and Mr. Churchill ? Very probably it is . But will the Americans be content with this ? There is not the slightest reason to doubt the sincerity of Mr. Acheson when he states that the aim of his peace policy is to contain Communist imperialism by creating situations of strength , and then to negotiate from strength . Negotiation  --  but what about ? . From strength  --  but how much strength and at what cost ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or of the New Statesman , or of any other alleged " Socialist appeaser . " The passage is taken from the rightist , pro-American Economist 's lead article of November 17 . America 's energetic replacement of Britain as the central organizing power of the non-Communist world during the last decade has naturally produced irritations . In the early stages of the Persian crisis , when the American position differed considerably from the British , it was openly charged in both Labor and Conservative circles that the United States was pushing out AngloIranian in order to bring in an American oil company . More recently Britain 's empire-builders have been fuming about Washington 's success in bringing down the price of natural rubber and tin . Since the United States buys half the world output of the two products , it has been able to do this by keeping purchases in government hands and staying off the market until the price declined . The Manchester Guardian 's financial editor said last week : Malayan rubber and tin are two of Britain 's foremost dollar-earning commodities . The huge dollar deficit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October has clearly been aggravated by the decision of the United States government to monopolize tin and rubber imports , to stop all tin purchases , and sharply to reduce rubber purchases in Malaya . . . . Britain is forced by United States government policy to buy cotton at 44 cents which costs less than 10 cents to produce . Where are the real cartelists today ? This same theme is propounded even more frequently and bitterly by the Financial Times , whose chairman is Mr. Churchill 's close friend Brendan Bracken . While British leaders are envious of the United States ' growing power and irritated when they think it elbows them , they are at the same time absolutely certain that their survival hangs on American support , They know they need not only direct economic help but the backing of American military-diplomatic power . The Kremlin , they are well aware , is not afraid of British militarypower but does respect the military-industrial potential of the United States . British leaders believe that the primary reason why the Kremlin has not given the green light to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider this an act of aggression and launch World War III . While pleased with American defense of the status quo in Iran , Britain still has no desire to share its stakes in that country . Britain welcomes the American assumption of responsibility for strengthening the French position in Indo-China But in all the bitter newspaper comments on the deteriorating situation in Malaya there has not been a single suggestion that the United States be asked to help in that fight . In the recent foreign-affairs debate in the House of Commons , Geoffrey de Freitas , Under Secretary for Air in the Labor government and a Yale alumnus , was worried that " the great personal popularity of the Prime Minister in America may confuse the American people and mislead them into believing that he is representative of the feelings of this country toward the United States . The Prime Minister has gone far indeed in saying that we must stick to America at all costs . " De Freitas thought it would be better to send Foreign Secretary Eden to Washington , who " has a better understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on our cooperation . " A MERICANS are doubtless deceived by the British capacity for self-censorship in print and speech . You can read Conservative newspapers like the Daily Telegraph or the Yorkshire Post for months and imagine that " love the Yanks " is their chief thesis . But if you talk with their editorial writers you soon perceive their resentment that the United States now sets the pace , in a manner that they consider crude and unmindful of British interests . Thus W. L. Andrews , editor of the Yorkshire Post , in conversation recently revealed a fear of an Eisenhower-precipitated " showdown " in Europe in 1952 which is only pallidly reflected in his writings . The dominant group in each party is convinced of the necessity of the Anglo-American alliance and suppresses its doubts about the way Washington acts . Mr. Eden , for example , in his November 19 survey speech , declined to say anything about the admission of Communist China to the U. N. , excusing himself with , " I think . . . members will realize that nothing could be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of the status of China in relation to the United Nations . " Experienced Englishmen know that Americans like to be liked and are indignant when they are criticized  --  particularly by allies in need of aid . The Labor Party leadership is as pro-American as Churchill and Eden . In office they were equally chary of uttering a word which might be misconstrued by a sensitive American Senator . Out of office they are disclosing , in a guarded manner , the doubts they stifled before . Even the most devoted friends of the United States now reveal their fears that headstrong American action may precipitate an unnecessary war . " A momentary aggressive mood , or , what is perhaps more possible , a needless attack of nerves  --  it may be on the part of one nation alone  --  could plunge us into the Third World War , " warned former Foreign Secretary Morrison on November 19 . Conservatives tend to voice their fears in their clubs more than in the House of Commons , but the Tory M. P. 's from Lancashire are just as worried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The journals which form Conservative opinion have been fairly plain-spoken , in their own British way . As early as last July 25 the Times said . There are times when European governments and peoples ask uneasily whether the pace of rearmament is not too fast . Will the momentum of the whole process carry the United States further than it desires to go7 At what point will the United States consider that deterrent strength has been sufficiently established ? Evidently the crime of the Bevanites was not their criticism of the rearmament speed-up or of American policy but their refusal to observe the hush-bush convention . The essential fact to recall is that the bulk of the Labor Party accepted rearmament last year because they felt it was insurance required by the aggressive tendencies of the Communist world as demonstrated in Korea . Now they are beginning to ' wonder whether the premium is not too high . They feel that rearmament is crippling Britain 's recovery and worry about what the United States will do when it thinks itself strong enough to cope with the Soviets . As De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country is involved m war with Russia and in which a large number of people here might believe that it had been brought about by an error on the American side . . . . The fact is that there are people in this country who fear that the Americans are moving toward a stage in which even to suggest a settlement with Russia might be regarded as treachery . This wave of hate and intolerance  --  which is very real  --  is amazing to those who know the kindness and the warmheartedness of ordinary Americans in their day-to-day life .                     