@@491443

The Man Who Makes Red China Tough By YUKON CHANG HEY were Chinese commies all right . I could T tell them by their padded uniforms and fur caps . The Koreans do n't dress like that . They do n't fight like that either , " the American soldier told the newsman interviewing him in Korea . " I never saw so many of them before . They kept coming like they were stupid . I must have killed more than twenty of them , but they kept coming , wave after wave right over the dead ones . That was too much for me . I got out fast . " Without knowing it , the American infantryman had faced the Chinese communist army 's " human-sea assault , " a most wasteful but effective device usually employed to gain valuable ground . Casualties in such an operation are naturally tremendous , but in the Chinese Red Army life is cheap . Probably nowhere else in the world is there such wanton disregard for human life . In this limitless resource of expendable manpower lies the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies are organized into the much-publicized assault units . Each wave flings itself into battle at the command of " Charge ! " The men in these rushes keep going till they are cut down by the enemy or gain their objective . Seldom is there another command after the first " Charge ! " There is also no retreating or slowing down , for each assault trooper well knows what the consequences are . Should his behavior be considered questionable , he may be shot on the spot by his unit commander . Or by a special detachment known as the " action supervisory detail . " In Chinese Red Army victories , as authentically reported , superiority of weapons hardly ever plays $ much of a part . Its arms and firepower are often greatly inferior to those of the opposition . To ruthless combat-crafty officers , schooled under fire , must go some of the credit for triumphs . The remainder of the glory should fall to the expendable farm boys in the line . They are the ones who really fight because they must  --  they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own superior officers . The sardonic saying , " They have nothing to lose but their lives , " rings true in their case . In the Red Army the command of a superior is absolute . In a recent action a company commander learned this too late . Disengaging from an action he reported to his battalion commander and recommended that the slaughter of assault troops be ended ; that the immediate operation be abandoned to consider another strategy for gaining the objective . He doubted the efficacy of the plan which had already seen two companies wiped out , including two of his own platoons . Without a word , the battalion commander put a bullet through the head of the subordinate officer who dared question his judgment . Sometimes , when an assault action is planned , each " volunteer " in the earlier waves is shown sample coffins and is asked to indicate his preference . The implication is that those who die in the initial attacks will have the honor of being buried in a coffin , an item not easily come by . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffin of one 's own choice , according to Chinese tradition , is to die a good death . This is a special courtesy usually extended to the doomed . The gesture of coffin selection also serves to instill in the soldiers the realization that they should give up every intention of returning alive . Discipline in the Chinese Red Army is harsh . The simple peasant soldiers are inculcated with the idea that courage and obedience are the great virtues of soldiery . There must never be any faltering . The hapless soldier found wanting in aggressiveness , should he escape being shot by his superior officer in iie field , gets hauled before a " critique meeting " dlowing the action . This gathering is usually pre.ded over by a political director . After charges are read , the unit formulates a verdict . At one such critique meeting the prisoner , accused of cowardice under fire , was first submitted to several hours ' revilement , following which his fellow soldiers marched around him , spitting in his face , one by one . The unfortunate one was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldier of his unit . In other cases the unit may decree that the offender be thrown into solitary confinement for " education by reflection , " with or without food or hard labor . Following this ordeal , he may be reinstated upon " confession of guilt " and assurances that he will act with merit in the future . He may also be sentenced to death by the same group . Today the Chinese Red Army may roughly be divided into two groups  --  the seasoned troopers and the peasant recruits . The first mentioned are usually the stocky , middle-aged , seam-faced veterans seen smiling , sneering or just staring impassively from out of the news photographs . The larger number , however , are boyish soldiers of slight build . These often wear a bewildered look on having their pictures taken . Probably many have never seen a camera before . These are the new soldiers who short months ago were farmers or small shopkeepers in rural areas . While the old soldiers are the starch and backbone of the Chinese Red Army , they now make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourths are mainly made up of farm boys conscripted from occupied territories , green and scarcely battle-tested . These youths are taking the place of the vanishing veteran of the war against Japan and the national-lath . Many in this latter group are now well into their forties . A good many of these aging warriors can recall the time late in 1927 when communist soldiers in Kwangsi , South China , first called themselves the Chinese Red Army . Combat-hardened , their numbers are also rapidly dwindling with the rise of casualties , for they frequently bear the burdens of shock troops , hurled into action wherever the going is the toughest . Some of them believe in the communist cause . Others are merely career soldiers who fight out of habit and because they have grown used to the Red Army rut and can find little else to do . Young or old , the Chinese Red soldier holds the key to World War III . Sooner or later he will be the man whom Far Eastern anticommunist armies will meet in battle , should his leaders pursue their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fronts  --  Korea , French Indo-China and Tibet . It is not improbable that he will be sent to yet other fronts before long . Despite his prominent role , hardly anything is known of the Chinese Red soldier . When the Red Army drove Chiang Kai-shek 's troops from the Chinese mainland , observers opened their eyes , but tended to ask , " Were the Chinese Red soldiers really good , or was it because Chiang Kai-shek 's army was shot through with corruption ? " That question is still being debated . The average Chinese Red soldier is illiterate . But , endowed with a native intelligence and a remarkable memory , he takes readily to training , learning fast . His stamina and ability to subsist on a minimum add to his mobility and worth as a fighting man . Red soldiers have been known to cover approximately a hundred miles on foot in twenty-four hours . One Red detachment went into battle following a forced march of more than 150 miles . On long journeys baked millet is taken along as field rations . The men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their hands ; mess equipment is not carried . Neither do they pack canteens to hamper their movements . Drinking water comes from random wells and ditches . Extremely hardy , the Red soldier is not affected by foul water that might knock out the ordinary man . Steamed millet and salted turnips are standard fare for the Red soldier . Sometimes vegetable soup is added to the menu . Should they be near a town , meals are supplemented with meat or fowl . Soldiers in the field are supplied by mess sergeants who shoulder food to them in buckets on both extremes of a " hi-ho pole . " Should intense enemy fire prevent the mess-man from reaching his group , there is a period of fasting till he comes through . Sunday is a gastronomical red-letter day for the Red soldier . This is the day pork dumplings are served , and each soldier is allotted a pound of flour and half a pound of precious pork . The treat of stewed meat is passed around when replacements arrive , and there is cause for mild celebration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle . It has got to be so that when soldiers see meat being prepared they wonder apprehensively , " Is it replacements or battle ? " As in most armies , the bigger the brass the better their mess . There are four separate kitchens for officers from the rank of colonel up ? one each for colonels , division commanders , army commanders , and highest-ranking political officials . Saturday is bath day in the Chinese Red Army . This is the day huge caldrons of water are boiled and special containers are set aside for delousing . It is a welcome time when the men file by , dunk their underwear into the boiling water and get rid of what lice they can . Because of the scarcity of fuel and water , outer uniforms maynot be treated to the luxury . Following this operation , the soldiers move on to other vats , from which they scoop water for scrub-down baths . Deloused after a fashion and cleaned up , they get a change of underwear and pass in review , refreshed . The pay of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A private 's monthly pay was once but a few yuan . In the new " Jen Min Piao " currency he draws $1680 , a greatly inflated sum equivalent to thirty cents in American money . This amount is often not enough for purchases during the long month between paydays , and the Red soldier often imposes on the populace for cigarette money to tide him over . A Red Army colonel gets the equivalent of one American dollar a month . A major sometimes rates the privilege of having the use of a mount , a godsend where miles are long . Mess sergeants and barbers , for some unknown reason , get twice the pay of the ordinary soldier . Most colonels have the services of a jeep . Higher officers and political officials travel in automobiles . According to Red Army regulations , food and transportation facilities may be enjoyed by the soldier alone . Woe to the Officer seen hauling members of his family around in his car or allowing them to eat at his table . Other privileges enjoyed by lieutenant colonels and higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day to day at their pleasure . Also , marriage is only for the officer above the rank of colonel . He must first apply for permission and submit histories of his bride-to-be and himself . Most senior officers ' wives serve in various positions in the same unit as their husbands . At best , the career of a Red soldier is a precarious one . No matter how commendable his military record , he loses rank the moment his family falls into disfavor with Red officialdom . Should his family members get entangled in any misdeed , he is immediately deprived of his rank and privileges . The Red Army does its best to pound communist ideology into all recruits . Although Communist Party membership // is not compulsory , soldiers are exposed to frequent lectures and discussions of communism and how it affects their private lives and world trends . Those few who can read are given literature and encouraged to study . Red soldiers are under constant , observation for " incompatible thoughts . " " Supervisory personnel " are screened and instructed to spy on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members who gain membership through nothing more than an oath of lifelong loyalty and service to the party and the nation . Party members are instructed to keep their party affiliations a secret . Upon taking the oath , privates are usually made squad leaders . For close regimen ? tation every squad leader in the Chinese Red Army is a party member . But party membership has responsibilities , as one farm boy learned . He objected to the paying of party-membership dues out of his monthly pay . " My pay is small enough as it is , " he protested . " Either you pay or you 're out of the party , " he was told . " It is a. privilege for which you should he happy to pay . " Red Army party members are also expected to furnish the needed initiative at critique meetings . When no one is being tried for misconduct , these gatherings criticize or make suggestions for improvement . The group discusses combat , administration and behavior . New soldiers usually hang back at such sessions , so the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and counter-talk , it is not uncommon to find soldiers expressing themselves too candidly on taboo subjects , such as the party line . They live to regret such rashness , usually . At such meetings soldiers may find fault with one another . But nothing should be said about their commanders except on rare occasions when political directors invite such discussions . Officers have their own headquarters critique meeting , which follows the same pattern . Among the most powerful men in the Chinese Red Army are the commissioners of party affairs . One is assigned to each unit . In large units there are deputies to help him . The commissioners actually run the Chinese Red Army , leaving commanders only with responsibilities of training and field , s3mmand . The commissioner approves or turns down petitions and campaign Strategy . Through his hands pass decisions on logistics , propaganda and administration . He also examines the loyalty of men and officers , and presides over meetings of his unit . Only at field-army headquarters is he outranked . However , there are but four such posts in Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commanding general and limits his duties to that of director of political affairs . Red Army successes largely depend On the teamwork of small units which seldom use more formidable weapons than rifles , grenades , machine guns and mortars . In typical actions the unit deploys a forward line which takes prone positions for random fire . Junior officers alert a selected , well-briefed " dare-to-die " group which storms the objective , relying heavily on grenades and rifles in the approach , and dynamite when up close . Comrades farther back cover them as best they can . There may be deviations from this pattern , depending on the arms available . But , basically , this is the way the Chinese Red Army fights . It capitalizes on t he fact that . Red soldiers are especially adept in the use of grenades and dynamite . Personal bravery is taken for granted . Demolition squads usually depend on stealth and speed , instead of cover fire coming and going . Field communications are ludicrously primitive in the Red Army . Only battalion headquarters are linked to higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trained personnel limits its use . Then , too , frequent breakdowns make it unreliable . Units usually communicate by runners , who are constantly at the side of commanders and commissioners . When needed , it is their duty to get the message through shot and shell in the tried old manner . The Chinese Red Army suffers badly from desertions . Many soldiers find it hard being brave too often and prefer to be live cowards . These desert in wholesale numbers . As a rule , deserters either join the guerrillas or go into hiding among friends willing to shelter them . The efficient Red system of population checkup , which requires everyone to produce identification on demand , makes it difficult for the deserter to hide . Too often , hOmesick deserters make their way home , although that is the first place where authorities would look for them . It is the responsibility of the village administration to search out all deserters and hand them over to the military . Upon hearing that a family is suspected of helping a runaway soldier , village heads inform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are forthwith hired at the expense of the family . Payment is in millet at the rate of thirteen pounds a day . Should the household default , militiamen are stationed in the home to see that no grain is in evidence . In other words , the family does not eat till the deserter is produced , or it is proved that the wayward soldier is not in communication with the family . A deserter caught in the village is paraded through the area for several days . He is made to wear an ignominious white paper hat to symbolize his disgrace and is forced to walk behind a raucous " alarm band , " made up of gongs , cymbals and drums . Sometimes a mounted veteran leads the procession . Finally returned to his unit , the runaway faces the ordeals of the critique meeting and education by reflection . If he deserted while in action , he is summarily executed . Before his capture , the period of his absence is euphemistically referred to as " leave . " Desertion never is mentioned in the Red Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death often drive even stout-hearted partisan sergeants to forsake the Red Army . Sympathetic guards not infrequently absent themselves along escape routes , to make it easier for the boys to go over the hill . Under no circumstances are Red soldiers granted home leaves . Field officers , howel.er , may have their families visit them for a week or so each year . The Chinese Red Army 's medical corps is pitifully inadequate . At one time the wounded received only first-aid treatment . Medical aides went among the wounded and checked on the seriousness of each case . Only those who had a chance of swift recovery received attention . The others were written oil as beyond help and were put aside to await their ends . With the taking over of Manchuria , however , conditions have improved . Many well-equipped former Japanese hospitals fell to Red China , with abundant supplies and trained personnel . There are three grades of compensation for disabled veterans . The loss of two limbs puts the soldier in the first bracket , eligible for sixteen bushels of millet . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second category . He is entitled to receive eight bushels of millet . The third grade embraces all wounded soldiers and is good for four bushels . Compensation is in a single grant  --  after that the disabled man is on his own . When discharged from hospitals , disabled veterans are issued travel permits and orders which allow them to apply for food and lodgings at villages along the way home . It is the responsibility of village governments to provide for these homebound veterans . These soldiers are also given " proof of disability , " so that their native villages may apply for a retirement allowance of millet on their behalf . However , disabled veterans are subject to recall at the discretion of their commanding officers . Few of them are recalled , since the vast lands of China produce young men in profusion . The services of farm boys are claimed in areas where some land reform has been initiated . Recruiting officers tell them of the bountiful good that Chairman Mao Tse-tung has brought them in the way of land , implements and farm animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the return of corruptions and misery should Chiang Kai-shek fight his way back . " He will take back all that Chairman Mao has given you , " they are told , " and you and your family will be beheaded for collaboration . " One thing which no one has been able to explain satisfactorily is that although conscription is supposed to be universal among males between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five , the Chinese Red Army prefers to draw men from among the poorer classes in rural areas . The sons of rich families are noticeably exempt from service . The Reds resort to many ruses and pressures to gain recruits . It should be understood that the Chinese Red Army draft is universal in name only . In China , a conscription , or draft , does not have the same strict organized meaning that obtains in the United States . Chinese officials always have been easy to bribe , and names on draft lists always have had a way of disappearing . Draft evasion always has been a fine art in China  --  and still is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they threaten with punishment all who have had dealings with the Nationalists . Families arrested for such collaboration are given an opportunity to " expiate their sin " by delivering up a male " volunteer " for service in the Red Army . It is also an unofficial rule that criminals may escape punishment by joining up . Conscription is in the hands of administration workers grouped into what are called " enlistment cadres , " usually composed of Chinese Communist Party members . These cadres are given heavy quotas to fill , and stop at little in the attainment of their goals . They are given a good deal of latitude in offering benefits to induce enlistments . Extra plots of land and farm animals are often parceled out to attract males into the service . Should a strong lad beg off because of dependents , the cadres invariably fix it so that his neighbors take over the cultivation of his land and the support of his family while he is in the Red Army . The Chinese Red Army gets every man it can . Even borderline cases are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ha ! You say you are ill in the lungs ? " the enlistment cadre asks . " Yes , I cough violently . I believe it 's tuberculosis . " " We 'll cure you . The Red Army has excellent doctors . We 'll make a good soldier of you . " And the Red Army has signed up another recruit . Enlistment cadres do net like to have it said that recruits are forced to join against their will . So eligible young men are exposed to cunning ordeals to wear down their resistance . One method is the gathering of all youths from an area for what is called a " throttling meeting . " This is nothing more than a stepped-up harangue at which the rustic young men are made to sit on uncomfortable benches in a strongly lit room while long-winded orators literally talk them into the army . The average verbal marathon lasts from twenty to fifty days , during which time the " throttled " are not allowed to ask questions . There are only short breaks for meals . Should results be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from lack of sleep , starved and bullied , most boys do not avoid the army long . Sometimes the " obstinate minds , " as reluctant conscriptees are called , get " cracked open " in other ways . Should it be winter and the winds be especially biting , the stubborn ones are stripped down to their thin underwear and are pushed into open courtyards . Thickly padded Red Army uniforms are hung close by . Given the choice of freezing or putting on the warm garments , many succumb to the latter . Then , as a freezing youth clothes himself , officials , watching from concealment , smilingly enter and lead him into shelter with such soothing words as : " We 're happy you volunteered . You 'll find that uniform very warm . " Shills are customarily planted among groups undergoing inducement ordeals . These trained actors mumble objections and look glum along with the others until what they consider to be the psychological moment . At that moment the shill comes out with a " **29;3912;TOOLONG ? " routine and calls on the recruiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many " obstinate minds " are " cracked open . " Recruits are given festive send-offs . Streets are decked with flags and a holiday is declared for the occasion . Recruits , resplendent in new uniforms and fresh haircuts , are then paraded majestically through the village . Recruiting officers march alongside to stir up fervor , shouting such cries as , " These comrades are heroes ! Follow in their footsteps ! " The Reds have named the procession a " farewell to participators . " Some villagers prefer to call it the " funeral march . " Each inductee 's home is singled out for decoration . A red sign is put up in a prominent place in front and on it are written the Chinese characters " kuangjung , " meaning " honor , " with the name of the new soldier . At night a special lantern shines over his gate . A " certificate of service " scroll is hung in his house . In such comic-opera ways were enlistment quotas usually filled for the Chinese Red Army . Following the Nationalist defeat on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awhile and enlistment activities were slackened . With the Korean war using up enormous numbers of troops , however , enlistment cadres are again beating gongs and going through their varied routines to procure farm boys to fight the battles of the Red Army . If there be , indeed , safety in numbers , the Chinese Red Army is snugly safe , for China 's supply of human lives has hardly been scratched . The Chinese Red Army is keenly aware of this asset . In weighing the strength and battle potential of the Chinese Red Army , the old saying must be borne in mind : " There are a lot more where these came from . "                     