@@487537

THE American policy of containment  --  of a continuous , shifting , flexible holding operation along the whole periphery of So ! viet domination  --  is rtow nearly four years old . Launched in March , 1947 , with the enunciation of the Truman Doctrine , the policy received its theoretical elaboration four months later in the now celebrated article in Foreign Affairs , by a Mr. X , soon identified as George P. Kennan , chief of the Policy Planning Staff of the Department of State , The strategy of containment stands at the center of current American policy . Its beginning marked the end of the effort to " get along " with 1 the Soviet Union  --  an effort pursued with ever-diminishing retains and ever-increasing skepticism during the first year and a half of the Truman Administration : Since then , containment has remained the stable core of policy : it has provided the chief element of consistency through recurring phases of hesitation or changes in tactics . On it the present Administration deserves primarily to be judged . A balance sheet of the containment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ index f or , estimating the record of Truman , Marshall , and Acheson in their conduct of American foreign relations . At its inception , this policy aroused serious misgivings among most left-of-center opinion and a few independent commentators like Walter Lippmann . Such misgivings were based on a number of predictions as to the consequences of the containment strategy . As the years have passed , these consequences have failed to materialize  --  at least to anything like the extent originally predicted . Yet the criticiSm has persisted . Can this be ascribed to mere blindnesS or obstinate loyalty 1 to a parti pris ? I think not . The continuance of this type of criticism is due primarily to intellectual inertia  --  a tendency to repeat on each successive occasion the comments that have served for its predecessors without stopping to add up the totality of occasions and , to question whether their sum may not necessitate a substantial revision of the original judgment . It is time for critics to attempt a reevaluation i of the Containment policy in the light of four years of experience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , that the United States had taken on too much and would prove physically unable to resist Communist penetration along the whole peripheiy ; second , that this I H. STUART HUGHES is assistant professor of history and i , Center I Harvard . assistant director of the Russian nesearc enter at a He is the author of " An Essay for Orr Times . " : ! policy would antagonize other peoples , particularly those balancing ' between the Soviet Union and the West ; third , that it would accelerate the drift toward war . Let us look at these predictions in the light of what has actually happened , If we leave aside the case of China  --  where the possibility of a non-Communist solution was already irretrievably lost at the time the containment policy was proclaimed  --  the Western coalition has held its own during the last four years . No government not directly under the threat of the Red Army has succumbed to Communist pressure . Of the three most dramatic ex ; amples of containment in action ? Greece , the Berlin air lift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the third is now hanging in the balance . Far , from demonstrating the physical impossibility of holding the line at all points , they have tended to prove the very opposite  --  that the United States was able to exert decisive pressure in three widely separated areas of conflict , by three substantially different techniques , during three successive years . Nineteen forty-eight saw the beginning of the systematic suppression of the Greek guerrillas  --  a rather baffling police operation executed by indigenous forces , with , the United States supplying only material aid and technical advice . Nineteen forty-nine was the year that turned the tide in Berlin  --  through a massive logistic effort carried out primarily by the Americans themselves . The current year has seen United Nations intervention in Korea , again an operation in which American forces have played the leading role . These examples suggest that the number of active danger spots at any one time is limited , and that it is possible to shift the emphasis and to divert resources from one place to another nearly as rapidly as the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the technique , perhaps some of the same planes that won the struggle for Berlin went into the air movements of troops and supplies that contributed so decisively to the American advance in  - -  Korea . In sum , the containment policy rests on the idea of a strategic reserve  --  a flexible concept as opposed to the static and impossible notion of simply manning a wall . Such a concept is , of course , an expensive and wearying affair , in which the Soviet Union will continue to call the turns . And , one may ask , what would happen if the areas of conflict should incres se in number , if the Communists should decide to strike at several points at once ? This danger exists , but it transcends the scope of December 16 , 1950 the containment policy . For the present , there are only a limited number of areas in which the Communists can hope to score successes on the cheap without running the risk of a general war . Yugoslavia , for example , is definitely not one of them . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the American press had not so openly advertised the reluctance of the American military to defend it and thus virtually invited an invasion from the north . If the Soviet Union and its satellites should embark on a series of unsure and expensive ventures , then the nature of the problem would change entirely . In this event , they would be risking a situation in which the United States would find its military resources inadequate for all theaters at once , and thereby be driven to exasperation . And the leaders of the Soviet Union know that the price of exasperating the Americans is an atomic attack on the major centers of Russian industrY . If Stalin and his colleagues should invite this retaliation , then the policy of containment would be obsolete . Through no fault of its own , it would give way to the necessities of general war . TTIHE second count against containment  --  the threat of s1- antagonizing other peoples  --  since it rests on human imponderables , can not be confirmed or refuted with any precision . Here the mist relevant question to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy of the United States or the policy of the Soviet Union ? Among the so-called neutrals , the events of recent months have decisively tipped the balance in favor of the Americans . Surely the Indians have shown themselves more vexed and worried by the- Chinese Communist move on Tibet than by any " imperialist " activity on the part of the United States . Within the opposing camps the state of opinion , open or guessed at , points to this same conclusion . Europeans have failed to take alarm at the new American awareness of the military facts of life : for every Western European shocked by the bombings in Korea perhaps two have been favorably impressed by the proof that the United States is ready to fight in defense of its allies . The Western coalition has suffered no loss in allegiance comparable to the defection of Yugoslavia from the Soviet bloc . On the other side of the ideological dividing line it is impossible for us to know to what - extent the peoples of the satellite states are accepting the Cominform interpretation of the Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal dissatisfaction are far from being on the wane . The Western governments enjoy the advantage of knowing their internal enemies  --  of being able to identify and number them . To these , the Communists and the near Communists , the policy of containment is all evil . But their hostility has nothing to do with containment itself . To this substantial , minority of Western 565 Europeans , the policy of the United States is necessarily wrong  --  whatever it may be . And the same is true of the smaller independent fringe of opinion which is antagonized by the nature of the American economic and social system . A diminution in the military alertness of the United States would not reduce . to any appreciable extent the hostility of either of these groups . Informed Americans are finally coming to the reluctant realization that there is an irreducible minimum of Western Europeans  --  including the bulk of the organized poor of France and Italy  --  who will remain opposed to any American policy short of frank appeasement . This opposition narrowly limits the possible shifts in ' opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to bring about . Finally , has the containment policy accelerated the arift toward war ? ' Without question , the United States is more militarized , more ready for war , physically and psychologically , than it was four years ago . In that sense , we have advanced closer to the verge of hostilities . But to say this much Is simply to recognize the obvious fact that the United States has at length begun a serious effort- to counterbalance the military strength of the Soviet Union . The argument that containment leads to war boils down to a rejection of the risks that any such effort necessarily entails . It amounts to an acceptance of Soviet military supremacy . Obviously , even the most extensive American  --  or Western  --  plans for rearmament fall impressively short of the comparable Soviet goals . President Truman and Secretary Acheson 566 1 The NATION are on firm ground when they maintain that a realistic negotiation with the Soviet Union can take place only when the military strength of the United States has approached somewhere near to that of its adversary -- that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same thing . In the perspective of four years , then , the containment policy has proved itself . But we can not leave the question there . Dangers still confront us  --  if not ' precisely the dangers originally predicted . Applied : mechanically and without imagination , the containment strategy could eventually defeat itself . An American policy that is both realistic and sensitive to the ideological susceptibilities of foreign nations will derive from the basic concept of - containment at least four essential corollaries. if the United States is to maintain the confi- dence and loyalty of its allies , it-will have to make its intentions transparently clear . It will be obliged to state in fairly precise terms where and under what circumstances it plans to apply the containment strategy . The Western coalition can scarcely afford a repetition of the abrupt American change of policy on Korea  --  the dramatic reversal in June of the decision of the previous December to aid the South Korean government , with arms shipments alone . The European allies , in particular , have been clamoring for more precision . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they deserve a firm commitment that the defense of Europe has first priority in the containment scheme . The concept of a holding operation all along the line is not incompatible with a scale of priorities . Both ideological affinities and a realistic evaluation of relative military contributions dictate an emphasis on European needs . The two key events of the past month  --  the Chinese Communist intervention in Korea and the Republican success in the Congressional elections  --  have combined to revive the Asia-first school . And they have demonstrated a further aspect of the need for clear intentions : the need to know when to stop  --  to gauge the moment when an American intervention has substantially achieved its aim and when to go farther would invite a dangerous extension of the conflict . The function of making such a decision belongs to the responsible statesmen at home  --  and to them alone . It can not be usurped by a commander in the field without straining nearly to the breaking-point the loyalty of the major European allies . Second , the containment policy does not exclude , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States would be displaying an alarming rigidity of outlook if through stubbornness or intoxication with its own propaganda it should pass up a legitimate opportunity for negotiation . Such opportunities are ' doubt-less very few . Yet occasions do arise on which , for its own peculiar reasons , the Soviet Union feels inclined to arrive at some partial settlement . Such agreements , to be effective , can scarcely be more than local , short-range , and of unquestioned advantage to each side . Yet their elaboration and development offer the only feeble hope we have for giving the world some measure of order during the present period of armed truce . In approaching this sort of settlement , American negotiators can ill afford to undervalue the ideology of their adversaries or of the peoples whose fate is under consideration . It would be unwise to go into a negotiation with the idea that communism is a technique of tyranny and nothing more . The fashionable notion of communism as a merely malevolent international plot  --  a trick to delude the simple-minded  --  has done nearly irreparable harm to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blinders on the American people ; it has drastically limited the range of discussion at home and confined the public utterances of American statesmen to innocuous banalities . A sensible foreign policy can be based only on the recognition that Communists  --  on both sides of the iron curtain  --  have real and pressing reasons for being what they are . T HIS brings us to our third corollary . In certain bor-THIS areas the United States need not require ideological uniformity or a full alliance from those nations to which it gives economic aid and which it regards as its friends . Indeed , to do so would be to undermine their value to the Western coalition . India and Yugoslavia are the chief cases in point . Within the United Nations the existence of a loyal opposition  --  as opposed to the disloyal opposition of the Soviet bloc and the parochial maneuvering of the Arabs and certain Latin Americans ? offers the only convincing answer to the allegation that that organization is nothing more than a screen for United States policy . This sort of opposition India , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . exist it would be necessary to invent someone resembling him . Only through some such formula as - his will there be even a remote chance of reconciling the leaders of Asian nationalism with the former colonial powers . To push Nehru hard , to try to force him to adhere more closely to the American line , is to invite disaster . Americans need to appreciate more fully Nehru 's problem at home and the pressure he is withstanding from the more extreme anti-Westerners among his own followers . The policy he is currently pursuing is oriented just about as far West as he can safely go . If Nehru , through ' too close an adherence to the Western line , should succumb to his own extremists , then surely we should have lost our best hope not only for a reconciliation between Asia and the West , but also , ultimately , for the peace of the whole world . 568 Similar considerations apply in the case of Tito . As a heretic Communist , Tito is far more valuable to the West than he would be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " pure , " only by resisting the blandishments of " reactionaries , " can Tito hope to pursue with success his policy of inspiring dissension in the Communist camp . Indeed , his professions of Marxist orthodoxy are his best weapons in the ideological struggle . And this - struggle offers the sole realistic chance for a happy exit from the present international impasse . Only a major split within the Communist coalition could tip the present even balance in favor of the West . Too close an overt tie between Tito and the United States would ruin everything . For in the case of Yugoslavia as in that of India , a full military alliance is both unnecessary and inadvisable . Everyone knows that in the event of a showdown both nations would find themselves on the side of the West . Whether this support would be active or merely jotential would naturally depend on the scope and direction of the Soviet threat that had precipitated hostilities . Our final corollary sets the necessary limits to what we can sensibly expect from the containment policy . Obviously this policy offers- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution to them . It is nothing more than a strategy for gaining time . What the United States  --  and the Western coalition  --  does with this time is a quite different question . And here the relevant areas of ' action lie within each country of the alliance , not in the field of foreign relations . ThroughoutWestern Europe  --  more particularly in France and Italy  --  and everywhere in Asia the social conditions from which communism has arisen still present the basic problem confronting each government . They will continue to plague us until the laboring classes of the West shall have achieved a balance between economic expectation and attainment more satisfactory to them than their present lot . In the absence of some such stabilization of society , the Western coalition will remain basically a n-filitary alliance , potent in resources and technical proficiency , but resting on insecure foundations .                     