@@485131

When Herbert Schmertz , a vice president for public affairs at Mobil Oil Corporation , announced in the aftermath of the gasoline shortage that Mobil would spend about $11 million in advertising in 1974 ? and almost every dollar of it on corporate image campaigns  --  he , expressed a turnabout in advertising spending and advertising goals that prevails today at many of the big oil companies . In advertising spending , the big year was 1972 , when gasoline advertising hit an all-time high , and the six leading oil company advertisers spent an estimated $164 million on promotion . By comparison , these same companies spent an estimated $40 million or less in 1974 , a drop of more than 75 per cent , yet they were able at the end of the year to announce sharply increased revenues and high profits . Moreover , market shares among the oil companies seemed relatively stable and to depend more on availability of product and pricing policies than on advertising push . The curtailed advertising dollars were put to work to deflect the public 's accusing finger from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , about 45 per cent of the public placed the " energy crisis " first among their everyday concerns , displacing the " cost of living " problem , and about 25 per cent of those polled regarded the oil companies as the chief villain , with the federal government running a close second at 19 per cent . How effective is image advertising ? A recent Federal Trade Commission staff investigation , concluding that " there is general agreement in the business community that image advertising brings long-range economic benefits to a company , " urged that the FTC assume jurisdiction and control over certain image advertising . A number of studies were cited to support this recommendation , In one of them , corporate executives in the following percentages saw image advertising as benefiting their companies ' product sales ( 47 per cent ) , stockholder-financial relations ( 64 per cent ) , consumer relations ( 55 per cent ) , supplier or business customer relations ( 46 per cent ) , In another study , image advertising was found to be even more effective than product advertising in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1964-72 ) Joseph Seldin is associated with an advertising agency in the New York City area . He is the author of The Golden Fleece ( Macmillan ) soon to be reissued by Arno Press . conducted for Time found that men in upper-income , managerial and professional positions held more favorable opinions about a company simply as a result of exposure to several image advertisements . Specifically , they tended to believe new product claims , to invest in the company 's stock , to respect the company 's research and development capacities and even to seek employment with the company . Many other studies , all pointing in the same direction , confirmed the effectiveness of image advertising in furthering a company 's economic interests . As employed by the oil companies , image advertising was designed to implant in the public mind their innocence of wrongdoing in the gasoline shortage and " energy crisis , " and the reality of their highly developed sense of corporate responsibility . With pollution and other environmental issues rising in public consciousness , the words " corporate responsibility " and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if only in plans for advertising and public relations . The industry has had persistent cause to look to its public image . Its latest black eye , an FTC complaint issued in July 1973 , charged the eight largest oil companies in the United States with monopoly control over refining . These eight , according to the FTC , had sales in 1972 of more than $54 billion and assets greater than $76 billion . Naturally , the oil companies saw public image as a pressing concern , particularly din a time of consumer shortages , rising gasoline and oil prices and high corporate profits . For its part , the FTC investigation established the need , in the staff 's judgment , for the commission to set up legal standards for corporate image claims " to prevent deception and unfair practices . " As the oil companies ' 1974 image campaign got underway , six Congressmen , assisted by Media Access Project , a public-interest law group , petitioned the FTC to require the oil companies ( and utilities and electrical appliance makers ) to substantiate certain claims ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate ad " blitz " aimed at absolving energy industries from blame for fuel shortages , the Congressmen submitted sixteen energy-issue advertisements which they said were largely indistinguishable from product advertisements , and thus should be brought under the FTC 's program for substantiation of claims . Exxon , Shell , American and Mobil were the companies whose TV and print advertise- , ments were singled out for attack . Objecting to a commercial claiming that Exxon was doing its " best to provide more gasoline , " the petitioners charged that ' Exxon 's refining practices were " inadequate to prevent gasoline shortages " and that , in fact , Exxon 's - " refining production was significantly lower than it had been ' one year earlier . " . Shell was cited for its advertisement on the environmental effect of its offshore drilling platforms in the Gulf of Mexico . Appearing in many newspapers , the advertisement stated : " Today it 's possible to catch more than 23 different kinds of fish under our platforms . " Readers were deceived , argued the petitioners , into believing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fish yields , " which was an " untrue assertion of a cause and effect relationship . " Amoco advertisements were attacked for assuring readers that Amoco was " doing all it could " to solve the ? gasoline shortage when , " like all major oil companies except Mobil , it had not built a new refinery in five years , and none is at present under construction , even after warnings as early as 1971 that there would soon be a severe shortage of refining capacity . " Mobil 's TV commercials , expressing regret that " there 's a worldwide shortage of crude oil today , " were charged with deception , since " proven world reserves of crude oil , " by industry calculations themselves , showed " over 100 years of proven reserves " at the present world consumption rate . The petitioners called on the FTC not only to require substantiation of the claims in the sixteen image advertisements submitted wit the petition but also to adopt rules barring image advertisements , from making affirmative misstatements , failing to disclose material facts or making unsubstantiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to protected speech , an image advertisement could avoid FTC proscription by carrying the following statement : " This is a political advertisement intended to present this business ' views on a controversial issue of public importance . " Aside from political advertisements , however , Sen. Birch Bayh , one of the petitioners , argued , " The function of image advertising is the same as that of product advertising and should be covered by the same standards . " He found it " absurd to subject tens of thousands of small businessmen in this country torules prohibiting false and deceptive ads , " while excepting the mulitnational oil companies from the same rules . A few months later , several public-interest groups  --  the Consumer Federation of ' America , the Environmental Action Foundation , Public Interest Communications and Media Access Project joined fifteen Congressmen to attack the oil companies ' image campaign with another tactic . They prepared a counter advertising campaign of six radio and five print messages using the slogan , " Energy should be everybody 's business , " and urged their use as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Typical of the counter advertisements , created by West Coast professional advertising people , was one that suggested : " Think about how absurd it would be if a few big corporations controlled the world 's air supply . . . then think about oil . " The strategy against broadcasters who declined to run counter advertisements , or whose programming was thought to be remiss , in covering both sides of the energy controversy , has been to file " fairness doctrine " complaintswith the Federal Communications Commission . Many broadcasters did air extensive reports on the energy controversy , with samples of the counter advertisements on network and local TV and radio , though public-interest group spokesmen contended that in many cases the " balance , " for purposes of fairness doctrine dOmplaint , was still three or four to one in favor of corporate image messages . The counter advertising campaign provoked a U.S. Chamber of Commerce spokesman to warn the air and print media that they might end up with " a bushel of counter advertising and no paid advertising . " Before 1974 was over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack , this one based on the contention that most of their image advertisements were really political , and thus not tax-deductible as part of the expense of doing business . As one consumer spokesman argues , the taxpayer now foots half or more of the bill for " every word they put on to monopolize the air time . " Another argued that " taxpayers and utility ratepayers have an interest in insuring that millions of our dollars are not spent to subsidize one-sided political propaganda . " This testimony was expressed at a public hearing of the Senate Commerce Committee 's environmental subcommittee , chaired by Sen. Philip A. Hart , and supported by the law partner of a former IRS commissioner , who judged fifty-one of ninety-nine advertisements Senator Hart had questioned to be nondeductible . Among them were advertisements by Exxon on why energy was short in the United States , and why the company needed high profits ; Gulf advertisements that criticized the role of government regulations in the energy problem ; Shell and Texaco advertisements defending high profits as necessary for capital investment . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Phillips , plus twelve utility companies and associations , had classified all their advertisements as deductible in replies to Senator Hart . - As a result , the Senator requested an IRS investigation of deductions made by major oil companies and utilities for corporate advertising during the peak of the oil and gasoline shortage . Questioning both the propriety and legality of the deductions , public-interest groups contended that the cost of many corporate image advertisements was not deductible because copy sought to influence legislation favorable to the companies . Corporate spokesmen , contended that the advertisements deducted as legitimate business expensas were either " educational " or expressions of corporate views , which they were entitled to publicize . For example , Shell 's full-page advertisement in 230 newspapers asked : " How in all conscience can anyone call these excess profits ? " Texaco 's advertisement assured everyone , " We 're not holding back anything , " and offered charts to show its crude oil on hand , refinery output , gasoline stocks . Mobil 's advertisements said its 2 cents-per-gallon average profit was not much , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued a strongly worded free speech defense : " FTC control of product advertising claims can be considered the working of a democracy . Control over the right of companies to express their views on public issues is totalitarian . " Contending that business " has serious difficulty " getting its views on TV and radio and in the press , Mobil argued that business was forced to turn " more and more to paid advertising to express its views . " Should the FTC decide to " control " image advertisements by requiring substantiation or by issuing complaints , " business alone would be denied the right of free speech . " Shell 's spokesman at Senator Hart 's hearings argued that denying tax-deductibility for advertisements that might implicitly relate to legislation would in effect levy an " " economic penalty on the business community for expressing its views . " At a meeting of the International Newspaper Advertising Executives , an Exxon spokesman criticized the news media for creating a " credibility gap " by reporting about possible oil industry " windfall profits , " and offered the undisguised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play heck with our media schedules . " Advertising Age , irked by the display of arm-twisting , asked editorially how Exxon could be expected to direct its advertising budgets so as to get around the credibility gap , " unless it 's skywriting or matchbook covers . " However , the trade paper also advised Exxon that " the oil companies , now more than ever , need the support of the media , of Congress and of the public . But by arguing that they are in no way to blame for the energy crisis , that the rest of us just do n't understand the true situation , and then threatening to cut off the ad dollar flow , the oil companies are doing a lot to create a great big credibility gap of their own . " Mobil led the oil industry fight for corporate First Amendment rights , contending that any FTC intervention would be an additional restraint on top of hostile network policies , which already prevented the oil companies from giving the public information the oil companies considered important . Mobil foUnd itself largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It complained that network clearance officers combed endlessly over advertisements to strike out words and phrases they considered controversial . Curiously , the oil industry in its battle with the networks for air time was in the same bed with the Sierra Club , the Rev. Carl McIntire and Media Access Project , the last-named having gone all the way to the Supreme Court in an unsuccessful attempt to force CBS to sell time to a group of businessmen opposed to the war in Vietnam . Mobil fmally split the networks when NBC accepted an image commercial which CBS and ABC had turned down as controversial . But then , instead of running it on NBC , Mobil chose to use frames from the commercial in a full-page advertisement in newspapers and magazines . Copy in the advertisement charged CBS and ABC with preventing Mobil from exercising its First Amendment right to buy TV time to find out how people felt about offshore drilling . Readers of the advertisement were invited to write comments on that subject and on the broader issue of the two networks ' rejection of Mobil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely with the oil companies and their advertising agencies , trying to clear copy that would get more advertising dollars away from the print media without leaving the networks vulnerable to formal consumer complaints of imbalance . The dilemma was how to fit the oil companies ' often highly partisan copy into the networks ' fixed policy of selling time only for product advertising , and confining controversial public issues to news and public affairs programs . The networksbelieved this policy insured fairness , since conflicting opinions were " balanced " by professional newsmen and editors . Making the problem more complex , the networks ' censors often disagreed with one another on what an advertiser could say under the no-controversy policy . For example , all three networks turned down a Phillips Petroleum animated commercial that stressed the company 's tax contributions to the community and the importance of the free enterprise system . But a Mobil commercial dealing with the subject of corporate profits was cleared by CBS , required one revision by NBC , and a number of revisions by ABC . " les not always the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the way it 's dealt with . " Trying to be helpful , an NBC spokesman urged the oil companies not to try in a thirty- or sixty-second commercial to debate the size of the current oil supply , whether there is an overall fuel shortage , who is responsible for the problem or the subject of excessive profits . As a result of the networks ' restrictions , and the ever present threat of consumer complaints to the FCC , the voice of the oil Companies has been mainly a print voice. , But the situation was unsatisfactory for the oil industry , networks and consumer groups alike . The oil industry could not get the greater part of its image campaign on the networks , from which the American people take most of its news ; the networks lost considerable revenue , and consumer groups were similarly frozen out of air time . " So long as network TV continues to take the arrogant position that it , and it alone , knows what the public should view on public issues , " a consumer spokesman said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oil industry because the networks wo n't take its money , and the environmental and consumer groups because we do n't have any money . " Advertising Age saw " many ways for networks to achieve fairness without foreclosing the opportunity to speak through paid time . " One way was a " town hall " format , where advocates of different views would have their say . True , there was danger that the advocate with the most money would try to gain disproportionate access to the public , but Advertising Age nevertheless urged the networks to open the air to diverse views . Thus far , the networks have not taken up the idea . IRS responded to Senator Hart 's request for an investigation of the oil companies ' tax-deducted image campaign by advising that the IRS was " prohibited from disclosing confidential tax information of taxpayers . " The agency acknowledged that the IRS Code and regulations prohibited as a tax-deductible business expense " any attempt to influence the general public . . . with respect to legislative matters , elections , or referendums , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appropriate district directors for their consideration . . . . " As of today , nothing further has been made public by the IRS . Fifteen months after the six Congressmen and Media Access Project petitioned the FTC to require the oil companies to substantiate their image claims , and five months after submission by the FTC investigative staff itself of a report recommending such substantiation in certain instances , the FTC decided not to adopt the report as policy . However , the agency warned it did not consider corporate image advertisements on public issues to be immune from FTC action if they were " unfair or deceptive " and their commercial effect outweighed First Amendment considerations . FTC sources considered this caveat important , since many companies have taken the position that their corporate image statements are completely protected speech . Court decisions , as cited in the FTC report , in comparable situations under the First Amendment , involved a close look at the likely effect and appeal of the speech in question . In those cases where the dominant appeal and likely effect of the advertisement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Contrarily , an advertisement did not lose its First Amendment protection solelybecause it was a paid advertisement . No mechanical test was available to determine when protected speech lost its protection and when it did not ; each case had to be examined individually . But , the report concluded , " It is clear that certain speech is sufficiently related to commercial activities of the advertiser to be subject to the traditional government regulation of commercial activity . " Considering the rapid growth in recent years of image advertising  --  by oil companies , ' utilities and other large industries  --  it is evident that the FTC , IRS and , other federal regulatory agencies will be under increasing pressure , from events as well as from consumer groups , to adopt specific guidelines . ?                     