@@476130

THE storm of controversy around the foreign policy of Franklin D. Roosevelt is already as furious and looks to be as enduring as that which has raged around the foreign policy of Woodrow Wilson since 1919 . " War brings an almost inevitable aftermath of disillusion ; and the failure of this last war to produce even an approximation of peace has charged our contemporary disillusion with a bitter sense of betrayal . As the revisionists of the twenties turned on Wilson , so the revisionists of the forties are today turning on Roosevelt . The Wilson policies had only to face the relatively uncomplicated attacks of the outright isolationists ? men like Harry Elmer Barnes and the early Walter Millis , who had a na ? ve conviction that the United States could live safely apart from the world . Such na ? ve isolationism is not , of course , wholly absent from revisionism today . Charles A. Beard , the intellectual leader of the isolationist wing of the revisionists , dedicated two volumes to a trenchant attack on the very foundations of Roosevelt 's prewar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journalists , such as John T. Flynn and George Morgenstern , have lived off ever since , and which , one understands , Professor C. C. Tansill of Fordham is planning to extend into the war years . Even an intimate member of the Roosevelt circle like Admiral Leahy could believe in 1945 , after World War II , that " involvement in European politics would inevitably bring us into another European war , " and that " there still remained a hope that we might succeed in avoiding entangling ourselves in European political difficulties . " But contemporary revisionism is on the whole a far more complex phenomenon . In its more serious aspects , it entirely accepts the necessity of American intervention into world affairs . It attacks Roosevelt , not for having intervened at all , but for having intervened unwisely , inadequately , or ineffectively . A whole series of critics ? William C. Bullitt , Edgar Ansel Mowrer , Richard H. S. Cross-man , Henry Luce , Raymond Maley , and most recently , Hanson Baldwin in his book , Great Mistakes of the War ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence on subordinating politics to strategy during the war , have made the postwar problems even more exasperating and hopeless than they would have been anyway . I NTO this embattled atmosphere Judge Samuel Rosenman has now released the last four volumes of his invaluable collection , The Public Papers and Addresses of Franklin D. Roosevelt . To these Judge Rosenman has contributed introductions and notes containing a crisp and informed defense of Roosevelt 's wartime policies . The series is a model of editing and book-making ; and the last four volumes in particular are essential for any one concerned with the politics of the second world war . Judge Rosenman 's volumes make available much material which is essential for a judgment of Roosevelt 's foreign policy . At the same time , Basil Rauch , whose History of the iVew Deal is the best short volume on the legislative and administrative record of Roosevelt 's first few years in office , has now completed Roosevelt : from Munich to Pearl Harbor , a survey of Roosevelt 's prewar policies . And our knowledge of the war policies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased by the publication of Walter Johnson 's book for Edward R. Stettinius , Jr. , Roosevelt and the Russians , and by Admiral William Leahy 's I Was There . II H ow does Roosevelt 's foreign policy stand up in the barrage of defense and attack ? The first clear point is that much of the cross fire obscures what may go down as Roosevelt 's grand contribution to the strengthening of democracy ; his insight into the military conditions of democratic survival . In the dark and bloody world of the mid-century , we forget the fact that a generation ago peace was accounted the normal and natural state of man . The liberal and democratic movements of the West , forgetting that they had themselves come to power through violence , had been lulled by the placid nineteenth century into thinking that wars could be localized and , in the not too distant future , eliminated entirely . The first world war was considered to be an unfortunate accident , the exception that proved the rule ; and no drastic conclusions were drawn from it . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This atmosphere left Roosevelt singularly untouched . His sea-going background , his admiration for his jingo cousin Theodore Roosevelt , his own exciting tour of duty as Assistant Secretary of the Navy in the first world war ? all these immunized him against the malaise which overtook the George Lansburys and the Oswald Garrison Villards . Herecognized that free society could not endure on good will alone ? that it must be prepared to face up to the military requirements of survival . At an early stage he disappointed the pacifist wing of his liberal admirers by slipping rearmament into the recovery program , blandly initiating the program of naval construction in 1933 as a means of furthering national recovery . " This was the period when the fatuity of the Kellogg Pact was still the complacent expression of altogether too much liberal purpose . Stuart Chase had terrified the left in 1929 with his picture of " the two-hour war " in which a surprise air attack would blot out civilization by gas bombs : " not even a rat , not even an ant , not even a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The reflex was the Oxford Oath : young men in Britain swearing never to take up arms for king or country , and young men in the United States avidly following their dubious example . Even the rise of Nazism could not dent the pacifist fantasies . Somehow the fascist challenge to civilization would be met in any way except on the field of battle . We have forgotten too quickly the tenacity of pacifism in the left at this time . In March 1935 Clement Attlee , leading the Labor party in its fight against the mild rearmament proposals recommended by the National Government as insurance against Hitler , could lecture the House of Commons , with sublime irrelevance : " We are told in the White Paper that there is danger against which we have to guard ourselves . We do not think you can do it by national defense . We think you can only do it by moving forward to a new world ? a world of law , the abolition of national armaments with a world force and a world economic system . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler . " By whatever fortune , Roosevelt knew about Hitler : he was spared this particular form of the great illusion of pacifism . The liberals who admired the TVA but disliked the construction of the aircraft carriers Enterprise and Yorktown accordingly denounced Roosevelt or made preposterous excuses for him : the Navy , they said , was a kind of hobby , and the President must be indulged in it . Six years later the whole world could only regret that Roosevelt had not indulged himself with far less deference to pacifist opinion . The Navy , instead of being too large for democratic survival , was too small . The odious Enterprise turned out , in the words of Bernard Brodie , to be " the undisputed champion of all American warships in terms of combat record . " Young men who had signed the Oxford Oath now fought in Normandy or in the South Pacific . There seemed to be a more direct connection between democracy and national defense than it had been fashionable for liberals to admit a decade before . HE United States was lucky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this respect at least , was unfashionable . Roosevelt 's basic insight into the military conditions of democratic survival was , it is true , often overlaid in the thirties by concessions , vain hopes , and bad inconsistencies . He retreated before the pressures incited by the Nye investigation and signed neutrality legislation designed to secure what he must have known , in other moods , was beyond the possibility of securing . He remained detached before the challenge of the civil war in Spain . Doubtless a fear of alienating Catholic support explained Roosevelt 's Spanish policy in part ; but more important , one feels , was the fact that he never really grasped the moral or even the strategic issues in Spain . Professor Beard , marshaling his evidence with the skill and the selectivity of a master prosecutor , has made the most of the ebb and flow of Roosevelt 's prewar policies . Yet there can be no serious doubt that Roosevelt had a basic and steady purpose , revealed first in the " quarantine " speech in Chicago in 1937 . The rise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States would not long survive a free nation in a totalitarian world . With the means at his disposal , he began the long labor of educating the people to the dimensions of the fascist threat to America . Basil Rauch 's Roosevelt : from Munich to Pearl Harbor provides an extremely able , clear , and fascinating account of this process of education . Ranch 's cogent narrative has as only an incidental purpose the correction of Beard 's manifold distortions and omissions ; but rarely in the process of incidental commentary has one historian more effectively destroyed the work of another . Professor Rauch 's revision of the revisionists brings much needed sense and proportion into the discussion of the period from Munich to Pearl Harbor . His book accentuates the personal tragedy which led one of the great American historians into succumbing in his last days to the " devil theory of war " which he had once himself so effectively exposed . III W AR itself brought new perplexities . Roosevelt was always a pragmatist , playing by ear , as he liked to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an explicit moral code so much as by a consistency of emotion and instinct . In domestic affairs this was fine : the crisis was less inexorable , the margin of error greater . But war lined his pragmatism up against the wall . " It is common sense to take a method and try it , " he had said in ushering in the New Deal . " If it fails , admit it frankly and try another . " This may indeed have been common sense in peace . It certainly was not in war , where the price of failure was defeat . Roosevelt simply could not shuffle his strategic plans the way he had shuffled programs for domestic recovery . No one knew this better than Roosevelt himself . The insouciant cigarette holder and the press conference flippancies served only as an easy means of distracting attention from the eyes ever more shadowed , the cheeks ever more hollow , the expression ever more careworn and somber . And , in this dilemma , his pragmatism ? even a pragmatism so superbly grounded in a brilliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ betray him . Had he been a man committed to abstract and explicit principles , like ' Wilson , he might have developed a specific political strategy for the war . But as a pragmatist , reluctant to sacrifice American lives to a political strategy of whose value he temperamentally could have no doctrinaire certitude , he had no choice but opportunism and expediency . The four new volumes of The Public Papers and Addresses give a full if oblique reflection of Roosevelt 's political dilemma . He did not direct the war in a political vacuum . of course . He set forth what he hoped would be the framework of the peace in such extremely general statements as the Atlantic Charter and the Four Freedoms . But these were essentially moral rather than political expressions ; they were statements of hope rather than of decision . His world political strategy , as a consequence , was compounded of sentiments rather than of ideas . Some of the sentiments which tempered the basic pragmatism were wise and commendable : Roosevelt 's deep faith in the " massed , angered forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; his genuine and capacious internationalism . Other sentiments were more ambiguous , such as the profound detestation of Germany which committed him to German policies of an impractical harshness , or his delight in what Isaiah Berlin has called the " royal cousin " approach to international diplomacy . At its best , Roosevelt 's exultant sense of himself as the embodiment of a nation dealing-with other archetypal heads of state could lead to a rich working relationship with men like Churchill and Mackenzie King . At its worst , it involved him in an entirely unworthy and cheapening preoccupation with crowned heads and royal families , so that the Archduke Ottos and the King Peters and the other bargain-basement remains of European monarchies could command a disproportionate amount of his time and his interest . But his essential approach to the politics of war remained negative . And , as one main result , when he came to particular decisions , he often had little definite to insist on against the very clear , specific , and intelligible criterion of the military : the belief that any political decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a bad criterion ; it is certainly one not to be lightly overridden except where the political advantages of the longer way around are indisputable and conclusive . Hanson Baldwin has recently argued that Churchill was right in advocating the invasion of Europe through the Balkans rather than through France ; but this is surely an instance where we would have paid a much higher military cost without gaining very clear or certain political advantages ? indeed , with the possible result of producing a third world war before the second was over . Yet , with a political strategy so general and undefined , the criterion of military expediency became increasingly important . Theday-to-day politics of the war grew increasingly to be a function , not of the State Department , but of the theater commanders . In his press conference after the Darlan deal in North Africa , Roosevelt quoted what he said was a Balkan proverb : " My children , you are permitted in time of great danger to walk with the Devil until you have crossed the bridge . " But often in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or it constantly receded , while the Devil remained close and familiar . It was ironical that General Marshall , when he became secretary of state , found himself the impatient prisoner of a system of military initiative in foreign policy which he himself had exacted from Roosevelt five years before . IV T HE two areas of Roosevelt 's wartime policy which have received special criticism are the policy of " unconditional surrender " and the policy toward the U.S.S.R. Both were in a peculiar sense personal policies ; and both proceeded directly from the lack of specific content in his political objectives . The first , oddly enough , was opposed by the military and constituted one of the few cases of Roosevelt 's overruling the military on political questions ; the other was supported by the military and , indeed , in the Yalta phase was pushed to extreme lengths by the Army 's passionate desire to insure Soviet participation in the war against Japan . Hanson Baldwin recently called the unconditional surrender policy " the biggest political mistake of the war . " Mr. Churchill evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under responsibility for it ; contemporary records , however , give him a larger role in its formulation than his present memory will concede . But it remains clear that " unconditional surrender " was exclusively a Roosevelt inspiration ; and that he alone continued to insist on it , after the Russians , the British , and the U. S. State Department and Army had done their separate bests to get him to forget it . It has become evident , in addition , that Roosevelt 's infatuation with " unconditional surrender " derived in part from an entirely garbled recollection of American history . Roosevelt had an itUe fixe that Grant had called for " unconditional surrender " at Appomattox and then had responded to such a surrender by acts of generosity to the defeated foe . " Lee surrendered unconditionally to Grant , " Roosevelt actually wrote to Hull at one point , " but immediately Grant told him that his officers should take their horses home for spring plowing . That is the spirit I want to see abroad . " Thus " unconditional surrender " had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet the facts are that Grant talked of " unconditional surrender " at Fort Donelson and at Vicksburg ; he said nothing about it at Appomattox . If the term had any historical connotation for most people , it was certainly not the amiable connotation which it incorrectly had for Roosevelt . s TILL there was more to " unconditional surrender " than a foolish slip of memory on Roosevelt 's part . He was looking hard in 1943 for a formula which would achieve two objectives : on the one hand , reassure the Russians against their fear that the West might seek a separate peace ; and , on the other , make absolutely certain this time that the Germans would not escape the full consciousness and stigma of defeat . At the same time he wanted to keep the question of the terms of peace open , because , with his basic pragmatism , he could not know what the exact terms should be until the moment of peace had arrived . The principle of " unconditional surrender " seemed a perfect answer to the triple dilemma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to push the principle too far , particularly in regard to the satellite states , it is not at all clear to me that the principle itself , as Mr. Baldwin has argued , " discouraged opposition to Hitler , probably lengthened the war and . . . cost us dearly in lives and time . " Mr. Baldwin 's assumption evidently is that " unconditional surrender " deterred the Ger .. man people from an anti-Hitler revolution . Yet such a theory is surety based on a musketover-the-fireplace conception of revolution , altogether irrelevant to a totalitarian state where police controls were reasonably intact . And there is no reason to believe in any case that the failure to gain terms from the Allies deterred any serious anti-Hitler movement ; it certainly did not discourage the heroes of the 1944 Putsch from making their courageous MAGAZINE attempt on Hitler 's life . What " unconditional surrender " may have deterred is the attempt on the part of someone like Goering to win special terms for himself . While the defection to the Allies of Goering and part of the Luftwaffe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that it would have simplified the peace . It was a correct desire to guard against some such contingency as this which led Roosevelt to favor " unconditional surrender " in the first place . On the point of the effect of " unconditional surrender " the arguments of Wallace Carroll ( in Persuade or Perish ) and H. R. Trevor-Roper ( in The Last Days of Hitler ) seem far more convincing to me than the more modish views of Hanson Baldwin . HE question of the U.S.S.R. puts Roose-velt 's pragmatism to the most severe of tests . As a pragmatist , Roosevelt reacted to the Soviet Union in terms of specific situa-tions . When the U.S.S.R. was invading Fin-land , it seemed to him " a dictatorship as ab-solute as any other dictatorship in the world . " But when the Red Army was beating back the Nazis at Stalingrad , the U.S.S.R. took on for him a more genial aspect ? as it did for most of the free world . It was in this mood that he told Sumner Welles that both the U.S.A. and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American democracy and Soviet communism could never meet , they would become enough alike to keep the peace . Thus the pragmatism which prevented Roosevelt from assessing the theoretical impli-cations of a totalitarian system was one factor in his Russian policy , as another was his in-stinctive generosity in the face of Russian courage and sacrifice . His pragmatism ? his refusal to anticipate the terms of peace ? affected his Russian policy in another way . " People all over the world are shell-shocked , " he wrote to George Non-is in 1943 , " ? and they will require a period of recuperation before final terms are laid down in regard to boundaries , transfers of population , free inter-course , the lowering of economic barriers , planning for mutual reconstruction , etc . " But what was to happen in the interim ? " I have been visualizing , " Roosevelt told Norris , " a superimposed ? or if you like it , superassumed ? obligation by Russia , China , Britain , and ourselves that we will act as sheriffs for the ROOSEVELT AND maintenance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be so much easier to enter into lasting agreements after the transition period . " Thus the conception of the big-power partnership ? the Big Three , as it soon became ? emerged as an easy substitute in Roosevelt 's mind for more specific political objectives . And another factor encouraging this conception was surely his affable relations with his " royal cousin " Stalin . Some revisionists , following the lead of William C. Bullitt , have criticized Roosevelt for not conditioning lend-lease aid to Russia in 1941 upon the acceptance of postwar political commitments . This argument overlooks the fact that it was almost as essential to us as to the Russians ? and fully as essential to Mr. Churchill and the British ? that the Red Army continue to kill Germans . It overlooks the even more crucial fact ? which these same people , still following the lead of Bullitt , are always the first to assert in other contexts ? that the U.S.S.R. would certainly not have kept such agreements , particularly when exacted under duress . Roosevelt , indeed , had very little choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recede . V T HE test of his Russian policy thus came at Yalta ; and Yalta , in the minds of many revisionists , has become the pat and comfortable explanation for everything that has gone wrong since the end of the war . There can be no question that Yalta represented the downfall of Rooseveltian pragmatism . For such pragmatism in international relations could succeed only among nations and leaders sharing the same or similar moral and social values ; it was useless in dealings with men of opposed and hostile values . Thus pragmatism was a means of working out problems with Churchill , but it was an exposure of weakness to Stalin ; and this Roosevelt did not know till after Yalta . Richard Grossman has argued persuasively that Roosevelt 's foreign policy was obsessed by a desire to avoid the " mistakes " of Wilson ; yet that herein Roosevelt was wrong , and that Wilson 's narrow and zealous faith in abstract principle , rather than Roosevelt 's limitless flexibility , was what was needed to counter communism . " There can be little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson would have been a far more formidable adversary for Stalin than Franklin D. Roosevelt . " In general , this is a just criticism . But in detail , and as applied to Yalta , it can be much exaggerated . The actual import of that conference , indeed , has been recklessly distorted , including the really vicious attempt to blow up Alger Hiss into having been a major Presidential adviser . Edward R. Stettinius , Jr. , and Walter Johnson in Roosevelt and the Russians and Judge Rosenman in his cogent and admirable brief note on the Yalta conference ( pages 537-548 in the last volume of The Public Papers and Addresses ) dispose conclusively of the central misunderstandings and misrepresentations of the Yalta transactions . It seems fairly clear that the so-called Yalta " concessions " were both justified in terms of the information available to Roosevelt and Churchill and without decisive practical effect on subsequent developments . The Yalta agreement on Eastern Europe , far from being a concession at all , represented an extension of democratic principles so far in advance of democratic power that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided to ignore them . The agreements on the UN were , on the whole , minor and inconsequential ; who cares today how many votes the U.S.S.R. commands in the General Assembly ? As for the concessions in the Far East , these were made with the specific purpose of assuring Soviet entrance into the Japanese war by a designated date . The Army , not knowing at the time whether the Manhattan Project would ever produce anything and determined to reduce the hundreds of thousands of casualties anticipated in the invasion and subjection of Japan , pressed upon Roosevelt the absolute necessity of getting a firm commitment from Stalin . Even to someone like Admiral Leahy , who disagreed with the military estimate of the Far Eastern situation , the final arrangements seemed " very reasonable . " " No one was more surprised than I , " Leahy writes in I Was There , " to see these conditions agreed to at Yalta labeled as some horrendous concessions made by President Roosevelt to an enemy . " Nor is it easy to argue convincingly that the situation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concessions . It is hard to see that anything short of the commitment of American troops to China could have averted the communist triumph over Chiang Kai-shek . Stalin probably negotiated in good faith at Yalta ? in good faith , that is , within terms of the Soviet wartime policy of collaboration . That policy was not to be abandoned until military developments in the weeks after Yalta showed conclusively that the military crisis in Europe was over , and that collaboration was no longer necessary . At this point , Soviet policy rapidly switched to its postwar objective of the political conquest of Europe ? a switch manifested in March 1945 by the tough Soviet interventions in Eastern Europe , by the instructions through Jacques Duclos to the Communist parties of the West to cease their " Browderite " tactics of collaboration , and by Stalin 's own fantastic charges against Roosevelt . Ever the pragmatist , Roosevelt reacted swiftly to the new direction of Soviet policy . It is a misfortune that his death came in April before he had had occasion to embody his rapidly growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stalin and to Churchill and in private conversations . VI B UT , even if the consequences of Yalta have been rashly overstated , it still can be argued that Roosevelt 's basic pragmatism throughout the war betrayed the democratic cause and lost the peace . This judgment seems to me , however , essentially mistaken . The fact is that the ambiguities in Roosevelt 's attitude toward the Soviet Union corresponded precisely to the ambiguities in the whole Western attitude toward the U.S.S.R. ; and this is a fact the historian can not ignore , whatever subsequent wisdom hind. , ight may have given to the commentators . The central reason for Wilson 's failure had been that he incarnated convictions which the American people did not share ; and that as a consequence Presidential policy outran the possibilities of national support . This error Roosevelt took great care to avoid . I happen to have been one of those myself who mistrusted Russia even in the glowing days of Stalingrad , but my argument for mistrust was MAGAZINE essentially an intellectual one ; and no one in control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an anti-Soviet policy in advance of demonstrated Soviet purposes of systematic hostility toward the West . Such purposes were not demonstrated during the war till March 1945 . Roosevelt described his policy toward the U.S.S.R. as a " great gamble . " But it was a gamble which the American people were prepared to make . How much greater the gamble would have been , and how much less the chances of popular support , had U. S. policy based itself on the opposite hunch ? the theory of Soviet non-collaboration ? before the evidence was in to convince the people of the correctness of that theory ! Andre Malraux , no friend of the Soviet Union or of communism , has stated the problem with precision . Roosevelt went to Yalta , Malraux writes , for reasons which , even today 1948 , do not seem so bad to me . Our attempt to reach an agreement with the Russians entailed a liability which was , for France , very heavy . But would it not have been still heavier if we had refused even the attempt ? I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , or even in the United States , if he had brought about a break with Russia , which at that time would have seemed to have no justification . " Given the pragmatic genius of the American people , Roosevelt 's policy toward Russia was the only possible policy . The problem of whether the West had a community of values with the Soviet Union could only be solved pragmatically . And it was not solved pragmatically till the period after Yalta . The defects in Roosevelt 's wartime policy thus seem to be reflections of the defects in the American climate of opinion . With his superb political instincts , Roosevelt knew , as Wilson did not know , that the American people learned by experience , not by logic . And . because he learned by experience himself , he could not anticipate what had not happened . He rallied a nation broken and dispirited by depression ; he led it successfully through the greatest war of our history ; lie left it morally strong and materially prosperous . He was not a worker of miracles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build up a case against his greatness as a democratic leader .                     