@@477139

A critical and highly personal report on the mind of one of the most misunderstood literary figures of our times . IN THE decade since his death the name of H. G. Wells has become one to conjure with in a negative sense ; he has become one of the stock examples for the new obscurantists of a mind led away to folly and despair by the nineteenth-century progressive fallacy , and by a blind faith in science . George Orwell described him as incapable of believing that science could be anything but a power for good , and as collapsing into petulance when it dawned on hint in the course of WorldWar II that it might not be ; and Mr. St. John Ervine describes him , in his biography of Shaw , as one who was certain that barring cosmic disaster , progress was assured . " These statements rest on a memory of him as a jolly , avuncular figure promising mankind a birthday every week with gorgeous presents if scientists were only given their heads . But if the tone of his later journalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense pessimism , and his whole life a struggle with it . Wells was always proud of the article he had printed in the Fortnightly Review in July 1891 which was the serious start of his career as a writer . It was called The Rediscovery of the Unique , " and although there was a logical basis for it in a current trend toward the abandonment of the idea of absolute natural laws for the modern one of laws of probability , which Wells was acute to perceive as early as he did , the real starting point for the paper was Hobbes'dismissal of the idea of universals , in Leviathan . This is the necessary first step toward accepting the ideology of the mechanistic view of the uni-verse in which the whole world is " nothing but a mere heap of dust , fortuitously agitated . " The conception of evolutionary progress depends on a picture of the universe in which mind is increasingly valuable , and which is also increasingly orderly , to which the mechanistic view is altogether hostile . It is impossible to be an optimist believing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which mind figures only as a local accident . There is also considerable difficulty in reconciling the idea of progress with a universe which by its essential nature can not support a permanent moral order . That Wells should have dealt with the ideological basis of pessimism in his first serious piece of writing throws some light on the real cast of his mind . The Time Machine , of 1895 , his first novel , puts this abstract idea into terms of concrete experience . The time machine itself is simply a clock which measures geological and astronomical time schemes in addition to historical ones . It carries the time traveler on into the future for more than thirty million years to a point from which it is obvious that a cosmic event is impending which will destroy the whole frame of reference in which mind , consciousness , and experience have any meaning . The time traveler returns from this ultimate threshold , but it is no accident that on his next voyage into the future he is annihilated : Wells is saying that the universe , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scientific apparatus for examining reality can only bring home to man that everything he can do , think , or feel , is finally futile . The end for the environment , as for the race and the individual , is extinction . A limited kind of optimism is still possible if one thinks of man on the dying planet as King Lear , a kind of rock on which destiny breaks , great by virtue of his innate nobility of mind . But The Time Machine expresses a rather surprising ? in view of Wells ' reputation ? doubt about the human mind : the time traveler encounters a society so degenerate that its intellectual life has come to an end . Cruelty has no meaning in it because its members can no longer conceive moral issues . Wells is quite explicit about what brought about this debasement : I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had been . It had committed suicide . It had set itself steadfastly toward comfort and ease , a balanced society with security and permanency as its watchword @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this at last . Once , life and property must have reached almost absolute safety . The rich sic had been assured of his wealth and comfort , the toiler assured of his fife and work . No doubt in that perfect world there had been no unemployed problem , no social question left unsolved . And a great quiet had followed . The complete success of a materialist technological society of the kind that ' Wells is supposed to have given his unqualified endorsement is the agent of destruction . THE MIND RUN WILD T H E island of The Island of Dr. Moreau ( 1896 ) is the world , and Dr. Moreau is God . The disaster described in the story is the consequence of turning loose the liberated intellect , which arrives symbolically on the island as an unwanted addition to a consignment of animals ordered by the Doctor . It arrives in the form of a post-Darwinian scientist who becomes a humanitarian revolutionary in revulsion to the cruel methods by which Dr. Moreau is trying to implant nobility into his animals . It overthrows the crudely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pain and terror in the hope that it is setting them free for the pursuit . of happiness . But once freed from fear they rapidly revert to their aboriginal savagery . The enlightened intruder can only appeal to their better natures ? a useless course as they do not have any such . Under Dr. Moreau 's scar tissue they remain animals interested only in the satisfaction of their appetites . Wells sets the scene of this grim parable on a tropical island because the south sea island is the locus classicus of so many eighteenth-century parables about the innate virtue of man : against the conventional backdrop for the romantic statement he bleakly puts forward the classical view of man as a creature only able to rise above his brutish defects under some system of restraints and goads . The book also says in unmistakable terms that the consequence of the Darwinian intellectual revolution ? with its establishment of the mechanistic view of the universe on a solid basis of observed fact ? will be a moral collapse . This is a kind of treason to T. H. Huxley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructed a compromise as a basis of operation . On the one hand the mechanistic view was to be taken of reality while on the other values were to be sustained by intellectual effort . This meant in short that the intellect was to treat itself as a substitute for a permanent moral order . This works if the intellect has a bias in favor of virtue ? an assumption which Wells instinctively doubted . He felt that it was essentially an aspect of man 's animal nature , and that its ultimate values were utility and efficiency . The Invisible Man , of 1897 , is the beginning of a series of tussles with this issue , in which The First Men in the Moon ( 1901 ) and the short story , " The Country of the Blind " ( 1911 ) , stand out as leading exhibits . In The Invisible Man and " The Country of the Blind " invisibility and sight among the blind are symbolic of intellectual isolation , and in both stories men are absolutely corrupted by the sense that they have special knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be called the surface of action of these two stories to some extent obscures the criticism of the amoral aspects of the scientific outlook that they make ? but the point is made without any possibility of misunderstanding in the description of lunar society with which The First Men in the Moon concludes . In his messages from the moon the scientist in the story approvingly describes the worst conceivable kind of slave state ? one which reduces most of its members to simple automata , actually physically deformed to fit them more perfectly for specific social functions , and laid aside in coma when they are not in use . It is a society where respect for efficiency stands in the place of morality because the unfettered intellect rules . What Wells is saying here is that a further extension of human intellectual powers in the post-Renaissance direction of abstract rational thinking will lead to the growth of cruel and inhuman planned societies utterly indifferent CO individuals and individual happiness . The scientific apparatus for.examining reality is hostile to values since it shows that any system of values is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anything that was ever in Wells ' mind to those who have it firmly in their heads that most of his work was devoted to sketching out the brilliant outlines of future Utopias to which men might aspire . But most of his ventures into the future in fact describe the collapse of human dreams in the face of the realities of human nature . The pessimistic account of the development of human society given in The Time Machine has its parallel in When the Sleeper Wakes , of 1899 . Most readers remember this as a description of the triumph of gadgetry , and forget the social picture it ruthlessly and grimly draws . Wells is explicit about why the World Government of 3002 is corrupt ; Already he knew something of the history of the intervening years . He heard now of the moral decay that had followed the collapse of supernatural religion , in the minds of ignoble man , the decline of public honor , the ascendancy of wealth . For men who had lost their belief in God had still kept their faith in property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as explicit in saying that scientific and technological advances do not automatically produce social progress . The book as a whole , with its considerable anticipations of actual police state developments , and of both Orwell 's 1984 and Huxley 's Brave New World , is the nightmare of a man who would have liked to find himself inside Shelley 's imagination but finds himself instead inside Hobbes ' ; and its Most frightening aspect is that the tyranny it describes is not a construction with an ideological basis , but an organic growth . It has evolved from the society of 1899 along lines set by the weaknesses of the average man and woman , and it is simply a machine for exploiting those weaknesses to the utmost . When the Sleeper Wakes does even more to bring home Wells ' fundamental pessimism than either The Time Machine or The Island of Dr. Moreau , and makes one realize how far his later optimism went against the native , grain of his thought . THE TOUCH OF SUCCESS H I S phase of optimism began in the early ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a widening social experience , or , to put it crudely , success . This is in no way to question his integrity , it was not a question of selling out . But as Wells rose out of the generalized mass of the lower middle class and became socially visible as a successful writer he came into increasing contact with the world of affairs . Just as his first step out of the still effectively eighteenth-century world of rural society in which he had been brought up had given him the knowledge of a lower type of human being than he had been previously able to imagine ? in the shape of the nineteenth-century urban proletariat ? so his third step brought him experience of a much higher type . The country society he knew as a child at Up Park was a degenerate squirearchy , MAGAZINE with its barely literate landowners , its dependent client-intellectuals in the shape of doctor , clergyman , and lawyer , its sharply unprincipled managers actuated by a self-seeking servility , and its decent but intellectually numb and docile lower orders , gardeners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as belonged in this social picture was the property of a minority of illuminati , a stray rebel here and there , whose thinking had the character of dreaming rather than of any active social contribution . When the Sleeper Wakes could be fairly subtitled " a bohemian visits industrial society " : the sleeper 's reaction to what he finds after 203 years is not " what has happened to what I was working for , " but " what has happened to my dreams . " Through sheer unworldliness Wells had fallen into the error ? it could he called Blakery ? common among artists , of assuming that only the artist has integrity . Success brought him into touch not only with an intelligentsia devoted to the qualitative improvement of intellectual life , but also with property-owners who had a sense of responsibility to the community , businessmen who were not simple exploiters , and a small army of people who paid for the privileges life had brought them with disinterested public service . The idea of governing-class intellectual life which Wells had formed at Up Park from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replaced by actual experience of such occasions as those on which he found himself arguing social questions with Shaw and the Webb 's , the Bishop of Stepney , and A. J. Balfour , the national leader of the Conservative party . The idea of a tiny minority of illuminati dreaming ineffectively on the margins of things was replaced by a picture , based on a tangible reality , of an active group of leaders in their various fields getting together to thresh out their differences of opinion as a preliminary to agreeing on practical steps toward the improvement of the quality and conditions of English life . Wells had a volatile mind . Beatrice Webb called him a speculator in ideas , meaning a wild plunger in the stock-market sense , and as soon as he got the hang of the marching strength of the practical reformist movement in England he conceived of its expansion into world-wide terms . Suppose , the minority of men of good will everywhere , in all lands , could take hold of the meaningless proliferation of industrialism and give it coherent direction ? A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national frictions would vanish and men would work happily together to bring each other a fair share of the world 's abundant wealth . There are no logical objections to this as a plausible future course of development for human affairs if the romantic view of human nature is accepted , and man is taken to be a creature of infinite possibility capable of the tremendous effort involved . But Wells was committed to a view of human nature diametrically opposed to this . He knew that the men of good will existed ? that was a matter of experience ? as was the existence of the technological apparatus for a world government . But he also knew in the long run that all human effort was futile and that man was base . The world was Dr. Moreau 's island , and the men of good will were working with obdurate materials which by its essential nature excluded any possibility of ultimate success . Wells at his most optimistic was in the impossible position of attempting to straddle irreconcilable positions . QUALIFIED PEP TALK F 4VIDENCE of the inner conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Food of the Gods . This is a progressive parable about the way that human undertakings have outgrown petty national states and their parochial administrative units ? its genesis was a talk on Areas of Administration given at the Students Union in London in March 1903 with Beatrice Webb in the chair ? and it ends with a pep talk for the coming new world order of giant regional schemes and international effort , which is not to stop short of the conquest of space . But the book 's optimism is qualified . The scientists who have produced the growth stimulant called the Food of the Gods ? a symbol for the new spirit ? have no real idea of the implications of what they have done ; and the first people to put it practically to use ? the Skinners ? are monstrous parodies of the average man in their blind sloppiness . As a result of their fecklessness the Food produces super-rats and super-vermin as well as super-men . The book is most alive in its description of what goes wrong when the Food gets loose in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among Wells ' best characters ? are infinitely more credible than the newer larger race produced by the Food who ultimately declare the progressive grand design for the elimination of littleness and little-mindedness in the world . Actually the truth is in the Skinners , and what the book convincingly describes is the frustration and the destruction of the progressive granddesign by the fallibility of the human material which is necessarily its medium . Wells ' anxiety to reconcile the truth about the human situation and human nature as he knew it with a progressive idealism led him to embrace the aesthetically untenable Pragmatism of William James , a main position of which is that truth is what is useful or expedient . Since it is manifestly expedient to believe that life has point and that values are absolute , therefore these things are true . On this basis Wells was able to go forward to Kipps , Tono-Bungay , Ann Veronica , and The History of Mr. Pony , the books which assume that human nature is plastic , and that the question " what shall we do with our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we want if we want it badly enough . " The boundless vitality , and the sheer animal spirits of these books , which have a personal background of an intense enjoyment of life , have done more than anything else to fix the picture of Wells as an optimist in people 's minds . A generation has grown up which is largely ignorant of the tremendously liberating effect they had in their time on the minds of those who were struggling with nineteenth-century social and intellectual conventions and their constrictions on personal life . They made thousands of men and women see how wide the horizons of possibility in the new century were , as opposed to the prospect put before them by an older generation conditioned by a social order iii decay . It is this report of Wells ' effect as a stimulating personal influence which stands in place of his actual work in the minds of most of his recent critics , and which has led the actual content of his work to be so widely disregarded . But Pragmatism as the basis of his operations began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comedy Mr. Polly 0910 ) was immediately followed by the publication of " The Country of the Blind , " in effect a revised version of The invisible Man . Wells ' steadily increasing anxiety about the unresolved inner conflict is evident in the decay of the style and in the actual content of The New Machiavelli , Marriage , The Passionate Friends , and The Wife of Sir Isaac Harman . His extremely happy personal background from 1900 to 1910 was invaded by tensions and confusions of a nature which led hint to question the validity of the conception of the enlightened minority which he had formed at the outset of the decade . The illusion of their common purpose and their disinterestedness disintegrated with closer acquaintance , and discords in his personal rela-72 IIARPER 'S kinships had brought out . the extent to which they still were swayed by animal passions of possessiveness , jealousy , and irrational hatred . As he was well aware that he had not behaved with godlike restraint himself , his profound mistrust of human nature reasserted itself . The New Machiavelli , Marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isaac Harman show a progressive deterioration in the belief that anything can in fact be done with our lives while human nature rules . In them an idea takes shape of somehow shedding individuality and the failings of the individual animal in some kind of communal being , an ill defined group consciousness . This presently got a name as the " Mind of the Race " in Boon in 1915 . Before Boon however there is the interesting , broken-backed , and extremely disorderly novel The World Set Fiee which shows his optimism in complete collapse . It can only be saved by postulating a salvation on the material plane which brings about a complete change in human . nature . The book starts with an educational diorama showing man 's conquest of power , which begins with primitive man 's capture of fire , passes through . what was then the present , and concludes with the harnessing of atomic energy . The dates are not at all bad ; the theoretical work on fission is completed in 1,933 ( five years ahead of the actual applications for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   