@@476759

THE Romans called it Trajana , and the Moors Tarayana , and in 1481 the Holy Inquisition established a tribunal in one of its towers . Today it is Triana , a tangled suburb of Seville across the yellow Guadalquivir . In one of its chapels there is a statue of our lady of Sorrows , and this Virgin , stiff in her jewels and velvet , is the queen of Seville . She has guarded the city against the Moors and the invading armies of Napoleon and the riotous cruelty of the Civil War . The night before Easter Sunday , the Virgin of Triana is carried on men 's shoulders over the long bridge to the Cathedral of Seville . The men shuffle forward , step by naked step , for six or seven hours under their enormous burden of wood and gold . They move in stifling darkness , for the float is surrounded by silken curtains . A man walks in front guiding them with his voice . They stop now and again and rest on their torn knees , and they reach their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a smoke . For six nights in Holy Week , floats representing the torments of Christ and the dolors of the Virgin are borne on men 's backs through Seville , from their chapels to the Cathedral and back again . Each one is surrounded by figures in pointed hoods , carrying candles and banners . At certain intervals , the processions stop and from a window or balcony a poet sings a saeta in lament for Christ or the Lady of Sorrows . These saetas arc shrill and inhumanly quavering , like the cry of a sea bird ; an echo from the Moorish past . Then the trumpets and cymbals blare and the procession starts again toward the Cathedral . Like so many Spanish churches , this Cathedral is built on the ruins of a mosque . The hooded penitents wind through clouds of incense and past the tomb of Columbus . All week long the parochial associations of the city , the Hermandades , perform their proud exercise of humility , and in the final hours , before the dawn of Easter Sunday , the whole city is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the orange gardens . Then the Virgin comes from Triana , moving over a sea of faces . The Semarza Santa is at its climax . The tall men march past , their feet cut and unsteady and the candles dying . Behind them come the brass bands and the Guarda Civil , with their black three-cornered hats and submachine guns . Because Seville is lamenting the passion of Christ , they carry the submachine guns reversed and tie a loop of black crepe around their barrels . Then it is Easter Sunday and the city is asleep under its bells . But already in the cool hours of the morning you can hear the bulls in their pens . On the afternoon of Easter Sunday the corrida starts , and the chapel doors have not yet been closed before the first bull charges into the ring . The people squint the sleep out of their eyes and crowd to the top rows of the arena . Up there one can see the whole of Seville , and beyond the city walls the land stretches brown and dark green where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one can also see the distant snow line of the Sierra Nevada , where the tall mountains border the hot sea . You do not find Spain here , for there is no single Spain . This land is vastly more complicated than any set of individual impressions , and more complicated than its great artists ? from Cervantes to Lorca ? have made out . It is still the most genuinely unexplored end of Europe . One can not honestly pretend to master its baffling contradictions or penetrate the graceful , wary silence of its people . But one can and must try to define some of the forces which today shape its character ? and which confront the American contractor and the American soldier as they arrive at Columbus ' point of departure . The Church Militant 1 E us return to the last night of Holy Week , for we can find there one of the essentials of the Spanish pattern ? the Church militant and triumphant . Spanish Catholicism is not the subtle , festive Catholicism of the Vatican . It is casual about violence , implacable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than the theologian . At one end of the gilt ladder stand St. Theresa and St. John of the Cross and their cloying intimacies with God ? at the other end are the brute joy in martyrdom , the scarlet gashes on the sculptured Christ , and the art of Ribcra . Inside the Cathedral of Seville on Easter Sunday , we will see Cardinal Segura y Saenz with his large hard eyes , thundering from his baroque pulpit . He may thunder against the shortening of women 's dresses , or the sinful idea of mixed bathing beaches , or a proposed school reform . In any case , he will speak of hell with terrifying conviction . To his parishioners , hell is a near place , burning the soles of their sandals in the noon hour . And it is full of heretics , above all of Protestants , writhing in an eternity of pain .. To Cardinal Segura this is not a metaphor , but a physical certainty , and he would a thousand times rather see Spain recede into a sleeping-sickness of poverty and isolation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center of his creed and it has shaped the policies of an important segment of Spanish Catholicism . Cardinal Segura has been trying for years to uproot ballroom dancing , which " plunges the soul into the sin of obscenity and willprove to be the beginning of eternal damnation . " He has been fighting with the same energy against the new Madrid ? Washington entente . To him and his followers it signifies an alliance with Luther and Satan . And in the " Segura Catholics " originate the .. sustained efforts to keep American personnel out of Spain altogether , or to limit Americans to their bases behind a silk curtain which no good Catholic must pass . Cardinal Segura and powerful aristocratic elements in the laity see a direct blessing in Spain 's backwardness . To them their complex , unchanging land of churches and bad roads is nearer to Christ for being farther from General Motors . The political upshot is plain : an important and fanatical party in Spanish life has been opposing with all its power Franco 's efforts to awaken the country and turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the textbook alliance between Spanish fascism and the Catholic hierarchy simply does not hold for many Spaniards . This is an exceedingly important fact , usually ignored by outside observers . In We south of Spain fascism has no more stubborn and wily opponent than the archdiocese of Seville . On the surface , this enmity takes the form of an exchange of discourtesies between Church and State . When Franco visited Seville in April 1953 , Cardinal Segura withdrew to a convent on the outskirts . In return , General Sam/. de Buruaga , commander of the district , and.Alonso Orti , the civil governor , are trying to undermine the Cardinal 's authority among the people . Fundamentally , the consequences are far more serious . IN SPAIN as in Italy , the south presents the most spectacular economic problem . It was an opulent region in Roman and even in Moorish times , but today hundreds of square miles lie parched and rock-strewn . Like Mussolini , Franco would like to leave gardens where he found deserts . Building schools , hospitals , and straight roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of Spain cries for the kind of dynamics that drained the great marshes around Rome and got those famous trains to run on time . The region has a real potential ? as the fertile patches between . Jerez and Ronda , irrigated by the Guadalcacin , plainly demonstrate ? but it needs engineers and teachers and doctors . But all of these stand for " modernism , " one of the most insidious of heresies . They bring with them false enlightenment and new sins , and they must be fought . Time and again local priests have kept their people from accepting outside help or co-operating in state-sponsored endeavors . Cardinal Segura suspects Franco of being , fundamentally , anticlerical ; hence he looks to a restoration of the monarchy . The prospect of strong American influence , of fresh blood in Spain 's old stiff veins terrifies Segura and his faction in the Church . They recognize in Franco 's restoration of a Spanish synagogue and in his willingness to admit Protestant chaplains for American troops on Spanish soil the first symptoms of a dangerous heresy ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is only half of Spanish Catholicism . Cardinal Segura 's neighbor to the southeast , Monsignor Herrera , Bishop . of Malaga , is also his greatest foe . Monsignor Herrera stands for the liberal wing of the Church and is active in the north . It was his statement . in a suburb of the steel-producing city of Bilbao , that it was urgent " to take thought today for the redemption of the proletariat , " which helped to launch the great Bilbao strike of December 2 to 11 , 1953 . Monsignor Herrera has long been preaching the need for the Church to ally itself with the workers against the ? blind antiquated egotism of the industrialists . He has come out for modern schooling and a program of social justice along Catholic but liberal lines . Many of the younger clergy , particularly in Navarre and Catalonia , are listening to his energetic message . The grounds on which Monsignor Herrera opposes Franco and the Falange are diametrically opposite to Cardinal Segura 's . He sees in the Falange the allies of big business and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people away from their traditional beliefs . Although the Bishop of Malaga probably welcomes the potential economic advantages in the Madrid ? Washington pact , he can not regard the support which American liberalism is bringing to Spanish fascism without mixed feelings . So far Franco has adroitly played off the two wings of the Spanish Church against each other . At times he will echo Cardinal Segura'sfear of innovation and foreign seduction ; at times he will come out for social progress . The fact that the Vatican decorated him , last year , with one of its noblest orders suggests that Pope Pius XII approves of the Caudillo 's policy of equilibrium . It parallels the Pope 's own tendency to balance off the reactionary against the progressive parties in his Church ? the German Jesuits against the French Dominicans . Sometimes , however , the two wings of the Spanish Church unite to oppose Franco on a major issue . The primate , Cardinal Pla y Deniel , and the powerful and brilliant Church magazine Ecclesia have long fought government censorship and the lack of effective contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The motives of men like the Reverend Jesus Iribarren , editor of Ecclesia , are a complex mixture of zeal for the Church , a desire for social equity , and the fear that the major spiritual force in Spain is being kept from the people . /f , therefore , American thinking about Spain 's future begins to favor a gradual evolution toward constitutional monarchy , it can find in the Church a powerful but suspicious ally . American senior personnel in Spain are growing increasingly aware of the clergy 's role in determining the mood of the country . If Americans are not to become a new pawn in Franco 's delicate game of counterweights , they will have to win the Church 's trust and neutrality . This will require a kind of tact and insight which we have not displayed in ? for example ? Italy . The Vanguard Against Communism I F WE leave the Cathedral on Raster Sunday and go to the bull-ring , we will find it full of soldiers . They have taken the black mourning-hands off their guns and are sprawling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frayed tunics . Even in isolated mountain villages we will find a multitude of soldiers sitting on the sun-drenched square , patching up their heavy shoes . The Spanish army is very large and very ragged ? if one excepts certain elite units and the Caudillo 's favorite Moroccan troops . It is large because conscription is necessary to avoid unemployment . Like all armies that have sprung out of a civil war , it is ill at ease about its glorious past and fits into the landscape angularly . It does , nevertheless , have one flaming conviction : that it was the vanguard in the fight against world communism . To the Spanish Army the Alcazar and the battle for Madrid were the first round in the struggle between Christian civilization and Marxism . Consequently , Spanish officers , from General Franco on down , cherish the theory that the free world owes them a debt of gratitude which America is finally prepared to pay . When Franco sent his Blue Division to fight for Hitler in southern Russia , he was carrying out the logic of the Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this illuminates the main problem about Spanish troops . Individually , the Spaniard is a cruel , enduring , and extremely intelligent fighter . But Force him into a unit and his tastefor anarchy and satire will get the upper hand . ( After all , we owe to the Spanish the word guerrilla . ) The idea of certain lung-range planners in the Pentagon that the Spanish Army will one day replace the unwilling French as a supporting force in Western Europe is just plain silly . But the Russians ? some of whose military commissars first drew blood in Spain ? are very much aware that no one has ever garrisoned Spain successfully . In that sense , the idea of bases behind the Pyrenees has much to recommend it . The Army has not been altogether happy with some of Franco 's policies . He has shrewdly differentiated his own role from that of the general-become-dictator . True , he stresses his military qualifications and remains the commander of the armed forces in both outward uniform and actual power . But he has allowed himself to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population , and this has created a vital distance between himself and the other generals who fought with him . During the last war , moreover , Franco stubbornly and wisely outmaneuvered the younger officers who strained at the leash to join in Hitler 's promenade through Europe or to attack Gibraltar from the rear . They have not entirely forgiven him his foresight or his continued insistence on peace and neutrality . To the Army , the Madrid ? Washington agreements are a tremendous boost . They mean that Spanish soldiers will have weaponswhose ferocity is commensurate with national pride ; that the old carbines and German rifles can be put away . It is true that certain old-guard officers look on America with contempt and would prefer a new military pact with Germany , but in general the military is delighted at the thought of a link between the Pentagon and the soldier yawning at the flies in Merida or Teruel . By June 30 , 1954 , Spain had received $141 million from the United States in direct military aid , and a major part of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's divisions and the development of heavy artillery and radar . It also means a new lease on life- for the embryonic Spanish air force , whose chief of staff , Major General Lorgoria , has been in this country to discuss the possible manufacture of Spanish jet fighters . At Badajoz , near the Portuguese frontier , there is already a jet training school with U. S. instructors , and some fifty Spanish pilots are being trained in the United States . The Spanish Navy ? a service drowsing in ancient glory ? will profit too from American aid . Plans are under way to enlarge and modernize the military harbors at Cartagena , Cadiz , and Palma de Mallorca . From a purely military point of view , the acquisition of new and more sheltered bases for our Mediterranean fleet is probably the major gain of the Madrid ? Washington arrangement . The Army knows perfectly well that the rapprochement with America is Franco 's personal achievement , the fruit of his endless tenacity at the bargain counter . Though there are monarchist undercurrents among certain officer cliques , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with less equivocation than the Church and less caprice than the Party . The Power of the Party T HE whole question of the Falange and its place in Spanish life has been the sub- ject of more impassioned nonsense than any other aspect of contemporary Spain . The reason is simple : the Civil War is still a shining memory in the heart of Western liberalism ? that finest hour before distinctions became blurred and it turned out that red flags do not always flutter for liberation and the brotherhood of man . The intellectual and the liberal have forgiven Spain its return to peace ? but they have not forgiven the Falange , the first fascist party to take to the battlefields . Old loyalties still burn , and you can find visitors to Spain who return with tales of a total police state , burgeoning with political prisons and secret agents at the next table . On the other side , there are those who find Spain freer than before and profoundly satisfied that the Caudillo has maintained peace and order afier the long chaos . No individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious that Spain exists under surveillance and censorship . The buildings in Madrid where the outward acts of democracy took place stand shut . Travel twenty miles in the interior , even in the loneliest stretch , and you will come on a pair of armed guards by the side of the road , like shepherds tending an invisible flock . There is no organized political opposition ; there are still political prisoners and sporadic acts of judicial tyranny ( like the recent proceedings against Anarchists and Basque nationalists ) . T T THE same time , people in caf ? s talk openly and pungently about the re- gime . There is no question that most Spaniards see the absolute necessity for strong leadership , take pride in Franco 's return to something of a world position , and look on Western democratic processes as alien and even hostile to the national temper . Anyone who talks lyrically about the " enslavement of Spain " should bear two things in mind : ( 1 ) Spain has never had a strong parliamentary tradition on a national ( as opposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Spain has a savagery and finality an outsider may not see . Had the Loyalists won , not a fascist might be left to talk about it . The atrocities on both sides were ferocious , and it is to Franco 's credit that ? for what may be purely selfish ends ? he has tried to keep vengeance in bounds and sought to heal old wounds . Speak to an ex-Loyalist in Barcelona ( a notoriously free and unafraid city ) rather than to one in Mexico or the lobbies of UNESCO , and you will find that he would rather have the present regime continue in peace than take the risk of another civil war . This does not stem from cowardice or apathy , but from the conviction that Spain needs guidance and order if it is to wake from its long sleep of slow decay . Behind the present reigning calm , and even behind part of the Caudillo 's popularity , lies the hope that he is leading Spain toward a restoration of the monarchy . Sources close to Franco suggest that he has already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Don Juan , over whose education he has kept close guard . Many who could not countenance an indefinite continuation of dictatorship are willing to let Franco build the bridge back to the crown . People who feel this way ? and they are increasingly numerous among the middle and professional classes ? are ambiguous about America 's arrival on the Spanish scene . On the one hand they see in the end of Spain 's isolation a symptom of Franco 's gradual approach to a constitutional and more liberal solution . On the other , they fear that American pressures may encourage those who will try Co establish a republic after Franco . They suspect that this would not be a republic , but a return to Falange rule under a puppet President or a hand-picked Junta . In this pattern of gradual change , the Falange is the greatest danger . The Party has long felt that Franco has been ungrateful to it and played it off against the Church and the Army . It can make a genuine claim that there are men in its-ranks who are eager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . But like all successful dictators in a one-party state , the Caudillo has seen to it that all good things appear to come from him and not his Party . It is , of course , true that members of the Falange enjoy numerous privileges and that Franco regularly declares in the columns of Arriba that the Falange is the heart of the nation . But there is little evidence that the Falange would acquiesce calmly to a return to monarchy , or that it will not try to pick a successor to Franco from its own ranks . T HE Falange is the most rabidly nationalist element in the power balance . It has cheered Franco 's diplomatic offensives against French Morocco and Gibraltar . It has watched with approval the Middle East and Far East tours of Franco 's foreign minister , Sefior Artaio . The Falange sees Spain as the champion of Islamic nationalism in North Africa , the elder statesman in the world fight against communism , the mother-country for Latin America , and the ally of the new Germany . A few years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are much closer to reality . Every time that someone in the Pentagon or the State Department or Congress speaks about " getting out of the French mess " or planning " a peripheral strategy , " the expectations of Spanish nationalism , and its perennial arrogance , increase . It is difficult for the Falange to believe that Senator McCarran and the pro-Spanish lobby do not , as yet , represent all of the United States . But although the Falange approves of the Madrid ? Washington pact in so far as it represents a major Spanish diplomatic victory , it does not regard with any pleasure the arrival of American personnel or liberal ideas . The Falange riots of October 29 , 1953 were the result of clever underground propaganda to the effect that Franco had " capitulated " to American pressures and given certain assurances about Spain 's political future . Franco 's subsequent diplomatic offensive against the United Kingdom and his increased demands on the United States can best be understood as an effort to conciliate his Party . The Falange poses a complex problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely lest it exercise too marked an influence on the aging Caudillo once America has poured funds and resources into Spain . The Falange would like to use America 's stake in the country as a point of blackmail with regard to French Morocco or " Wilsonian self-determination " for Gibraltar . It is a sad irony that American money and skills may help strengthen a fascist party as ludicrous and sinister as its favorite slogan , Viva la Muerte ! C 4TURCH , Army , and Falange are the three horses on whose backs Franco performs his astounding ride around the ring of Spanish politics . In his somersaults he lands now on one , now on the other . His formula for power and security is to keep all three abreast . The Madrid ? Washington pact is the latest in a series of fiery hoops through which he has tried to jump . In what way this jump will affect the team 's stride or its rider 's equilibrium remains to be seen , but there is no doubt that American investment , diplomacy , and military strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the priest , the soldier , and the Party official stand for the most important organized forces in Spanish life , they do not represent the people as a whole . Between them and the population at large ? in its tumbled villages and isolated farms ? there is a harrier of apathy which neither exhortation nor propaganda have succeeded in bridging . The people are the dark , inflexible core of Spain , its obsessive problem , and its only real potential . The final question , therefore , is whether or not American aid and influence can get through to the people ? the Spanish state being a Leviathan with a tiny head and a vast under-belly . The Spanish People AN outsider what he takes to be the Asx. main truth about Spanish life , ask any traveler what , above all else , he expects to find in Spain ? and both will tell you about Spain 's poverty . This poverty is less spectacular than it is in , say , certain regions of Italy , but it is deeper , and it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is disguised by the people themselves . The Spaniard has a quality of silence and hearing , a natural grace of gesture , and an inward discipline which shame lesser men . Stop your car in some tiny hamlet on the plain of Calatrava ; the children will come begging and their elders will stare at you out of their hard , quizzical masks . Then one of them will move toward you and ask you to drink out of his wineskin with that ancient condescension which made the word " Spaniard " synonymous with " proud " in the galleries of the Escorial or on the high poops of the Armada . There is also the fact that many of the people prefer their brooding leisure to the kind of hard work that might improve their lot . As one poet said , Spain is a land in which angels ' footprints are often seen on the ground , and even its humblest people have a curious sense of unreality about things of this world . That , of course , is precisely why Spain has so many saints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spaniard moves more gracefully on an empty stomach than other men , and that there has been some real progress in the last years ? you are still faced with the overwhelming fact that Spain is abjectly poor and underdeveloped . The main reasons for Spain 's poverty are the century-long deterioration of the land , the lack of a full-scale industrial revolution , the ravages of the Civil War , and , above all , the climate . Spain exists , in fact , by the special grace of God and rain . The drought of 1953 , for example , profoundly impaired the national economy . It reduced the olive-oil yield ( the mainstay of Spanish agriculture ) from an average of 350 , - 000 tons down to 280,000 . The wheat crop declined by some 25 per cent , and Franco was forced to import seventy million dollars ' worth of foreign wheat to stave off a major crisis . The drought lasted into December , and went over vast stretches of land like a torch . Then in February there came an intense cold wave which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export ) . As though climate alone were not enough to bear , techniques of crop rotation , irrigation , and defense against frost are unknown in many areas . And often government planning runs contrary to reality ; reservoirs have been built at great cost in areas where it hardly rains more than one year out of four . The Economic Booby Trap I T Is exceedingly difficult to convey an accurate picture of Spanish wage scales be- cause minimum needs are different from those in other countries and food prices are often low . The most striking fact , perhaps , is that raw material prices in 1953 were seven times those of 1937 , whereas wages have only risen two and a half times in the same period . Let us take a few samples : minimum wages in the metal industries are 16.10 pesetas a day ; a physician in the social health program earns some 300 pesetas a month ; a construction worker receives some 120 pesetas a week ; in Old Castile and Andalusia , the farm worker averages some 11 pesetas per working day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Put against these figures the fact that meat averages 30 to 35 pesetas a kilogram , and you have a rough idea of how tight the situation is . The government ? particularly its Minister of Labor , Senor Jose Antonio Giron ? is keenly aware of the situation . But so far , the greed of Spain 's industrialists and the recurrent economic morass into which the country periodically flounders have canceled out wage increases by rising prices . The whole economy has substituted inflation for development . That brings us to the major question ? how will American aid affect the living standards of the Spanish people ? 0 N THE face of it , things look promising . Spain has been allocated $85 million in " defense support aid , " and a supplementary agreement provides for the use of 3.5 billion pesetas in counterpart funds with which to finance the construction and road work associated with American bases . Work is about to start on air-base construction worth $60 million at Torrejon ( near Madrid ) , at El Copero ( near Seville ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saragossa . Some $19 million has been allocated for the development of naval bases , and there are ambitious plans for a pipeline to link the air bases with one another and with Cartagena , site of the important Escombras Refinery . Spanish authorities further hope that American investors will follow in the wake of defense funds and participate in Spain 's industrial future . Laws have been passed calculated to attract foreign capital , and efforts are being made to silence bad memories ? such - as those associated with the mistreatment of foreign investment in Barcelona Traction . The Banco Central of Madrid has sent its clients a cheerful and complex account of the " infrastructure " of American military and civilian personnel , telling them whom to see about obtaining contracts and funds . But when one looks below the surface , the whole picture is disturbing . The credits opened by the Madrid ? Washington pact have been used very slowly . Many of the Spanish industrialists competing for contracts turned out to be in no position to execute them ; raw materials often existed only on paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American bases and to accept part payment in American food surpluses originally intended for Spain . Despite evidence that this food may be resold to the Soviet Zone of Germany , Senators McCarran and Welker have come out in favor of this plan . There is also a more fundamental difficulty about the whole idea of American aid . Spain is in so unhealthy a state that the intake of unearned dollars in large quantities will merely bring more inflation . Already the release of the 3.5 billion pesetas in counterpart funds has meant an increase in fiduciary circulation equivalent to nearly 15 per cent of the Spanish budget . In such areas as construction materials and rents , the very prospect of American arrival on the scene has caused sharp spurts in prices and artificial scarcities . Furthermore ? and this is the heart of the matter ? there is little reason to believe that a solution of these economic problems at the governmental and contracting level will bring direct benefits to the Spanish people . Spain is a classical example of a country to which American aid brings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production are too weak to ensure that benefits at the top get through to the bottom . The material and labor which American demands will draw from one sector of the Spanish economy will make other sectors still poorer . Spain does not need air bases ; it desperately needs factories , schools , hospitals , roads , and agricultural equipment . THE average Spaniard is a shrewd and suspicious observer . In many cases , he has already convinced himself that American aid will he of no use to him . So he has sat in his movie house and watched a savage little satire on the effects of the Marshall Plan on a Spanish village ? or he has dropped in at the local Falange to hear America denounced as " a bloodsucker . " That is the tragedy of the present situation . America genuinely wants to see to it that help reaches those who need it most , but it can not interfere with the government and the industrialists on whose support we rely in the Cold War . These are unpleasant truths , but they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece there was the danger that the lower classes would look to Moscow if their wretched lot was not improved . In Spain this danger does not existsimply because the Spaniard is inherently an anarchist . But he is also a master of hatred and obstruction , and American aid may reap a harvest of enemies . T HERE is one more vital fact that must be kept in mind : the Washington ? Madrid rapprochement was a deep shock to lib-erals and socialists throughout the world . It has given Communist propaganda a new and formidable weapon in its campaign to prove that the United States supports fascism from Formosa to Madrid . It has convinced many honest individuals and political leaders in England and France that the forces of neutralism and liberalism must combine against a new " axis " ? a Bonn ? Madrid ? Washington right-wing lineup . .. The only way we can turn this line of propaganda against communism is by proving that we are entering Spanish affair 's with a real desire to help the population , not to strengthen the Falange . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few extremist Senators ) will have to influence Franco toward social reform and a saner economic system . Yet ? and that is where the tightrope act comes in ? this influence will have to be exercised without arousing the bristling pride and anti-foreign instincts of the Spaniard . Time and again in Europe and Asia our finest intentions and generosity have turned the very people we wanted to help against us . This has , happened wherever we have dealt with rotten regimes and archaic economic institutions instead of gambling on the people . Time is getting stingy ; we can not afford to make an enemy of the Spanish people . These are some of the perplexities and concerns which should accompany the Don Quixote of American aid and advice as he rides toward his castles in Spain .                     