@@493884

FOUR NEW NOVELS THE- CAMPUS of an American college , a house in Egypt , the mind or sensibility of Mrs. Hutchins , and a country estate in Ireland are settings for these novels . In such ? limited vistas it is the feminine component of the quartet , Hutchins and Sarton , that provides practically all the sensibility and intelligence . Robie Macauley has managed to dis- guise love very effectively indeed in his account of the unhappy extra-inarital affair of a pallid psychology professor with a campus Cleopatra . The result is pretentious and hollow and might better have been entitled , " The Revelations of Immaturity . " In fact the word " love " in the title , though it is meant to be ironic since all the characters are self-deceived , is in a sense a desecration , for the blindness and tartness of love can only be conveyed by mature irony not , as here , by sophomoric satire and adolescent cynicism . Thus the author has no real understanding of his subject but merely condescension , and he is at home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much of the world 's business is no doubt carried on by people as shallow and futile as the psychologist and his wife , but there is no sense in writing an ironic novel about them . The I azy Ones , a translation from the French of an Egyptian-born writer , is a rather grisly comedy concerning an Egyptian family , father and three sons , most of whom have decided ' to evade life 's difficulties by returning to the womb and who spend most of their time sleeping . The champion somnolent , Galal , rises only to eat and perform natural functions . But the youngest brother , Serag , attempts to break the pattern , becomes involved with a girl , and at the conclusion of the novel starts out to get a job and " face life . " At the very end , however , he falls asleep . By this time the reader feels the same way . Mrs. Hutchins ' Love Is A Pie is a collection of interior monologues and fantasies cast in , dramatic form . Most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour , for example , in the hothe of Mormon Joseph Smith , with much " whimsy " arising out of the multiple marital relationships . But while the tour de force works against the authoress in the fantasies , it is one of the bases of power in the largest and most compelling of the monologues , " Innocents " , which tells of the complex character and life of its female protagonist by entering into , her " mind " when she . is freshly born , " torn from the stem of her parent , bleeding and angry . " The central meaning of " Innocents " is that " character is fate " ; thus the protagonist 's first assertion of will , an infant attempt ' at self-destruction by holding her breath , is pendant to her final suicide after an unhappy love affair . Through it all she steadily maintains her persona , her " in. . . nocenee " as she ' calls it , freely and consciously adopted right from the literal start . The other monologues are not nearly so ' successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Summer Days . comes out of an older world and novelistic tradition than any of the other novels under consideration , and in its subject matter ? civilized , upper-class Anglo-Irish ? is reminiscent of Henry James , while its tone and attitude , a pervasive and persuasive feminism , suggest Virginia Woolf . An Anglo-Irish couple , childless , return after many years to the wife 's ancestral home . Into their lives comes a young American niece , shipped to Ireland by her parents to break . off a love affair . The love affair is broken off , but not before all the characters experienced anguish and pain , passion and final knowledge . As in Virginia Woolf , Sally , the girl , has her final epiphany , her revelation : " By mastering feeling , she had come to understand the meaning of discipline and its reward : freedom and power . " The novel is distinguished by an incisive intelligence that never fails to see complexity and never gives in to sentimentality , and it is proof that in the right hands the traditional form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base for the novelist . NEW REPUBLIC selections from the painter 's early work . The portfolio on Picasso presents his blue and rose period and augments the color plates with examples of his gravure of that time . It is howev'er the Rauault which shows the true rewards of imagination . Jacques Maritain contributed the text to this portfolio , a luminous essay which shares his intuition of the nature of In the assurance ' that the NR will review this work later , I will say only a few words about Channe ( Abrams ; $12.50 ) . Meyer Schapiro has written a powerful introductory essay on Cezanne as well as an analysis of each of the .5.0 paintings which make up this volume . His criticism is remarkably tough and detailed , addressed directly to the works themselves . 