@@477446

Both sides deny that the romance exists - but in fact it has been flourishing fur years ... and it seems to have a Jul to do with inflation , unemployment , and our slowdown in economic growth . A BIG part of American industry is now . quietly reshaping itself into an entirely new kind of economic structure . This pattern is quite different from anything that Adam Smith ? or Karl Marx ? ever dreamed of . It is also a fiat contradiction of both the classical idea of competitive free enterprise , and the Communist theory of class war . In crude terms , it might be described as a sort of corporate syndicalism , linking big business and big unions into an unacknowledged partnership . The pattern varies greatly , of course , from one industry to another . Even where it is most advanced , the liaison between the supposedly rival institutions is far from solid . It is more often a furtive and uneasy alliance between the top bureaucrats of the unions and the corporations ? an arrangement that neither party can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just gossip . But thanks to the longest-continued hearings in Congress ? the highly publicized McClellan investigation and the little-noticed Kefauver inquiry ? a great body of evidence has been assembled . It points to two unmistakable con-clusions : ( 1 ) The ment and ( 2 ) It seems to be closely connected with rising prices , persistent unemployment , and slow economic growth . Like any couple , the corporate and union partners have their spats . Moreover , the need to conceal their illicit if pleasurable goings-on requires them periodically to denounce each other . And , as in the most harmonious affairs , there is a master and his mate . The company executives get the most money , as shown by a glance at the relative incomes and capital gains of such pairs as Roger Blough , chairman of U. S. Steel , and David McDonald , president of the United Steelworkers : or Jack L. Smead , president of Consolidated Freightways , and James R. Hoffa , president of the Teamsters Union . In some of the biggest industries , romance has not yet blossomed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , wo n't be dancing around Maypoles with Walter Reuther. president of the United Auto Workers , for a long time to come . But if this prospect seems fantastic , remember that John L. Lewis ? once the villain of industry in general and coal in particular ? has become the hero of every major coal producer , as well as of those miners who are still digging coal . The current goings-on in the steel industry would seem to belie this analysis . The union and the companies have been verbally belting each other with apparent enthusiasm as their wage contract runs to an end on June 30 . But appearances can be deceiving . Economists recall that the industry forced a strike in 1946 to pry /close a price increase from OPA . Many suspect that the periodic outbursts of industrial warfare are a cover under which the companies only appear to resist wage increases . Then , after a comparatively brief strike to work down the inventories steel customers have built up in fear of 33 a stoppage , the companies " reluctantly " settle for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as John Kenneth Galbraith of Harvard has pointed out , the companies use this settlement as an excuse to boost prices enough to cover the wage increase several times . This technique has become so well publicized in Washington this year , however , that a new script may have been written for the 1959 bargaining . THE JOYS OF " STABILITY " T H I S new pattern is often described by its beneficiaries in one magic word , " stability . " To the big corporation 's managers , stability means ever-rising prices and profits , freedom from new competitive threats , and profitable stock options in an ever-rising stock market . To the big union 's officers , stability means an ever-rising level of wages and fringe benefits for the members ? with suitable rewards for the leader whose wisdom has brought this about . Neither union members nor corporate stockholders complain much . The workers who are employed enjoy ever bigger paychecks that outstrip any rise in prices . The stockholders usually can expect their dividends and the prices of their shares to march upward even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can rejoice in the pleasures of this brave new world . About ten million Americans own stock ; about 165 million do n't . Employed union members in the high-wage basic industries are also a relatively small , favored group . Trailing behind are pensioners , farmers , the unemployed , white-collar workers , public employees , and many others . Several economists believe that the recent " paradox " ? an economic recession side by side with a rising price level ? was caused by the industry-union arrangements and the distortions they created . These theorists also think that the current state of affairs ? a comparatively slow recovery ( by most measurements , the advance has been slower than that in any of the three postwar slumps ) , relatively high unemployment ( between 5 and ti per cent of the work force compared to a " normal " 3 to 4 per cent ) , and slow overall economic growth ? can be traced to big industry and big unions taking a disproportionate share of the pie . Meanwhile , many Americans are becoming disturbed because our economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real per-capita income . At the same time a number of other countries ? ranging from Puerto Rico to China ? are showing rapid rates of economic growth . These curious and disconcerting facts have touched off a major economic debate in Washington . Indeed , they have generated on Capitol Hill some of the freshest thinking about the problems of power and economics since the days of the New Deal . The recent stability in consumer prices has not put an end to this intellectual ferment , because the stability is almost entirely due to a fall in farm prices ; costs of manufactured goods have in general continued to creep upward . The Capital has been treated to some rare spectacles as a result . Raymond J. Saulnier , the conservative chairman of President Eisenhower 's Council of Economic Advisers , prepared an Economic Report in December that singled out union wage increases as the source of most economic woe . By February , Saulnier was publicly denouncing price increases in autos and heavy industry for holding back production and employment in the President 's first term . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denunciation came in a letter printed as an appendix to a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee . ) And by late April , the flexible Saulnier was once again blaming price rises on wage increases . Unhappily , his analysis was based on some productivity figures hurriedly assembled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics . A few days after Saulnier 's new approach . the BLS conceded that its productivity figures were in error , that they had understated the change in recent output per man-hour in the crucial steel industry . Even more remarkable , Woodlief Thomas , the distinguished economic adviser to the Federal Reserve Board ( an agency not notorious for unconventionality ) wrote a lengthy communication to the Washington Post . In this letter , Thomas analyzed the consequences of administered prices and wages ? those which are set by powerful economic units and held constant or raised despite a fall in demand . He concluded that they push up the general price level or prevent it from sinking when demand drops . The worst feature of administered prices and wages , Thomas said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they tend to retard growth and to increase unemployment . " Monetary restraint , the Reserve Board 's stock in trade , and balanced budgets or other fiscal magic by the Treasury . Thomas said , simply ca n't rope with this phenomenon . As Galbraith noted two years ago , the large corporations are virtually exempt from tight money as well as from many of the consequences of the law of supply and demand . The curbing of credit , he observed , will force banks to ration loans to small firms trying to expand . But the large industrial corporations finance most of their new plants and new machinery from their own profits . So they can applaud the Puritan virtues of tight money and enjoy a free-spending life , too . Washington could not decide what was more astonishing ? the fact that the Federal Reserve Board 's top economist should feel it necessary to take his case to the public prints or that he should soberly conclude his own powerful agency could not cope with the new " inflation . " If this was not enough , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and early spring . McDonald , the union president , was denouncing Senator Kefauver with as much vigor as Blough of U. S. Steel . Kefauver 's crime , of course , was to suggest that the public had a vital interest in steel wage demands as well as steel price increases . HOW THE PARTNERSHIP WORKS T H E steel case is not an isolated example ? although union captains perform different services for their corporate colonels , depending on the degree of concentration in the industry . However , they all work with each other , regardless of whether the industry is concentrated or competitive . The trucking industry has rushed to defend both Beck and Hoffa . In coal , the incorruptible Lewis will be memorialized by both miners and operators . New York 's garment manufacturers have learned to love David Duhinsky , president of the Ladies Garment Workers Union ; on the Pacific Coast , Harry Bridges has no bigger booster than the Pacific Maritime Association unless it is his ILWU stevedores ; Alex Rose , president of the Hat , Cap . and Millinery Workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " efforts . Some observers see in this harmony a new age of enlightenment . The reality is a little less appealing . These union leaders , in varying degrees , perform important services for their industry 's employers . They discipline dissidents and prevent " wildcat " strikes . In expanding industries , they " fight " for wage gains which enable the industry to obtain a more than offsetting increase in prices . In competitive industries like trucking and ladies garments , they make it harder for new firms to start up and compete with established companies . In big industries , the rising wage-price structure makes the capita ! requirements for potential new firms almost prohibitive . Inmany industries , union leaders argue vigorously for technological change , persuading the membership to accept the machines that will put their less fortunate colleagues out of work . In several industries , notably coal , the union is as vigorous a supporter of protection against foreign competition as the American Tariff League . This is not to suggest that an illegal wage-price-fixing conspiracy is necessarily afoot throughout the economy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long ago learned that there are lawful ways to insulate a market from the inroads of new competitors . The Justice Department has looked askance at some of the Duhinsky union practices and indicted a vice president along with a racketeer and some biggish employers ? but even if these antitrust charges can be proven , they probably will only serve as a guide to keep future corporate-union arrangements out of legal trouble . If this sketch of the economy 's inner dynamics appears paradoxical . it is nevertheless a logical paradox . Many social scientists are convinced that collaboration between management and labor leaders ? either conscious or unconscious ? is the normal consequence of a free market system . Industries with many firms grope for ways to simplify their structure ? and the union helps in the search . In industries with only a few firms , the union 's basic role is to ventilate grievances and discipline the work force . Multi-firm industries like trucking , clothing , and Iongshoring arc simply looking for an escape from the rigors of competition . With some justiThe Status Seekers CHICAGO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blatt called on his fellows today to get out of crime syndicates and into civic . . . He urged juke box operators like himself to launch an ail-out public-relations campaign to prove that they 're solid citizens instead of racketeers and muscle men .... Blatt himself is active in Variety , the Optimists , the Police Athletic League . the Moose , and the Elks . " I 'm especially active in the Police Athletic League , " he said . " What with Little League baseball and all . " ? Washington Post , April 13 , 1959. fication , large employers in these fields long for the security of oil , steel , and auto producers . In these basic industries , the market structure is oligopolistic ? an evil-sounding piece of economics jargon which simply means that a few producers dominate the market and have broad powers to fix both prices and output . ( In pure competition , there are so many producers that no one can dominate a market . Moreover , each producer turns out as much of his product as he can ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by withholding some of his supply . All this is true in farming , the most competitive of industries ? so the government has stepped in to limit output and to put a floor under prices , at enormous cost to taxpayers and food-buyers . ) In oligopoly , no such government help is needed . If U. S. Steel raises a price , its juniors will soon follow . And if at that price , demand is not big enough to take all the steel the mills can produce , then output and employment are reduced . Economists long ago figured out how in theory monopolies and oligopolies can make more profits by raising their prices and limiting demand instead of lowering prices to increase demand . Steel , autos , and oil have been demonstrating for years that the theorists were correct . WHY EXECUTIVES LIKE HIGHER PRICES B U T why should the corporate managers be so willing to see prices rise ? A Washington investment adviser , Eugene Havas , recently supplied an answer . Share prices largely reflect earnings and dis icIends . As earnings go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock options , Havas had noted , the corporate managers can get handsome rewards from rising stock prices . They can and often do vote themselves options on large blocks of their company 's stock . For example , U. S. Steel last year gave 120 of its executives options on 151,100 shares at $55 . This spring , the stock had risen $40 a share above this . Any time a top Steel executive needed cash , he picked up his telephone , told the company treasurer to issue him a few thousand of his optioned shares , and told his broker to sell them at the market price . Thus our executive cleared $40 a share with two telephone calls ? and without investing a cent of his own money . And if he can wait six months and one day before calling his broker , he will be taxed no more than 25 per cent on his profit because it is a long-term capital gain . Since the stock profit depends on investors ' estimates of the corporation 's future profits , the managers with options have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnings . An instructive case was cited by John Blair , the economist for Kefauver 's antitrust subcommittee . He calculates that the net profits per ton for U. S. Steel rose from $7.47 in the first quarter of 1953 to 519.31 in the fourth quarter of 1958 . At the same time , U. S. Steel was producing at 102.1 per cent of capacity in the first 1953 quarter and at only 72.7 per cent in the last 1958 quarter . This remarkable result has earned U. S. Steel a new status in stock-market letters ( " No longer a cyclical stock , " the tipsters write , " but a steady growth equity like A T &T,; with the capital appreciation potential of a pioneering chemical company . " ) This is in part a tribute to Steel 's great technological strides which have displaced thousands of workers by more efficient machines . It is also a tribute to Steel 's price leadership . From 1947 to 1958 , the wholesale price of finished steel products soared 101 per cent ; in the same period , all wholesale manufacturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and auto producers , also marvels of technological efficiency , have enjoyed results nearly as spectacular . But in steel , autos , and other industries trying to imitate their success , the unions have economists with sharp pencils , too ? so labor had to get a slice of the pie . In some cases , it appears that the pie was consciously and amicably divided by rationalists like Hoffa . In other cases , notably autos , the heritage of opposition and the personality of the dominant corporation and union leaders has prevented anything but an unconscious parallelism of interest . In either case , the result was the same : wages in these industries went up , prices generally went up even more : and both corporate and union managers could blame the other for the result . A. FEW QUALMS A GAINST this backdrop , thoughtful actors in the contemporary economic drama began expressing their concern openly last fall . One such was Arthur Goldberg , the wise general counsel for the Steelworkers . Goldberg has a deserved reputation for attempting to harmonize his client 's interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Ethical Practices Committee and probably did 36 BIG BUSINESS AND BIG LABOR more than any single man to bring about the merger of the two federations in 1955 . Last November , he suggested periodic discussions between corporate and union leaders , with government officials sitting in on the talks . The talks , he said , should deal with inflation , automation , and all the other things that the managers could usefully discuss . But even this modest proposal fell on deaf ears . Some sophisticated managements have shown a speck of interest ; a few powerful financiers are enthusiastic : no union manager has yet been willing to endorse it . But Goldberg appears to be giving his union clients some good advice . It really runs like this : " Boys , you 'd better show some voluntary moderation while you can . If you do n't , something like enforced wage-and-price control is on the horizon . " Goldberg , as usual , was a good prophet . In the late winter , Kefauver warned McDonald , Blough K1 Co. that the forthcoming negotiation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nut be made the excuse for a price increase . Kefauver said Congress would not stand for another performance of the shopworn wage demand , a strike , a wage increase , and a price boost . The Washington Post said editorially that Kefauver had read not only the temper of Congress but of the nation . Several days later , President Eisenhower virtually repeated Kefauver 's theme . However , the steel industry chided the Administration for interfering and the Administration has since adopted a much less interventionist stance . Taking the Congressional temperature is a difficult task . But reporters on Capitol Hill are sensing a new mood that spills across party lines . Democrats with such diverse constituencies as Senators Clark of Pennsylvania . O'Mahoney of Wyoming , Neuberger of Oregon , Gore and Kefauver of Tennessee , Proxmire of Wisconsin , and Douglas of Illinois are troubled about administered prices and wages . In the House , Democratic Representatives as far apart geographically as Bowles in Connecticut , Reuss in Wisconsin , Udall in Arizona , Johnson in Colorado , and Cohelan in California are similarly troubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have also grumbled about the price-wage spirals of big business and big labor . He and two fellow Republicans , Langer of North Dakota and Keating of New York , have put in their names as co-sponsors of Kefauver 's bill to establish a Department of Consumers . Some of these Legislators may be longer on intelligence than influence . However , if they are reinforced by the collective wisdom of the Federal Reserve Board ? a group with a different political orientation but certainly just as dedicated to the public welfare ? the economic game could well find itself with some new rules . In brief , circumstances have dictated what one reporter has called a quiet revolution in economic thought among Washington 's most thoughtful officials . This revolution has three leading ideas : ( 1 ) Oligopoly , not competition , has become the dominant mode of American economic life . In their search for profits , oligopolists tend to restrain production and employment and raise prices . ( 2 ) The traditional antagonism between unions and management in ofigopolistic or concentrated industries is disappearing . Conscious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prices ( including stock prices ) for others . ( 3 ) The public interest in economic affairs has long ago been established in theory and practice . Business enjoys outright subsidies , plus hidden subsidies like tariffs and tax gimmicks , and makes large sales to government . Unions are also supported by government through complex codes guaranteeing organizing and bargaining rights . Therefore , it is no real departure to insist on a public interest in the key wage and price decisions . PROPHET OF THE REVOLUTION F 4 V EN quiet revolutions have a hook , and the text for this one is now being written . Its author is a little-remembered economist from New Deal days , Gardiner C. Means . Unhappy at group-think , he recently resigned from a shrewd business-harked organization , the Committee for Economic Development , to write his book alone in Vienna , Virginia . It was Means who invented the concept of administered prices back in 1935 . The theory underlay some of the work of O'Mahoney 's Temporary National Economic Commission ? the last body to make a really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then three economists attacked the administered price notion in scholarly journals in 1941 and 1942 asserting that prices are really set in the market , anti with the coming of the war the debate halted ; the nation set about defeating Fascists , making money and , later , crusading against Communism . Immediately after the war , advanced economic thought turned to the mathematical arabesques of the econornetricians ( at Harvard 's graduate school in 1947-48 a student had no future as an economist without integral calculus ) . Thinkers who suggested that chromium-loaded cars were not the answer to Communism were liable to he hailed before hostile investigating committees ; unionists who detected a softening in their leaders were barred from jobs . But in 1955 and 1956 , the iconoclastic John Blair , one-time assistant chief economist of the Economic Division of the Federal Trade Commission , rebutted the three economists who had attacked Means . Then Blair became Kefauver 's chief economist ; and in the summer of 1957 , a lengthy inquiry relying on case studies of administered pricing was started by Kefauver 's subcommittee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile , Galbraith ? the witty Harvard professor who annoys his colleagues by writing so well ? was producing his influential book , The Affluent Society . Among other things , it raised many questions about the conventional economic wisdom . Galbraith 's point was underscored by the postwar 's sharpest recession , the 1957-58 slump in which prices actually kept on rising . There was more heresy at the annual tong meeting of economists at Chicago in December . Professors John Lewis of Indiana and Ben Lewis of Oherlin , along with Blair , made new contributions to the administered price idea . In January Means took time out from his book to present some simple charts to Kefauver 's committee . They argued that the recent inflation was a new kind , caused by concentrated industries ( those dominated by a few firms ) raising their prices in the face of falling demand . In contrast , Means showed that the competitive industries , with many producers , were behaving according to Adam Smith 's precepts , lowering prices as demand dropped . DO WE WANT TO BREAK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength to the analysis by Thomas of the Federal Reserve that administered prices and wages distort the economy ? enriching one group at the expense of others , breeding unemployment and potential inflation with which the Fed could not readily cope . What , then , can be done about it ? The Capital 's better minds have been busy wresBY fling with this one for months . A respectable but small minority favors the traditional antitrust approach . If concentrations of economic power exist on either the industry or the union side , then break them up and restore free , competitive markets . This is a jeffersonian approach that is not only concerned with proper pricing , production . and employment but has a deep commitment to the spiritual values of the independent man . It is attractive and sanctified by tradition . Everybody , including the biggest violators , pays allegiance to the antitrust laws and the glories of competition . But most of the economists and many lawyers are skeptical of its practical value . They make two objections to the antitrust approach : ( 1 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collusive arrangements between producers or between employers and unions . But in the sophisticated modern world , you can enjoy all the blessings of a price-fixing conspiracy without violating the law . That 's what trade associations , conventions , friendly lunches , and the trade press are For . ( 2 ) New laws to make administered price arrangements illegal probably would lead into a blind alley . H. Thomas Austern , partner in Covington and Burling , a Washington firm on a par with Wall Street 's corporation law factories , has some pertinent observations about any such new law which would necessarily rely on a doctrine of " assumed conspiracy . " " The resulting violation is not readily susceptible to judicial remedy , " Austern says . " I can not see how a court could , by injunction , tell a price leader never to change its prices up or down , nr enjoin other producers from following in order to remain competitive . " Unless our courts are to fall into the trap of regulating prices by continuous judicial supervision of an industry , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " However , the trust-busters reply , under an " assumed conspiracy " doctrine could n't the court order divestiture ? breaking up one big corporation into many little ones ? The Justice Department 's antitrust division is exploring this possibility , even without new law and relying on the old Acts . Conservatives like Austern argue that " even if fragmentation of companies were desirable or feasible , there are many who doubt whether modern mass production could survive under it . " Many more economists , on the other hand . are 38 BIG BUSINESS AND BIG LABOR convinced that mass production would be carried on much more efficiently by more and smaller units . They doubt that total output is increased when one corporation like General Motors dominates everything from autos to buses to diesel locomotives to auto financing . They believe output would be increased if U. S. Steel were not either first or second in producing most major steel products . Even so , few economists would rely on trust-busting to achieve the major economic goals . They think that dissolution to restore competition will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trusts . As Galbraith told the Kefauver subcommittee , " To suppose that the antitrust laws will work the kind of revolution which will reconcile full employment with price stability is out of the question . This would mean a wholesale revision in industrial structure ? a wholesale disintegration of existing business units . " This does not mean that anyone wants to repeal the Sherman and Clayton Acts . The biggest violators defend them largely because they serve as an excuse to do nothing more . Less interested observers would retain the laws because , as Galbraith said , " They bring the conscience of the community to bear on the problem of economic power . . And thus they restrain the strong firm in its relation with weaker customers , suppliers , and competitors . " GOVERNMENT PRICE-FIXING ? W HAT then ? Thinking in academic and ' political circles is now being drawn to some form of public intervention in the key price and wage decisions . However there is almost universal opposition to direct controls over wages and prices . Instead a kind of middle ground between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a remote but non-coercive relative of the processes which now decide public-utility prices . Galbraith , one of the first to suggest this , lays down three principles for such intervention . It should , he says , be : ( 1 ) Limited ? it should apply only to firms and unions in concentrated industries which have a decisive share of the market power . ( 2 ) Simple ? perhaps a government panel should require these corporations and unions to justify in advance each proposed price and wage increase . The panel would then make specific recommendations in the light of agreed-on national goals . Just what criteria would be used to determine a " justified " increase is a puzzler . Business critics of the idea have said that inability to spell out these criteria will make the scheme unworkable . Since the corporation will likely argue that it needs the increase to restore a past level of profits or to fatten its present inadequate earn-ings , the " just " price implies a " just " profit rate . And any such notion frightens the corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the proposal could lead to great industrial unrest-Smart corporation lawyers , it is said , would tie any price change to periods when wage contracts expire . Then , the union could be foreclosed from getting any increase until lengthy arguments had been settled , perhaps in court . Meanwhile , workers would grumble at being asked to continue work under their expired contract until the lawyers all had their day . ( 3 ) Conciliatory fact-finding ? at least at first we might rely on panel findings to mobilize public opinion to serve as a restraint on union and corporate managers . If this did not work , then sanctions or penalties would be in order . Some of the obvious respondents before such a panel would be Donner 's General Motors ( 51 per cent of 1958 auto output ) and Walter Reuther 's United Auto Workers ; Blough 's U. S. Steel ( 29 per cent of ingot capacity ) and McDonald 's Steelworkers ; Ralph Cordiner 's General Electric Co. ( owned 16 per cent of the electrical machinery industry 's assets in 1947 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carey 's International Union of Electrical Workers . Trailing along with the price leaders would likely be Ford , Chrysler , Bethlehem Steel , Republic Steel , Westinghouse , Western Electric ( an American Telephone Fc Telegraph subsidiary ) , and Radio Corp . of America . With their leaders , they dominate autos , steel , and electrical machinery ? the industries that Means has shown accounted for the lion 's share of the wholesale price rises since 1953 . So far , big industry and big labor have recoiled in horror from this idea . There are some notable exceptions . Reuther , for example , is a vigorous , long-time supporter . A few executives in one of the smartest steel companies think government intervention is inevitable . Incidentally , this corporation is one of the ten biggest producers . On Capitol Hill , O'Mahoney , Clark , and Reuss have sponsored bills along Galbraith 's line . Neuberger has introduced one authorizing temporary price , wage , and rent ceilings Kefauver has written one to insure that the general public has an advocate ? via a Consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its infancy ? or strictly speaking , second childhood , because the voluntary , wartime price fixing before OPA resembles it . There has n't been enough discussion yet for realistic notions to emerge about its strengths , weaknesses , and the technical details of how it would work . ECONOMIC PLANNING : PRIVATE OR PUBLIC 0 N E obvious argument is that the method interferes with " free " markets . But Galbraith replies that the panels " bring the public interest to bear on what is now private price-fixing . It is obvious that if private discretion did not exist , the problem would not arise . " Another argument holds that prices would never be reduced if an industry always had to justify an increase . To this proponents answer that concentrated industries almost never cut prices anyway . More-over , Kefauver 's Consumer Department might petition for a price decrease and set the panels in motion whenever it decided that output , ern-stability would benefit plovment , and price thereby . Finally , the critics point to the long history of federal regulation . They note that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vassals of the industry they are regulating . The Federal Communications Commission , for ample , is suspected of having been far friendly to the radio and television networks ; one of its former commissioners has been accused of selling his vote to a TV license applicant . Similarly , the airlines and the Civil Aeronautics Board are thought to have had unprofessional relations . In New York , Governor Rockefeller thinks his racing " czar " has enjoyed too many favors from track owners . The sensation-minded Harris Committee on Legislative Oversight ( Sherman Adams and Bernard Gold-fine were its two major diversions ) scratched a little of this surface . Another subcommittee on the Senate side , under John Carroll of Colorado , may complete the abortive Harris inquiry . And Harris himself is readying anther investigation . However , the march toward rationalization ? an industrial structure with fewer corporations and considerable private planning ? appears unlikely to be halted . All over the globe , men are planning their material arrangements to overcome the obsolete problem of material want . In India , Puerto Rico , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Common Market , in all the Communist nations , men have turned from reliance on impersonal market forces to some conscious and public planning of investment , prices , and wages . More of this already goes on in the United States than is generally understood . Tax Laws play a potent part in investment decisions . The planning of a General Motors , U. S. Steel , or a Standard Oil ( N. J. ) plays a decisive part in the nation 's economy . The question now posed is whether these private corporations will be allowed to continue making decisions of vast public consequence without some kind of informed public surveillance .                     