@@487573

THE United Nations , created for peace , is now being stripped for war . The glass palace on the bank of the East River is being readied as Fortress America . To the naked eye the " sandbags " are still invisible . But to the knowing , a call to battle has been sounded , and the accouterments of a war situation are already within the structure . They are wire taps , F , B. I. investigations , and a round-up and purge of Americans and nationals of other countries alleged to be subversive of the interests of the United States , . The equating of the fears of the United States with the interests of the United Nations is the predominant fact which emerges . On whether or not this equation is- accepted by the member states of the U. N. clepdnds the future of that body . What has created the crisis which now threatens the future of the U. N. is the insistence of the United States , under the prodding of the McCarrans and McCarthys , that the U. N. purge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or otherwise , in the interest of American security . The verbal attacks upon the U. N. , , king current , were brought to a climax this fall with federal grand-jury hearings , followed by hearings before the McCarran - Subcommittee on Internal Security . To these hearings Americans on the U. N. staff were summoned , as were officials of the State Department . As a result of claiming the protection of the Fifth Amendment , nine Americans who refused to answer questions put by the McCarran subcommittee were summarily dismissed by the Secretary General under new rules formulated precisely for this purpose by a handpicked panel of jurists under the pressure of the United States . To accomplish this the Secretary General has abrogated explicit provisions of the Charter and arrogated to himself powers of which he was delimited by the General Assembly of the United Nations . Obviously the international organization can not be served through the employment of spies of any nationality . But the integrity of the U.- N. is destrciyed if the tactics of totalitarianism are applied , and if employees , many of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fired without a - chance to hear the charges against them and to disprove them if they can . It is difficult to see why an American wishing to subvert the interests of the United States would choose the U. N. as a base of operations . There is no secret information of any intrinsic value in the United Nations . The United Nations was conceived as an instrument of open diplomacy . With few exceptions all its sessions are public . With minor exceptions all its documentation is public . And all its documents , restricted or unrestricted , are available to all the member states including the Soviet bloc . The U. N. has no restricted military information . Even the Korean reports are public . The hue and cry about subversion in the U. N. would be ludicrous if it were not so tragic , especially if one looks at the figures . There are some 2,000 Americans in a staff of 4,000 ; about 400 of them are in the 1,344 key posts . According to the testimony of John Hickerson , Under Secretary of State for U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has supplied information concerning only forty Americans  --  thirty-seven on security grounds , three on morals charges . Twenty-nine have been fired ; twenty before the panel 's report . The evidence on those remaining is said to be too flimsy to warrant action . American employees are the largest national aggregation in the U. N. , holding a little more than 28 per cent of key posts . The entire Soviet bloc has exactly seventy employees  --  nineteen Russians , twenty-eight Poles , and twenty-three Czechoslovaks . Nor are those who cry for blood satisfied with the pound of flesh already taken . Senator Alexander Wiley , slated to be chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , yesterday informed the U. N. that a rider will be introduced at the next Congress barring the use of funds for the U. N. " unless adequate security provisions have been worked out to guarantee that the United Nations and its organs do not remain a base for espionage and subversion . " The United States now pays 35.12 per cent of the budget of the U. N. The discharges begun with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same grounds . Seemingly the policy of containment is to be applied to the U. N. staff . Alleged Communists are to be ousted and replaced by anti-Communists as a cordon sanitaire around the small residue of East European Communists , who will not be touched unless caught in espionage . Not satisfied with isolating the Soviet government and its bloc in the world at large , we are determined to complete their isolation within the U. N. , with the natural consequence of bringing about a situation in which the U. N. will be , not an instrument of conciliation , but an instrument for ostracizing , pursued to a point where the Soviet bloc may ' be forced out of the U. N. Ts this an exaggerated possibility ? The conservative-London Times , in an editorial of December 2 , 1952 , voices exactly this apprehension . It may well not be intended now to pass every international civil servant through the familiar searching sieve of motives , thoughts , and associations , as well as deeds , but the menace is there . And to exclude any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and it is difficult to read any other meaning into the words  --  would deepen the schism in the United Nations and would eventually drive the Communist powers out . T HE opening act of the current drama at the U. N. began on October 23 when the Secretary General named a panel of three jurists to guide him in dealing with the issue of how personnel should be hired and fired . On November 29 the panel reported . On December 5 Mr. Lie accepted its findings and began a series of discharges . The jurists proposed that Mr. Lie should discharge any staff member who ( 1 ) claims the protection of the Fifth Amendment and refuses to answer whether he has been engaged in espionage or other " subversive " activities in the United States  --  this applies whether or not the person is a United States citizen and whether or not the protection claimed relates to acts before or after he entered ? the employment of the United Nations ; ( 2 ) claims the protection of the Fifth Amendment and refuses to say whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States or of some organization declared to be subversive under the McCarran act ; ( 3 ) is believed by the Secretary General to be engaged in activities involving subversive activities in the United States , regardless of his nationality . Under the recommendations of the panel Mr. Lie is to be guided by an advisory committee of two senior officers of the secretariat , with an independent chairman selected after consultation with the bodies representing the staff . But Mr. Lie is to be the sole and final authority . The report of the panel specifies that neither the Joint Appeals Board nor the Administrative Tribunal authorized by the General Assembly is to deal with em . ployees in these categories . If these two bodies , set up to review cases of dismissal , should none the less refuse to accept Mr. Lie 's decision and order reinstatement , the Secretary General should refuse reinstatement , leaving the Administrative Tribunal to assess damages , if any . Moreover , the Secretary General is advised to refuse to place before the Joint Appeals Board or the Administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached his decision . No standards are set up for judgment as to what are or are not subversive activities . There is no right of review or of appeal . The recommendations of the panel , which Mr. Lie is putting into practice , contravene ( 1 ) the Charter pro-December 20 , 1952visions as to ' the standards for the employment of members of the secretariat ; ( 2 ) the limitation of the authority of the Secretary General as decreed by the Administrative Tribunal , according to which the Secretary General is required to give to any employee the reasons for his discharge , and these reasons are made subject to review and decision by the Administrative Tribunal , whether or not the ' person involved is a permanent member of the staff or a temporary employee ; ( 3 ) the fundamental concept of jurisprudence in the , United States , namely , that a man is innocent until he is proved guilty . Mr. Lie was within his rights in seeking the advice of jurists to guide him in staff relations . Where he overstepped his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the provisions of the Charter , without authorization by the member nations . Article 100 provides that in the " performance of their duties the staff shall not seek or receive instructions from any government or from any other authority external to the organization . " The only standards set up by the Charter were " the highest standards of-efficiency , competence , and integrity . " These provisions were affirmed by the Sixth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on February 2 , 1952 , which underscored that members of the secretariat are international civil servants called upon at all times to bear this in mind , " while they are not expected to give up their ' national sentiments or their political or religious convictions . " Further It should be recalled that when the preparatory commission was meeting to formulate the Charter , the delegate of Yugoslavia suggested that there should be a provision making the concurrence of member governments necessary before appointment of nationals of any country to the secretariat . This proposal was supported by the Soviet delegate . But the views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Article 100 was then adopted unanimously . Nowhere in the Charter is there a requirement that the political views of the members of the secretariat should conform to the views of any government . The only stipulation of the Preparatory Commission was that in engaging the staff " the Secretary General should take the necessary steps to insure that no persons shall be appointed who have discredited themselves by their activities with Fascism or Nazism . " In two respects Mr. lie , in accepting the decision of the panel of jurists , has gone outside provisions of the Charter . Ile has added a stricture , neither implicit nor explicit in the Charter , as a barrier to employment in the secretariat  --  the stricture being against membership in the Communist Party , past , present , or future . Secondly , having been told that he should not seek or receive instructions from any government , he has had since 1949 a secret agreement with the United States whereby the Department of State has identified for him United States citizens employed or being considered for employment who would appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . HY has Mr. Lie lent himself to a procedure chal- lengeable on legal , ethical , and human grounds ? Is it pique at the Russians for their boycott of him ? Is it a new bid for an American draft for the top post ? Does he believe Communists on the staff are actual security risks , threatening the United States and the United Nations ? Has he come to feel that there is no hope of conciliation with the Russians and that the U. N. would be better off without them ? Since the future of the U. N. is at stake in the answer to these questions , it is not easy to excuse Mr. Lie 's failure to share responsibility with member states before embarking on his present course . Actually , the real architect of U. N. personnel policy is Byron Price , Assistant Secretary General for Personnel Affairs , who during World War II was in charge of United States censorship . Mr. Price was placed in this post at the direct request of the United States government . Between grand jury and McCarran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion that the persons summoned before both groups may have been on lists supplied by Mr. Price 's office . Mr. Price is also alleged to maintain the closest connections with the Department of Justice . He is known to believe there are too many foreigners in the U. N. In staff circles he is considered largely responsible for the policies that have caused a deterioration of relations between the staff and the Secretary General and for the attempts to convert the Staff Association , authorized by the General Assembly , into a company union , rubber-stamping all administration personnel policy . When on December 3 representatives of the Staff Association issued a report in which they expressed their concern over the recommendations of the jurists , the officers of the association were called to account by Mr. Price , who , it is stated , , demanded that the association support the administration policy on the score that the American public would not understand their failure to do so . The staff 's views received no place in the panel 's recommendations , though not a single indictment has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the McCarran subcommittee . The demoralization of the staff is growing by leaps and bounds . The common feeling is that F. B. I. agents are now to be found within the U. N. organization , and that wire-tapping is prevalent . The Hickerson testimony lends credence to the report , long current , that an American occupying a key U. N. post is in constant liaison with the F. B. I. That a group of informers is growing up within the organization is also a common belief  --  informers actuated both by fear and by hope of preferment .. Mr. Price has not hesitated , in replying to questions put to him by the staff committee , to say that he him- , self had drawn an inference of guilt from the refusal of staff members to answer certain questions . And yet it is worth noting that one of Mr. Lie 's counsel , Oscar Schacter , is quoted in the December 3 report of the staff committee as saying that he knew " of no method other than the invoking of the privilege against possible self-incrimination open to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the hearing would not con-stitute a fair trial . " DOES claiming the protection of the Fifth Amendment create a presumption of guilt , as assumed by Mr. Price , by the panel of jurists , and now by Mr. Lie ? Some discharged members of the staff , queried as to why they invoked the Fifth Amendment , stated that they feared the possibility of entrapment which might lead to a perjury charge . Robert Morris , counsel to the McCarran committee , in an interview which appeared in the U. S. News and World Report of December 5 , 1952 , pointed out that if a witness commits perjury before his committee he can be indicted by a grand jury . Considering the committee 's customary exhaustive review of past events , in which every witness is required to be of infallible memory , the danger of punishable perjury is not fancied but real . Mr. Morris also pointed out that a person who admitted membership in the Communist Party would immediately be queried as to who was in the Communist Party with him . Refusal to answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion . And there is the further fact that under a strict construction of the Smith act , a present member of the Communist Party might be subject to indictment . Nor is denial of membership in the Communist Party a guaranty of safety from inquisition . In other words , every person queried by the McCarran subcommittee is in personal danger of being accused of perjury or contempt if he fails to turn informer . Harold H. Corbin , distinguished trial lawyer , in a letter which appeared in the New York Times on December 7 , reminded us that the Fifth Amendment was adopted as a protection against " the inquisitorial and manifestly unjust methods of interrogating witnesses , the temptation of prosecutors to press , browbeat , and entrap them into fatal contradictions , and against the zeal of the prosecutor and public clamor for the punishment of crime . " Challenging the findings of the panel with respect to the Fifth Amendment , he said : " It ignores the fact that our highest courts have repeatedly announced the fallacy Of the doctrine pronounced yesterday by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falls and dangers of testifying are so obscure and so manifold that experienced lawyers do not permit a client to thus testify , however certain they may be of his innocence ... The present personnel policy must inevitably lead to the transformation of the U. N. from a free and independent international body for international peace into an appendage registering the fears of the United States . But this will happen unless the U. N. itself resists . The staff members who have been discharged are seeking a review of their cases by the Administrative Tribunal . That the Administrative Tribunal constitutes a formidable obstade is recognized both by the United States and by Mr. Lie . Mr. Hickerson , in his December 10 testimony , stated that Mr. Lie was hampered in his findings by the Administrative Tribunal 's decision that " the Secretary General is required to make a statement of cause in discharging an employee . " Mr. Lie has recognized its importance by appearing before the Fifth Committee to request the appointment of a committee " to examine the premise of the Administrative Tribunal in the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to strap the Tribunal or curtail its powers . The real question is whether the member states will follow the lead of Mr. Lie and yield to the panic current in some quarters in the United States or stand with Senator lodge , who takes the view that the United Nations , imperfect though it is , is our only instrument for peace , has - already curbed aggression , and would have to be created if it did not already exist . Senator Lodge , President-elect Eisenhower 's new appointee as United . States representative in the United Nations , said on December 10 that while the U. N. had not lived up to all that was hoped for it , it was nevertheless " the world 's greatest adventure in building collective strength , " and that the Soviet Union had refrained from " open , armed aggression " largely because the General Assembly of the United Nations constituted " a very real deterrent . ' The issue has reached such proportions as to require full discussion by the delegates of the member states . If they choose to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of strait-jacket urged by some Congressional leaders , then at least the decision , right or wrong , , will have been taken by those upon whom the future of the U. N. depends .                     