@@187379

The celebrated misfire of the Vanguard satellite ( TIME , Dec. 16 ) falls into the category of battles that were lost for want of a nail . Studying films and performance data , technicians have traced Vanguard 's failure to a leak sprung in a fuel line . The leak produced two quick effects : 1 ) because an improper ratio of fuel was being pumped into the thrust chamber , the missile lost thrust ; 2 ) escaping fuel spurting against the hot pump assembly caught fire , turned Vanguard into a grounded inferno when the fire backlashed to the fuel tanks . Total cost of the malfunctioning part that punctured U.S. prestige and delayed a $110 million project : about $100 . <P> If and when NATO nations reopen disarmament discussions with Russia , the man who represented the U.S. at last summer 's talks in London is an odds-on bet not to do it again . Reason : State Department Disarmament Adviser Harold Stassen , who kept the State Department quivering nervously during the 1957 negotiations , continues to disagree on basics with Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. must make a conference-opening concession , i.e. , cessation of nuclear testing for a short period as a demonstration of faith . Dulles is unalterably opposed to that idea and also to Stassen 's notion that results can be got if the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. hold private talks . Dulles in his preparations for Paris requested no position papers on disarmament from Stassen , left Washington wondering how much longer Childe Harold will continue in his State Department post . <P> The best-oiled Negro political machine in the U.S. is run by Chicago 's Congressman William L. Dawson , 71 ( " The Lion of the South Side " ) . Nobody knew it better last week than United Auto Workers ' Political Action Committeeman Willoughby Abner , who got thrown out as president of the booming ( 13,300 members ) Chicago chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. because he picked a personal fight with Dawson . A year ago Abner sensed that many a Chicago Negro felt Dawson was wrong in helping work out a compromise civil rights plank at the Democratic National Convention . Abner persuaded South Side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the November election , began to build a U.A.W.-weighted political organization in Dawson 's practically private First District . Accepting the vendetta , Dawson built up his own anti-Abner squad inside the N.A.A.C.P. When the chapter 's annual election rolled around . Abner , seven of his officers , and eight Abner-picked directors were swept out of office . <P> Top candidate for director of the Defense Department 's new Buck Rogers-minded Advanced Research Projects Agency : John A. McCone , California industrialist ( shipbuilding ) and onetime ( 1950-51 ) Under Secretary for Air . Defense Secretary Neil McElroy 's plan is that ARPA will take charge of such new weapons systems as anti-missile missiles and , possibly , satellites themselves before they become factors in interservice rivalry . With such a charter , the ARPA boss could easily evolve into a weapons czar without any fanfare .                     