@@477356

Practically every disease has its private host of crusaders , ringing doorbells from coast to coast . But a lot of them arc beginning to wonder whether this kind of charity really makes sense ? and if the money all flows into the right hands . A TRULY appealing picture of a child with a runny nose has yet to be produced . As a result we are denied the privilege of joining its an annual Sniffle Crusade , and the Common Cold Foundation wheezes along on a mere fifty thousand a year , collected mainly from a few industries . This is a puny war chest to fight a public health menace which is said to cost the nation around five billion dollars a year in lost production , wages , and medical bills . But the sniffles , alas , do not tug at the heart strings ; and though murderous ills may follow , no one ever died of sneezing . Crusades are built on pity and terror , not statistics . We contribute , for example , about the same sum in behalf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are mentally ill . Arthritis and rheumatism ? of which there are said to be more than ten million cases ? get less . No one knows just how many different groups are soliciting funds across the country for how many different diseases . Last spring in a spot check of Chatham County , Georgia , the Savannah Morning Herald tallied up nineteen organizations passing the hat for the blind ; seven for disabled veterans ; six for the crippled ; four for mental illness ; five for cancer ; two each for muscular dystrophy , polio , leprosy , brain injury , and alcoholism ; and one apiece for heart disease , retarded children , cerebral palsy , deafness , tuberculosis , multiple sclerosis , arthritis , myasthenia gravis ; nephrosis , facial disfigurement , tropical diseases , diabetes , epilepsy , allergic diseases , hemophilia , and paraplegia . Most American communities of any size are equally lavishly endowed . John A. Lincoln , President of the Stamford , Connecticut , Chamber of Commerce spoke with the voice of many when he remarked recently , " We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " To be sure , not all of these outfits blanket the nation or conduct house-to-house campaigns . Those that do , have tried to carve up the calendar into non-overlapping segments . It is not , in fact , considered cricket . among fund-raisers to muscle in on someone else 's day , week , or month . But with some fifty nationwide campaigns competing with thousands of lesser causes and local appeals it is often impossible to clear the tracks even between major drives . Thus , for instance , a Shellsburg , Iowa , farmer , Glenn McClintock , who was dunning his neighbors for the cancer crusade had the awkward but not unusual experience of being forced to lurk in his car waiting for Mrs. Jim Peacock to finish her pitch for the heart drive . Both of them turned in their campaign kits shortly thereafter . There are signs of resistance too among the kind-hearted givers . This summer , for instance , I talked with a young matron in Grosse Ile , Michigan , who announced to me firmly that she would no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the solicitor was a personal friend . " This morning , " she said dramatically , " I actually turned down the mother of a retarded child ! " Such protests are , at present , about money and ways of raising it . They are being followed , however , with lively interest by experts in public health and philanthropy who have long held that splintering up the human body into competing sovereignties is a poor way to fight disease or to promote habits of health . For years , no one but other experts paid much attention to them . But of late a number of people have begun to listen and to wonder how such a noble idea as a citizens ' war against disease managed to get so far out of hand . BACILLI AND BANKROLLS T H E disease ? or health ? agencies are an expression of compassion and of our American belief that the way to do something about a problem is to organize a committee . The movement started around the 1890s as an effort to close the gap between expanding medical knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still killing 200 out of every thousand Americans even though Robert Koch had proved that it was caused by a bacillus which could be controlled . In 1892 , Dr. Lawrence F. Flick formed a Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis in Philadelphia and the idea was picked up a few years later in New York and other cities . The objectives were clear-cut . Basic habits of sanitation had to be taught to consumptives and their families . Sanitariums had to be built . Doctors and hospitals had to be persuaded or compelled to report cases . Above all , health departments had to be talked into starting control programs and the taxpayers induced to foot the bill . The societies did more than talk about TB . Often they paid the cost of new demonstration programs , such as fresh air schools in Indianapolis or ? more recently ? mass chest X-ray programs in Washington , D. C. The needed funds were raised through the annual Christmas seal sale . Over the next two decades similar groups were organized to push for action on other neglected public health problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infant death rate . In 1908 , William James and Dr. Adolph Meyer helped start a Mental Hygiene Committee after Clifford Beers ' popular book , The Mind that Found Itself , had stirred public sympathy . Similarly in 1913 , the Ladies ' Home Journal shattered a long-standing taboo by publishing a frank article about cancer by Samuel Hopkins Adams . Shortly thereafter Dr. Thomas D. Cullen founded the American Cancer Society as a means of acquainting doctors and the general public with the known scientific facts . For the same purpose , Dr. Lewis Connor and Dr. Haven Emerson formed a Society for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease . These were all modest undertakings geared to the rather stodgy ways of the dignified doctors and philanthropists who headed them . One disease that was totally overlooked by the pressure groups was polio . Although there were , after the 1916 epidemic , scattered attempts to raise funds for treatment of the paralyzed , it had not occurred to anyone that laymen could do much about a disease the cause and cure of which were still unknown . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise funds for the Warm Springs Foundation in Georgia which had won fame through Franklin D. Roosevelt 's heroic fight against his handicap . The response exceeded all expectations and when the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis was formed in 1938 its March of Dimes soon snowballed into a kind of national mardi gras and revival meeting . ' With an adored President as its patron saint , the polio drive became a patriotic cause . Fund-raising chapters were set up in more than . 3 , t ) 00 counties , many headed by local postmasters . From 52 million in 1941 , the Foundation 's annual take zoomed to $65 million in 1954 , much of it collected in a door-to-door drive known as the - Mothers ' March . " " It was the greatest fund-raising gimmick ever invented , " I was told by the late Warren Coss , who supervised this gigantic mobilization of woman-power . With the nostalgia of an old football star recalling a ninety-yard run , he described one of the first marches in Phoenix , Arizona ? the advance publicity via press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cm theporches of willing donors , the fanfare of fire and police , sirens as the triumphant mothers reaped an unprecedented harvest of $47,000 in a single hour . As money gushed in over the years , the National Foundation showered research grants on scientists , established fellowships in virology and other specialties and poured funds into rehabilitation experiments and treatment . Huge revenues and the low incidence of polio ( 47 cases per 100,000 as compared , for instance , to 5,848 cases of cardiovascular disease ) made it possible also to pay for medical and hospital 26 MUTINY OF THE BOUNTIFUL care and costly equipment for polio patients . This kind of service no other agency could hope to match . But there was much to be learned from the March of Dimes . While other organizations lacked a President as founder , there proved to be a boundless supply of lesser celebrities happy to he photographed as they pleaded for the afflicted . Walter Winchell set the example by making a kind of auxiliary career out of the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund . Before long there was scarcely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some ailment . Indeed there were those who said that the right disease was almost as important to success as the right agent . Glamor and ballyhoo helped recruit campaign fund collectors who were proud to find themselves described in their agency 's literature as our dedicated volunteers . " The demands on them were slight ? usually just one march or promenade every twelve months . For numbers , on the infantry level , are the key to mass fund-raising . The amount of money you can raise is limited only by the quantity of doorbell ringers you can enlist . THE PRINCESS VOLUNTEERS B EFORE long a host of new agencies began to crowd the field . Some were concerned with ills which arc neither prevalent nor contagious and hence could scarcely be considered public health problems . In the hands of the latter-day fund-raisers this was no obstacle ? providing they could find at least one object of pity for display on posters or telethons . In 1945 , for example , a young woman named Sylvia Lawry placed a two-line ad in the New York Times asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare crippling disease from which her brother suffered . Today the Multiple Sclerosis Society , of which Miss Lawry is executive director , has more than 150 chapters across the country . Grace Kelly is its star , and its take has increased from $46,000 to S2 million . The Society 's rapid climb toward the big time began in 1954 when it acquired as public-relations director , Floyd Boyer , one of several National Foundation alumni who sought new pastures in the wake of the Salk vaccine . With true March of Dimes elan , Mr. Boyer flew to Monaco a week before the Princess produced her first-born and persuaded her to appear in a short fund-raising film . He is also credited with a new twist in the fund-raising calendar ? MS Hope Month runs from Mother 's Day to Father 's Day . In due course the carnival spirit engulfed the old , staid health agencies as well as the upstarts . The Heart Association , then a mere $100,000 operation , shed its inhibitions around 1946 , hired some new talent , and today garners around $20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society , which collected only $800,000 in 1944 , received $30 million in 1957 . As each organization mushroomed so , of course , did its payroll and its printing and promotion bills . Net receipts have , none the less , been substantial and it is generally agreed that , within then . chosen fields , the money has been wisely spent . The real question is whether the scope of research into muscular dystrophy or alcoholism should be determined by the relative prowess of their fund-raisers . The same objection applies to funds for patient care . Although percentages vary , virtually all the agencies split their revenues with their state and county chapters . Research is usually financed out of the national office share while the chapters contribute to clinics and rehabilitation , or other services in their communities . These funds are earmarked for the agency 's pet disease ? which may or may not be a major local problem . Presbyterian Hospital in New York , for instance , found last year that out of some 65,000 diagnoses of bed patients , 52,000 were not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferred classes of patients highlights the fact that the disease agencies need not worry about the budget of any particular institution nor the overall health and welfare problems of any community . To those who carry these responsibilities , the $170 million a year siphoned off by the big health drives ? on the basis of zeal rather than need ? seems a dangerous form of fiscal anarchy . The result is a growing tug of war between local and national interests . Even more sharply in conflict are two opposing philanthropic concepts : the one aims at balancing services with human needs , the other at developing whatever programs the public can be persuaded to support . Both sides have ardent and forceful supporters , who are currently locked in combat . The issues have been obscured by a blinding public-relations barrage from both sides . In essence , however , this is the same struggle which gave birth to the Community Chest movement of the 1920s . The businessmen in Cleveland , Rochester . and other cities who introduced federated fund-raising to the health and welfare scene after World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anguished wails from orphanage hoards , scout leaders , hospital superintendents , and other free-wheeling philanthropic types , particularly at the prospect of a budget committee peering over their shoulders . There was trouble too with parochial-minded natives who objected to sharing the local charity pot with national outfits like the Y 's and the Salvation Army . These differences were eventually ironed out , and all concerned found it a great relief to devote one strenuous week a year to the Red Feather ? Community Chest campaign and the other fifty-one to their own affairs . DIVIDED THEY STAND I N THE 1930s and 1940s the health appeals began moving into town . As they multiplied , the Red Feather campaign became just another drive , competing with many others for time , newspaper space , and man- and woman-power . When the fund-raisers swarmed not only into homes but into offices and factories their managers began to reckon the cost . The Ford company , for example , calculated that every plant solicitation meant , apart from contributions , a $40,000 loss in executive time and production . Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management . " The results just did n't justify the amount of effort we were putting into all those appeals , " said Andy Brown of the United . Auto Workers in Detroit . " We had to find a more efficient way to get the job done . " The plan pioneered in Detroit in 1949 was an all-encompassing campaign known as the Torch Drive , which would raise funds for the Community Chest and the national health agencies in a single annual appeal . The auto magnates spearheaded a massive push for substantial gifts from corporations and their executives . The union backed a payroll deduction plan for employee contributions . The Torch Drive was a spectacular financial success and has steadily grown in subsequent years . Variations of the same plan known as United Funds or United Community Chests have since been set up in more than a thousand cities . They have been particularly successful in industrial centers where union members and management , dunned once a year , have become the chief supporters of voluntary philanthropy . Inside the factories , multiple health drives are vanishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The federal government has also clamped down and now permits ( in addition to the Red Cross roll call ) just two solicitations a year of its employees on the job ? one for community chests , the other for a combined health drive . Though temporarily routed on these fronts , the health campaigners are regrouping their forces . They assail payroll deductions and plant quotas for charity as " stark unbridled materialism in action . " They attribute sinister imperialist aims to the United Flinders who are , in truth , all autonomous groups . " Divided we stand , united we fall ! " was the rather odd battle cry sounded last May by Dr. Robert W. Wilkins of the Heart Association . Under such banners the health agencies are currently presenting themselves to the nation as champions of the American Way , freedom of choice , and true charity . In the privacy of their New York offices , however , more practical questions are discussed . Many doubt , with good reason , that people who give a dollar apiece to six drives will kick in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will happen to The Organization if it loses its constituents ? the door-to-door brigades ? For a money-raising outfit without an annual drive is like a political party without an annual election . It has lost its main reason for existence . From the outset , the TB Association turned thumbs clown on joint drives . This caused relatively little fuss since it is generally felt that the Christmas Seals do n't compete with anyone but Santa Claus . March of Dimes also declined with great firmness ? which surprised no one since its generalissimo , Basil O'Connor , is a celebrated lone wolf who successfully kept the Red Cross out of Community Chests during his tenure as President from 1944 to 1949 . In the current controversy , however , the Red Cross has taken a neutral position , leaving the matter up to its local chapters ; more than 900 have now joined United Funds . It has taken the other agencies some time to rally for defense . A number of them were stuck with state and local chapters headed by men who were members of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Fund . As a result , it was natural for many local chapters to join up with the united drives despite the dismay of their national offices . Within the past two years resistance has stiffened . The Heart Association will not permit any more chapters to join United Funds . Last June the Cancer Society went a step further by ordering all those now in to get out by 1960 . This edict precipitated a minor civil war . Outraged protests were made in New Orleans and Sari Francisco . Chapters in Danville , Virginia , Detroit , and Rochester , New York , voted to secede from the parent body . The sounds of this internecine strife reverberated noisily in the local press . " II the Cancer Society can do it , the Baldheaded League can do it and we 'll have a different drive every day of the year , " said Msgr . Thomas J. Tobin , one of the founders of the United Fund in Portland , Oregon . Faced with this prospect , some of the United Funders have resorted to strong counter-measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Cancer Societies declined to join , the united drive directors none the less included " heart and cancer research , education , and services " in their fund-raising package and in effect incited a boycott of the independent drives . This stratagem was denounced by the Pittsburgh Heart Association as " sheer trickery which shows an amazing lack of integrity by our leading citizens . " Even more irate was Dr. John W. Cline , a former AMA President who charged that money raised in this way is " tainted with the spurious claims under which it was raised , the broken promises of professional promoters . . . and the certainty that freedom in research will disappear . . . . " Despite this dire forecast , the tainted dollars have been happily accepted by local research foundations in more than a dozen cities and states . In the future , contributions for research may go to a new foundation for the support of basic research set up within the past year by the National Fund for Medical Education , with the blessing of the United Community Funds and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Heart and Cancer Societies along with the March of Dimes have spurned funds collected for their disease rather than their organizations . The million dol-lars or more that has thus been kept out of their collective treasuries has not , in their view , been too high a price to pay in the defense of auton-omy . More costly in the long run may be the loss in popular esteem , for the fury of a contributor scorned can pack quite a wallop . This was lately demonstrated by some 10,000 Ohio housewives . Two years ago the women of Gates Mills , a prosperous Cleveland suburb , decided to save time by staging a one-shot combined drive for all the health agencies . Their modest experiment became a cause c ? l ? bre when the National Foundation ordered its Cleveland chapter to give back $1,322 which the ladies had collected for polio . This was not only a snub to womankind ; it was an affront to a native hero , for the local March of Dimes is headed by baseball star Bob Feller . The press was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a sizzling column in the Cleveland News . " The women who went from house to house collecting gifts arc not slaves to the bidding of emperors perched on a national throne in New York . . . The Health Drives have ( lone and are doing a service for humanity . They could n't do it at all if it were not for more fortunate humanity at the grass-roots level . On this level they face a strike of the women volunteer workers . " Thus incited , the ladies of Cuyahoga County reacted like an oppressed nation . From the well-nourished grass roots of Gates Mills the revolt spread to humbler back yards and garden apartments . The Gates Mills affair became a prime discussion topic in a dozen towns . Action committees sprang up headed usually by the wives of public officials , officers of women 's clubs , and past chairmen of the assorted health drives . Everywhere the motif was the same : the volunteers had stopped volunteering . One weary chairman reported that it had taken 200 phone calls to recruit a captain for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Mrs. Warren North of Middleburg Heights , " to a point where a woman agrees to work only if contacted by a very dear friend . And dear friends are getting fewer by the week . " To all the rebels a combined drive in the Gates Mills style seemed the right solution . Village councils , Rotary Clubs , and Chambers of Commerce seconded the plan enthusiastically . The point was clinched when the ladies circulated a questionnaire and found their neighbors overwhelmingly in favor of having the doorbell ring just once a year in the name of health . The scattered groups kept in touch with each other by telephone . Sixteen towns to the east of Cleveland set up a joint command post in the home of Mrs. George Urban , wife of the Mayor of South Euclid . Here they worked out details , such as a separate listing of the participating agencies on one envelope , allowing the contributor free choice among them . They " Do we want to be Block Chairman of the Heart Fund ? " agreed also to synchronize their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the course of a cross-country trip , I stopped off in Cleveland to ask Mrs. Urban how they had made out . A forthright , orderly person , she produced neatly-typed tally sheets with the returns tabulated by towns and causes . The total looked impressive ? more than $200,000 . " We should have done better than that , " Mrs. Urban acknowledged . " The business slump hurt us , I think , and some of the towns got started too late to be well organized . " She was disappointed too because the allocation to cancer was less than the yield of the Society 's independent drive the year before . " I do n't say we 've found the perfect answer , " she said . " We have a lot to learn about how you educate people for this kind of appeal . But I do know we ca n't handle all those drives . It 's always the busiest woman who gets stuck with these jobs ? the one who 's willing to take on one more task . We can never get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The national health agencies see the matter differently . " Sure the old pros are tired , " I was told by Willis Nichols , an able young Cincinnati businessman who is an ardent Heart Association partisan . " But there are thousands of women who have never been asked to do anything . All we have to do is find them . " Some of the agencies are doing this by hiring professional solicitors who pick names at random from the reverse ( or geographic ) telephone directory and keep calling until they recruit enough hands to blanket a neighborhood with campaign literature . This may be a practical way to raise money . But it seems doubtful that the casual labor so assembled can permanently replace the kind of women who are on strike in Cuyahoga County . Their tribe is the chief treasure of voluntary philanthropy ? the dedicated few who choose to give their leisure to service . Since they believe in the purposes of the health drives why , one may ask , are they unwilling to make the rounds for them ? An evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared to the labor many of these citizens happily give to the cub scouts , the League of Women Voters , the ambulance corps or , according to their persuasion , to Hadassah or the Society for the Propagation of the Faith . The trouble may well be that the health agencies are asking not too much but too little of them . The protest is , in large part , against a form of philanthropy which downgrades the volunteer to a mere messenger and coin-collecting machine manipulated by professionals . The health agencies have not , of course , done this deliberately . If they could dream up worthy projects , most of them would like to keep their volunteers happily employed as the Cancer Society proposes to do in its current mammoth statistical research venture . In general , however , since they do not operate community institutions they are in much the same position as the national committees of political parties which can offer their constituents nothing to do between campaigns . Resentment against their lowly role in the philanthropic scheme of things appears widespread among women . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County , I have yet to find a housewife who regards door-to-door ' fund-raising as " a satisfying outlet for creative energy , " a claim made by Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall of the Cancer Society . " It 's like falling into a bottomless well , " said an energetic young mother of four who is a pillar of civic and charitable causes in Minneapolis . " Every year there are new drives and all the old ones keep right on going . You would think a couple of them might quit or get together . " Reasonable as this notion sounds , it is like asking Oklahoma to merge with Texas . Causes can multiply like rabbits , but old agencies never die . IN THE 1920s the late Julius Rosenwald dis-covered in a Midwestern city a still flourishing . organization with a cozy endowment fund which had been set up to help pioneer families over the Santa Fe Trail . This was one of the experiences which prompted Mr. Rosenwald to provide in his will that his own foundation must be liquidated within twenty-five years of his death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass fundraising device is eternal . Today , for example , the TB associations raise and spend more money than ever even though TB mortality has been cut from 200 to 8 per 100,000 and health departments everywhere ? thanks largely to the associations ' agitation ? conduct TB control programs . They are generally grateful for the help the private societies give them . But whether TB is a priority problem for which $26 million a year should be collected is an academic question so long as the Christmas seal sale is a gold mine . The insularity of the disease agencies was sharply criticized forty years ago by Dr. George E. Vincent , President of the Rockefeller Foundation . The health of the community , " he said , " is alter all not a group of special interests . It is essentially a single interest with different aspects . To exalt one of them , to get it out of locus and to urge it at the expense of other essential factors is unscientific , wasteful , and misleading . No one would seriously undertake to defend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy , or public welfare . " Thus challenged , the agencies in 1921 adopted the classic defense of beleaguered bureaucracy . They set up a co-ordinating committee which they tightly controlled themselves . Twenty years later this body ? the National Health Council ? sponsored ( and the Rockefeller Foundation paid For ) a survey of its members . The report published in 1945 said , among other things , that money was being wasted in duplicate fund-raising campaigns . . . that the public was confused by the multiplicity of appeals ... and that fundamental scientific research was being slighted because of overemphasis on the " conquest " of specific diseases . It also suggested that " health education " consists in teaching people to stay well rather than in giving them the jitters about assorted symptoms . The existing situation was called " preposterous " ? analogous to setting up within local government a series of separate health departments to deal separately with smallpox , diphtheria , pneumonia , typhoid , industrial hygiene , and milk inspection . Recognizing it as a subversive document , the Health Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its authors , Philip S. Platt and the late Selskar M. Gunn , who had written that over the years as they become institutionalized those who work for the agencies become more concerned with the institution than the purpose . " They thus forecast the decision of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis , which , after fulfilling its original mission with the Salk vaccine , announced last spring that it was switching missions to congenital defects , arthritis , and other assorted ills . Much of the new terrain is already well populated by other agencies . None of these rivals , however , intends to disappear . Though its territory has been annexed , even the THOMAS WHITBREAD , 4 Student , Departing for Christmas Vacation , to Himself co home to Wilmington : what there Is waiting for you , find and take ; And , from the passing moments , make A pattern permanent and fair . Fondle the rose , avoid the thorn ; Consume the wheat , neglect the chaff ; Reject all sneers : elect to laugh When God is born on Christmas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lit Whose trunk does not precisely fit Its metal manger . Only hate Him who is ignorant of the love Once felt , at one time , by someone For tree , God , wheat , rose , Wilmington ? By you , the raven , you , the dove . Rheumatism and Arthritis Foundation is holding its fort , led by its doughty president , General George C. Kenney who has spotted a number of former Air Force buddies in strategic chapters around the country . The Cancer Society is a temporary agency , " was told by its executive vice-president , Mefford R. Runyon , a forceful man who is , incidentally no kin of Mr. Winchell 's Runyon . " Once we have licked this problem we will go out of business . " When this happens , it will be a great day on many counts . But for the foreseeable future we can assume that the Cancer Society and the rest are indestructible . They are ready for a long battle . If the current stalemate is to end , both sides will have to settle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint , in private , that this is not impossible . LESS STRAIN , MORE MERCY C ONVEN lEN T as it is for contributors and solicitors , the giant super-drive has drawbacks . When a gift package gets too big it is hard to keep track of the contents . Though a United Fund supporter himself , John E. Canady of Lockheed Aircraft recently warned against the danger of " a drying up of the wellsprings of charity by progressive depersonalization of giving . " There is reason to doubt also that a single annual appeal could raise the huge sums needed if the United Funds completely swallowed up the health campaigns . For these reasons , the best way out of the present impasse might be for the health drives to merge ? not with the united appeals ? but with one another . The result would be two major campaigns a year ? a united fund drive and a united health appeal . Besides the disease agencies , a combined health campaign might include - voluntary hospitals , clinics , and medical schools ? many of which are going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verve and imagination of the national fundraisers . On the other hand , the national agencies could not with good grace decline to share their receipts with institutions which are the shock troops of the war against disease . If this should be the outcome of the current mutiny , it will ? in addition to abating a national nuisance ? have some very useful results , among them these : ( 1 ) Agency isolationism will diminish . The participants will be separately listed in a combined drive so that contributors may chooseamong them . Many donors , however , will not exercise this right since few laymen feel qualified to judge , for instance , the comparative importance of nephrosis and cystic fibrosis . As a result there will be a large pot not earmarked for any particular disease . Those who want the money will have to justify their budgets to each other and probably to a national budget committee which would include men of broad scientific vision as well as partisan specialists . Imperfect though such a body would probably be , it is bound to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organs . ( 2 ) Fund raising costs will be reduced . At present all the national agencies use different bookkeeping systems ; one may charge to " fund-raising " what another calls " health education . " Only in Los Angeles are they required by law to follow uniform accounting practices . Figures compiled there show that the health agencies spend from 12 to 30 cents to collect each dollar . This is not an outlandish cost such as , for instance , the Si cents per dollar the outfit called Disabled American Veterans spends in peddling its car key tags . However none is as low as the 8.5 cents per dollar cost of the Los Angeles Community Chest . Conservative estimates suggest that the health agencies spend no less than 526 million a year to collect $170 million . The savings of a joint drive should provide a comfortable cushion against a possible drop in total collections . ( 3 ) Volunteers will resume volunteering . Since they will have no need for separate door-to-door brigades , the agencies ' constituencies will be cut back to people actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dreary task of seeking alms , the average housewife will be free to express her charitable urges wherever she can find real satisfaction . This may be as a hospital aide , as a volunteer library or school assistant , or in any one of a hundred other urgent tasks crying for extra hands . She may also , upon occasion , feel that she can best serve as a missionary teaching the rest of us how to lead longer and healthier lives . When in this guise she comes to call , bearing a fistful of leaflets about our hearts , lungs , or livers , we will , I think , be much more inclined to read them if she is not , at the same time , shaking a tin Clip in our faces .                     