@@493739

PEACE WITHOUT APPEASEMENT THE United States has suffered a major defeat . We are not used to defeat . The world is watching us to see how we will act . Will we crawl back into our isolationist hole ? Will we sweep unready peoples into a losing war ? Will we inspire all peoples with a new spirit of wisdom and courage and calm resolution ? In the blizzards of Korea our soldiers are fighting heroically so that we at home may be heroic . On our reaction turns the future of the Free World . The immediate cause of our defeat is Gen. Douglas MacArthur . He proclaimed the doctrine that Orientals respond only to strength . He destroyed much of our strength in Asia by his own weakness ? his egotism . He gambled the authority of the UN and the leadership of the US on his own unfounded hunches . He made no allowances for the possibility that he might happen to be wrong . But the blame falls less on MacArthur 's bent shoulders than on the men in the US who betrayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pedestal of hero worship and infallibility where no servant of a free society should stand . These same groups have now gone wholly mad . Luce announces that the Third World War is already raging . McCormick surrenders at one stroke to Moscow declaring : " It is absurd to think that we can be any more effective militarily in Europe than we have been in Korea . Therefore , instead of spending ourselves into Communism , we should pull in our expenditures , call out the National Guard to hold Northern Canada , and leave the treacherous so-called Allies in Europe to their own protection . " Hearst adds : " Our sovereignty has been impaired by making us a virtual vassal of the United Nations which disrupts our councils and seeks to fly its mongrel flags over our public buildings . . . We should get out of the United Nations . and end our unrequited efforts to supporit and supply an ingrate Europe . " Americans , of course , do not give up , so easily . Yet these views are significant as caricatures of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thereis a lack of faith in Asia 's ability to withstand Communism . There is a loss of faith in Western Europe 's will to survive . There is a loss of confidence in our capacity to determine the outcome of struggles overseas . There is a growing conviction that arming the Free World will cause an inflation that will destroy our own free society . There is a growing desire to conserve our own resources and defend our own shores . All of these feelings might be met on the level of reason . But they are not all open to reason . And all these feelings are exaggerated 10 times over in the demoralization of free peoples overseas . The only answer is intelligent action , directed toward a known end . The Truman-Attlee conference was the first step in that direction . It took the first great stroke , in blocking any extension of a losing campaign in Korea by war against Manchuria . That prepared the way for our recovery . What must our next steps be ? II First , we need to be clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humiliating ; it need not be . Munich was shameful , not Dunkirk . And Korea is neither Munich nor Dunkirk . There is no thought of a compromise with North Korea and China which legalizes successful aggression . And if we are forced to withdraw from Korea it will be with men and equipment , and with honor . It is no disgrace to lose a campaign . The disgrace would be to surrender in panic and hysteria the principles for which we fight . The alternatives in Korea are to hold a line or beachhead or to withdraw . These should be examined in relation to our future actions . There are three possible reasons for holding some portion of Korea : First , to save our South Korean allies from the murderous vengeance of the North Koreans ; second , to salvage through diplomacy as much as can be retrieved of our fight against Communist aggression ; third , to resume the fight for a free and unified Korean state . In the first two cases our forces would not be required to remain in Korea indefinitely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such territory as they hold will have to be held by the forces now in Korea . But if we were to remain in Korea to build up for a counter-offensive , we should have to commit additional forces in large numbers in the near future . We do not have them . General Collins stated in Tokyo that the 82nd Airborne Division is the only effective force remaining in the United States . To this might be added the 2nd Marine Division . These two units are our military fire brigades , one airborne and one amphibious , all we have left for all our commitments at home and abroad . Other Regular Army divisions have been stripped to fill up divisions in Korea and to furnish nucleii for new divisions now being organized . The four National Guard divisions in service , just brought up to strength with selectees , will not be ready until summer or later . Thus a new offensive in Korea could not be initiated earlier than late summer of 1951 , and again would strip the United States of all its effective ground forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still the great prize of Soviet aggression . HI If we withdraw , we are faced with Chinese and Soviet regimes confident of their power , contemptuous of the United Nations , and ready to take full advantage of their demonstrated military superiority over the West . French Indo-China is certain to be the next victim , and Japan , completely disarmed , may be threatened . Our withdrawal can be no farther than to Japan . It is obvious that Japan must be permitted to acquire defensive armaments without delay to enable the United States to reduce its forces there . Yet , even limited rearmament of Japan is physically impossible in one or two years . Thus , we are faced with heavy military commitments in the Far East for an undefined period . Only the naval weakness of China and the Soviet Union makes it possible to depend upon such small forces as we have available . Indo-China , if it is marked for conquest , can not be held by our military aid . It is a French colony and not a free state sponsored by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their belated reforms today are probably too late . Ho Chi-minh ? is recognized by Russia and Communist China . If , with the aid of Soviet and Chinese advisers and equipment , Ho can not defeat the French , 750,000 Chinese soldiers stand behind him to finish the job . Indo-China is the gateway to Southeast Asia . If it falls , all Southeast Asia may be lost . Yet if action to save this area means committing our troops , we can not act . We have no forces with which to fight . IV Can we hold by negotiation what can not be held by military power ? That question forced a division between the US and India . It blocked effective action in the Truman-Attlee conference . In that conference Acheson argued that China was committed to further aggression and subservience to the USSR . He proposed limited negotiations with China on Korea . He held that Chinese aggression there could not be bought off by concessions elsewhere . He concluded that , if China refused a settlement , we should undertake measures of limited war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking could still be encouraged by greater ties with the West . He asserted that China had no incentive to negotiate on Korea alone since she had already gained military decision there . He proposed negotiations looking toward a general settlement with the new regime . He added that a limited war would gain nothing for the West and would simply serve to justify further Communist aggression . Historically , it seems clear to us that Attlee was right , and Acheson was wrong . Acheson 's position was perhaps justified while we were winning in Korea . Today we are in no position to insist that China be hauled before the bar and made to pay for her trespasses . The future of negotiation depends on the outcome of India 's present efforts in mediation . Nehru , who was proved right on Korea , deserves our fullest support . If the price of compromise on Korea proves to be negotiation for a general settlement , then we should pay that price . Appeasement is a wild word , especially when it is flung out by former isolationists . Negotiign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanction aggression or sacrifice basic principles may become appeasement . But negotiation which seeks to prevent aggression and to restore vital principles is necessary and honorable . No vital principle is sacrificed in extending recognition to China . The Soviet fiction that Chinese troops in Korea are volunteers is exceeded in inanity only by our fiction that no government exists on the Chinese Mainland which can send troops to Korea . Nor is a vital principle sacrificed in bringing China 's Communist Government into the UN . If the UN were an organization of democratic and peaceful nations , neither Russia nor China should belong , and India and other uncommitted nations would leave the UN . As long as the UN seeks to be a universal organization , the rulers of China are entitled to UN membership . They have undermined their claim by fighting against UN forces . Yet , as a non-member , China has not been bound by the charter . Even had Communist China as a UN member defied the UN , sanctions rather than expulsion , would have been the UN 's initial response . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indo-China is not negotiable . Nor is the conflict with Chiang Kai-shek . Nor is the determination of the Communists to drive all Western and democratic influences off the mainland of Asia . Nor is their ambition to " liberate " oppressed peoples in all directions around them . We have no doubt that there was a sharp conflict between moderates and extremists in Peking over the wisdom of war against the UN . The extremists won . Their wisdom has been crowned by spectacular success . Their strength is undoubtedly multiplied . The moderates are likely to be liquidated , purged or at least silenced for the next decade . For these reasons Attlee 's gamble is against longer and longer odds . Yet , if negotiations fail , they must fail because of Chinese intransigence and not because of our partnership with Chiang Kai-shek . There is no early hope for Nationalist action on the mainland . There is no assurance that if we transported the Nationalists to the mainland they would not turn their weapons against us . Fifty percent of the troops in Korea are ex-Nationalists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over by Nationalist armies to the Communists . If Nationalist soldiers would not fight for a Chinese Government against an untried Communist rebellion which threatened their homes , would they fight today against an established Chinese Government which occupies their homeland and is routing the armies of the US and the UN ? If negotiations fail , and we are driven from Korea , will we gain by a limited war with China ? A blockade of China would tie down our fleet and arouse resentment among Chinese . Lesser action would involve export and import embargoes and the freezing of all Chinese assets abroad . If we alone acted , we would be hurt more than China . If all , or even some of the free nations could act together in blocking trade with China , the regime would suffer and Soviet resources would be further strained . V Further losses may be necessary in Asia . They will be costly but not irreparable . Only the loss of Western Europe is irreparable for the Free World . The risk of aggression is heightened in Europe because of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps , necessary to defend Europe , include those which the USSR has bitterly opposed . The first vital step is the creation of a European armed force . Truman and Attlee agreed on the urgency of this step . They agreed that the appointment of General Eisenhower as Supreme Commander should be held back until he is given commitments by Western Europe to integrate existing armies . Eisenhower 's appointment would serve for a short time to regain lost morale here and in Europe . The next step is up to the nations of Western Europe . When they move , we should increase many times our appropriations to be spent for defense in Europe . Increased production for defense will help to restore a long-range sense of confidence . The second step lies in the defense of Yugoslavia . To Stalin , Tito is still the " insolent dwarf " who challenges the Soviet empire . He must be crushed , and large satellite armies are being raised for that purpose . Tito 's 30 divisions hold a 1,200-mile frontier , an almost impossible task . Yet Yugoslavia is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Tito is ready to face again the most terrible warfare ? partisan warfare ? to halt Soviet aggression , we must help . Yugoslavia has accepted raw materials from MDAP so she has been brought into relation with the NATO . Full membership is undesirable and unnecessary . But a guarantee of Yugoslavia 's borders by NATO seems vital today . And Yugoslavia could be brought into the ERP . The first step is to pass without strings the present $35-million grant before Congress ; the next is to pass the additional $35 million the Yugoslays requested and the State Department failed to forward to Congress . The third step is to make MDAP supplies available to Yugoslavia ; the fourth , to rush to conclusion the loan now before the World Bank . A third source of immediate conflict in Europe is German rearmament . NATO has agreed to arm German units . The Soviet Government has warned that it will not tolerate a regular German army . Do the Russians mean what they say ? The best answer is yes , only sometimes they are unable to carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet action against Western Europe ? One is misery within the USSR ; another is Soviet unwillingness to wage a general ' war when her prospects without a general war are still bright . Are these deterrents sufficient in light of that fact that a rearmed Germany is a far greater threat to Russia than a Western-oriented Korea ? The argument that a German army would be defensive is no argument . For the Germans reply correctly that offense is the best defense and add that they will fight only if they can carry the fight beyond their own borders . Coupled with our present weakness , these arguments seem to us extremely grave . They warrant arming the Germans last among the components of a European army , and they justify a re-opening of negotiations with the USSR even though it is made clear that the creation of a police state in Western Germany or its abandonment to Russia via neutralization is not negotiable today . VI We have suggested here a short-term program of negotiating where we can and building strength where we can . The main area where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate military weakness is in ground forces and tactical aviation . The slow-motion build-up of the Army to 18 divisions is not the answer . The issue was evaded when we committed all our forces to Korea . It is still being evaded . In October , 1940 , in a far less critical situation , President Roosevelt mobilized the National Guard and Reserves and used selective service to bring them up to strength . The first step is much greater military mobilization . The next is economic action to back it up , and to halt inflation . It means a shift from limited to full control on materials . It means full price and wage controls to be established as fast as efficient administration will permit . It means a much higher rate of taxation , including an immediate excess profits tax , and rigorous corporate , individual and excise taxes . It means a full draft on manpower ? the greatest shortage and the hardest problem that we face . It means a declaration of a National Emergency to bring home the urgency of our needs . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Steelmans and other uninspired and mediocre job-holders and time-servers and replacing them with men who can lift Government service to the level of our new tasks . These are the initial requirements of peace without appeasement . Who can argue that peace is not worth the price ? 