@@261693

<P> Britain and the Commonwealth decided to have a go at the Southeast Asia mess . Last week a group known as the Commonwealth Consultative Committee on Economic Aid to South and Southeast Asia , composed of 70-odd delegates from all Commonwealth nations except South Africa , met in Sydney , Australia , and produced a program . The Commonwealth nations decided to 1 ) set aside a fund of $22,400,000 for technical and medical aid to the countries of Southeast Asia during the next three years ; 2 ) set up a bureau at Colombo , Ceylon , which will deploy technicians from Commonwealth countries wherever they are most needed in Southeast Asia and send youths from Southeast Asian countries to be trained in Commonwealth universities and industries ; 3 ) invite all Southeast Asian countries to draw up six-year plans for industrial development , modernized agriculture , etc. , for which the Commonwealth would consider further assistance this fall . <P> The Australians had wanted more spectacular aid immediately , but the British held back . Said " a British delegate , stooping to picking up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last thrown away : " . . . We should let the dust settle . . . " <P> Another conference on Southeast Asia will convene this week in the Philippine mountain resort of Baguio . At the invitation of Carlos Romulo , newly appointed Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs , delegates from the Philippines , Korea , India , Pakistan , Siam , Indonesia , Australia and New Zealand will discuss economic and cultural cooperation and a vague proposal for a Southeast Asian union . According to Host Romulo , the conference would be " nonCommunist " rather than " anti-Communist , " which was another way of saying that in all likelihood it would produce doubletalk instead of concrete action . Romulo himself last week gave a preview of the doubletalk . Said he : " The conference will be unmonolithic in nature , but multilingual , cultural and religious . "                     