@@494356

MOST OF THE early estimates of the import of the recent elections bore a remarkable similarity . By and Jorge they transformed a Republican defeat into a considerable " moral " victory . This interpretation had the virtue of being both comforting to the losers and consistent with the contrast between the actual event and the expectations on all sides . A good-humored dissent to the theory of moral victory is in order . This non-concurring opinion will rest chiefly on an examination of the elections to the House of Representatives . Factors of personality , policy , and situ ? ation make each . Senate contest in high degree a peculiar case to be explained in terms of its own circumstances . The House races collectively , however , provide a basis for some judgment about party balance in the nation as a whole . Perhaps the major significance of the 1.954 House re ? sults consists in their forceful demonstration of the con , tinned existence of a wide gap between the following of the Republican Party in the country and the popular strength of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left no cushion to absorb a normal mid-term loss . Before the 1954 election the Republicans did not hold enough seats to create the basis for a Democratic landslide . Two years of Repub ? lican rule evidently did little to create a support for the Republican Party generally commensurate with the strength Of the President . A bit of perspective and a few figures may support the point . One must go back to 1938 to find a mid-term election at which Republicans won significantly fewer seats than in 1954 . The relevant figures on seats won by Republicans are 1954 , 203 ; 1950 , 199 ; 1946 , 245 ; 1942 , 208 ; 1938 , 164 . In 1926 , the country gave Cool idge 237 Republican Representatives , In 1922 , despite a pronounced business downswing , Republicans captured 225 seats . Even in 1930 they managed to carry more House districts than they could win in 1954 . This background gives significance to the disparity be ; tween the strength of Eisenhower , and that of the Repub ? lican Party . Despite the backlog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , professor of government at Harvard University , is , the author , among other books , of Politics , Parties and Pressure Groups.dential victory in 1952 , a high level of , business activity , the existence of peace of a sort , the energetic merchandis ? ing of the Republican program , and a rather indiscrimi ? nate nixonizing of Democrats , popular support of the Republican Party could not in 1954 be brought much more nearly into conformity with the President 's strength than it had been in 1952 . A glance at the gains Demo ? crats made in almost all state legislatures outside the South ( see p. 10 ) reveals that disparity ' to be even more impressive . If this broad interpretation has validity , it has some practical consequences . It re-enforces the anxieties of those Republican leaders who fear that without the Gen ? eral as a candidate in 1956 even more Republican political ? cians will no longer be gainfully employed . It ? gives those who doubt that there is a Republican majority in the country more reason to wonder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question whether the Repub ? lican Party has not , for the time being at least , worked itself into a position where it can elect a President but not an adequate supporting legislative majOrity , a state of affairs that reduces to the level of low humor those as ? pects of the situation that give rise to partisan recrimina ? tion or rejoicing . The results of the contests in individual House districts may be plausibly construed either as a repudiation or as a vindication of particular Administration policies . Yet among the districts won by the Democrats were all kinds and sorts . Their most evident common denominator was the fact that they had been won in 1952 by the Re ? publican incumbents by very small margins . A general sag in Republican strength pushed some of the districts over the line . These details on the shifting districts make the point : in State Legislatures ber 2 elections , and the number they hold now . Out of 38 state ( and territorial ) legislatures , Democrats regis ? tered gains in all but three , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained ; 6 lost . So the theory put forward by V. 0 . Key , Jr. ? that the Republican Party has reached the point where it can elect a popular hero President , but can not elect a legislative majority , gains , more strength . The President 's last-minute campaign helped cut Republican losses in the US Congress , but could not provide a victory . The local contests reveal the weakness of a Republican Party on its own . DECEMBER 6 , 1954 When the factor of party margin in the House races in the preceding Presidential years is kept in mind , the 1954 shifts do not differ radically from those that oc ? curred in 1950 . In 1950 Republicans picked up , as is normally the case , seats that had been carried by Demo ? crats in 1948 by narrow margins . A comparison of ratios of loss among classes of seats with differing mar gins in the preceding Presidential year for the mid-term elections of 1950 and 1954 yields the following results : The regularity of these relationships suggests emphasis in interpretation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situations . Thus , the victory in Mil ? waukee of Henry Reuss over Charles Kersten is-regarded as a repudiation of McCarthyism . Yet any Republican who carried his district in 1952 by only 51.6 percent was in danger . Reuss ' 1954 victory by 52.1 percent could perhaps be better treated as a demonstration that an affin ? ity for McCarthyism was not enough to p ff set a mid-term sag rather than as a resounding rebuke of the junior Sen ? ator from Wisconsin . On the other hand , the rare espe ? cially wide swing may have some meaning as an indicator of local discontent . Two of the districts with the sharp ? est Republican losses were Illinois ' 25th , a depressed coal mining , area , and Minnesota 's 9th , a farming district . The 1952 Republican percentages were ' 56.2 and 60.5 , re ? spectively . In truth , the explanation of why some seats won in 1952. by a narrow margin-50.1 to 52.4 percent ? were held and others were lost to the Democrats is difficult . One clue may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which the Presidential vote is available , the seats re ? tained had a higher average 1952 percentage for Eisen hover than did those lost , 59.3 against 53.8 . The same difference prevails for the seats in the 1952 Republican margin range of 52.5 to 54.9 . The 1952 average Eisen ? hower percentages were for the districts lost , 56.5 ; for those held , 58.8 . Application of the margin analysis helps explain the discrepancy between the forecasts of a Midwestern farm revolt and the results . The fact is that in most of the farm districts the 1952 it Republican margin was so gen- erous that t could be whittled down significantly only by an extremely drastic shift in sentiment . The point is made by the following distribution of Republican seats in Wisconsin , Sbuth Dakota , Missouri , Minnesota , Iowa , Illinois , North Dakota , Kansas , and Nebraska , according to their House vote in 1952 : Before reading into these results a vindication of their farm program for the long run , Republicans would be prudent to examine closely the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shift in their sup ? port , research equally applicable to Democrats . Congressional representation , in cases , was merely brought into line with the partisan complexion of the district . The appointment of Robert Secrest to federal office removed from Ohio 's 15th District a Democrat who had clearly been far stronger than his party in the district ( 62 percent for Eisenhower in 1952 ; 64.3 percent for Secrest ) . Similarly , Kansas ' 1st District returned to the fold after a fluke Democratic victory in .1952 . For the same general reason a Democrat picked up New York 's , 21st District , which had been held against its general partisan inclination by Jacob Javits , a quite un ? orthodox Republican . IN i other instances the outcome was perhaps more the result of the cumulation of long-term changes in dis- trict partisanship than of the battle of the moment . The activation of the growing number of transplanted Republicans in Florida 's 1st District finally brought a Republican majority , ( 50.8 percent Republican for Rep ? resentative in 1954 against 48.3 percent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secular trend probably helped the Republicans hold Virginia , s 6th and 10th Districts and perhaps was relevant , to a lesser de ? gree , in the victory in the Dallas district . All these dis ? tricts are but indicators of the spots of Republicanism that may be expected gradually to appear over the South . On the other hand , the cumulative effects of population changes underlay Democratic victory in Massachusetts ' 8th District , held by Angier Goodwin , and perhaps also in others elsewhere . While all these detailed analyses throw some light on in the factors associated with the 1954 outcome in different sorts of districts , they do'not touch the big question raised by the election of 1954 . The problem is not so much to explain the election of 1954 . It is to explain the election of 1952 , that is , why Eisenhower could not bring into office with himself a Republican House majority propor- tionate to his on strength , The 1954 voting strongly suggests that the Republican Party has not yet succeeded in closing the 1952 gap between itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               