@@307741

To teach democracy to postwar Germans , the United States Information Service set up 40 Amerika Huser and stocked them with a wide selection of reading material in English and German , including books banned by Hitler . Last year some 15 million Germans flocked to the U.S. libraries , and the then U.S. High Commissioner , John J. McCloy , praised the scheme for counteracting twelve years of " one-sided information . " <P> By last week the works of 25 or 30 authors had vanished from the USIS bookshelves , and some Germans chuckled wryly at the news . To Americans , Germans frequently remarked : " We had to go through this under Hitler . " The order came from the State Department , just before Senator Joe McCarthy 's two young investigators , Cohn and Schine , took off for a quick look at U.S. library shelves all over the Continent . Removed were works by Reds , fellow travelers , controversial figures , " et cetera . " Some of the blacklisted authors are Communists like Howard Fast , who writes propaganda novels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , e.g. , Dashiell Hammett 's The Thin Man . Some were by notably non-Communist authors whose works or opinions had apparently annoyed somebody ( in a similar shelf cleanup in Bombay , books by Bert Andrews , Clarence Streit and Walter White were removed ) . <P> Germans as well as State Department employees were less amused , wryly or otherwise , by the news that a State Department investigator , acting on his own , was drawing up a list of all who attended a farewell party for Theodore Kaghan , the HICOG official forced to resign after he tangled with Senator McCarthy . Kaghan first got into trouble by calling Messrs . Cohn and Schine " junketeering gumshoes . " The investigator would have quite a list when he got through , for the party was widely attended by U.S. officials in Germany as a show of sympathy for Kaghan . Among those present : new High Commissioner James Bryant Conant and his chief deputy , Samuel Reber.                     