@@195067

In Clarksburg , W.Va. ( pop . 32,000 ) , where the morning Exponent ( circ. 15,381 ) and evening Telegram ( circ. 24,729 ) have been the only dailies in town for 50 years , Publisher Cecil B. Highland , 76 , rules with an iron hand . The names of local citizens who displease Highland are banned from his papers , even though some hold public office . He has fought daylight saving time , a public sewage-disposal project , and turned down ads for a community project to raise money for the widow of a local hero who had tried to save three boys from drowning . By his own peculiar rules of nonpartisanship , the Exponent is Democratic , the Telegram Republican , and during campaigns each prints only the briefest news about the party it opposes . On the day that Harry Truman whistle-stopped at Clarksburg , the Exponent carried not a word about it . ( The Sunday combined Exponent-Telegram is completely " nonpartisan , " i.e. , rarely reports political news at all . ) <P> One of Publisher Highland 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all program listings , even censors ads that mention radio or have anything to do with it . Lately , however , Publisher Highland has brought his papers up to date in at least one respect : he has turned his fury away from radio and concentrated it on television . The switch came about five months ago when Manhattan Financier John Hay ( " Jock " ) Whitney 's investment company decided to put up money ( about $250,000 ) for a coaxial cable into Clarksburg to bring the town television programs . Whitney 's company , set up to " help stimulate free enterprise " with new projects , quickly ran head-on into Publisher Highland . One paper reported that " strangers " and " outsiders " wanted to string " dangerous " overhead lines into town . " DANGER TO LIFE , PROPERTY COULD COME FROM CABLE , " said a headline in the Telegram , over a story suggesting that TV cables could kill children and burn Clarksburg homes . As compensation to parents , " cash would be used to replace the child , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was described as a TV tower , and the papers pointed out that every TV set owner would have to pay hundreds of dollars a year , some to " Wall Street exploiters . " Asked Highland : " Do these New Yorkers sound like Americans to you ? " <P> Jock Whitney 's plan to help Clarksburg get TV had the backing of local businessmen , the Chamber of Commerce and the city council . But Publisher Highland blocked every move , covered his front pages with stories about the evils of TV and the big-city " bellhops " who were trying to impose it on his community . Last week at the final city council meeting to decide the question , the council unanimously approved the plan , which will give Clarksburg TV within 90 days . Many Clarksburg citizens wished that Jock Whitney 's free-enterprising ventures could also include a new paper for Clarksburg.                     