@@494655

Mr. Walter Is Hungry THE MOST CHEERLESS news of the Christmas week in Washington is that Rep. Francis Walter , chairman of the House Un-American Activities Committee , has been silently moving to expand his legislative empire to include new territory ? permanent jurisdiction over immigration and passport control . Moreover , he is within reach of getting away with it . Congressman Walter exercises his power in this field in his capacity as chairman of the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee . The chairman of the full committee ( and ranking member of the Immigration Subcommittee ) is Rep. Emanuel Celler , a forthright man who has the merit of never confusing " alien " with " suspect . " Chairman Celler , with a few liberal-minded allies , has been able to exert a certain measure of restraint on the Immigration Subcommittee , and occasionally , some positive pressure ? in regard to both special refugee legislation and private bills for the relief of a few of the victims of the McCarran-Walter Act . Now Mr. Walter , whose Un-American Activities Committee has more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Majority Leader McCormack ( to whose posts he has long aspired ) that his seniority dates back to 1933 and still he does not head up a major committee . He is bluntly demanding that he be given a major chairmanship . Ordinarily this could only be accomplished by the defeat or retirement or death of an incumbent chairman of a committee of which Representative Walter is the ranking member ? in this case the Judiciary Committee . But Chairman Celler persists in being among those present . And so Mr. Walter has come up with a novel idea ? enlarging the functions , prerogatives and powers of the Un-American Activities Committee by adding to it some of the jurisdiction now held by other committees . He proposes to scrap the Legislative Reorganization Act , stripping from Judiciary its jurisdiction over immigration , and from the Foreign Affairs Committee its legislative supervision of passport control . It is an astounding bid . The shocking fact is not , however , that Mr. Walter should desire such a change but that the Democratic leadership seems willing to go along with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement to do what Walter has asked . The plan was to do it inconspicuously , as part of the organization resolution which is routinely adopted on the first day of the session while old members are back in their offices reading their accumulated mail , and the new members are trying to follow , with either awe or bewilderment , what is going on in the Well of the House . But word of Walter 's strategy has leaked out . All the national organizations interested in a fair , generous immigration policy ? Catholic , Protestant , Jewish and non-sectarian ? have begun to sound the alarm . It would be bad enough to have a chairman of such miniscule understanding ruling on matters of import to civil liberties and international relations . But among the many intolerable consequences of the change would be the fact that Richard Arens , the staff director and Chief Inquisitor of Un-American Activities , would then assume staff jurisdiction over immigration and passports , an authority for which he has long lusted . The " Talking Moon " TN THE GENERAL pleasure at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newest and largest US satellite ? we should not exaggerate the achievement . Project SCORE has pioneered new territory in , for the first time , transmitting from space the human voice instead of the signals and dots relayed by earlier satellites . This " entirely new communications system " means that we can look forward to new international telegraph , telephone and television services ? thrilling and chilling in their military potential . But the launching of this " 1.5 " stage Atlas missile into a 200-mile-altitude orbit by the Air Force does not mean , as enthusiasts have said , that " the US has at last caught up with the Soviet Union in rocket technology . " First , in terms of total propulsive energy available , the vehicle launched on December 18 was not one bit different from any other Atlas . That is , the engine thrust and burning time were normal . It is an exceedingly difficult task to chance propulsion parameters on a rocket ballistic missile . And achieving a higher thrust is still two to five years off . Longer burning time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peculiar Atlas structure , again means several more years of work . No such propulsion schemes exist at present ? as has been openly announced . Second , no new guidance or control system was used . Instead of tilting the vehicle over into its parabolic earthto-earth flight path , the pitch-over simply was stopped when the vehicle was parallel to earth . At that time the vehicle was burned out and was being controlled by small gas jets . Gyroscopic internal command , checked by ground control , determined when the rocket reached it free-fall trajectory peak . Third , the entire two- or three-ton payload was removed to substitute the 165-pound telemetering package . Removing the payload is like taking a DC-7 , removing all seats and luggage fittings and installing gas tanks in the spare space . One could then easily fly the aircraft nonstop around the world . Yet the science of aeronautics and aircraft design would not thereby be advanced . Similarly , increasing the " mass-ratio " ( ratio of propellant weight to total weight ) of Atlas by the amount done here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The normal payload of , say , two tons . is a sizable fraction of the empty weight of the second stage . This " mass ratio " is a most important factor in a missile 's ballistic equations and is very sensitive to even small dead weight changes . The Soviets launched 3,000 pounds of working payload , with , probably , a two-stage vehicle with the second stage near the weight of our Atlas . That was astronomically superior to our performance : we may achieve it by late ' 59 or ' 60 . In terms of rocket technology and the advance into space : the " talking moon " was an extravagant propaganda stunt which certainly did not impress the Russians . Moreover , the $2-5 million which it cost could better have been spent on research on new propellants or telemetering . No coordination was effected between the various established Navy and Army tracking groups and the USAF , and no new capability for guidance or propulsion technology was achieved . Finally , to launch a US 3,000-pound working satellite will require Atlas " 1.5 " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built by Bell Aircraft for Lockheed . This is about one year off . Limited Partnership S ECRETARY DULLES must have long since abandoned hope that the NATO boat could be kept from rocking : if only it could be kept from capsizing ! Massive Soviet conventional military power plus the new Soviet capacity for missile retaliation are storm signals that should long ago have summoned the Western nations to their most disciplined and united effort . Yet , the recent NATO conference in Paris showed that , despite a firm response in principle to the Russian threat to Berlin , the Atlantic alliance continues drifting aimlessly . An important change has occurred within NATO since last summer . It is the re-emergence of General de Gaulle , who insists on discussing the fundamental question of a common policy toward the Arab world and Africa . The timing of his demand for greater French influence in the shaping of such a policy may have been bad , but it is clear that one of the General 's aims has been to restore to NATO that tripartite underpinning it had when Harry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most eloquent symbols of the unity of purpose that once existed was the Tripartite Declaration of May , 1950 , in which the US , UK and France solemnly pledged themselves to guarantee the frontiers of Israel and to uphold the peaceful status quo in the Middle East . The authors of this document were not concerned whether France was or was not a " great power " ( it was not ) . They simply accepted the fact that , as a leading Mediterranean land which had possessions in North Africa and an impressive cultural prestige in the Levant , France was entitled to make her voice heard in the formulation of Middle Eastern policy . Obviously today , much of the status quo that France may have wanted to preserve can not be preserved . Thus , the task of Western diplomacy is to explore , define and defend what is commonly defensible now , and to make the necessary accommodations to that which is not . The Secretary would have been well advised to bring with him to Paris some constructive suggestion for accomplishing this , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which might hammer out a collective approach to the Middle East and Africa . But Mr. Dulles came empty-handed . Perhaps it was to be expected . For ever since the present Administration took office , it has , intentionally or inadvertently , undermined the prospects for tripartite collaboration . The Baghdad Pact , which ushered in Mr. Dulles ' " dynamic , " new foreign policy , was drawn up against the negative advice of the Quai d'Orsay . When the new policy was challenged by Moscow in September , 1955 -- with the signing of the first Soviet-Egyptian arms deal ? Mr. Dulles simply ignored the Tripartite Declaration , which was designed to deal with this kind of threat . Instead , he riposted a few weeks later with a hasty offer ( later withdrawn just as hastily ) to finance the construction of the Aswan Dam ? a fateful act which culminated in the abortive Suez campaign . This see-sawing may have had some justification had Washington subsequently evolved a clear-cut policy of its own . But is there anyone ? friend or foe ? who can say today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ? " Generally Conceded " ? AMONG the many things we never knew before is this 1 bit of incidental information from Variety .. Sylvester L. Pat Weaver , Jr. , former president and vice chairman of the board of NBC , looks set to return to the agency field as general consultant on planning and programming with McCann-Erickson . . . This would not interfere with Weaver 's consultation commitments with Kaiser Industries and with Nelson Rockefeller , Governor-elect of New York , whose campaign , especially on the television aspects , was masterminded by Weaver . Weaver and Rockefeller were classmates at Dartmouth . ( Incidentally , it is now generally conceded , " Rock 's " video personality and general TV approach was what swung the tide against Gov . Harriman. ) 