@@494392

DECEMBER 21 , 1953 What We Want of Our Teachers OUR COUNTRY , building on its democratic tradition , has devised an elaborate public-school system as its conscious or institutional effort to provide for the education of our young . As part of this system , colleges of education are intended to prepare teachers and other professional educators for conducting the schools . Of these teachers ' colleges , there are typically two ranks : an undergraduate college designed primarily to prepare teachers for the elementary and less often for the secondary schools ; and a graduate school designed primarily to prepare secondary school teachers , school administrators , and teachers for the colleges of education , and to conduct research in problems relating to education . In the discussion here given , attention is restricted to the honest critics , for sad to say certain trouble makers appear also to be fishing in these troubled waters . These honest critics , holding still to the older outlook , fail to take sufficient account of the regard for youthful personality , which a more sensitive democracy is increasingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted psychological insights regarding the learning process . These two neglected advances largely explain the development of modern education . There is no single theory of modern education universally accepted , but it is possible to state a theory which is now widely accepted and seems to be winning out . This winning theory is relatively new and differs essentially from the old theory which was once dominant in Western civilization . The older theory , with which most people are still most familiar , stresses , almost exclusively , acquiring the content of books . After a long history dating from Alexandria and Rome , this theory was formulated afresh at the Revival of Learning . Dean Colet , who opened the first Revival of Learning school in England , thus stated rather precisely in the preface of a Latin Grammar which he wrote for his school , the newly accepted devotion to scholarly culture : " Lerne gladly this lytel treatise , and commend it dylygently vnto your memoryes . Trustynge of this begynnynge that ye shal procede and grow to parfyt literature and come at last to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greeke and Lattin tonge " . William Heard Kilpatrick is professor emeritus of Teachers College , Columbia University . It is this interest of Colet 's in books as such which constitutes the basic essence of the older type education , an interest most strongly held among the literary humanists throughout the Western world . What I. A. Richards said of art in general , the upholders of this position accept specifically for this book outlook : In it " we find the record . . . of the experiences which have seemed worth having to the most sensitive and discriminating of persons . " It seems fair to say that these men seek in education what the O.E.D . defines as culture : " The training , development and refining of minds , tastes and manners ; the condition of being thus trained and refined ; the intellectual side of civilization . " Matthew Arnold said it explicitly : " Culture , acquainting ourselves with the best that has been known and said in the world . " That such an education when really effected and wisely used has had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and deepening insight into many of the essential problems of life is readily granted . The question is whether a better balanced theory can be found to do the same thing and more . T HE NEW education is precisely the effort to supply such a better theory . This new criticizes the older outlook both as to its objective and as to the method of teaching used to effect the objective . It criticizes the objective as being at best only part of the full proper aim of education and as too easily taking its devotees off into the ivory tower . It criticizes the teaching method of the old as ignoring the increasingly recognized psychological principle that to learn anything ? be it idea or attitude or skill ? one has to respond that way , and the learning is best achieved in a life situation which calls for this responding . The new further criticizes the old method as disregarding the psychological fact of attendant learnings , which accompany every significant experience and in successive experiences accumulate to form attitudes , conceptions , ideals or standards , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " In time we hate that which we often fear . Here fear is the direct response , while hate is the accumulation of successive responses attendant upon strong dislike . It appears that these cumulative attendant learnings are the most significant of all for the building of character and personality , but they were totally ignored by the older outlook so far as concerned its teaching procedures . 2 Possibly the strongest single objection to this older humanistic objective of education is that , true to its classic Greek origin , it was designed for a leisured aristocracy , and accordingly viewed books and thinking , and still does , primarily as source of consummatory enjoyment , not as instrumental to the guiding of " action in behalf of purposes . We can readily admit , along with the broadening effect named above , the evident consummatory pleasure of good literature as a legitimate aspect of the educated person 's life , and we can understand how certain sensitive souls wish to give their life to working with such ; but to make this the sole aim of general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the sole aim and content of life . By contrast with this exclusively literary outlook of the older education , any adequate general education exists primarily , so we must think , to rear the young to the best possible all-round living , both individual and social . The school must thus contemplate the whole of life and this means that it must expect the growing person eventually to take , in our democratic world , , a responsible and discerning part in the full life . It would appear then that the only satisfactory over-all or general objective for education is the progressive building of the all-round character to meet all sides and aspects of a proper normal life . As opposed to this modern inclusive objective for education we find an outstanding proponent of the old outlook saying that " if education is rightly understood , it will be understood as the education of the intellect " and elsewhere he explicitly excludes " character building " from his junior college curriculum . Another college man says of his college , what is probably true of too many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . in trying to teach our girls to be good . That is the work of the home and of the Sunday school . We devote our efforts solely to making our girls intelligent . " He might have added " ? intelligent about books . " In comparison with the exclusive emphasis of the old on " the intellect , " the new with its regard for " all-round effective character " will of necessity include " the education of the intellect " as a strong part of its program ; for , as the Harvard report says , " the whole man is integrated only so far as his life is presided over by his reason . " But the intellect or reason cultivated apart from actual life responding is ineffective for building a behaving character . It is thus ineffective " as a means for the mastery of life . " Equally important is the difference between old and new as to the means to be used to attain this immediate objective of all-round character . The old throughout its history has stressed memorizing and the passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural correlative of holding to book content as its exclusive objective . For this older outlook what Plutarch says of memory still holds in great measure : " Nothing doth so beget or nourish learning as memory . . . for this is , as it were , the storehouse of all learning . " With this , Dean Colet 's emphasis exactly fits , as we saw above . And today any NEW REPUBLIC school is living in essential accord with the old tradition in the degree that it thinks of the recitation as a re-citing , and so manages its examinations that skillful " cramming " can certify one as educated . As opposed to such a limited outlook for education with its inadequate theory of the learning process , the new asserts that learning is more than acquiring words , more even than acquiring ideas . A thing has not really been learned until it can and will assert itself later in appropriate conduct . Only when the person can and will behave that way has he really learned that thing , can and will use that thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And it may be added that learning what a master mind has said by no means conveys the wisdom included in that statement , by no means does it give to the learner the use which that master mind has of that wisdom . Significant suggestions can come from the words of others , but wisdom must be one 's personal accumulation from many successive personal experiences critically studied . And the same holds in much the same way for all generalizations . In general each must make his own generalizations out of his own experiences if his generalizations are to work effectively for him . Specifically , no generalization can be given to another except as that person 's own previous experience has fitted him to understand and use what is given to him . OW THEN does one learn , really learn so that what is learned will truly function appropriately in his life ? The answer has been implied . We learn what we live , and learn each item as we accept it for life 's purpose . We learn anything in the degree we live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the degree that it fits in with what we already know and use . If one such experience does not give strong enough learning , further like experiences will strengthen the learning . What conception of school results from the foregoing ? The answer seems clear . The new school must be a place of , and for , living . The pupils will inevitably learn what they live . If the living is of low quality , then the pupils will build low quality characters . If the living is of high and fine quality , the pupils will build fine quality characters . Now good living will use the content of school subjects ; but real living will seldom stay from 9:15 to 9:50 within the confines of arithmetic and at 9:50 shift to geography . Living does not so proceed . The new school guides promising pupil purposes along desirable lines of thought and act ; and its pupils thus learn . They learn the content of the old subjects , even better than in the old school ; but the new school does not teach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , the new school is truly a school of living . In educational parlance , the new school is an activity school , where the term activity stresses , under proper teacher guidance , self-direction and creative work in every desirable area that belongs to the age level concerned . The teacher , to be sure , is always in control , but works to elicit the best , the most creative and most responsible and most intelligent possible living from the pupils ; for the pupils will learn what they live and in the degree they live it . How now in brief does the guiding theory of the new education differ in crucial essence from the old ? The old education is of books , to teach the best that others have said . The new is of life and behaving , to build under wise guidance out of actual experience the all-round character . The old holds that education is primarily intellectual , to see and grasp and , enjoy the best that has been thought and said . The new holds that education must develop the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this development thinking is to be sure the essential and guiding part of the whole , but such thinking exists primarily to direct action in all the necessary and desirable aspects of life . The old outlook limits school work to acquiring formulated wisdom , trusting mistakenly that from this will come appropriate action . The new holds that each learner must out of his own experience behavior build his own working mind and character . Because the all-round character at which the modern school aims must be the strict correlative of the all-round life which the person is to live , our next attention will be given to the features of this all-round life . S EVEN ITEMS will be named at which the school system as a whole must aim : effective common sense dealing with life , family life , citizenship , general human relations , vocation , fine quality of living , a philosophy of life . Underlying the first six of these will be morality and democracy to guide and shape them ; the seventh is to help youth see the need and place of morality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all else . Family life and citizenship stand Out strongly . The school , taking age levels into account , must educate our young people for responsible family relationship and for general citizenship . Our youth must be made ready and disposed to discharge these duties intelligently and responsibly . And , further , if we believe in equal rights for all , the young people must be made ready , so far as feasible , for richness of living in what they do . They must see and accept more to life than money can buy ; they must build ideals of life and work , from which enrichment of life can come . And , finally , while the term philosophy may to many sound too advanced for youth , even those who leave school at the end of high school must have begun to build an inclusive and defensible outlook on life . Vocational preparation ( except of course for the " learned professions " ) is an innovation still looked at askance by some . But in a democratic society all must expect to work . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given at various levels in order to fit actual economic need . Many girls who must soon get to work will wish stenography and typewriting in the secondary school , while many boys analogotisly will wish training in auto-mechanics or printing . At the college level , many girls will wish preparation for teaching , while many boys will wish , say , engineering . Much of the enrichment of life must be taught through all that is done . What we may call the broader humanities will help . As American citizens our youth must learn to understand and appreciate the history and philosophy of our American republic . As persons who will read newspapers and books and dress and keep house , they must study at least some of the esthetic possibilities of life as they will live it . They must also know and appreciate at least some of our better literature . And further as active citizens in the school community and , desirably , as active citizens in the larger community about their school , they must learn constructive discussion and the ideals of proper citizenship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the school we must always help our pupils and students to build the ideals , attitudes , and habits which promise good and intelligent citizenship , an active and adequate morality , proper human relations of respect and regard for other persons and groups , the enrichment of living , and a sound and healthy philosophy of life . From all the preceding , these duties of the colleges of education seem to follow directly as they attempt to prepare teachers and others for their school work : Help each prospective teacher and administrator to build such a philosophy of life as gives a proper working conception of the life at which education is to aim and an intelligent understanding of our civilization along with its lacks and its possibilities as these bear on the attainment of the desirable life . Help each prospective teacher or administrator to live such a personal life as will build in him or her the character and will to live the desirable life Help everyone to build such a philosophy of education as will lead to an understanding and acceptance of the most defensible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Help everyone to get such an understanding of the growing child nature and of the inclusive educative process as will enable him or her to guide the young along the effective road toward progressive acceptance of the good life as theirs to live , understanding of course that no two people can or should live the same good life . Beyond the specific preparation of teachers and administrators , the upper colleges of education have also the ever continuing duty of research into truer and more adequate insights into the aims and processes of education . From the foregoing and other available information the following judgments regarding the present colleges of education seem warranted : Any implication that the colleges of education are headed in the wrong direction seems unjustified . Their principal . critics , it appears , speak partly from ignorance of the theory now increasingly - accepted , partly from commitment to ideas either now outmoded or otherwise unacceptable . The chief valid criticism of these colleges lies in inadequacies chargeable to the newness of the education they teach . Education , along with thought in general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One hundred years or even two hundred years is too short a time within which to reconstruct a system strongly entrenched for two thousand years . As matters stand the new is most thoroughly accepted by the elementary school , less so by the secondary school , and least by the liberal arts college . The chief present weakness of the teachers college is the compounding of specialization with the newness of the conception as stated above . Too few working in these colleges have personally acquired the full preparation laid down above for the colleges of education . Their specialization has stood in the way . To be sure , this narrowness holds in greater or lesser degree also for most university professors and most professional men ; but the resulting hurtful effect on teachers can not be denied . While , of the educated critics , the literary humanists have been most vocal , and while their complaints deserve consideration , it seems impossible to grant their position as they state it . Their advocated educational program , ignoring as it does the fact that pertinent behaving is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Also their program , ignoring as it does child nature and the principle of concomitant learnings , easily and often builds contrary and hurtful attitudes . Bernard Shaw recognized this danger when on being asked to have his plays adapted for school ' use , he replied : " No , I lay my eternal curse on whomsoever shall now , or at any time hereafter , make school books of my work , and make me hated , as Shakespeare is hated . My plays were not designed as instruments of torture . " Perhaps the most fundamental error of this humanist group is to be satisfied with an education which leads primarily to discriminating enjoyment rather than builds an all-round effective character . This theory perhaps suited the upper class of ancient Greece ; it does not suit modern America . In this last named regard , the college of education agrees rather with Huxley than with John Cowper Powys : with Huxley , that " the great end of life is action , not knowledge " ; rather than with Powys , that " contemplation , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe . " Pertinently to this , Hogben says : " The pitiable predilection of the rising generation for action without thought is the legitimate off-spring of thought divorced from action . " A graduate of a woman 's college currently criticizes her liberal arts education : " College prepared me to be another female college prof essor. - Irwin Edman thus criticizes a certain pursuit of culture : " Culture , in one of its senses , is a combination of elegance and nostalgia , of preciousness and disdain . In this sense , it is an elegant escape into beautiful anachronisms . " Howard Mumford Jones speaks strongly in connection : " Unless learning is socially relevant , learning is and remains antiquarian . " And he goes on to say that " in the next decade or two learned men are going in all humility to the social scientist and the scientist to discover when humanistic love is truly relevant to the human scene and when it is merely a complicated amusement like chess-playing and genealogy . " In one word , the college of education demands that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human scene . " 