@@494403

Will the Republicans Learn from Defeat ? An embarrassing silence follows the question : " What has the party done for the people ? " by Wilfred E. Binkley J r BEGINS to look as if it would be just about as practical for a President with no experience in the art of war to rush into the field in the midst of an active military campaign and assume personal command of the army as for a General , unfamiliar with the art of politics , to take charge of the Presidency in the midst of a critical period . Nor should this occasion the slightest astonishment to anyone familiar with history and politics . By this time , in the history of the American Presidency , it ought to be a settled axiom that , on the national level at any rate , the art of politics is altogether as difficult as the art of war , and neither is a game for amateurs . Only those who have undergone the discipline of a rigorous apprenticeship in politics , preferably from the precinct up , can qualify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every President since the Civil War , who has , upon entering the great office , proceeded at once to perform his duties with a confident touch , had already acquired his political craftsmanship as a state Governor . Only one of these former Governors was rated below average in the Presidency by the 55 historians polled by Professor A. M. Schlesinger several years ago , and not one of the Presidents without gubernatorial experience was rated above average . When one who is innocent of the art of politics and of political leadership becomes President and must start from scratch in acquiring that indispensable skill his handicap may become apparent even before Inauguration Day . In selecting his official family , his Cabinet for example , he may choose persons as inexpert in politics as the inexpert Chief Executive himself . What he needs above everything else is co-aching and prompting but he can not hope to get that from a group of advisers as in : experienced as he . Those Presidents who enter the great office with political aptitudes highly developed by the grilling experience of a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and interest groups quite normally and properly bring to bear upon a Chief Executive . These former Governors expect all this as simply a part of the day 's work and so take it in stride .. Presidents like Herbert Hoover , however , complain of having to wear a " hair shirt . " Mr. Eisenhower is now being quoted as having told a recent visitor Wilfred E. Binkley , professor at Ohio Northern University and Republican mayor of Ada , Ohio , is the author of many works on political science.that he is getting - damned tired " of the pressures politicians bring to bear upon him in order to influence his decisions . Surely he did not expect the honeymoon to last four years . It is almost as if a General were to corn-plain that he was getting damned tired of the noise of battle . The President will learn that these pressures are only beginning , that they are bound to increase , that postponing decisions will intensify pressures and that , in any case , they are only a normal part of any President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularity , as indicated by the Gallup poll , he still enjoys the confidence of a large majority of the American people . This , however , can not be said of the Republican Party itself since opinion polls indicate that a majority of the voters professing party affiliation are still Democrats . In order to establish itself as a stabilized majority party , the Republican Party is under the necessity of relearning the grand strategy that formerly made it , for considerable periods , almost invincible . It means recapturing the loyalty of a majority of the electorate . This can be achieved in no other way than by a program adjusted to a prevailing set of social forces ? that is , by appealing to groups in American society that , in a combination , constitute the electoral majorities that can make or break political parties . It is not enough that this majority comes about through the accident of discontent with an incumbent administration or the glamour of a military figure . To be stable the Republican Party must have a program that can scarcely be integrated except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focal point of emerging national policies . Fortunate indeed is the party that has a Roosevelt , whether Theodore or Franklin , who can catch the drift of public sentiment , mobilize the groups that make themselves heard , dramatize the resulting program , and promote it with conviction and political skill . Such leaders are gifts of heaven to both the nation and party . The Republican Party is plagued today with a reactionary wing still unaware that the current of social forces has wrought a revolution in American culture in the last quarter of a century . The war of these reactionaries against the fait accompli of this revolution is a phenomenon as outmoded and as fantastic as that of Sancho Panza solemnly tilting against the wind mills . This element is too weak to give their purpose the ghost of a chance of success , but they hamper the growth of a party struggling to accumulate the strength of a substantial majority party and needing consequently to attract a large fraction of the independent voters . The frustrations generated among Republicans by 20 years of Democratic rule led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diabolical leaders -- Roosevelt , Truman and Acheson -- and of infernal policies ? New Deal , Fair Deal , the Welfare State ? and the invention of such epithets as " statism " and " creeping socialism " with which to exorcise the demons . Imprecations have been used in vain for the simple reason that , whatever their merits or demerits , the New Deal , the Fair . Deal and the Welfare State are the products of no demons but are instead the well-nigh inevitable consequence of the pressures of groups that Democratic leaders recognized , mobilized into electoral majorities , and thus held the reins of power for two decades . Now the Eisenhower Administration is discovering with apparent astonishment that sheer survival depends upon conforming to the same kind of forces that made the Democratic program practically what it had to be . This is not as comfortable as the superstitions of demonology in explaining current politics . And it can not be ignored that there is a vast difference between the clairvoyance with which a gifted Roosevelt , whether the Republican or Democratic one , sees or even foresees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translating the inevitable into emerging public policy -- and on the other hand the lack of leadership that permits an administration to be pushed reluctantly , if not sullenly , into doing what the force of events and public opinion compels it to do . Time and again the American voters have demonstrated their conviction that the government exists to serve the people 's desires and they will permit no would-be patricians to tell them what their political appetite ought to be . Let us take a look at the patent evidence that the Eisenhower Administration is of necessity conforming to the same forces that determined the program of Democratic Administrations with a resulting Republican program approaching in similarity that of its immediate predecessors . Nor need we depend , upon unfriendly witnesses for testimony . - Eisenhower , after nine months , is reversing the field " admits the US News and World Report . The resolute campaign promise to reduce the national debt can not be fulfilled , so Congress was asked by the President to raise the national debt limit . Moreover , the President was reduced to the necessity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those laid by an allegedly extravagant and irresponsible Democratic Congress . " The wanton extravagance and inflationary policies of the Administration in power , " as the 1952 Republican platform put it in blistering Truman , was to be countered by tightening money which was done briefly , but the howls of injured real estate and other interests has resulted in revival of the Democratic policy of loose money . Bankers are now being urged by the Administration to be free with loans . Government , it is predicted by the conservative periodical quoted above , will move back deeper into the bank- ing business : Abandoned already is the resolute earlier policy of converting the short-term debt into the longterm debt , and now the former is to grow just as it did under the Democrats . Millions of crusading words about balancing the budget will now have to be eaten . Budget Director Dodge is admitting what Roosevelt and Truman maintained ? that you ca n't balance the budget by firing people and cutting out extravagance . Now that getting the budget balanCed at a specified time in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hears repeated the explanations that once fell from Democratic lips ? that it is not a matter of much consequence anyhow . No longer are Republicans frightened by an unbalanced budget . Indeed , it is almost being taken for granted . The 1952 Republican platform charged " the Democratic Administration with seeking to destroy the farmer 's freedom " and declared : " We do not believe in restrictions on the American farmer 's ability to produce . " This had to go out the window last summer . Secretary cf Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson 's recommendation that farmers stand on their own feet has been followed by the almost inevitable revolt . It is being predicted by US News and World Report that " farmers will pretty much write their own ticket on subsidies . " It is the individuals with the voting power rather than the corporations who will be favored in tax cuts , comments the same periodical . The aged are due for broader and probably more liberal pensions . Government that was to have grown smaller will probably grow larger even under a Republican President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be broadened , " laments our eminent journal . The disillusionment of the Eisenhower Administration , once in power , could have been predicted by any competent student of politics . W HAT Republican and , indeed , American citizens generally seem to need is a more realistic conception of the almost necessary functioning of a workable two-party system in a democracy . For example , whenever a majority party wins an election and thereby displaces the party in power , it will almost inevitably be pressured in the direction of a program not radically different from that of the party it has just displaced . This is precisely what the Eisenhower Administration is now having forced upon it and it is learning the hard way . If it conforms reluctantly rather than enthusiastically it will be doomed and this is its great peril . Sir Ivor Jennings , in his little book The British Con- , dilution , explains the British two-party system in terms that could easily be paraphrased to fit our own . " The right-wing of the Labour Party , " he writes , " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party , . . . The large common element in party politics is due to the fact that both parties are angling for the same voters . The parties are able to angle for the same voters because they have a large common element . A Conservative can be almost a Socialist , a trade unionist can be a very good Conservative , because the parties are not fundamentally divergent in policy and both are appealing for the same votes . " While the English rural areas are usually Conservative there has been a tendency for the wealthier agricultural areas to go Labour . Why not , since Labour , through subsidies , took care of the English farmer just as the Democratic Party took care of the American farmer , and now the Republican Party must , do the same . Last summer when I was the guest of an Oxford University professor of agriculture who is sent now and then by the British ministry to Africa on missions concerning groundnut ( peanut ) projects or converting mangrove swamps into rice fields , he told me that England is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thanks to the subsidies to agriculture now , of course , provided by a Conservative government which must do for farmers as much as any Labour government . The Labour Party , once crusading ardently for more nationalization of industry , apparently went a bit too far and fast with nationalizing steel and , at its recent Mar-. gate meeting , toned down the nationalizing drive and so moved over in the direction of the Conservative position . Since the Conservatives accept most of the accomplished nationalization , it can be said that both parbes are socialistic and the difference is a matter of more or less . The similarity of British party programs prevents such a shock as the Eisenhower counter-revolution which may soon give way to irresistible electoral pressure and gradually take on the coloration of the New Deal and Fair Deal . About the last thing that astute leadership would do would be to tie the fortunes of a party to the opulent interests that can fill the party war chest but at the same time alienate great blocs of voters . The big utilities , utterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hapless 1930s , may chuckle over a contract for a Columbia River dam that would upset a gigantic water conservation and electric power project . But the consequence is a stir in the industrial interests of a ? , ; note section and the portentous murmur of the electorate of the Northwest . It is now evident that beneficiaries of the Rural Electrification Administration arc becoming week by week more concerned over the policies of the new Administration . And when Dean Clarence E. Manion , chairman of the Commission on Inter-Governmental Relationships , appointed by President Eisenhower , in the midst of a televised panel discussion , says emphatically and repeatedly that he does not believe in Lincoln 's classic statement that the government should do for the people what they can not do for themselves or that which they can not do so well for themselves and then clinches his stand with the statement that the President knew his views when he appointed him , one wonders when if ever the depth of party ineptitude will be sounded . There is a story circulating that emphasizes , as scarcely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group combination . It would have been too preposterous in administrations of McKinley or Theodore Roosevelt for a Democratic orator to have paused in.the midst of an address to ask whether anyone in his audience could name a single thing that the President had done for the common people . Alben Barkley is said to have got no reply when he sprang this question recently- , nor can this be blandly disposed of as only the cheap trick of a politician . Why did n't the question provoke a riot of protest in the place of silence ? 