@@494762

NOVEMBER 23 , 1959 " epigones " Trotsky would have said ) still use Stalin 's methods when they attack a political opponent . In his attempt to strengthen Soviet ties with the US , Khrushchev found that it was the American left , the labor movement , which most firmly resisted his advances and his smiles , which understood and did not.forget the past . During his stay in this country , Khrushchev announced that his divergencies with the American labor leaders whom he met in San Francisco were " irreconcilable , " and shortly thereafter a personal vilification campaign against Walter Reuther started in the Soviet press . An excerpt and analysis in Mr. Le-vine 's book of the so-called confession of the so-called Jacques Mornard illustrates the methods used by both Stalin and his pupil Khrushchev . In this " confession , " found on his person after the crime , the assassin accuses his victim of being solely animated by " hate and the desire for vengeance . " It was characteristic of the Soviet secret police ( then called NKVD , which of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accuse Trotsky not of a wrongheaded policy , but of the most heinous personal defects and common crimes . " According to the assassin , Trotsky was a tyrant in his personal relations , took money from foreign governments , and plotted the murder of his hosts . Walter Reuther , as described by the organ of the Soviet Trade Unions , Trud , is not merely betraying the American working class , but is a miser and a bad husband to boot . This was and is the pattern . Some of the shady characters who were involved in the plot to kill Trotsky still live in the United States ? some of them in jail or free on bail or still undetected undercover agents of the Soviet secret police . Mark Zborowski , who last week won his appeal for a new trial on an earlier conviction for perjury , is described by Isaac Don Levine as . the " finger man . " Jack Soble , a confessed Soviet , spy who plead guilty and is now in prison , admitted that his first assignment was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Stalin had developed a pathological hatred of Leon Trotsky . This may be so . Stalin knew that in the unavoidable struggle against Nazi Germany he could count on the Russian people 's patriotism to defend Russian soil . But Stalin also foresaw the initial defeats , the large-scale disaffection ( particularly after the Finnish winter war where he had seen thousands upon thousands of Soviet soldiers surrender to the enemy ) . And he knew that inevitably the Soviet soldier , peasant and worker would think back to the civil war , would remember the man who had created the Red Army and led it to victory . The civil war was ? and still is ? part of the Russian folklore . Trotsky , alive , could have become more than a thorn in the flesh , he would have been a possible substitute in the time of military disintegration , which indeed took place in the first months of war against Hitler . Trotsky is quoted.by Levine as predicting that Stalin 's plans to kill him would be put into action when major military events were distracting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place during the battle of France and the second and successful attempt coincided with the invasion of Britain which was expected at that time . It seems almost foreordained that the most powerful police machine would finally succeed in " liquidating " one man and a handful of his followers . On the basis of what Trotsky 's former guards and secretaries told him , Don Levine concludes that it was Trotsky 's own " gullibility " which was responsible for his death . But Trotsky would not have been Trotsky without this " gullibility . " He refused to live in a bombproof bunker in his fortified villa in Coyocan , a suburb of Mexico City . And of this villa itself , Trotsky said to his friends , " It reminds me of the first prison I was in at Kherson . The doors made the same sound when they shut . It is not a home ; it 's a medieval prison . " According to Levine , Trotsky // . consented to all these drastic changes ( fortification of his villa , increase in the Mexican police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tough ' American ' inner ' guards ) with reluctance . He had all along been opposed to the introduction of a regime in his establishment which would subject everyone who entered it to a search for concealed weapons . He also vetoed the proposal to make it an iron rule that he should never talk to anyone alone in his study . ' Trotsky could not endure either of these rules , ' wrote Joseph Hansen ( one of Trotsky 's secretaries ) . ' Either we trust the people and admit them without search , or we do not admit them at all . ' He could not bear having his friends submit to search . . . . Mutual suspicion in his eyes was a disintegrating force much worse than the inclusion of a spy in the organization , since                     