@@476178

useful purpose , too , by being embedded among political cartoons and topical verses . The good temper of our political life is probably not unconnected with the fact that the British child receives its first information about its statesmen in an atmosphere of gentle facetiousness . But Harper 's Magazine outplayed these others . It did not show how beautiful the world was , nor did it point out how , when the world was not beautiful but humdrum and ridiculous , good humor could speed the awkward moment on its way . Simply it announced the existence of an alternative world . Only now , as one turns over the old volumes , does it strike one as poignant that the announcement was made more and more simply and clearly the earlier the volume . It was in December 1852 that Harper 's published an article by Anna C. Lynch called " A Sketch of Washington City , " which evoked in the mind of at least one young reader a picture of shining glory upon shining glory , like the clouds in a golden sunset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Apocalypse . It was not that Anna Lynch had an infatuated eye . She saw justly enough , denouncing what was " poor and meager in design , " though at times she was a little too ready to rejoice because all was going according to plan . She showed a touch of ghoulish satisfaction when she wrote , of the Congressional Burying Ground , that " over the remains of every member of Congress is erected a plain white monument of peculiar form , and every year they dot more thickly the green foliage of this beautiful spot . " But what gave her picture its unforgettable radiance was not complacency ; it was gratitude , a sense of duty , and optimism . Here is a sentence which expresses her spirit : With the broadest principles of freedom for the foundation of our government ? with magnificent country , whose shores are washed by the great oceans , whose lakes are seas , whose rivers are the most majestic that water the earth , whose commerce whitens every sea , whose railroads and canals , like great arteries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its remotest corner ; whose " magnetic nerves , " with the rapidity of thought , bear intelligence to its distant extremities ; with a people springing from the fusion of many races , and whose energies are as inexhaustible as the resources of the country they inhabit , it would seem that here the human mind is destined to develop its highest powers , and that , while on one side its influence will roll back upon the tottering monarchies of Europe , on the other its advancing tide of freedom and civilization will stretch across the Pacific , to the shores of Asia , and pour upon them its fertilizing flood . Today rhetoric is out of fashion , and so is boosting . We write as baldly as if we were sending telegrams and think of ourselves as if we were our own wicked stepmothers . But out of all question the proud words spoken by Anna Lynch and her kind were good for Americans to hear . Dostoevski had explained in a famous passage in The Possessed that no country can achieve a noble destiny unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divine purpose and a unique function in carrying it out . In our own generation Ger7 many and Italy have underlined this truth , for both of them proceeded on the assumption that they had a mission to fulfill which had nothing to do with any existing scheme of values , and the destiny they achieved was monstrous ; and we learned from the temporary eclipse of France what destiny awaits a nation which persuades itself that for the moment it has no part to play , that it can sit in the stalls and watch the others give the performance . This American lyricism gave an enduring form to the political aspirations of the United States , and to the social behavior of its inhabitants . It is possible to sneer at the Marshall Plan as imperialism dressed up in no more attractive disguise than paternalism ; but not if one looks back to a phase of history as tragic as our own and realizes how little France and Great Britain , at the peaks of their greatness , did for victims who suffered as the result of the Ottoman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , and it would have paid them to do it . But they had not seen the picture of the strong man helping the weak and making an agreeable society for both the stronc , and the weak which lies behind Anna Lynch 's words . We English of the turn of the century had , mark you , that conception in some sort . Whatever the cynical may say , many British people felt that generosity toward the Empire . For every Englishman who wanted to exploit the natives of the dependencies there were two who wanted to relieve their conditions and bring them physical health and civil order . An uncle of mine , who was the permanent official at the head of the Colonial Office , spent his last years passionately trying to influence young administrators to respect the African Negro and protect his culture . I was at a school in Edinburgh which had a thousand pupils . Of my class ten girls , who need not have worked for their living or could have earned their living comfortably in their own country , went on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as medical missionaries to Africa or Asia ; and they followed a long school tradition . But all these efforts took place within a framework that seemed rigid . The class system which left government in the hands of families of the old landed gentry and the new industrialists ( which were fusing and thereby gaining new strength ) seemed likely to hold its own for a very long time . In the meantime every town had its cancer of slums and the agricultural laborer was a peon . If the national framework was rigid , the international framework was rickety . We were all with Anna Lynch about the tottering monarchies . We have forgotten just how insecure we all felt in Europe , long before the war . The Czardom was rocking on its base . All of us with intelligent parents knew Russian refugees who had fled before the threat of exile to Siberia , and heard how Russia insisted on pouring out money by promoting intrigues in the Balkans and in the East and did nothing to relieve the poverty of her own people . The Hapsburg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eugene O'Neill and decided to trump his every ace ; and the consorts of minor royalties ran away with their music-masters and rode bicycles in tight checked knickers . Where there were not royalties there was worse . Republics were not innocent . The childhood of all my generation was shadowed by the Dreyfus case . It showed that adults were not all good , as they pretended , and that they could plot against the innocent and , year after year , succeed ; and the method of their evil was to tell the lie that some people were not human beings but vermin , to be stamped out by a general decree against which individual worth was no defense . We knew that anti-Semitism was an ancient evil , and we felt as if we had been condemned to live on infected soil . How beautiful , then , was the picture of America we derived from the pages of Harper 's Magazine : a country big and new , which meant to be good ; which had no slums and no ancient criminal prejudices and meant to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue of March 1858 , there was an article on the Upper Mississippi which startles the contemporary reader because it describes as the Golden West what is now the Middle West , and delighted me with its descriptions of Indians , lumber floating down the tributaries from the Wisconsin and Iowa and Minnesota forests , companies of emigrants in their covered wagons , the wheat coming up in prodigal gold through the untapped generosity of the soil , schools and colleges springing up wherever wealth established itself , as if to preserve it from the fate of materialism which had befallen it in Europe . Exquisite the sense of a landscape unstained by history , sacred to the sweet and innocent search for daily bread and eternal wisdom , where the air had not been breathed again and again and beliefs had not rambled for centuries through the minds of oppressed and oppressors , to emerge as hideous prejudices . II W E WERE doing , of course , what Colette has warned us we always do with foreign countries : take over their experience and ignore its relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the little ones in between , and so we often attribute to a foreign genius as part of his genius characteristics which his compatriots know to have been common to his generation ; and we sometimes regard such a genius as typical of his people when he represented them only at a particular time . The European children who read Harper 's Magazine over forty years ago were guilty of a comparable misapprehension concerning the landscape they admired . It had long since been stained by history . They knew this , as a matter of cold fact , for the very good reason that their father , who had been a British officer serving in Canada during the Civil War , had spent six months ' leave that was due to him in acting as a stretcher-bearer with the Confederate Army . ( " Were you a believer in the Confederate cause ? " he was asked in his later years . " Not particularly , " he answered mildly , " but as soon as I had seen my first battle I became a very strong believer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts . The United States in which their father had served under fire was to them riot quite the same United States of which they read in Harper 's Magazine . It is to be remarked that Harper 's did little to help them on this score . The issues published between 1861 and 1865 contain fewer references to the Civil War than one might expect . This must have been a matter of individual policy , * for the Century subsequently published so many articles on the subject that a modern reader could get a working idea of the struggle from that single source . This reticence of Harpe ? ' s Magazine during these four years goes far to explain a silence which fell on the magazine half a century later , when it was possible to open an * Harper 's Weekly covered the war in pictures and text. ? The Editors.issue published during the first year of the first world war and find no single reference to the crack which had split time from side to side . Surely we are here in the presence of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which seeks to shut itself off not only from international complications in which it feels American interests are not involved , but also from national complications which it feels are not provided for in the original American prog-ram . It wanted to get on with the business of building a prosperous and virtuous society in which the individual would enjoy unprecedented freedom , and it was agony for it to admit that there was any political issue involved in the construction of such a society other than the one it had settled in the Revolution . Today no attitude could be more unfashionable . It is a pity that that attitude should have been adopted as a means of deception by those whose secret allegiance was to fascism and militarism ; and that a state of confusion should have arisen in which it was found possible to apply the term " isolationist " to Colonel Lindbergh , who in. fact bobbed about the world attempting to influence the affairs of other countries as few other Americans not in an official position have ever done . For there was great beauty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which should have a moral right to feel superior to Europe because it had kept itself clean of all the ancient European evils . So great is that beauty that those English who have derived knowledge of it from such publications as Harper 's Magazine have felt twice in their lives a peculiar emotion compounded of extreme relief and extreme regret . The occasion was in each case the entrance of the United States into a world war on the side of Great Britain . The news tormented one of those English by a vision of a black polluting cloud descending on a little town that hung white on a bluff above a broad river : which she recognizes now as St. Paul , thus depicted in an illustration to the article on the Upper Mississippi . As TIME went on contributors began to take their homeland for granted and wrote more of foreign parts , describing them with a simple vigor which , let us face it , most of us lack today . In the issue of November 1893 Edwin Lord Weeks , an artist and writer no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cholera . lie was a long way from home , among strange beauty and strange terror . The writing is austere and impersonal , but we share his experience . It is odd that the objective style then fashionable enabled writers to convey the sum of what they felt better than the introspective style which took its place . The nineteenth-century descriptive writer set down the sights he saw and the sounds he heard , and from his selection of facts and the placing of his emphasis his reader could guess ( having then a common background ) what he was feeling . The modern descriptive writer who details his sensations breaks down his story into a list of stimuli and responses from which the reader ( who in these days is not nearly so likely to be the same sort of person as the writer ) is by no means certain to derive an accurate sense of his intellectual and emotional direction . But it is true that the earlier writers frequently gave a vivid account of an experience without making much attempt to place it inits context . Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greco-Turkish War of the late nineties which far surpassed most war correspondence . of our time in the solidity with which they built up their picture of the belligerent armies and the surrounding countryside . Dropped in one of the camps they describe , a reader would have recognised it at once . But neither author gave the reader any but the sketchiest idea of why the Turks and the Greeks were fighting , and it is to be doubted whether they really understood the reason themselves , at any rate to the extent which would be required of a war correspondent today . There were same articles which attempted to explain the international political scene , but these were not very lively specimens of the school which , in speaking of the countries involved in any dispute , always meant their Foreign Offices and not their inhabitants , their governing classes and not the governed . This was the custom of the time on both sides of the Atlantic , and it was guaranteed to give a short-term view , based on the biased information of those governing classes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magic crystals , becauSe they showed the look of the towns and villages , the cut of the people . While the interest of the articles swung toward Europe during the nineteenth century , fiction crossed the Atlantic in the opposite direction . I imagine no magazine has a prouder record in the way of fiction than Harper 's Magazine . It published the great Victorians , and it was not the fault of its editors but of their generation if one of these was a terrifying bore . To pick up a novel by Lord Lytton is to know a moment of panic before one makes sure that one can close it again . But for the rest the editors made a good bargain . If one comes on an installment of Little Dorrit and Our Mutual Friend , there is no help for it , one must read to the end . it was to Harper 's credit that.it was a bargain . The firm paid up like gentlemen in spite of the absence of a copyright law , and found it not easy to do so . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the back cover of the issues carrying the serial the editors conducted a spirited attack on the New York Tribune , which was publishing it simultaneously , under the plea that it had the legal right to reprint the words of any English author from a British edition , and that it had had a copy of The Virginians sent from London . The Tribune even named the steamer that had brought it to them . But the publishers of Harper 's pointed out that this was a lie , for the Tribune version incorporated alterations which had been deliberately made on proofs for Harper 's . The Tribune was copying it from Harper 's as it appeared . The dispute is typographically charming , for there are little rude pointing hands inserted before any specially shocking revelation of the Tribune 's mendacity . After these great ones came the lesser ones , Charles Reade , and those forgotten but sound Victorians , William Black and Henry Sewn Merriman , and , superb gift to the suppressed romanticism of the age , George du Maurier . This is truly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken unusual editorial courage to publish anything so completely isolated from the literary fashions of its time as Peter lbbetson . The presentation of this and Trilby was an editorial triumph for other reasons . Anyone who tries giving young people these works to read in book form and in the bound volumes of Harper 's , and notes the difference in reception , will realize what technical skill lies in the spacing of the illustrations to fill out the thin patches in the story . When Harper 's was publishing Dickens and Thackeray the home-grown fiction was fairly poor , in the sprightly and amateurish fashion which put jokes in italics and was roguish about courtship . But the balance altered . Gradually there sprang up a school of fiction writers whose proficiency was not so spectacular as that of the English great ones because their effects were not so broad , but who were not shallow . It is significant that William Dean Howells had a story ( " A Pair of Patient Lovers " ) in the issue of November 1897 , which dealt with a mother fixation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his followers wrote as if they wanted to found a comedy of manners , but it because , in its extravagant delicacy , a comedy of perception . Their perceptions brought them a wealth of material on which they were obliged , as all artists are in the long run , to pass a moral judgment . The tradition of their country made them apply themselves to this task with zest and convert their comedy of perception into what was often , in the stories of Mary E. Wilkins , for example , a comedy of conscience . Sometimes it ceased to he a comedy at all , and became a drama of judgment . Margaret Deland 's contributions to Harper 's were magnificent , but sometimes it seems as if they might have more suitably been engraved upon the Pentateuch . So earnest are her stories and those of her school that a speculation arises as to whether they did not represent a religious rather than an aesthetic tendency . In the third quarter-century Harper 's rarely published devotional prose or poetry , as it had done in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes were turning from orthodox religion ; and it may be that this fiction was an attempt by that class to demonstrate that with its faith it need not lose its integrity also . That kind of fiction disappeared about the time of the first world war . The main traditions of fiction were continued in a fairly straight line . Charles Dickens , if he opened an issue containing an installment of Repent in Haste by John Marquand , would doubtless not be able to set it down and those who love fantasy would be as regretful to have missed Thunder on the Left as Peter Ibbetson . But the comedy of manners , the comedy of perception , the comedy of conscience , the drama of judgment , have gone . The short stories of today are episodic , sometimes so much so as to avoid anything so concrete as an episode . Like the descriptive writers of today , the fiction writers break down their stories into lists of stimuli and reactions ; their theme is often insistence on the uniqueness of the individual who reacts to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community , which is obtuse in its refusal to guess that he hides a wound or to recognize his subtle superiority . Some of these stories are good and some are bad . Anyway it is a very natural kind of fiction to write in an age in which powerful forces deny the value of the individual . Iv M ARK TWAIN 'S genius is a patch of good weather in the universe . The only work he did which does not come on the mind like sunshine is a piece of early American isolationism gone had , A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur 's Court , in which he writes of medieval Europeans as if they were fools for not knowing all that is known to modern Americans , forgetting that the source of America 's knowledge is the experimental ignorance of Europe . In view of this curious example of blindness to historical process it is odd that one of the most startling articles that Harper 's Magazine ever published , from the historian 's point of view , was one by Mark Twain . In the issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was to infect the world and cause its present miseries . In the autumn of 1897 , Mark Twain visited Vienna , just at the time that the German Austrians in the Hapsburg Empire were trying to shelve the famous Badeni laws which had given the Czechs the right to use theirown language as the official language of their territory , instead of German , which many Czechs did not speak . It was then the fashion to say that the Hapsburg Empire was indestructible , because the different racial minorities which composed it hated each other so much that they would never unite in revolution , and that the only peril threatening it was that as soon as the Emperor Franz Josef should die the intransigent young German Emperor would annex it . ( This last point of view is expressed in the same issue of Harper 's by an anonymous writer who was evidently a trained diplomat ) . Mark Twain looked at the situation and reported the actual state of affairs as we now know it to have existed . After a brief account of the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so clear and economical is it , so gay and serious , he describes a visit to the Austrian Parliament at a time when the German deputies were in the process of forcing the government to abandon the Badeni laws , by opposing the renewal , which came up automatically every ten years , sanctioning the administrative union of Austria and Hungary . He describes how the deputies shouted , sang , stamped , shook fists in one another 's faces , and endlessly exchanged insults , often of an obscene nature . He attended other sittings , in which the deputies came to blows ; and he was at the famous sitting when the police cleared the House by force . He did a beautiful job of reporting over this , and he saw what it meant . over with hardly an alteration twenty years later . It is doubtful if Hitler would ever have been able to formulate a program if this man had not done the work before him . That Mark Twain , American of the Americans , should have pierced the current illusions ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worm in the European He described its immediate consequences , which were widespread riots , in which , he notes , " in all cases the Jew had to roast , no matter which side he was on . " He had not a doubt that the Austro-Hungarian Empire was in such a state of vulgar disorder that it must collapse ; and what is more remarkable , he picked out the personalities which were going to wreck it and the rest of Europe . It was not so surprising that he should pay special attention to Dr. Lueger , the leader of the anti-Slav Germans , and the prime promoter of anti-Semitism , for Lueger was a famous and popular man . What is extraordinary is that he should have drawn for us one Georg von SchOnerer , " vast and muscular , and endowed with the most powerful voice in the Reichsrat , " ploughing through the crowds to smash a ruler on the desk of a hostile deputy and shake it over his head and bellow insults at him , and at another rowdy sitting , lifting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring it down on the head of an opponent . He was not then a very important person , and it would not he surprising if this were the only contemporary reference to him in English or American popular literature . But it was he who founded the political party which Hitler was to take apple shows that if a man is good at home he will be good anywhere ; and indeed he mentions that his understanding of the scene in the Reichsrat was based on his study of the Arkansas legislature fifty years before . V I r WAS no use trying to find reassurance in subtle fiction : as it were , seeking anaesthesia in hyperaesthesia . What Mark Twain saw cast its shadow on the United States in 1917 , and it has not lifted . Harper 's task since that day has been to keep the American spirit alive and pure under that pollution , and to see an end to the clouding of the light it once knew . It has still published good fiction ; it has still popularized the achievements of science and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been to deal with two anxieties . One is the fear that this pollution may grow more deadly and war destroy us ; the other is to stabilize a situation which was long ago recognized in its pages as unstable . Among the most interesting of such recognitions is an uneasy paper by Richard T. Ely , the economist , published in the issue of February 1885 , on the subject of the town of Pullman , Illinois . This had been built by the Pullman Palace Car Company and its associated corporations outside Chicago , and consisted of their factories and homes for their employees and their families , who numbered about eight thousand . It was a model city for its day , and the company was full of kindly concern for its dependents . But all the inhabitants were tenants living in rented houses from which they were evicted if they changed employment ; strikes were forbidden ; they were allowed no town meetings or other form of participation in local government ; they feared to express any opinions about their own lot . Was the Pullman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cage as a substitute for personal liberty ? " High wages had , in the minds of the early Americans , been a complete answer to the labor problem ; and it disconcerted generation after generation to discover just how incomplete that answer was . First one had to balance the claims of labor and capital . Then the scales had to be used to do justice to the claims of capital , labor , and the state ; of the producer and the consumer , of public and private enterprise . . Oh , there was no end to it . And the first readers of Harper 's would , I think , have known utter despair had they been able to read the issue of June 1938 in which Mr. George Soule , in an article called " Capitalism Without Capital , " pointed out that capitalism in the United States now lacks what used to be considered its chief reason for existing : " In spite of other advantages that may be claimed for it , it has not been accumulating much capital . " At that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe , made of a substance which their scales would not weigh . They would be right in quite a profound sense . Look back at the fiction of conscience , and see how the conception of thrift , if only by analogy , influenced moral standards . The characters saved : they held back , they did without , they abstained and accumulated ethical capital , on which they drew eternal dividends . VI v OR the past thirty years nobody could tell very well how the world looked just by reading Harper 's . From 1925 to 1945 there were almost no illustrations , and thoseused since then have often been satirical drawings , which plainly aim at showing what is outside rather than inside the contributor 's head . The prose has little truck with the senses . The articles are full of facts : facts which bear on our twin anxieties ; facts which bear on the threat of war and the hope of peace , on our exploitation of our economic resources and our failure and success in converting them by social means into happiness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover the globe with bullet-proof armor of small steel plates composed of information : shining steel plates , for those who forge them have style and humor . Harper 's Magazine is now predominantly concerned with collecting expert opinion on the vulnerable points of human society , lest it be destroyed , even to the last vestige of humanity ; and this would have astonished its founders . Poor Anna Lynch , when she wrote of the United States sending an advancing tide of freedom and civilization to " stretch across the Pacific , to the shores of Asia , and pour upon them its fertilizing flood , " would have been horrified if she had known the fertilizing flood was to be the blood of American soldiers . But Harper 's , with this rallying of the defensive powers of American intellect , shows that it is true of nations , as it is of individuals , that if they had been shown their destinies when they were young they would have been appalled , believing that they could not survive them ; and that they would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in them to meet each of their trials . y ET as we may learn in the " Personal Se Otherwise " column in the issue of July 1945 , the essentials of the editorial situation are the same . For there we read that the present editor , Mr. Frederick L. Allen , has received an award for the magazine from the University of Missouri and in his own address on this occasion he declares that journalism is valuable to the community only if it is uncensored by public or private interests and is written by men who tell the truth . In fact , the worth of Harper 's Magazine depends today as it did a hundred years ago on the integrity of its staff and its contributors . What would have surprised the founders is that in this respect the successive editors have advanced toward danger instead of leaving it behind . For in this day , when innumerable interests are out to buy ascendancy in chaos by every material and spiritual bribe , integrity is tempted as never before . It is impossible to imagine an early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as beset the writer of today who is attracted either by the ideas or the opportunities offered by fascism , communism , labor politics , or the organizations of the status quo . But the consistent character which Harper 's has maintained through the century ? it is as like itself as a man is at the different stages of a highly accidented life ? suggests that integrity is something which one can count on to be shown by some people in vastly different circumstances ; and an agreeable flavor about that character suggests that maybe these people cultivate integrity because they find it fun . There could be no better omen for the future .                     