@@494541

IN the summer of 1953 , when Moscow had just begun I to liquidate its anti-Yugoslav policy , Tito stated that while all genuine Soviet overtures would be accepted we will never be able to trust them 100 percent again . " ? The recent convulsion in Eastern Europe , followed by Pravda 's criticism of Tito , has given to this remark a prophetic quality which perhaps has astonished the prophet himself . Tito had warned the Russians time and again of the consequences of any faltering in their post-Stalin policy of yielding to national forces in the satellites ; and yet even he , one of the most astute politicians of our era , did not foresee the sheer ferocity of events in Poland and Hungary which temporarily shattered Yugoslav-Soviet friendship . " We had no notion of it , " he said in his November 11 speech at Pula , refer- ring to the complete deterioration of . the Hungarian situation that had occurred even as Tito and Hungary 's Gero met in Belgrade to sign an agreement on " individual roads to socialism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' very doubtfully " when Gero boasted that his party had , 800,000 members . ) The Russians , who are , recoiling from three savage blows to their world position in one month , have charged the Yugoslays with responsibility for the Hungarian revolution ; and Tito has answered the charge by reminding the Russians that it was they , not he , who had given power to Rakosi , and then blindly replaced Rakosi with his unpopular henchman Gero . But Tito did not merely pass the blame to the Russians ; his speech was a dignified and responsible one . Recognizing that the prestige of socialism itself was at stake in Hungary , and not merely that of Soviet imperialism , he accepted the defeat as his own as well . " Our tragedy ? the tragedy of all of 11S -- is that socialism received a terrible blow . It is compromised . " We warned that this would happen if things did not change ; and yet we should not brag about this " ( as Yugoslays are apt to do ) . After all , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragedy " too , insofar as Yugoslavia is part of the complex of forces composing eastern socialism . In this sense , Tito 's position toward Russian interven tion in Hungary bears a faint resemblance to Eisenhower 's position toward the Anglo-French intervention in Egypt . Both Tito and Eisenhower find , to their dismay , that their allies have " compromised " the social systems of which they are a part by precipitous and ill-considered actions ; and yet both , in the final analysis , would have to support their allies should a real conflict develop . Tito 's position is all the more serious because in the Middle East only the British and French empires are at stake , while in Eastern Europe the existence of a rigid social system is in question . The arrest of Milovan Djilas , following his provocative article in The New Leader last week , only underlines Yugoslavia 's general involvement in the fate of East European Communism . Djilas himself is fairly isolated from the main currents of social and political change inside Yugoslavia itself , currents ? of which Tito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to represent the remote threat of internal disorder which must haunt every Communist dictator today . The arrest of Djilas , said Tito 's biographer and wartime comrade , Vladimir Dedijer , " is going to harm the country and undermine its power of defense against new Stalinist danger . " That the foreign policy of a nation of only 18 million people is studied and restudied in the West with such deep interest is a ' tribute to the subtle genius of Tito 's political mind , and the consistency with which he has attached his fortunes to the major international movements of his time . Whether this concentration on foreign developments is worth the price of neglect of internal affairs ( about which he has said hardly a word in ten months ) remains to be seen ; at the moment Yugoslav internal life is leaderless , quiet , and barren of serious nation-wide discussions of many pressing domestic questions . The newspapers are devoted almost exclusively to the coverage of developments relating to Tito 's extraordinary diplomacy . Yet the fact is that something has gone wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the timetable ; but the Hungarian revolution and the ' Egyptian crisis were not . Tito 's traditional policy of fostering equal rights among socialist nations " presupposed an indefinite prolongation of the postwar framework of relations between the Communist East , the democratic West , and the rising neutralist nations . Belgrade assumed that the peaceful and gradual evolution of independence among the satellites would not jeopardize Soviet power ; and , likewise , it assumed that the evolution of greater authority among the former colonial nations would not threaten the fundamental prestige of the Western powers . Insofar as Yugoslavia itself had become a leader of the medley of forces rising out of these receding empires , Belgrade would play an important role in world affairs . These hopeful calculations , on which Tito 's astonishingly successful diplomacy were based , might have proven fruitful for an indefinite period had the process of imperial erosion continued to be gradual , peaceful and slow . But in ? the middle of 1956 , both inside the Soviet empire and among the former colonial nations , the process of quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relocation of forces along the political fault lines of the world . The day when change in Eastern Europe was measured in terms of milimeters of ideological revision had passed ; now change was marked by the passage of whole Politburos . Had the process of quiet erosion continued , few doubt that the British and French would have ultimately surrendered the Suez to Egypt ; but Nasser 's sudden and defiant action last July , backed up by nothing more than a few shipments of Soviet , arms , so outraged AngloFrench honor that they felt compelled to strike back . Similarly , many experts agreed that in time the Russians would have drawn back from Hungary , under the same type of fierce prodding which catapulted Gomulka into power in Poland ; but the magnificent revolutionary fervor of the Hungarian uprising was so great that the Soviet position in Eastern Europe itself was threatened . This is precisely the eventuality against which Bel grade policy has been working for the past three years . Tito 's vigorous support of Nasser in Egypt and Nagy in Hungary was tempered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tito warned Nasser several times not to provoke the French and British , but rather to concentrate his energies on building up his internal position , taking foreign credits " where he , could get them , " as Tito explained it . Nasser 's eagerness to demonstrate his meager powers as soon as possible worried Tito , and he was consequently disturbed by the Soviet-Egyptian arms deal , and Nasser 's premature and unpremeditated seizure of the canal . Tito must continue to support his ally , Nasser ; but this is not the way he would have done things . He suggested that Nasser leave Algeria alone for the moment and pleaded with the French to compromise on this question . R EGARDING the satellites , Tito , urged the Russians also to make a compromise with the nationalist forces , fearful lest he be forced into making the frightful choice between " reactionary " forces and a Stalinist . resur gence . Nagy 's failure to emerge , at the critical moment , as a forceful Communist leader of the anti-Soviet revolt Was a great disappointment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians in the same sense that Nasser 's interference in Algeria provoked the French . One Yugoslav correspondent in Budapest reported sadly that when the stormy crowds turned to Nagy for a vigorous - speech , he offered them instead a mild professorial talk . Without such leadership the anti-Soviet forces turned into the ferocious mobs whose frequently Wanton behavior spread such terror throughout the Communist world . Belgrade 's policies presupposed a degree of historic rationality and social stability which recent events , both in Cairo and Budapest , to say nothing of Moscow , have not borne out . The excellent and fruitful formulas of the past few years ? " equal rights among nations " and " co-existence between different systems " ? were quickly outdistanced by events . Perhaps the most pathetic document of that era was the agreement signed on October 23 between Tito and Gero in Belgrade . Less than a week later Gero himself lay dead , a victim of the Hungarian mobs , and Tito was sitting nervously in Belgrade , vainly pleading with the Hungarian mobs " in the name , of socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of gradual progress contained in the document he had signed with Gero . Two weeks later , when Tito had realized the scope of his own miscalculation , and had been forced into the position of supporting a Russian-imposed regime , he could no longer repeat these formulas . ' look what a tremendous resistance a poorly armed people is putting up when it has set itself a goal , " he said in his Pula speech . This goal had nothing to do With socialism or capitalism ; it was national independence . This was a force to be reckoned with ; and one could not deal with it in terms of the stiff bureaucratic formulas of traditional Titoism . In this lies Belgrade 's - tragedy , - as well as its own degree of responsibility for the current world crisis . Both in Budapest and in Cairo it had counted on and ' - 'ncouraged forces that were not as rational as it had issumed . Thus the Great Powers moved in to settle questions which the smaller powers prematurely hoped they could decide by themselves . No doubt much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can 3e traced to the brutality of . the Rakosi tegime itself . It is a measure of the madeness of Stalin 's imperial dream that this brutality has emerged ; and yet Khrushchev must work within that legacy , whatever his personal inclinations . And so must Tito , whose hopes are still based on the continuation of the post-Stalin decentralization of Moscow 's imperial authority . Moscow has not been blind , since Stalin 's death , to the realities of the situation . There is ample evidence of the Kremlin 's desire to reach a feasible compromise with local powers in certain fields ; they knew that they could not sustain the empire , on a stable and enduring basis , relying on brute force alone . After a volley of stupid threats , they grudgingly accepted the Polish rebellion . But elsewhere Moscow has moved too slowly , too hesitantly , reversing itself too often ( especially in Hungary ) . This hesistance derived from several factors , among them an ignorant attachment to old dogmas , a realization that in some countries ( East Germany for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and an understandable reluctance to see the rise of strong , independent Communist powers , allied together around Belgrade , challenging Soviet leadership of world Communism . The Soviet charge that Yugoslavia was meddling in the internal affairs of other nations contains a grain of truth . Tito himself did n't deny the charge . On the contrary , he proudly recalled that he had avoided passage through Hungary on his June trip to Russia " on account of Rakosi , " and he explained to the perplexed Russians that he would have avoided Hungary " even if the distance were three times shorter . " The only defense that can be made for Tito 's form of meddling was that its design was to put an end to all foreign meddling in the countries involved . Thus in the past month the careful and subtle constructions of Yugoslav diplomats appear to have been turned into shambles ; and the unhappy wavering of Yugoslavia in UN debates reflects the confusion that has occurred . Yet , Belgrade has no choice but to attempt to patch up the tattered standards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N this period of belligerence the USSR may not be one of those co-operative forces ; right now the Russians are in no mood for further concessions . The Yugoslays recognize the overwhelming difficulties of Moscow 's present position , with its empire partially shat tered , its global prestige at an all-time low , its soldiers demoralized by the horrible experience in Hungary . Their greatest concern is that Moscow will draw the correct lessons from the debacle , and that in time it will move into a new period of intensified reform . They hope that the Russian action in Hungary does not mean a " return to Stalinism " ? any more than the British intervention in Egypt signifies a return to Disraeli and the old imperial idea . There are reasons for hope in Belgrade . Poland 's position is a good one ; one may believe that in time it will offer more explicit interest in an alliance with Tito . The Italian Communist Party 's support of Tito 's position is an open fact . The Chinese Communists may well seize upon this occasion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians too can undergo the agonizing experience of debating who was responsible for the " loss of China " ) , and thereby win its own way into the UN . Nehru 's prestige can be counted upon to bolster Yugoslav policies . Tito 's ally , Nasser , may in time emerge as a stronger and more reliable friend . And then there is Hungary , where all conversations begin and end these days . The bitter and justified recriminations against Russia have somewhat obscured the simple fact that the old puppet regime in Hungary has been virtually destroyed . Now there is a new puppet regime , composed largely of anti-Rakosi elements in prison a few years ago , with which the Hungarian people may have to deal for some time What it will do when in power we ? o n't really know yet ; at the moment Soviet military power , not the feeble Kadar government , rules Hungary , insofar as there is any rule at all . That this weak regime , lacking even the 17 percent of the electoral support Rakosi won in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very improbable . At least this is Belgrade 's hope . In some way the new regime must incorporate into itself many of the national experiences of the last five weeks . Austria and Russia combined to destroy Hungary 's 1849 bid for independence ; but 17 years later Austria had to grant Hungary equal status in the empire . At the modern pace 17 years . could be telescoped into 17 weeks , so long as Hungarian independence does not appear to threaten the rest of the Soviet empire . Consequently , at some future date Hungary may be able to join Poland , Yugoslavia and other forces in a new alignment of powers which fill the traditional vaccum into which Russia brazenly moved in 1944 . The Yugoslays want time in which these latent forces may consolidate themselves , both in Hungary and in Poland ; that explains their present opposition to the exertion of pressure on Moscow for additional concessions . This , in their opinion , would only provoke further retaliations . F OR the peoples of the West , with their strong corn- mitment to freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their concern over Soviet enroachments in the Middle East , it is difficult to let Russia off so lightly . The Hungarian revolution is a stain on Soviet Communism as ineradicable as the stain left on western capitalism by the Russian revolution of 1917 ; and like the Russians at that time , the West now wants to press its excellent advantage . of And yet one should not lose sight of the enormous gains which have in fact been registered this past month in Poland and Hungary , in spite of the Russian intervention . The West has gained that " room for political maneuver " in Eastern Europe for which Cyrus Sulzberger shrewdly appealed in his recent book , The Great Thaw . This modest achievement seemed so remote a month ago , when Sulzberger finished his book , that he appended an " epilogue " in which he virtually apologized for having proposed so cynical a bargain . Yet what was remote a month ago ? the spread of Titoism is a fact today ; and " workers ' councils " ' are appearing in Poland , Hungary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these achievements are of such scope that they could be jeopardized by excessively tough demands for immediate further withdrawals of Soviet power . The Hungarian revolution had behind it a three-year history of steadily accumulating popular and intellectual unrest , much of it led by Communists themselves ; the final lunge to freedom may require another three years of patient building up of popular pressures , combined with intelligent Western encouragement .                     