@@488246

WHEN THE SHOOTING was over , eight persons lay wounded . Four were inside a small , bullet-pocked foundry operated by the Perfect Circle Corporation . Four more were in a group of a thousand labor demonstrators who milled angrily outside . And all over the nation Shocked and curious stares turned toward a small , semi-industrial town in east-central Indiana ? New Castle . To a great many people the whole affair seemed almost old-fashioned . It had , been more than , a score of years since Walter Reuther and a small band of workers in Detroit 's huge automobile factories fought bloodily with an armed brigade of Harry Bennett 's guards on a foot bridge at the Ford plant . Since then , organized labor had become big enough to ' deal with big business on nearly equal terms . Since then , too , management had changed . Faced with labor organizations that knew what they wanted , companies found themselves forced . to recognize needs other than those of management . But a lot of that came a long time ago , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all the shooting ? It was only the middle of the eleventh week of a strike of United Auto Workers-C . I. 0 . against Perfect Circle , one of the country 's four biggest makers of automobile piston rings . Indiana has had many strikes , some not too long ago , that lasted much longer than eleven weeks . But Indiana had not , for a long time , experienced a strike involving two such bitterly obdurate parties . Speaking before the Illinois Federation of Labor , Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell looked toward New Castle and branded Perfect Circle " certainly not typical of management in America . " On the other hand , Indiana 's Governor George N. Craig , peering warily at the WALTER FALL is the pen name of a free-lance writer . fracas in his own back yard , decided the union " hierarchy in Detroit " had quite obviously " usurped .. . the right of local determination . " New Castle itself was divided fairly equally on the issue . With the town and surrounding Henry County in the iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the union and watched dejectedly as fresh-faced youngsters of the Indiana National Guard cruised the streets in jeeps , bayonets fixed . - NEITHER Perfect Circle nor U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . were newcomers to New Castle . The company , headquartered only twelve miles east in Hagerstown , had started the New Castle foundry when Calvin Coolidge was in the White House . Nine years before ' the establishmen , of the foundry the firm had begun specializing in piston rings . Then , as now , the company was run largely by a family - named Teetor . Three of its members had helped found the company  --  which made railway pedal cars at the start  --  that later became Perfect Circle . President of the firm is Ralph Teetor , a totally blind , rock-jawed engineer whO would rather tend to machines and production and leave personnel matters to someone else . The someone else is William B. Prosser , vice-president and general manager , a quick-thinking , polished businessman with an eighth-grade education who worked his way to the Perfect Circle top echelon through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Perfect Circle through the gate of the New Castle foundry . Five years before it was to win an election at the Hagerstown mother plant , the U. A. W. gained bargaining rights at New Castle . That was 1937 and the start of a series of in-again-out-again shuffles that gave foundry workers a different bargaining agent almost every year . In 1938 U. A. W. was votedout and an independent union formed . In 1939 U. A. W. got back in . Two years later , in the first foundry vote supervised by the National Labor Relations Board , the auto workers ' union lost . But a year after that  --  a year of a determined organization efforts ? U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . regained and held bargaining rights at-New Castle and swept the Hagerstown , plant , too . Top union man on the scene at Perfect Circle now is William F. Caldwell , a - must a chi o e d , well-groomed resident of New Castle who services Indiana and Kentucky plants as an international representative . The impact of his personality on recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words : " In future negotiations I probably will back away from participation . I know very well how the company feels toward me . Ultimate agreement is more important than my joining in the talks personally , " In press conferences Caldwell has left no , doubt that he feels the entire strength of the international union is behind him . He has hinted broadly that Walter Reuther telephones often , that a $25,000,000 fund backs up the campaign at Perfect Circle . Over Caldwell is Raymond Berndt , regional director of the union . A personal participant in earlier bargaining with Perfect Circle this year , he blew up when Governor Craig clamped on martial laW . " We 're finished until the governor again becomes a human being . We 're not going to negotiate with Sherman tanks and bayonets at our backs , " he declared . BEFORE the strike started July 25 at Perfect Circle this year negotiadons had moved quietly but fruitlessly . On June 23 , a month before the expiration date of separate one-year contracts at the four plants covered by U. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that granted by Ford , General Motors , and Chrysler . The union wanted supplementary unemployment pay , union shop , improvements in retirement and group insurance plans , compulsory arbitration , and a 6-cent general wage increase . The company replied with an offer of a 10-cent wage boost , better retirement and group insurance plans  --  but no union shop , no layoff , pay , no compulsory arbitration . With neither side giving more than an inch ; negotiations bogged down completely . Still at loggerheads with the company when the contracts expired , the union struck all four plants : two at Richmond and one each at Hagerstown and New Castle . The company points out eagerly that a fifth plant , at Tipton , where workers are represented by United Steel Workers-C . I. 0. , was not struck . The steelworkers signed a new contract July 29 roughly on the terms of the company 's original offer . No union shop . A CONCERTED effort by both auto workers and steelworkers to get a union shop at Perfect Circle had been tried in 1948 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their members . This year , in spite of union insistence that there are important issues , besides union shop , publicity by Perfect Circle has laid the blame for the entire impasse squarely on that one issue . Vice-President Prosser pooh-poohed the suggestion that anything but the union 's demand for the union shop had stalemated negotiations . The company was against compulsory arbitration , he said , but " the significance of the issue pales when you consider the union has not requested arbitration on anything for three years . " He also claimed the company was " not against GAW in principle . . . and probably could have worked out something on ' that . " Early in the strike , with all four plants almost empty , the union altered its wage demand . Instead of 6 cents it asked for 20 cents and called the 10-cent company offer " much less than other big piston-ring companies have given this year . " Perfect Circle retorted that its competitors all settled for 6 and 7 cents . The U. A. W. quickly pointed out that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a October 29 , 1955 news conference , " We 'll never have a union shop as long as I 'm here . " Workers began filtering back to the struck plants . The Richmond factories started machining and casting operations again , Hagerstown got its machine and plating works rolling , New Castle used white-collar workers and a few nonstrikers to resume foundry production . Bitterness in , all three towns swelled in proportion to the production reports issued by the company . It started with shouts and threats from both sides as non-strikers drove through picket lines . Soon nonstrikers began reporting rocks thrown through the windows of their houses at night and paint , smeared on their cars . Perfect Circle charged the union with intimidation . The union shot back that it looked like the company had hired goons to make the union look bad . Beatings , shotgun blasts at more homes , and rocks through more windows followed at an ever-quickening pace . Then mass violence hit New Castle . On August 15 ? the strike was three weeks old  --  more than a hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of workers rolling into the plant , and overturned four parked cars . Company observers said they did not see one foundry employee among the throng of rioters . Cars with out-ofcounty and even out-of-state license plates were parked in clusters a block from the plant , they claimed . State police swooped down on New Castle . Nine demonstrator 's were arrested but later released when the county prosecuting attorney refused to file charges . He claimed the company had " failed to take adequate action at the plant to prevent violence . " He said Perfect Circle had not helped local officials file contempt-of-court charges against pickets . The company earlier had got a court order banning mass picketing . Governor Craig , worried because the squads of state police needed at New Castle and Hagerstown were jeopardizing his traffic-safety pro . gram , called company and union representatives to his office . Pressing both sides for a promise that they would do all in their power to prevent more violence , the governor withdrew state police  --  but alerted the National Guard . Threatened with martial law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of non-strikers was officially overlooked . Almost a month dragged by . Two state-sponsored truce talks ended in deadlock when the company announced that employees at its Richmond and Hagerstown plants had petitioned the N. L. R. B. to decertify U. A. W. - as their bargaining agent . The company said it could not negotiate at plants where union representation was in doubt . The governor said it could . - The union ' said it would bargain for all four plants at once or not bargain at all . THEN mass picketing completely shut the New Castle plant for a week . No move was made to enforce the court order against mass picketing . The plant manager visited his foundry by helicopter . Union officials charged he took a load of guns into the building . First action by the city of New Castle came when police came on the scene with two trucks , loaded docile pickets , and roared off toward the lockup . Fifty persOns were charged with " rout and riot . ' The foundry opened for bosiness again . Eight days . later ? October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor " demonstration march " downtown . The company had heard the rumors the night before and bought six more shotguns to add to the plant armament . At nine that morning 148 persons were in the plant when a solid phalanx of demonstrators marched down quiet Plum Street toward the foundry gate . City police retreated inside the plant . Demonstrators threw rocks at plant windows and started shaking the heavy steel-wire gate . It gave way and more than a dozen 357 shouting men moved toward the foundry 's front door , overturning a parked car in their path while an estimated 1,000 other demonstrators stayed outside the fence , watching . From a second-floor window in the foundry a shotgun blasted at the men inside the fence . Other blasts came from other windows . The crowd fell back and someone among the demonstrators returned the fire . For two hours company men and union men traded shots . Each took pictures of the other 's snipers shooting from cover . Then 200 state police converged on New Castle , threw a flying wedge of troopers through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs which the company , admitted it had made " for the women to protect themselves with . " Lieutenant Governor Harold Handley , political foe of Governor Craig , rushed to the scene , of the battle . He talked to both company men and union men and arranged a truce meeting for the next day . Satisfied that he , and the state police , had the situation well in hand , Handley returned to Indianapolis . But*Governor Craig , fishing off the coast of Florida , refused to believe any situation was well in Handley 's hands . He long-distanced an order for the National Guard to move in . It did , 600 strong with tanks and machine guns . Taverns were closed . A curfew Was placed on the town . A little later more troops moved into Hagerstown and Richmond . New Castle 's Mayor Paul F. Mc-Cormack looked at his once-peaceful town of 20,000 and sadly called it " the blackest day since the 1917 tornado . " A Guard colonel ran the town from a command post in the city council 's chambers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castle foundry reopened for production . For a lasting truce , the only break in sight is the possibility of an N. L. R. B. election to determine if the U. A , W. really does have a majority in Richmond and Hagerstown . An election could pave the way for new negotiations .                     