@@477359

ABOUT three miles from ghost-haunted libbets Field , Brooklyn College sits on what alumnus Irwin Shaw has called the melancholy plain of Flatbush . " An area whose lonely vistas appalled Thomas Wolfe ( " Only the dead know Brooklyn , " he intoned ) , it is , in truth , a robustly middle-class area , full of neat one- and two-family homes , which made it in its time a precursor of suburbia . Urban blight has not overtaken Flatbush , and the College is an island of learning awash with domesticity . Its greensward is as likely to be patrolled by local mothers clutching babies as b ) students with texts under their arms . The huge Georgian buildings are just around the corner from a major shopping area , and it is only in the immediate environs of the College that a campuscharacter wanly asserts itself ? book stores and eating places and a recently-opened Ivy League men 's shop . In 5.000 liberal-arts students and a staff of almost a thousand ? it is equal to a major state university . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about subsidized higher education . It is non-denominationala lofty high-school average is the only ticket of admission ? but because of Brooklyn 's population make-up it is 85 per cent Jewish and has only a handful of America 's dominant group ? white Anglo-Saxon Protestants . It has more Jewish students than any collegiate institution in Israel . Because the College crackles with learning from early morning till late at night , it has possibly the most overworked physical plant in the country ( though beautifully maintained ) . Large-scale repairs have to wait until August when an unnatural calm descends on the campus . ( There is daily a brief and graceful hiatus around 6:00 P.M. when the last of the clay students have trudged home , alive with the triumphs Once a hotbed of radicalism , it is now almost pathetically respectable . But it still bubbles with its own brand of rough vitality ... its social life and intellectual yearnings are equally intense ... and its marriage mart operates with a kind of joyful candor. and outrages of the last class , and the evening students , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Brooklyn College is a subway school , as its students will plaintively tell you . It is directly across the street from Midwood High School , whose architectural scheme harmonizes with the College . Many graduates of Midwood High simply cross the narrow street to enter college . Nevertheless , the achievements of the College are scholarships and fellowships ( in contrast with its early days of deprivation ) . It graduates a substantially higher proportion of its entering freshmen than the national average ( 55 per cent against 39 per cent ) ; its contribution to the ranks of young scholars is astonishingly high . In its statistical index ( number of Ph.D.s per thousand of graduates ) , Brooklyn ranks just below Amherst and Williams . Among its alumni are Pulitzer Prize historian Oscar Hamllin , comedian Sam Levenson , critic Irving Howe , stage star Alfred Drake , and a host of socially-useful people . It includes also a re-sourceful and lavishly-contoured actress who developed such a superb command of Romance languages at the college that she was able to palm herself off successfully in Hollywood as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its students , it is Brooklyn College or nothing . This is particularly true of the girls , who have a low educational priority in most families . All in all , Brooklyn College is a stirring testament to America as an open society . Here is an authentic democracy of brains , and it works . Dr. Harry D. Gideonse , President of the College , who visited the Soviet Union last summer , tells with relish of the Soviet official who fulminated against American colleges as instruments of class division . President Gideonse listened politely , then told him of the hundred-year-old system of free higher education in New York City . The Russian lapsed into stony silence . Brooklyn College began in five scattered buildings in grimy downtown Brooklyn , in the bleak economic weather of 1930 . The student was constantly jostled by the grubby facts of life as he broad-jumped gutters and dodged cars on his way to class . Novelist Irwin Shaw recently wrote in the College magazine : We had to ride in elevators crowded with shifty-eyed men talking about such low matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elizabethan Drama Exclusive of Shakespeare was conducted in a room whose windows looked out on the harbor of New York , with the Statue of Liberty rearing up out of the green water and the big ships coming and going with their promise of a wider world than Brooklyn awaiting us . . . If you were in love and the softness of a spring afternoon became unbearable , you could cut classes with your girl and walk to the end of Montague Street , where there was a small , paved park high over the docks and glittering bay . And no alumnus , now thickening into middle-age respectability , fails to mention the burlesque house across from one of the buildings where he struggled soberly with General Chemistry II or Eighteenth-century Thought . ANGRY FOR KNOWLEDGE ill 0 S T colleges painstakingly build a tradition . Brooklyn College acquired one early in history , repudiated it , and hardly a trace still exists . The tradition was that of student radicalism . During the ' thirties , the campus reverberated with peace strikes , slogans ( " Free Tom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and obscure factional disputes . The College newspaper was full of a gloomy and strident rhetoric . An alumnus recalls that some students , in an access of working-class solidarity , picketed a local cafeteria whose workers were on strike . ( It had been the hangout of all the little Lentos blueprinting American Socialism over a slow cup of coffee . ) A small disorder followed , and some of the students were arrested . " Sentence was later suspended , " the alumnus recalls , " but the police blotter recorded what were perhaps the most unusual names in picketing history : Artur Schnabel , Becky Sharp , Titus Andronicus , and others . " The political activity had elements of adolescent horseplay . Peace strikes were the panty-raids of a solemn depression generation . There was a fierce immigrant energy about the students then . They were almost angry for knowledge , " a faculty member recalls . And the legend of those intellectually belligerent , doggedly-erudite students still persists . In 1937 the College moved to its new quarters in Flatbush . It was the real thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a small stadium , a library tower with gently-pealing chimes . For student radicalism , this was the beginning of the end . President Gideonse , new and energetic , descended into the market place of ideas and carried on a tireless polemic against left-wing ideologues . One of the College 's livelier features during its combative days was the President 's Bulletin Board in which he would anatomize the latest left-wing manifesto . ) What is more , he had in mind a long-range program of developing a college community which could shape values . In the late ' forties , a war-spawned prosperity supervened . More and more the College took on a middle-class coloring . In 1946 I heard a story which epitomizes the change . A group of Brooklyn College girls were invited that year to one of those perennial student conferences at Vassar . Brooklyn College , a working-class citadel , was viewed as the Holy City of student insurgency . The Vassar girls , uneasy about their wealth , dressed down conscientiously in sloppy jeans . The delegation from Brooklyn College showed up ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have occurred from time to time , but since the war , there has been no left-wing student movement of any notable dimensions . However , according to the administration , a handful of radical students held onto key positions in student life because they were the most skillful in campaigning and in parliamentary maneuver . To circumvent this , student government was re-organized . There no longer is a Student Council but rather an Executive Council , elected not on a college-wide basis but rather by representatives of organizations . The balance of power has shifted from student leaders concerned with political ideology to those interested in the college as a college . THE MARGINAL MANY T H E College , in a word , has become respectable . In contrast with its bitter , hungry clays , its graduates move easily into medical and graduate schools , and even into businesses formerly closed - to them . Yet there is pathos in all these gains . As the College has grown and improved , its image in the minds of students has declined . A distinguished scholar told me that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ' thirties , it was with " a sense of letdown . " Harvard , after all , was a school for the idle rich , and where but at Brooklyn or City College could one find a pure passion for learning uncontaminated by snobbery or careerism ? The Brooklyn College student today has a sense of marginality . He is denied that special badge of status ? the out-of-town school . ( He is realistic enough to know , however , that his training is as good as he can get anywhere . ) Students talk carpingly about the impersonality of the school ( " I did n't know it would be so IBM-oriented . . . . I was Number 14 in my Chem class " ) . The College administration seems to share this wistfulness for the graces of the sleep-in school . It encourages students to do summer session work elsewhere . Last summer 631 students ran off to other groves of academe . The College also woos students from other campuses for its summer session and last summer proudly announced the presence on campus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the summer : There are quite a few out-of-towners in attendance ; and the school has bent backward to impress them with all sorts of concerts and a special bulletin printed on rag paper . Too good for the regular peasants , of course ! One result of this sidelong glance at the out-of-town school is an extra-curricular program which for sheer bulk and diversity may very well surpass any in the country . Both Harvard and Sarah Lawrence are pallid by comparison . There are over three hundred student groups chartered by the College , and the House Plan Association ? a system of social clubs which have neither Houses nor formal Plans , despite the name ? is a small empire in itself . Among some students , there is an ambivalence about this roaring activity . " We 're imitation Ivy League , " a Dean 's Honor List student said . Another boy observed : " There was no feast of ideas my first year . It was all social and House Plan . " The College offers this rationale : The students come from homogeneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the College is large , the atmosphere impersonal . There are many experiences outside of the classroom which these students need . The academic program illustrates what David Riesman has termed the isomorphism of American colleges ? the tendency to resemble each other . The pattern of General Education ? a core of prescribed subjects and a functional major ? has always prevailed at Brooklyn College , but it has undergone certain changes . A new curriculum was recently adopted whose principal feature is integrated courses in both social and physical sciences similar to Harvard 's . Each freshman is also part of a group having two teachers and a counselor in common . The College is doing venturesome things with gifted students ? an Honors Program and acceleration . There is a limited tutorial in some departments . President Gideonse has stated that " all real education is the fruit of self-study " and that " all effective teaching is concerned with helping the students to study by themselves . " " There is a kind of college within the college , " a student remarked . The faculty gets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is lots of contact . " Many departments have a special ferment of their own . The Speech Department is now the Speech and Theater Department , and real professionals are being brought in to direct and teach . Area studies arc being introduced including Arabic and African . Russian courses have been on campus for some time now . In short , it is an alert institution . What kind of homes do the students come from ? Sequestered in fiercely protective families who are comfortable only in their own neighborhoods , college education for them is part of a large pattern of breakout . Their manners are often unpolished . " How do you endure them : They 're thugs ! " a colleague fresh from a genteel out-of-town college said heatedly . A few months later he was sitting around having coffee with his students in his free hours . He had responded , as other faculty members have , to their warmth and spontaneity and gusto . They have a quenchless vitality ; they are committed to life . A psychiatrist at a distinguished university was working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dean Herbert H. Stroup to participate in the study . " But we do n't have suicides at Brooklyn College , " Dean Stroup pointed out . Less than half the students come from homes in which both parents are native-born . Most are Jewish ( 85 per cent ) , some are Catholic ( 11 per cent ) , and a smaller number are Protestant ( 1 per cent ) . There is a sprinkling of Negroes . The students come from the world of smallbusinessmen , increasingly beleaguered and worried , the retail storekeeper in an era of supermarkets , the salesman , and the skilled worker . Family income is likely to be unimpeachably middle-class , around 57,000 a year , but it is a milieu which does not know the new security of the Organization Man . The families are warm , cohesive , and likely to be packed into a small apartment . " There was always the TV going , " a boy said . " and someone singing in the bathroom . I was going to give up on getting my school work done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a tight little world despite its big-city setting , carefully shuttered from the outside . Some Brooklyn College girls turned down the opportunity for out-of-town college because of attachment to family and friends . Few of these families have lived outside of New York . The parents hover protectively over their children . ( This is as characteristic of Italian parents as of Jewish ones ) . A father called one of the deans und wanted the " lowdown " on a boy who was courting his daughter . Mothers call the administrative offices with frantic advice for their sons who Ieft their lunch home . A woman whose boy was denied admission threatened : " If 1 have a nervous breakdown , it 'll be on your head . " It is a world at once cramped but intense and expressive . It has a disarming candor , a talent for affection , and a passionate respect for learning . Students arc torn between devotion to these marvelously loyal and self-sacrificing parents and resentment of their emotional parasitism . " As long as I 'm home , I 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A husky young man observed sadly : " They do n't like it if I do anything away from home , It 's so much trouble 1 do n't usually bother . " There has been a change-over from Yiddish- or Italian-speaking parents to understanding American ones . But this is merely a substitution of a soft , reasonable tyranny for a hard one ? ? the iron fist in the mental-hygiene glove . For the Brooklyn College student , the breakout from the cage of family and neighborhood takes place gradually . ( For the out-of-town student it is implicit in that first flushed departure from home . ) There are , to be-gin , the sorties into Manhattan , the rapt discovery of Greenwich Village ( a quick phase ) and the Museum of Modern Art ( more enduring ) , the gastronomic adventures in strange restaurants . There is the strange vocabulary , the garish new ideas of higher education , which at once impress and discomfit the parents . But the real breakout for those who do n't marry while at school ( those who do substitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Financial independence means a new burst of freedom ? the summer run to Europe , the weekend ski trip , theater on Wednesday evening . Suddenly , the world lies open . As the final irrevocable step , there is the moving out of the parental home . The Brooklyn College provincial emerges from the chrysalis ? a New York sophisticate . BROOKLVD : is Herman Wouk territory as much as the Bronx and Central Park West . Any number of girls , radiant with self-discovery , announce : " I am Marjorie Morningstar . " And indeed they are . There are hordes of nubile young women at Brooklyn College , ferociously determined to marry . Go , girt , go , they say to each other . It is interesting that though the percentage of married students is no higher at Brooklyn than elsewhere ? about 30 per cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class ? the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate . " Almost all the senior girls are married , " students keep saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own merits , then makes modifications if she marries , the Brooklyn College girl often chooses hers ? usually teaching ? with a canny eye cocked at marriage . On the other hand , a Radcliffe girl said bluntly : " We 're really just as eager to marry as the Brooklyn College girls . We just keep our mouths shut about it . " in any event , the House Plan Association , with its 150 chapters ( men and women separate ) , is generally regarded as a teeming marriage mart . The Friday night House Plan party is de rigneur , and thought students grind their teeth at its awkwardness ( " It always starts out with boys on one side and girls on the other " ) they keep going . " This is basic training for Grossinger 's , " a girl said grimly . Kingman , the college newspaper , sells space to jubilant Houses , fraternities , and sororities that have good news to impart . There are boxed announcements of watchings , pinnings , ringings , engagements , and marriages in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announces the engagement of Fran Horowitz to . Erwin Schwartz of Fife House " ) . If the luckygirl is marrying an out-of-town student , the boy 's credentials will be duly cited in the box . There is a healthy rivalry between the House Plan Association and the fraternity-sorority crowd . They vie with each other in good works for college and community . The House Plan , for example , sponsors two annual lectures by distinguished outsiders . However , charity abroad is spite at home . Some fraternity people characterize the House Plan as " the poor man 's fraternity . " House Planners describe the Greeks as " camouflaged Houses . " During rushing season , both groups buy space in Kingsrnan to attract shoppers ( " All dolls rush Dahl House " ) . Most students agree , however , that at Brooklyn College a House is a home . " The House Plan is absolutely essential , " a sophomore told me ; " otherwise you 're lost at school . " ( This , by the way , is the rationale for the residential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Letter Societies seem to be expanding ( " Go Fraternity , " an ad in Kingman exhorts ) , and some fraternities , sweating out national affiliation , are temporarily leading a schizoid existence ( Delta Sigma Pi pending Sigma Delta Tau ) . House Plans are often outgrowths of teen-age neighborhood social clubs . However , insularity breaks down in time . A House Plan of girls from Brownsville , a working-class neighborhood . was reputed to have such bright and pretty girls that in time it attracted well-to-do Flatbush co-eds . Most House Plans and Greek Letter Societies tend to be self-segregating by color and religion , but there are some mixed groups . THE DRAMA OF SEX A LM OST a thousand more women than men attend Brooklyn College during the day a tribute to the academic prowess of the girls in high school . ( They do better at college too . ) The sexes are keenly responsive to each other , unlike Harvard 's pattern of sedulous restraint . Brooklyn College boys have a frank appreciation of a pretty girl , and " making out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a way of building status . However , the sexes complain about each other . The girls talk petulantly about the boys ' lack of gallantry . ( A boy retorted : " I tried to hold a door open for a girl , but she was too fast for me . " ) The boys , just beginning to taste the heady joys of young manhood , resent the girls ' rage to marry ( " They race to the hunt " ) . The Brooklyn College girl is yoked to middle-class respectability , and the drama of her chasCity is a solemn matter . Because she lives at home , she is probably less venturesome about sex than many college students elsewhere . It is against this background that one can appreciate an episode that occurred a few years ago . With its usual eclat , the theater group was doing a performance of Garcia Lorca 's The House of Bernardo Alba . " It was Saturday night , which attracts the student-dating crowd . The climactic moment of the play , heart-rending in its intensity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Tell them in the city my daughter is a virgin ! " There was a stunned silence for a moment , and then the audience of dating couples broke down helpless with laughter . Brooklyn College is distinctive for not having an official drinking place . There are bars nearby , but they are not frequented by students . A drink is something a student nurses along on a Saturday night date at a dine-and-dance place . " I drink to be sociable " is the usual pronouncement . Dancing , however , is another matter . And the Byzantine flourishes one sees in cha-cha-cha or mambo at a Brooklyn College dance would give art Arthur Murray instructor a pained sense of inadequacy . The topography of the cafeteria is as complex and colorful as that of any Student Union in the country . Through a mysterious process of acculturation , students learn where to sit . The cafeteria is terra incognita to faculty , and onlythrough a friendly student was I able to get an inside view . One side of the huge , tumultuous room is for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some strays in the hack . " There is a theater table appropriately located stage front ( near the serving line where everyone passes ) . Then there are the special interest groups ? Newman Club , athletes , and even a non-belongers ' table . House Plans are everywhere . The two student lounges reflect the students ' straining to be well-rounded . One is called the Popular Lounge , and the other the Classical Lounge . The former is the hangout of the " lounge majors , " as well as of the casual student with half-an-hour to kill . There is usually an insistent musical beat as the " hip " - collegiates do their frozen-faced mambos . The Classical Lounge , now converted into a study hall , used to provide serious music , chess sets , and an air of inviolable gravity . Kingsman recently suggested that the Popular Lounge turn its back on fun for a few hours a week to play the music of the masters . It asked : " Does n't a mixture of the classics and pop music go hand-in-hand with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A WIDER WORLD A R more individuality shows up at Brook- lyn College than I observed at either Harvard or Sarah Lawrence . Personal style has to be tough and rugged to escape being crushed by sheer numbers . The boys range from impeccable Ivy League types , replete with bristling crew-cuts , chinos , and buckskin shoes , to a shaggy-headed youth discussing absurdity in Camus with a cigarette tucked behind his ear truck-driver style . The girls dress with great variety ? smartly garbed ones looking as if they have a modeling engagement after class ( some do ) , the great mass of neatly and inconspicuously dressed ones , and those who proclaim their protest by wearing sneakers or desert boots . Because the college community is large and amorphous ? and this is inevitable in a subway school ? it does nothing to discourage the rich diversity of its students . There are the House Planners and the grinds ; the folk-singers on the library steps on Friday afternoon and the ultra-orthodox Jewish boys wearing skullcaps . And one-third of the school 's population has no commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a limited sense of their own possibilities . They have little to define themselves against ? no college tradition ( like Harvard 's ) , little knowledge of any milieu but their own . But when they achieve liberation from the tight confines of their past , they are richer for having been immured . There are advantages in changing worlds . The faculty is well-paid ( among the highest in the country ) , carefully-selected , and able . Teaching schedules are heavier than in other first-rate schools , and this has some effect on scholarly production . Students complain that they do not have sufficient contact with their teachers . ( " They race us to the door , " one student said . ) This , however , is only partly true . A student who wants such contact can find it , especially in his major . But , in truth , the crowds and the bustle , the staff rooms housing five and six instructors , do not encourage a leisurely exchange between faculty and students . Moreover , many of the students work after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ souls . Only the na ? ve believe that life on a college campus is tranquil . Universities are large bureaucracies today with built-in tensions and anxieties . Brooklyn College is probably no better and no worse than most . Among the administrators , there is a brave show of unanimity . The faculty , however , is merrily schismatic . In a delicious irony , the Philosophy Department has been particularly discordant . A faculty wag , who has watched their Donnybrooks from a safe distance , described them as " lovers of wisdom and haters of each other . " In any event , the only way a factional dispute could be resolved was to appoint as chairman a talented outsider , a member of the English Department with a sideline in philosophy . Similarly , a split in the History Department was healed by the appointment of John Hope Franklin . a distinguished scholar and the first Negro to become department chairman in a non-Negro college . To the ordinary hazards of academic life must be added the Kafka-esque terrors of coping with such faceless entities as city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education , all of which influence the New York City colleges . THE NEW MONOLITH OUNSELING is one of the major devices used to counter the large size and impersonality of the College . Some years ago , a senior asked Dean William R. Gaede for a recommendation to graduate school . The Dean asked who knew him . " No one , " the student answered . That was the beginning of counseling . It is an ambitious program embracing general ( or curriculum ) counseling , personal counseling , and guidance in one 's major field . To avoid professional parochialism , faculty members are enlisted into the general counseling program on a part-time basis . A recent survey revealed that 52 per cent of the students thought they benefited from the program , 31 per cent were unfriendly , and 16 per cent were undecided . Students in private discussion had varied and vigorous reactions . Much seemed to hinge on the individual counselor . A bright young woman was ablaze with admiration for her counselor 's skill and devotion . Another student said peremptorily : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but I ca n't get rid of him . " The purpose of personal counseling , according to its supervisor , is " to sec to it that in ; .. fficiencies du not flow from emotional problems . " The idea is not to salvage the psychotic , but to help the normal individual to fulfill his potential . Problems may range from minor disturbances ? inability to concentrate or family conflict ? to the tragi-comic psychic dislocation of the student who wrote : Request return to Brooklyn College to take Abnormal Psychology provided I can wear shoes and stockings and suit to school , take a shower regularly , and take a strict physical exam from the Hygiene Department . Because it is a new program , there has been some resistance to counseling on the part of the staff . To some faculty members , Personnel Service is the new monolith on campus . The smiling emissaries from Teachers College are viewed with suspicion . " Too often , " President Gideonse explained . " instructors are interested only in the potential little mathematician or economist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has too much missionary zeal and is overly enchanted by its grand design . Certainly , its official language has a stubborn gracelessness with phrases like " consultative relationships , " " counseling locales , " and " goal maintenance . " Some people point out that this Department with its twenty-eight members ? though it performs administrative duties as well ? looms too large in a college in which the Philosophy Department numbers only twelve and Political Science twenty-three . In all fairness to Brooklyn College , the excesses of administrationitis are held in check by what can only be described as a healthy pragmatism on campus . Recurrently , conflicts crop up between the students and the administration . A school official said grimly : " I run around with a hose like a fireman putting out a blaze . " The edginess of the students may be a carrying forward into a non-political era of the old aggressions of the ' thirties . The fight for Bermuda shorts ( currently banned for on-campus wear ) may well he the student movement debased in the ' fifties . Or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are displaced onto the college administration . Certainly , the old political fervors are dead . Even as respectable an enterprise as " Sane Nuclear Policy " could round up only 175 signatures for a petition . Many were afraid to sign ( " Look , I plan to teach : give you money , but do n't ask me to sign " ) , although the College administration did nothing to discourage the campaign . There are about sixty students in all the political groups with about fifteen in a Socialist club ? but as a Young Democrat sardonically observed , " AlI they do is sit around and watch their beards grow . " There was a flare-up recently over the school newspaper . Since Kingman is a " monopoly newspaper " supported by student fees , the official policy is that of " multiple simultaneous editorials " to insure presentation of opposing views . " Brooklyn College does not charter two or more newspapers as is the case in Queens or City College . " President Gideonse has argued . " Thomas Jefferson 's ideas about freedom did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required lees . They referred to a competitive press which was self-supporting . " Not long ago , Kingsman 's editors resigned over the workings of this policy . Their parting editorial shot was called dramatically " A Cup of Hemlock " : " I learned that freedom of the press is taught in classrooms only to be untaught in the President 's office . " A new batch of editors took over determined to " carry on the struggle for independent expression and personal responsibility . " But there is no real groundswell of opposition among the students to administrative policy . I recently looked through a batch of questionnaires filled out by last June 's graduates . I was struck by their irritation with student leaders who get into fights with the administration . As many students have pointed out , this is the tranquil generation . There is , however , some inchoate student feel-ing about being fussed over too much . One wonders if they do not sense some subtle rejec- tion in the administration 's nervous vigilance about their behavior , dress , etc . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lunchroom . ( Their job is actually to maintain order . ) Others vented animus against the Student Activities Office which , according to one student , has a beatific vision of all Brooklyn College girls in short hair looking like Vassar . Tea has become the symbol of a quiet tug of war . The joke among the rebel fringe , who resist this genteel Gleichschaltung , is that all they drink at " teas " is coffee . And one student told with relish of setting up a " tea " for her organization and asking for two urns of coffee . Her adviser was aghast . " Wo n't you take even a small pot of tea ? " she implored . These issues in a college in swift transition are complex . The concern about student 's dress , for example , grew out of the Placement Office 's observation that some students ' sloppy looks cost them dearly when applying For jobs . Moreover , Brooklyn College is a tax-supported institution , and in effect , every taxpayer is a trustee , some of them highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were letters written by subway passengers about the inappropriate dress of a handful of students , My own experience as faculty adviser of a student magazine is instructive . A relatively mild story about a love affair ? far milder than a story in Harvard 's Advocate which someone there gave me to read ? elicited a semi-literate and hysterical letter from a lady in the community . In a rapture of illogic , she suggested that Brooklyn College students " must be Communists since they are obscene . " It was suggested to me by a college official that I ought to encourage " more cheerful stories . " Forty-two per cent of the College 's students are preparing to teach in elementary or secondary schools . A sometimes angry debate rages on campus about the effect of this teacher-training program . Some people argue that the intellectual tone of the College has been lowered by the heavy concentration of Education majors . The standard criticism is that " ed " courses are ineffective and sentimental , jargon-ridden and repetitive . ( " I 'm tired of the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a prospective teacher said . ) There is an ideological bent in the Education Department which some faculty members find disconcerting . There seems to be the implication that there is a crisp right or wrong in every situation , a blatantly happy-ending , upbeat point of view . Defenders of the Education Department have some telling arguments , although they do acknowledge excesses ( " There are progressives and manic-progressives " ) . For one thing , Brooklyn College represents a pattern of teacher education within a liberal-arts framework . That means that teachers are likely to be a good deal better educated here than they would be in a teacher-training college . THE NIGHT SIDE T H E evening session is steeped in an atmosphere reminiscent of harder times . For here students and faculty share a common martyrdom of late hours , gulped meals , and strenuous intellectual exercise at war with fatigue . Something of the tradition of pure intellectual passion survives here . Students in the evening ? generally older than their daytime colleagues of the bright sweaters and scuffed shoes ? are regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evening , " a student summed up ; " in the day they are pupils . " ) Courses arc sometimes a little less demanding as a result of faculty compassion , but the students bring maturity and experience to class . The charm of the evening classes is in the rich variety of types ? salesmen and police officers , stenographers and housewives exultantly on leave from baby and kitchen . There was one garment center model who used to come sweeping in in a glory of color and perfume . In five years of attendance she became a somber-eyed intellectual drone in flats . Brooklyn College is a young institution caught up in a fast-paced drama of social change . It may be that the College in response to a genuine need has gone too far in " socializing " its students at the cost of images of daring and sacrifice . Too much , perhaps , is predicated on " getting into graduate school " or being acceptable to employers . At this time , there is little in the College to generate a creative and responsible criticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind who is unafraid to adopt an unpopular position , has observed : " Contemporary ' organizational ' society has no need of educational programs fitting and adjusting young people to some preconceived consumers ' and producers ' pattern , designed to promote a painless conditioning for ' prosperous conformity , ' including especially the insidious conformity to conventional non-conformity . " His own educational philosophy is summed up in Woodrow Wilson 's phrase : courses , contacts , and contagions . A recent episode illustrates the curious student temper of our time . Last spring Jack Kerouac , the high priest of the Beat Generation , came to talk . He arrived at 9:30 P.M. to confront a swarm of students ? most of them from the day session ? who had waited hours for him . Some were avid apprentices of the Beat Generation , blue-jeaned boys and black-stockinged girls . Hundreds came out of curiosity but not curiosity alone . They came out of some deep yearning for the Word . To my amazement , when the program began notebooks were solemnly opened . pens were poised . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life ? " a student asked . " It 's an illusion ? not real , man ; you ought to know that , " the writer answered . A girl asked " Why do you believe in Buddhism ? " " Why are you so pretty ? " he responded . The students were indignant . They stayed and they listened , but they felt cheated . Underneath what someone has described as " the gloriously contented air " of the contemporary college student , there is an unsatisfied need to know and to believe . These are not rebels , but they would like a cause .                     