@@476889

in collaboration with Alis De Sola Drawings by Donald Higgins F YOU were to ask thoughtful people , in- cluding psychoanalysts , what they regarded as the crucial situations in a woman 's life ? the nodal points for a possible breakdown ? they would immediately cite marriage , childbirth , the loss of a beloved person , menopause , and perhaps a few others . And they would be right These are the classic stress-producing experiences . Each , in its own way , rocks the total personality . If the foundations are defective ; as in psychotic individuals , or if the structure built up from them is insecure , as in neurotics , a dramatic collapse may take place . But there is also a special kind of experience which in my opinion belongs at the top of the list . Observations I have made in recent years lead me to believe that there is no time at which a woman is more apt to go to pieces than when she is engaged in decorating her home . Even women who have successfully weathered all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is not merely one man 's opinion . I have confirmed and documented it in a number of discussions with analytical colleagues . One of them , whose wife was currently going through the ordeal , remarked facetiously that he took his shock machine home every evening ? " just in case . " This ordinary and apparently trivial experience seems to present women with a challenge comparable , in some respects , with the challenge war makes to men . It tests their femininity as men 's masculinity is tested in battle . I am not joking . Decorating a home puts a woman under tremendous psychic pressure and , in doing so , brings to the surface her underlying weaknesses . As the car is a symbol of masculinity , so is the house a symbol of femininity . To a woman , her home is like another , larger body , and all her mysterious impulses find expression within its walls . Most women enter marriage with some residual uncertainties about their sexual role . Unresolved problems relating to their femininity may blur the internal image and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves in various ways , they are riot severe enough in the average woman to incapacitate her or excite more than casual attention . But when she embarks on the home decorating venture , the anxieties attaching to them become suddenly and grossly augmented . Under their onslaught , defenses which have hitherto served souse transparent plastic material . Decorative bowls , also white and rather oddly shaped , rested on every available flat surface . A crowning touch , in which she took great pride , was a small fountain set up in the wall which had originally held a fireplace . A specific problem of this kind is often concentrated on a specific decorative feature ? for example , the clock , which may be treated as a symbol of the female genitals . Its hidden inner machinery is easily equated with those mysterious organs , and its rhythmical movement is reminiscent of their periodic activity . There are women so obsessed by their genitalia that they put clocks all over the house or , conversely , hesitate to display even one . Unconscious exhibitionistic tendencies may determine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong impulse to display herself and yet be ashamed of her personal appearance . 11 her self-love is great enough and her financial circumstances permit it , she will make her house the showplace she herself is not . Everything is carefully chosen , beautifully kept , and in its appointed position . It is obvious that a home of this kind is not well adapted to daily living . The woman who has designed it will not tolerate disorder and is constantly nagging at her husband and children . They are made to feel like interlopers ? as , indeed , they are , psycho-dynamically speaking . There is no.room tot them in her fantasy . Her house is not really a home ; it is the lovely woman she has always longed to be . Extreme narcissism , however , may defeat its own purposes . The case of one of my patients illustrates the dilemma in which inordinately vain women are caught . Her appearance absorbed her to such an extent that she spent literally hours a day in front of the mirror , studying her face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decorate , she showed the same execs-she concern , brooding over each detail , changing her mind constantly , paralyzed by doubts . In a desperate attempt to master the problem , she finally enrolled in a school for professional decorators . But her goal still eluded her and , after a while , she broke down completely , developing paranoid symtoms severe enough to send her to the hospital . This happened several times . As soon as she started to make some headway , panic overcame her and she had to be hospitalized again . She never succeeded in finishing her home . If the home-making process starts from scratch ? if the house is built to order or carefully selected ? another important aspect of femininity comes into play : the woman 's capacity for emotional contact , the degree of closeness to others which she is able to sustain . A home may be arranged to foster intimate relationships , when the kitchen , say , is large and inviting enough to become a center for family activity or the sleeping quarters of the separate members are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relatively small house , to fix things in such a way as to insure a large measure of privacy . There are schizoid homes where closed doors are the rule and each member of the family is effectively isolated from the others . At the opposite extreme , there are homes in which nobody can count on an hour 's solitude . The woman who has solved the problem of " closeness " in genuine accord with her psychological needs is fortunate . THE decoration of a home requires a good deal of money . Newly-weds often put all they have into the project ; other families may devote to it a considerable portion of their savings . This aspect alone weighs heavily on the woman who is actually doing the spending . Quite apart from the fact that attitudes about money are closely linked to a number of neurotic conflicts , she knows that she can not afford to make any major mistakes . At the same time she is faced with a confusing lack of standardization . A woman 's ordinary expenditures , for food and clothing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good buy when she sees one . But in the home decorating field she is confronted with a wide range of prices for substantially the same item . Nothing seems to have an intrinsic worth . Losing all and homemaker in her turn . The trouble is that , psychically , she may not be ready at all . The anxiety she feels about her new role is then u-ansferred to the setting in which it will be enacted . And , for obvious reasons , it will be manifested most clearly in her relationship with the woman who remains for her the symbol of home , her mother . Traditionally , in our society , the wife 's family assists the young couple in the decoration of their home . While the assistance may be largely financial , the mother usually has an active hand in the job ? dispensing advice , joining in shopping forays , and otherwise making herself useful . Inevitably , there will be some differences of opinion , minor clashes of no great significance in themselves . But if the daughter 's attitude toward her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like tinder in the emotionally charged atmosphere . Old resentments will burn anew ? feelings of having been neglected or dominated , or edged out in the Oedipal struggle . They will give a passionate undertone to a discussion about draperies , embitter an argument over the size of a bed . Unacknowledged feelings of dependency may also be reactivated . Anxiety makes many young women become helpless children again , unable to take a step without Mother 's supporting presence . Or , reacting against a need of which they feel ashamed , they may reject her help altogether . More damaging than this situation , however , is its- opposite ? where the daughter , through the circumstances of her marriage , suddenly becomes the dominant figure in the relationship . If she is richer and happier than her mother ever was , if she needs nothing that her mother can give , she has , in a sense , displaced her and the original outcome of the Oedipal struggle is reversed . Her home , so much lovelier than the one she has abandoned , provides a painfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitality to her mother may be , the shift in their relative positions can not fail to produce tension in both . In the daughter , the re-awakened feelings of guilt are sometimes so strong that she has to punish herself . One young woman I know symbolically " undid " her triumph over a period of years . Every time her beautiful home approached completion , she destroyed what she had already accomplished and started the process anew . Other women alleviate the anxiety by persuading their husbands to move to another community . THE BAFFLED HUSBANDS DECORATING their home may also bring to a head underlying tensions between husband and wife . Because the strain on the wife is so great , it is frequently a time of great marital turmoil . That , in turn , accentuates difficulties hitherto unacknowledged or minimized . Usually it is money that sparks off the conflict . " he husband may become increasingly disturbed as he watches his wife floundering in the financial bog . If , in an attempt to reassure her , he allots more money to the project than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a reckless disregard for the family 's future . If , on the other hand , he puts his foot down , he is accused of being stingy and authoritarian . An attitude of amused tolerance will not help him either ; besides alienating his wife , it will probably provoke charges of gross selfishness and indifference . The situation dilemma which , can not resolve , as He was frank to limited taste , unqualified to make aesthetic judgments . He was quite content to leave the decorating job to his wife in whose capacity he had implicit faith . His part , as he saw it , was to foot the bills . But this separation of function was unacceptable to the wife . After a short indoctrination course , she convinced him that he , too , could recognize and enjoy aesthetic values . They were then ready to proceed on a mutual basis . Since the wife had more leisure , she did the preliminary legwork and only called in her husband for the final decision . As time went on , he became more confident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choices . To his astonishment and dismay , she became violently enraged ,                     