@@488267

SIR STAFFORD CRIPPS 'S RETIREMENT OWING to ill health both from his office as Chancellor of the Exchequer and from the House of Commons is a serious loss to the government , the Labor Party , and the British nation . As the London Times says in an editorial : " Sir , Stafford Cripps has written a chapter of his own in English political history . .. . Even his loudest critics have recognized the power of mind and convinced integrity which have placed him on an eminence among his colleagues . " It is just about three years since Cripps took over the Exchequer and began the task of integrating the financial and economic policies of the Labor government  --  an integration without which no real planning was possible . The very considerable success he achieved under conditions of enormous difficulty is attested by the growing strength of Britain 's financial position , internal and external , and by the steady rise in the nation 's productivity . His detractors like to paint him as a cold , calculating man who took a sadistic delight in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portrait . Cripps chose the hard way both for himself and his fellow-countrymen because he understood that in Britain 's straitened circumstances it was essential to put first things first . By refusing to yield to the clamor of the popular press and , at times , to pressure from within his own patty he made it possible for Britain to hold inflation at bay while steadily building up the Welfare State ? the objective to which he has devoted much of his life . CRIPPS 'S SUCCESSOR , HUGH GAITSKELL , IS young as British Cabinet Ministers go  --  only forty-four ? and has come ' up through the ranks very rapidly . In the thirties he headed the Department of Political Economy at University College , London , and during the war , as a temporary civil servant , made a reputation in several responsible administrative positions . Elected to Parliament for the first time in 1945 , he was soon given a junior post as Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Fuel and Power and a year later became the head of the same department . Since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State for Economic Affairs and the chief among Cripps 's lieutenants . It is conceded that these promotions have been won on merit , , for Gaitskell , while well liked by his colleagues , has no personal following and has not been associated with any group or clique in the Labor Party . His appointment has been taken as a sign that Prime Minister Attlee 's position as party leader is now so strong that he is able to disregard intra-party politics . Undoubtedly , Gaitskell was also Cripps 's choice as the man most likely to hold Britain 's economy on the course it has been following . ROBERT ALPHONSO TAFT 'S REPUTATION FOR integrity , for unsullied devotion to the truth , has been coming apart at the seams ever since he encouraged Joe McCarthy to keep bringing up " cases " against the State Department . Now , during his ' campaign for reelection , he has made an attack on the late Sidney Hillman and the C. I. 0 Political Action Committee which suggests that the seams no longer exist . " I do not know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not the P. A. C. " is being guided by Communists . " He harks back to 1922 to charge that Hillman 's Amalgamated Clothing ' Workers ' convention received a " congratulatory message " from the Soviet Union . In fact he knows that the Communists have nothing to do with the P. A. C. , that the C. I. 0 . has thrownout its Communists , and that it is run by anti-Communists . If he does not know the truth about Hillman , he could easily have learned that Hillman fought the Communists and drove them from influence in the Amalgamated Clothing Workers during the twenties , arid that P. A. C. Director Jack Kroll , an Amalgamated vice-president , helped Hillman do so . Once again , therefore , Taft stoops to the level of Mc- , Carthyism ; he fears his political enemies and therefore smears them with complete unscrupulousness . The legend of this " honesty " is becoming a portentous hoax . The theory that he holds down Republican " primitives " like Jenner , Cain , and Wherry is discredited by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the camp of the " primitives . " Whatever usefulness he may once have had has passed , and the voters of Ohio will be - wise if they end his political career . GETULIO VARGAS IS BACK , HAVING BEEN elected President of Brazil by a clear majority in a free and orderly election . What he plans to do on his return to Cattete Palace in Rio next January 31 is puzzling Washington as well as the Latin American capitals . In his first public statement after his victory he announced 574 The NATION that he favored a " Laborite State , " referring to the EngliSh and Scandinavian governments , as an ideal centrist solution for the threats of totalitarianism from the right and the left . More uncertain is his stand on foreign affairs , especially his attitude toward the United States . Conventional declarations of friendship for the United States should not , be allowed to obscure certain significant statements made in the course of his campaign . Taking full advantage of the great ' unpopularity of the incumbent government , Vargas attacked President Enrico Gaspar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States . He accused Dutra of having squandered a surplus of more than $756,000,000 on hand in the Brazilian treasury at the time that Vargas was overthrown . And he repeated his old charges that he had been ousted with the connivance of American diplomats , including Spruille Braden and the former ambassador in Rio , Adolf A. Berle , Jr . Vargas 's running mate , Joao Cafe Filho , has participated in public meet I ings organized to obtain adherents to the Stockholm peace pledge and has been frequently denounced by the Catholic press as a Free Mason and fellow-traveler . Among the generals supporting Vargas , there are some , notably General Newton Estillac Leal , now mentioned as probable Minister of War , who are known to favor an independent Brazilian policy , absolutely neutral as between Russia and the United States . The return of Vargas may create more than one problem for Washington . IN THE ALWAYS HIGHLY CHARGED RADIO world faces are red and the air is blue because after prolonged discussion and research the Federal Communications Commission has given a green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leading set-makers have declared war against both C. B. S. and the F. C. C. , whose decision , they believe , is going to hurt their sales badly . Radio Corporation of America , the bitter rival of C. B. S. , to which it lost the battle of the long-playing record , and Pilot Radio are both seeking injunctions to force the F. C. C. to reverse itself . Admittedly the C. B. S. system is far-from perfect , although it is said to achieve a high degree of fidelity in reproduction of color . But it is " incompatible " ? that is to say , its programs can not be received on existing television- sets unless these are fitted with " adaptors " and " converters " ; moreover , it provides for a maximum 12172-inch image . Why , then , it is being asked , could not the F. C. C. delay action until a better system was available ? The trouble is that no " compatible " method , of transmitting and receiving color images is in sight , and the longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use . We are inclined to think , therefore , that the F. C. C. has come to the right conclusion . But in  --  any case it is the televiewers who will have the last word . If the sysOctober 28 , 1950 tern is as poor as the rivals of C. B. S. aver , most set owners will confine their viewing to black-and-white programs . We do n't see why the directors of R. C. A. , who we understand have faith in competitive free enterprise , should shirk this test . SENATOR McCARRAN , WHO HAD TO PRETEND to dislike fascists as well as Communists to stuff his Subversive Activities Act down the people 's gullets , now complains that the Administration is trying to " discredit " the law by using it to prohibit entry of Spanish citizens who are or have been members of the Falange . Yet the law requires the Justice Department to bar aliens who " at any time " have been members , of a " totalitarian " party , here or abroad . A totalitarian nation is defined as characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized , closely identified with the government , and forcibly suppressing opposition . That fits exactly the nature of Franco 's Falange and its relationship with Franco 's dictatorial government . The law is stupid in its theory that America must be protected against subversion by a hermetical seal at its borders , but that is the responsibility of McCarran and the other Congressmen who voted to override the President 's veto . Just as the President predicted , no Communist groups are registering and none of the law 's registration provisions can be enforced without extended legal proceedings . The law should be repealed , root and branch , before we are made more ridiculous in our own eyes and the eyes of the world , but McCarran is the last man in Congress to complain when the Administration 41 ,  --  ) es what his law orders done . Mr. Hanky and the Press TT IS hard to say which is the more shocking , the per- sonally ruthless and politically immoral ' way in which Governor Dewey disposed of Joe R. Hanley or the cynical reaction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conceding that " the explanations do not fully explain , " the lofty Times is admittedly " troubled by this letter , " in which Hanley wrote to his creditor , W. Kings-land Macy , " If I will consent to take the nomination to the United States Senate , I am definitely assured of being able to clean up my financial obligations within ninety days . " But , says the Times , we must allow for the reputation of both Hanley and Dewey for honesty , and anyway , would the Democrats in a similar situation " have been so cruel as to refuse to ' take care of Joe Hanley ? " What the Times chooses to regard as a regrettably irregular but none the less human act of consideration was nothing of the sort . If it were only a question of rearranging the ticket to enhance , the party 's chances and at 375 the same time give a loyal party colleague a " consolation prize , " Dewey would have raised no objection to Hanley 's running for renomination as lieutenant governor . But Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the famous letter was made public , he told the press that Hanley had said " he 'd prefer to run for lieutenant governor , " but that he , Dewey , refused to accept a third-term nomination unless Hanley agreed to be the Senatorial nominee . Why was he so determined on this course ? Was it because he wanted to use Hanley to keep the Senatorial nomination from his party enemy , W. Kingsland Macy , who wanted it desperately ? Or was it because he knew that Hanley , likewise an enemy , would be no match for Lehman and would thus be permanently eased out of the picture ? Whatever the reasoning , Dewey 's thoughts were , as always , for Dewey ; and he was ready to use the United States Senate as a discard pile for a ' broken old man , in failing health and heavily in debt , a man who had been forced to sell his candidacy for the governorship and was , by his own admission , " humiliated , disappointed , and heartsick . " If the Times editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the news columns handled the story honestly and fairly . That can not be said of the Herald Tribune , which subordinated the story to Dewey 's timely blessing on Eisenhower as his Presidential choice for 1952 , led off with Hanley 's wretched denial that there had ever been a deal , and left the damning letter itself to page 17 . Editorially , the paper appeared to think that the most regrettable aspect of the case was that Hanley had committed his bitter thoughts to writing and suggested that , even so , the public might see in it " the revelation of qualities which evoke its sympathy and even its admiration . " Of the tabloids nothing morally illuminating- could have been expected , and only a strange silence has come from Hearst 's jour Baal-American , which is torn between its horror of a Democratic victory and its dislike of Dewey , fortified by a natural affinity for the Macys and Gannetts of the G. 0 . P. who deliberately , it seems , allowed the Hanley-letter to come into the hands of the opposition . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nadir in this low affair by attempting to offset the Hanley missive with a screaming front-page head : " Lehman Note acking Alger Hiss Revealed . " The letter , expressing confidence in Hiss 's loyalty , it turns out , was written the day after he made his initial appearance before the House Committee on Un-American Activities  --  nine months before his first trial started , four months before he was indicted , and three months before the damaging " pumpkin papers " had been ' produced by Whittaker Chambers . In short , Lehman wrote to Hiss at a time when the Chambers story was discounted even by Senator Mundt and all but one of his colleagues on the Un-American Activities Committee . And this is the story that the paper played up as " a Shot in the arm to Republican strategists . " ' Election Day will tell whether the voters continue to take their customary dim view of the press as a political guide . Except for the Lehman-Hanley race  --  and fortunately there would seem to be little chance now that Lehman can lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in the growth of cynicism and apathy induced by the corruption of both major parties . The experience of other states shows that the direct primary is not the sole answer , but New Yorkers have reason to ask themselves whether it is not better than their present system of having to approve the dictated choice of one boss-ridden gang or the other . Unanswered Questions BY FREDA KIRCHWEY W HAT we need more than anything else is a clarifi- cation of our Far Eastern policy . That this should still ibe true after the President 's carefully prepared address in San Francisco on his return from the meeting with MacArthur is a commentary on both events . But the fact can scarcely be denied . It was dramatized by Mr. Truman 's explosive response to a press conference question as to whether he and MacArthur now agree on Formosa . The Formosa issue , said the President angrily , was settled a month or five weeks ago . But was it ? Both the President 's vehemence and reports from Tokyo indicate that the General has not changed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But signs of possible remaining disagreements between the Administration and its Far Eastern proconsul are not the only , or chief , sources of doubt . Asia bristles with situations which call for a clear and specific statement of the-government 's attitude and what it proposes to do . Mr. Truman 's San Francisco speech was a forceful enunciation of the broad principles upon which America 's foreign policy rests . It may prove helpful in offsetting the widespread suspicions of American aims in Asia expressed so franldy at the recent Pacific Relations conference in Lucknow . But even for this purpose the speech suffered from an excess of generalization . What was called for was something firm , something to clothe with reality such large words as " freedom , " " justice , " " human dignity . " The question asked about Formosa was inevitable and proper . It symbolized dozens of others that are waiting to be answered . An even more urgent one is what has been decided about the future of Korea . Ever since the first South Koreans crossed the Thirty-eighth Parallel The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . Why , we asked , were Syngman Rhee 's soldiers allowed to move into North Korea ahead of the rest of the U. N.forces ? What purpose could this have other than to establish the power  --  of the Rhee government in the north before the United Nations could act or even formulate a policy for the Communist area ? Now we see that this is precisely what has happened . In defiance of the decision of the U. N. Interim Committee on Korea that the authority of the South Korean regime should be limited to the area south of the border , Syngman Rhee has sent civil governors and other administrative personnel , including police , to take over control in the " liberated " parts of Northern Korea . Along with these officials have gone representatives of right-wing youth organizations who , according to Rhee , will " teach the people about democracy . " Thus while the United Nations committee at Lake Success lays its plans for elections and all the other paraphernalia of democratic reorganization , the Seoul regime is preparing to present the U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , be stopped and reversed by General MacArthur , who as United Nations commander was responsible for the northward drive of the South Koreans in the first place . But now we learn that South Korean contingents have been ordered to drive through to the Manchurian border , while the other U. N. troops halt beyond shooting distance to the south . The idea , apparently , is to prevent the meeting of American and Chinese forces on the frontier and so minimize the chance of incidents which might lead to war . But nothing would seem so well calculated to anger Peking and increase the danger of Chinese intervention as to permit the triumphant soldiers of Syngman Rhee to occupy the border area . We have been warned several times by Indian observers that the one thing China will not tolerate is the hostile Seoul regime as its next-door neighbor . The most prudent as well as the most humane course would be to call a general halt some distance south of the border , since the defeat of North Korea obviously does not require the physical conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is an unavoidable duty , but it could easily be carried to the point of sheer reprisal ; especially when troops are inflamed by sickening enemy atrocities . - Other Korean questions demand clarification . Will the plan for country-wide elections , announced by the Interim Committee on Korea , actually be carried into effect ? No sooner were the protests of the Syngman Rhee government reported at Lake Success by Foreign Minister Limb , than Carlos P. Romulo , chairman of the commit . tee , announced that the United Nations was " not yet committed " regarding elections . According to-the New York Times he warned his committee that it should " tread cautiously to avoid inciting the distrust of President Rhee . " What is our government 's position . on these matters ? Secretary Acheson has said that Korea must be made an example of the sort of world the Western deOctober 28 , 1950 mocracies truly stand for , a test of their ability to create a healthy , free society as well as to stop aggression . The time to publish our plans for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still going on . As to Formosa , the Administration temporarily resolved the dangerous dilemma created by MacArthur 's visit to Chiang Kai-shek by tossing the issue into the lap of the United Nations . The device was ingenious , but it is not a solution . Nationalist China and Communist China have both strongly attacked the move as a threat to China 's rights as set forth at Cairo and Potsdam . And this it clearly is . Neither the United States nor any other power considered the control of Formosa an open question until North Korean aggression gave President- Tnamari an excuse to " neutralize " the island . Nothing could have been more explicit than the assurances given by President Truman and Secretary Acheson last January . Today , with the Formosa question about to come up in the United Nations , it may be well to recall the exact language used by Mr. Acheson in explaining a the President 's statement of January 5 . It is important that our position in regard to China should never be subject to the slightest doubt of the slightest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the middle of the war the President of the United States , the Prime Minister of Great Britain , and the President of China agreed at Cairo that among the areas stolen from China by Japan was Formosa , and Formosa should go balk to China . As the President pointed out , that statement was incorporated in the declaration at Potsdam , and that declaration at Potsdam was conveyed to the Japanese as one of the terms of their surrender and was accepted by them , and the surrender was made on that basis . Shortly after that , the Island of Formosa was turned over to the Chinese in accordance with the declarations made and with the conditions of the surrender . The Chinese have administered Formosa for four years . Neither the United States nor any other ally ever questioned that authority and that occupation . When Formosa was made a province of China , nobody raised any lawyers ' doubts about that . That was regarded as in accordance with the commitments . Now in the opinion of some the-situation is changed . They believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the forces which undoubtedly will soon be recognized by some other countries , are not friendly to us , and therefore they want to say , " Well , we have to wait for a treaty . " We did not wait for a treaty on Korea . We did not wait for a treaty on the Kuriles . We did not wait for a treaty on the islands over which we have trusteeship . Whatever may be the legal situation , the United States of America , Mr. Truman said , is not going to quibble on any lawyers ' words about the integrity of its position . That is where we stand . In the light of these words , the American people , as well as Chinese of all factions , have a right to know ' 377 more about Formosa than they were told when Mr. Truman came back from Wake Island . For the issue is truly explosive . Even more than Korea , it may decide whether - we shall have peace or war in Asia . We do not know what policy our government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not know whether it still considers itself bound by the pledge made at Cairo . Still less do we know how far the Administration plans to carry its aid to France in Indo-China . The mounting successes of Ho Chi Minh 's army offer grim evidence of the struggle that lies ahead . Dispatches during the past week report new shipments of American arms on the way to Saigon , but the demand from France for more massive help is certain to increase as its forces prepare to recoup their recent staggering losses and Ho Chi Minh gets ready to renew the offensive , doubtless with solid material aid coming in from China across the broad border his recent advance has opened . Will our government continue to throw arms and money into this most ugly of all colonial wars , or will it use its influence to bring about a settlement through the good offices of the United- Nations , as was done in Indonesia ? These are only a few obvious samples to demonstrate our need for facts about American intentions in the Far East . We would like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles proclaimed in his San Francisco speech , and then tell us how , in each case , our government plans to translate those principles into fact . Perhaps by the time these words are read he will have done so in his address before the United Nations . If so , he will have gone far to establish confidence in place of doubt and hope in place of despair .                     