@@487582

I KNOW personally the leaders of most of the rising national movements in Africa . I will tell you what they think of America and what they ask of you . I am not saying that all Africans speak in exactly the same terms . There is some difference between Africans in the British and French empires . The attitude , of Africans who have accepted Communist ideology and who can not consequently see any good in America is somewhat different from that of others . But allowing for these exceptions , it is remarkable how most Africans - speak with one voice . I have sat round a table with the most influential Africans from ten countries , and it has been difficult to detect any diverge'nces in their views about the major problems of the world . Let me illustrate this by their reactions , not to America , but to Europe Six years ago prominent West European Socialists who had been working - on a plan for economic union came to the conclusion that the participation - of Africa was essential : Africa had the raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimistically , these Socialists from France , Britain , the Benelux countries , and Italy invited African representatives to come to Paris to work out a joint economic plan . The African representatives ' came . They came from British West Africa , French North Africa , the Sudan , British East Africa , British Central Africa , and Madagascar . They would have come from South Africa if they had been permitted visas . They did not come from Belgian , Portuguese , or Spanish Africa because national democratic movements FENNER BROCKIF AY , Labor M. P. for Eton and Slough , is popularly known in Britain as " M. P. for Africa " because of his interest in African affairs . He is chairman of the Congress of Peoples Against Imperialism , which includes all major non-Communist democratic movements in Africa . - and leaders had not yet emerged in these territories . Thirty or forty African representatives came and were effusively welcomed . But they would not play ball . They refused to cooperate in West European economic union for two reasons . Americans may deplore their decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europeans that these reasons should be understood . First , the Africans said , and they said it unanimously , that Western Europe belonged to one of the two power blocs into which the world is divided and they were not prepared to associate with either bloc . They declared they would refuse just as categorically a similar invitation if it came from Eastern Europe . Their spokesman , a leader from Algeria , explained their position in these words : " We do not possess self-government and cannot-.influence world events . We have no responsibility for the division between East and West , and we can not identify ourselves with either : When we have self-government we will make our decision . It will probably be the same decision as India 's  --  to work for reconciliation and peace . " Those of us who indorsed the tight of peoples to govern themselves found it difficult to reject that reasoning . We found it still more difficult to reject their ground for non-participation , though Americans have no reason to share our sense of shame as we listened to Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic union with West Europe because ib is West Europe which is responsible for our political servitude . The West European nations are our imperialist masters ? Britain , France , Belgium , Portugal , Spain . Give its self-government " - and we shall be prepared to discuss economic union with you Not until then " That was that . The African representatives who had been called to Pans to plan a joint economy with Western Europe stayed- in Paris to establish a Congress of Peoples Against Imperialism with - the object of ending West European occupation of their territories . THE FIRST REASON the Africans gave for rejecting the hand of Western Europe applies also to America . So long as they are denied the demociatic right to decide for themselves , Africans will turn a deaf ear to appeals to support the Western group of nations of which America is the leader . They pour scorn on tributes to liberty while they themselves are denied liberty . And the spokesman who indicated that the present tendency of African thought is to indorse India 's policy of independence of both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly every African representative I have heard the same view ; it appears to be instinctive with them . It is the declared policy , of Dr. N'Krumah , the first African Prime Minister of a British colony . In only two African countries have I heard a different view ? Tunisia and the Sudan . Mr. Bourguiba , the leader of the Neo-Destour in Tunisia , has declared his allegiance to the Western cause , despite his imprisonment by the French , and in the Sudan , Mandi Pasha , the powerful political and religious leader of the Independence Front , has also come out in support of the West . It is right to add , however , that in both cases , particularly in Tunisia , dissent from the opinions of these leaders has been expressed . African reluctance to associate with the American-led Western bloc , however , does not mean sympathy with the totalitarian dictatorships of the Communist countries . I am astonished not only by the small grip which communism has on Africa but by the failure of the Commu nists to exploit the glaring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African population suffers . Except in French Africa , the Sudan , and South Africa , Communist influence scarcely exists . The French are themselves to blame for such Communist influence as is to be found " in North Africa They have suppressed the newspapers published by the national movements of Morocco , Algeria , and Tunisia , and in consequence the people have turned to the Communist press , where , alone among French papers , they have seen their news and case presented . In French - Equatorial Africa , Communist influence used to be considerable , again a reflection of the strength of the French Communist Party ; but it has been lessened by the influence of democratic progress in the Gold Coast and Nigeria , within the neighboring , British sphere . In the Sudan , Communist influence is limited to the trade-union movement ; where certain students deported from Egypt because of their Communist activities have gained official positions . In South Africa , Communists have taken advantage of the weak stand of the dominion Labor Party on the color issue and have fairly wide influence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is just about as far as Communist influence extends in Africa . Despite the persistent and skilful efforts of British and French Communists to woo African students in London and Paris , Africa remains for the most part untouched by the Communist wave which has swept over such a large part of Asia . Why is this ? In the case of Africa north of the Sahara , populated largely by Arabs , the reason lies in the hold of the Moslem faith on the people . Religious views are also a powerful antidote to communism in countries , such as Uganda , where Christian teaching , both Protestant and Catholic , has gained a hold on the people . But the common factor against communism in most African countries is the democratic traditions of their tribes and their own experience in the struggle for liberty . African tribal life had for the most part a day-to-day democratic community-consciousness which rejected dictatorship ; Where there were chiefs , they were accepted only so long as they acted as the fathers and spokesmen of the people . Other tribes , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal power so strongly that they would not have chiefs : their clans were administered by councils of elders . Indeed , one of their grievances against the British is that government-selected chiefs have been imposed upon them . A significant feature of African life today , in countries often separated by hundreds of miles , is the revolt of the people against the power of the chiefs , who too often have become stooges of the imperial administration STILL MORE important , African leaders have come to love liberty in the course of their struggle for it Their intellectuals have imbibed the teachings of the British liberal philosophers of the nineteenth century and of Jefferson and the philosophers of the American Revolution . They have continuously had ' to fight against repressions of speech , writing , association , and movement , against infringements of habeas corpus , against arbitrary imprisonments and deportations . Having gone through these experiences , they are not tuned to welcome the denials of civil and political liberty inherent in totalitarian communism . But  --  a warning . To the masses of Africa , doomed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from land hunger , driven into the towns to serve as cheap labor , issues of civil and political liberty seem of little account . They want bread and land and life . So communism can make an appeal , just as it has done successfully over large areas of Asia . Only if Western Europe and - America , and especially America because of its greater material resources , respond to this need , will the African people resist the appeal of communism . This brings me to the second doubt which is in African minds regarding America . African leaders everywhere appreciate the absence of American political imperialism , but at the same time they fear the danger of American economic imperialism . There is ex-President Truman 's Point Four . There is American capital investment . RECENTLY I was in Uganda . I flew 200 miles from its African capital , Kampala ? the British'capital is twenty-five miles . away , beautiful but bureaucratic in its isolation  --  to Toro , once a paradise for fishermen and hunters , but now the fish have been nationalized and- the game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road sign " Give Way to Elephants " ? and in fact fortywild elephants sported near-by  --  we came to the Mountains of the Moon . Here copper has been discovered , and a mining company , largely American-financed , has begun work In our rusty and dusty old car was the local African princess , a pleasant rounded woman who except for the color of her skin might have been an English housewife Like English housewives , she was not wanting in expressiveness . She poured out her fears of what the copper mine might bring . Uganda is a protectorate which the British have in many ways honestly protected . No non-African is permitted to own land , and in consequence Uganda is free from the " European settler " problem which has set ablaze neighboring Kenya . But now , said the princess , European and American technicians will pour in to direct the - copper mine , Europeans will arrive to take the skilled jobs , and Africans will be recruited as cheap labor to do the ' rough work . A multi-racial society , socially and economically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1953 of the Mountains of the Moon , and wealth will be drained from Uganda 's mineral resources to absentee and , alien investors . This is an example of what is happening in many parts of Africa . It would be reactionary to reject capital investment or the coming of technicians . What can be done to protect the Africans ? We will cross the mountains into the Sudan to find the answer . There the most remarkable economic enterprise in the whole of Africa has been carried out , and it has been carried out with justice to both capital investors and the Sudanese . FORTY-FIVE YEARS ago a triangle of land of which Khartoum is the apex and the White and Blue Niles , joining at the city , are the longer sides was arid space . Now this " Same land , a million acres in extent , produces huge crops of cotton and millet . The peasant who earned ? 35 in- 1938 earned ? 650 last year , and the whole scheme is now owned by the Sudan government  --  the territory will shortly become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had their interest for forty years , and the loans have been either repaid or guaranteed . The scheme began as a tripartite venture of the Sudan government , the tenants , and two British companies . For forty years the Sudan government received 40 per cent , the tenants 40 per cent , the companies 20 per cent of the income . A proportion of income was used for education , health , the ' erection of village halls , football fields ; among the people there has been a social as well as an economic revolution . Three years ago ' the concession to the two companies came to an end . They were fully paid up This vast venture , involving an enormous irrigation scheme , has been completed by British capital and British technicians ? I should pay the same tribute if they had been American , French , or German  --  without any vestige of economic imperialism ; its final result is to give the new self-governing Sudan its richest revenue-producing property . HERE , I BELIEVE , is a model of how capital investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be directed to Africa without the economic exploitation of the population . Apply the principle of the Sudan Gezira scheme to those copper mines in Uganda . A concession should be granted to investors for a period of years . The necessary technicians should be welcomed : they should be given a contract for a period , of years , but there should 15e in the background a board representing the Uganda government and people . A proportion of the revenue should be devoted to education , health , housing , and to the training of Africans in technical and skilled work . Fifty years from now the copper mines of the Mountains of the Moon should be African-owned and African-run . One hopes the time will come when investment in the undeveloped territories will become a United Nations function under a world authority . It is time we gave our attention to this need . America has the privilege of being the wealthiest country in the world . It has given an example to the older nations by rejecting the tradition of political and territorial imperialism It has thereby won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? if it will , the pioneer of policies which will also reject economic imperialism . That would win the admiration and devotion of African peoples Will America ' rise to this high opportunity , for the good not only of Africa but of all the emerging peoples , for the goOd of the world ?                     