@@476597

AFTER seven years of secrecy , suspicion , and suppression , atomic energy has again come to the fore as a topic for discussion in Washington and throughout the country . Major changes in the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 are now under consideration for the first time since it was adopted . If they go through , a chain reaction may be set off which will do away with our absurd effort to develop the most powerful force of modern times without letting even ourselves know what we are doing . What seems to have forced the issue was the Republican victory last fall . The Eisenhower Administration is opposed to further government participation in business . But the Atomic Energy Commission has predicted that industrial production of atomic power is possible " within the next few years . " And if the government is not to produce it , then the law must be changed and new arrangements made so that someone else can . In its initial approach to this problem , the AEC has opened up to re-examination the whole subject of atomic energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear power , it has said that legal obstacles to private possession of atomic materials should be removed . And if this is done , restrictions on the dissemination of atomic information must necessarily be relaxed . Before putting their money into such ventures , private companies will want to have at least some idea of how they are going to get it back . And that will bring us face to face with the whole secrecy question . The argument for the present policy of almost total secrecy is familiar to all of us ? and formidable . It is that any leakage of information about any aspect of our atomic program will benefit Soviet Russia and thus increase the danger which overhangs the United States ; and that since we ca n't be sure just what the Russians do know and do n't know , we might as well play safe and restrict almost all information about the project . The question I should like to raise is whether the atmosphere of secrecy is not , today , hurting us more than it hurts the Russians ; in short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of secrecy on all but a few critical matters of information should not be lifted . This question has been troubling me over the past three years . For as a member of the Freedom of Information Committee of the American Society of Newspaper Editors , my assignment has been to serve as a one-man subcommittee on atomic matters . In behalf of the ASNE I have been trying to find out how all this secrecy about the atom is affecting ( 1 ) the right of the American people to free access to information , and ( 2 ) the right of American newspapers to print the news . Without any clearance from the FBI myself , I could go openly to persons who had been cleared from A to Z ; and without disclosing any secrets , members and officials of the Atomic Energy Commission and the Joint Committee of Congress could talk as freely as they pleased to a newspaperman about secrecy per se . I wanted to know how much secrecy is advisable , how much is possible , how much is inimical to the best interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I saw told me that secrecy on atomic matters has been carried to ridiculous extremes where it is doing infinitely more harm than good . When I first visited the AEC on this assignment , I was mystified by my reception . " We ca n't tell you anything , " almost everyone I saw seemed to say , " but please keep holding our hand from the other side of that six-foot , soundproof wall ! " Since then a number of men working on the atomic energy program have followed the example of the AEC 's first chairman , David E. Lilienthal , and have tried to convince the public that atomic affairs are the public 's business ; and this , I believe , is because the men who know atomic energy best now realize that their objections to secrecy are no longer hypothetical but can be substantiated on the basis of experience . T ut effect of secrecy on the individual working in the field of atomic energy has been graphically illustrated by Dr. J. G. Beckerley , the AEC 's director of classification . Explaining that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering than is now possible , he said : " Just imagine an aeronautical engineering student trying to study aircraft design , having access only to the Wright brothers ' data plus fragmentary information on later aircraft ! " The effect of secrecy on the program as a whole has been described no less effectively by Dr. Kenneth Pitzer , dean of the college of chemistry at the University of California , who served for two and a half years as the AEC 's director of research . He has said that the AEC setup , which includes fourteen advisory committees in addition to the three required by law , reminded him of an automobile with separate brake levers for each passenger : " At every road junction the driver not only had to discuss his preference of route with his riders , but he had to wait until all were convinced , because any one could stop the car , " he explained . Then , pointing out that the power reactor territory had not been clearly mapped in setting up the rules and regulations to govern atomic energy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more time was spent stationary than moving ! " ? Because of secrecy regulations , the only way the public learns about what is happening in the atomic-energy field is through carefully planted stories about future developments which are leaked to Washington correspondents by government officials , usually with an ulterior motive . One of the more obvious of these " plants " was the recent series by the Alsop brothers , which many newspapers played on their front pages some weeks ago . In dramatic fashion the Alsops described how a group of distinguished scientists , working on Project Lincoln and in the Summer Study Group at mil- , studied this country 's vulnerability to atomic attack and came to the conclusion that an elaborate air defense program , costing between sixteen and twenty billions , was needed to safeguard American cities from atomic devastation . In newspaper circles that kind of story about that kind of proposal costing that kind of money has been known since time immemorial as a " feeler . " But if men within the atomic program , feeling insecure and uncertain themselves , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dump some of their problems in the public 's lap , they are merely taking a leaf from the military 's book . It is a matter of record that the most sensational and lurid revelations about atomic weapons have come from generals and admirals , and have been usually timed to coincide nicely with congressional consideration of appropriations . It was in this manner that the American people , and the Russians , learned from General Collins that the Army was working on an atomic warhead for artillery shells ; from the late Admiral Sherman that the Navy was planning atom-propelled submarines ; from General Vandenberg and others that our Air Force is building up its atom-bomb-carrying potential and seeking an atom-propelled bomber . Such inter-service rivalry for the budgetary dollar is part of the old Army , Navy , and Air Force game . Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson has charged that hostile countries have picked up vital intelligence from " security slip-ups , " and issued a directive that the practice must stop . But the generals and admirals who have been THE FETISH OF spilling atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been operating in the American tradition . Out of long experience they have learned that in this country even military decisions should be submitted to public opinion . Permitting Pentagon brass to divulge at will what atomic scientists are forbidden under pain of death to reveal is not only inconsistent , but absurd . For surely scientists can tell far better than the military what scientific information will'give aid and comfort to an enemy . The most useful aid and incentive to invention , for instance , is the knowledge that a thing has been or can be done . What was by all odds the most vital atomic secret was given away when we exploded the first bomb over Hiroshima . Knowing this , and knowing , too , how often the same scientific discoveries occur independently and almost simultaneously , scientists would be less inclined than generals and admirals to brag about our achievements ? and encourage their duplication . IT T o understand our atomic dilemma better , it may be helpful to recall the steps by which we proceeded into it . The explosion of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it did the residents of Hiroshima physically . Though the potentialities of atomic fission had been discussed in scientific circles for several years , the Manhattan District was our most closely guarded wartime secret . This , I think , largely accounts for the sense of awe , amounting almost to superstition , with which so matey people regard the phenomenon of nuclear fission . Had they been permitted to read in the normal way about its evolution from scientific theory through engineering development into explosive reality , they might have taken it in stride . But because it was sprung on them so abruptly and has been hidden from them ever since , most people do n't realize even yet that nuclear fission is as natural a phenomenon as boiling water . Happily , the political acumen of the human race exceeds its scientific grasp . Despite their stunned amazement , control of atomic energy was one of the first postwar problems the ATOMIC SECRECY 3$ American people tackled . By the spring of 1946 a full scale debate on the basic question of whether this new force should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress , in the press , and throughout the country . In the course of the discussions a number of problems which have plagued us ever since were anticipated : first , international control , which the Soviet Union promptly eliminated for us ; second , the exchange of information with friendly nations ; and third , the paradox of how we were to give our scientists , who had produced this wonder , the freedom to explore it further while we were letting the military conceal , for the sake of security , what they had done . The issue was joined in Congress with the introduction of two separate bills . In the Senate , Brien McMahon , then a freshman Senator from Connecticut , offered a measure to put control of atomic energy entirely in civilian hands by turning it over to the members of the Atomic Energy Commission which he proposed . In the House , a May-Johnson bill emerged from committee which would have given the military the controlling voice in atomic matters . Advocates of the McMahon bill , including many of the scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's celebrated dictum that " war is too serious a matter to be left to generals and admirals . " Proponents of the May-Johnson measure , including then Secretary of War Patterson and then Secretary of the Navy Forrestal , insisted that in atomic matters security should have top priority . As the controversy ran on , bitterness developed . Those who favored military control were accused of trying to establish " military fascism . " Those who favored civilian control , especially Henry Wallace , who was then Secretary of Commerce , were charged with wanting to give our secrets and our security away to Russia . At that stage of the dispute , the late Senator Vandenberg stepped in to propose the compromise which was called for . He offered an amendment to the McMahon bill which was acceptable to all but the extremists on both sides . Primary control of the atomic energy program was vested in the civilian AEC , but a Military Liaison Committee was created to serve with it , to be kept informed on atomic matters , and to have the right to appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the AEC . Significantly , as it has turned out , General Eisenhower , then Army Chief of Staff , was credited with paving the way for this coin-promise . One story , which may have gathered momentum as the event receded , is that he gave a group of scientists who called on him to seek his support for the McMahon bill a ringing statement in favor of civilian control . At the time , however , newspapers reported only that General Eisenhower helped bring about the agreement by saying that the Vandenberg amendment was completely acceptable to him . As far as public opinion can be measured , the American people , too , seemed satisfied with this solution . Looking back , one may wonder how the same bill could be expected to encourage that free interchange of ideas and criticisms which is essential to scientific progress " and at the same time prohibit , under penalty of death , the disclosure of " restricted data . " But looking ahead , everybody hoped that it would work . T o PROVE that the atomic energy program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked as thus intended is a speculation . I can observe , nothing has come As far as of the fear that the military , given an inch , would take a mile . The military seems to be taking approximately the role envisaged in the law ? and seems also to he the only party which is doing so . Of course , if the Military Liaison Committee has taken any disputes to the President for his decision , that 's top secret . I 'm inclined to doubt it , however , because it appears to me that the Atomic Energy Commission is doing considerably less than the supreme command job that was contemplated for it . In fact , the best evidence is that the Commission slowly is descending to the status of a contract-letting agency . This may have come about partly because Mr. Lilienthal , the first chairman , was subjected to so much criticism from Congress that his successor , Gordon Dean , was deliberately selected to be more tractable . But regardless of that , the outcome would probably have been pretty much the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on in secret , with Congress voting vast sums of money for projects it had to accept on faith , and with nobody answerable to the people for its administration , control just naturally gravitated to the Congressional Joint Committee , particularly its chairman . And since the man who had been so instrumental in setting up the program really called the turn in the final analysis , it became almost Project McMahon . This brings the story down to late 1952 , when Senator McMahon died and the Republicans won the election . The Joint Committee marked time for almost two months after the new Congress met before getting around to electing a new chairman . Mr. Dean , who resigned as AEC chairman , is still , as I write , waiting for his successor to be named . And the Eisenhower Administration , though contemplating changes , has not indicated how far these are to go . III Move , the complaints against our atomic policy , the one which comes most often from scientists who work or formerly worked for the AEC is that secrecy has held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report to the nation on the bomb , then Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson said : " The work has been completely compartmentalized so that while thousands of people have been associated with the program in one way or another no one has been given more information concerning it than was absolutely necessary to his particular job . As a result , only a few highly placed persons in government and science know the entire story . " Such precautions may be necessary in time of total war ? though they were not , as we subsequently discovered , as airtight as Mr. Stimson thought . In time of peace , or even of limited war , it is difficult to imagine a more demoralizing drag on inventiveness , development , and production . Within the government program this policy , written into law , has made it difficult for the AEC to secure and keep in its employ topflight scientists and engineers to whom the unhampered search for knowledge is the very breath of life . It has curbed exploration in the atomic field and almost certainly slowed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brighter minds working within the field . One informant , who left the program after being in it nearly a decade , told me that it took him many months to readjust to life " outside " and to realize how different things were " inside . " A wry illustration of this difference was presented when it was decided to take down the fence at Oak Ridge ? all except one section which was to be left along the highway where Congressmen could see it ! Residents objected strenuously to the plan to make Oak Ridge an " open " town . After being shut in for a number of years , they insisted in all seriousness that it was n't safe for an American community not to be surrounded by a fence . They said it would have a bad effect on crime , traffic , etc . Apart from hampering the government 's own atomic operations , secrecy has also prevented private industry from participating in atomic developments except on a limited scale . Even if this situation is rectified now , the entrance of private interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been delayed so long . The government 's physical plant has grown so large that subsidy may be required to guarantee a fair return on private capital . Indications that meanwhile , under government monopoly , we are falling behind in atomic development , present themselves from time to time . When the new experimental cancer hospital was opened at Oak Ridge , it was found that the strongest cobalt radiation yet to he used therapeutically had not been produced in this country and must be imported from Canada , a nation with a relatively modest atomic program . Our government also had to look elsewhere for a practical radiation detector . The one best suited for mass production to meet civil defense needs had been devised by an outsider . Experience in other fields has shown that it is in the pioneering stages of industrial development that the initiative and competitiveness of the free-enterprise system are most essential . It may be that New York City can take over and manage its subway system , perhaps as well as private companies . But if the city had set up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very doubtful that rapid transit would have developed so quickly . In any event , it is apparent now , as it was not seven years ago , that our whole economy will be affected by the way in which atomic energy is developed . We can continue government monopoly ; we can have government ownership with some degree of private operation ; or we can have government operations and private operations co-existing side by side . But this is a decision which the American people should make on the basis of much more information than they now possess . AN o-ritra complaint is that we are bound to have extravagance , inefficiency , and possibly corruption in the atomic program , unless there is some check on its vast spending . During my inquiries , I 've had several hints that mismanagement could be found , but with one exception these were vague and pointed in no definite direction . There is considerable evidence that the AEC is one of the better run bureaus of the government . Nevertheless , I am convinced that when the history of the Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have cost the nation millions of dollars . When decisions are made in a vacuum which permits mistakes to be concealed and evils to be hidden , this is inevitable . Furthermore , secrecy itself costs money , and the top secrecy imposed on the atomic program must run into staggering sums . As one instance of this , I picked up a story from one of the reports of the AEC hearings before the House Appropriations subcommittee . Carroll Tyler , manager of the AEC 's Sante Fe Operations Office , was arguing that a contractor , rather than the government , should operate Los Alamos and was trying to show why it would be cheaper : " The losses that we would have , if we went into a government operation , " he told the committee , " include $566,000 for the complete FBI security clearance which would be required . " The ZIA Company employees do not have to have this type of clearance , unless they go into restricted areas , in which case they get full clearances . But the employees for the steam plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleared . We merely check references and local police files . We do not have to clear them under the Act . If we employed them ourselves , that would run something over half a million dollars a year . " How many millions have been spent in clearing other steam-plant operators and sidewalk superintendents , I can not say . I do know one case , however , where this clearance policy seems to have been absurdly reversed . At one plant , which supplies material for atomic projects , everybody had to be cleared , except the stevedores who hauled the material in and out . But they were the ones , of course , who were in the best position to obtain information about rate and scale of production , which military men say is generally most useful to the enemy ! SINGLE incident should be enough to show the effect of atomic secrecy on civil defense . Project East River was an exhaustive study undertaken to find how to minimize " the effects of attack by atomic , biological , chemical , or other weapons on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was completed , a ten-volume report was made on its findings . Among the volumes classified as secret was the one entitled " The Reduction of Urban Vulnerability . " Yet in another section of the report , the point is made that military secrecy carried to excess defeats its own objectives : ' ' The withholding of information from the public should be limited only to that information which would result in far greater damage if released to the public , and thereby to the enemy , than might result from the actions of a poorly informed public . The simple criteria of merely ' giving aid and comfort . to the enemy ' are obsolescent . " So far , there has been no indication that the AEC has accepted more sensible modern criteria . To be sure , it has made more information on civil defense available , beginning in 1950 when it published a valuable book on The Effects of Atomic Weapons . " But in this volume , as in most of the others it has published , the AEC included a statement that classified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor has the assurance been forthcoming that all information useful for the protection of our population is eventually to be published . Does n't this account in considerable measure for the apathy toward civil defense which seems to prevail ? Millions of spectators , watched with wonder the televised atomic explosion of Yucca Flats . It was precisely the sort of demonstration which Senator McMahon had said would make " a very impressive exhibit to the American people . " So it was . But if that 's all they are to be permitted to see or hear or read or do about the dreaded force , why bother ! In the Project East River report one sentence reads : " Much of the existing apathy derives not only from the magnitude of the problem but also from the mistaken impression that nothing much can be done about it . " T HE , gravest consequences of atomic secrecy are to he found not in the mil- lions of dollars wasted or even in the many lives which could be lost , but in its effect on democratic government . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower and Governor Stevenson , who were receiving Central Intelligence reports to keep them informed about international developments , should also be given some briefing about the vast atomic energy program of a government one of them would head . Nothing came of the proposal . We have become so accustomed to the secrecy which beclouds the atom that we permit a great area of governmental activity to be blocked off from discussion , even during a political campaign when we are arguing over everything else under the sun . We take it for o- that neither the candidates nor the public will know anything about that forbidden subject . In that case , though , how are they to speak with any authority on the many other subjects that ca n't be separated from atomic energy ? A lot was said about the budget and taxes during the late campaign , something about balancing the one and reducing the other . But even without . the additional sixteen to twenty billion dollars proposed for our air defenses , atomic energy , which takes a large slice of our military expenditures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said about creeping socialism and big business and small . But the atomic energy program is the most socialistic thing we have at present and could lead our economy further in that direction . Or , depending on how it is operated , it could make big business bigger and small business smaller . A lot was said about maintaining our security and increasing our prosperity . But on these , and a score of other subjects , nothing will have any greater bearing in the long run than what we do with atomic energy . WHY is such stringent atomic secrecy maintained when there are so many objections to it from AEC officials , scientists and engineers , civil defense authorities , and others ? Fear of the unknown , I suspect , accounts for more of it than fear of spies . Because many persons consider it a mysterious thing which they can never understand , they prefer to keep it out of sight . Even though this unknown force can change their lives , or destroy them , they want to ignore it as long as possible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in depth , was the theory advanced by one of the top men in the atomic setup to justify it . He conceded that many of the secrets are n't really secret ; he granted that . many of the things we are hiding would do an enemy no good . But he contended that by trying to keep everything secret we can better protect the relatively few really vital secrets . Another contention , often heard and sounding plausible at first , is that there is no need to disseminate atomic information more widely because so few persons can ever comprehend the scientific principles , the technical problems of nuclear fission . But the arguers on this score overlook the fact that the public being kept in ignorance about atomic energy consists of just about everybody . Scientists , engineers , and mechanics , doctors , lawyers , teachers , and the clergy are excluded . So are bankers , industrialists , labor leaders , and most of the Congressmen who pass the laws for the country . And entirely apart from its physical aspects , how are we to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which atomic energy has created if the leaders in every field of human endeavor are denied almost all information about it ? It is high time for the veil of secrecy to he lifted on everything except a few current refinements in the manufacture of fissionable materials and the design of weapons . Only then will American scientists and industrialists be able to move ahead at full speed , taking full advantage of the American genius for bringing into play a diversity of talents ; and only then will the American people be able to comprehend the vast power in their possession and cope wisely with the difficult problems of atomic defense .                     