@@195567

As soon as Senator Joe McCarthy began his broadside investigation of U.S. information services three months ago , the jittery State Department got worried about its Informational Media Guaranty Program . State first ruled that no publisher could participate if his publications carried material by " Communists , fellow travelers , or persons who might be considered controversial . " Then State with drew its loosely worded order , which smacked of Government press censorship , instead suspended the whole program . <P> Started five years ago , when Marshall <P> Plan aid got under way , the program had allowed U.S. magazine , newspaper and book publishers ( along with other U.S. businessmen who invest abroad ) to buy " convertibility insurance " from the Government . The insurance ( bought at 1 for every dollar involved ) guaranteed U.S. publishers that , if they could not convert into dollars the money they received from foreign sales , they could collect dollars from the U.S. Treasury in return for their blocked currencies . The program was one of the most effective means of getting U.S. publications around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books and newspapers have gone abroad . Furthermore , although $8.4 million has been paid out , the money comes back to the U.S. Government in the form of foreign currency , which the Government collects and can use abroad ( in addition to insurance payments it gets in dollars ) . <P> Last week , with 67 insurance applications piled up ( from such publishers as Curtis , Macmillan , TIME Inc. , Pocket Books , Reader 's Digest , etc . ) , State revived the program . It also clarified its stand on " controversial " writers . Said the office of new Information Chief Robert L. Johnson : " We are interested only in what the particular publication says . A writer who has been criticized is not him self forbidden . But if a person puts out a publication designed to convey Communist propaganda , it will , of course , be disqualified . "                     