@@236521

To the troubled bubbling of the French literary cauldron , no one supplies more fire , or more newt 's eyes , than twelve eccentric old ladies who meet every so often to nibble lunch , bite backs and , once every year , pass out one of France 's top literary awards , the Prix Femina . Although the Femina 's cash value is only 5,000 francs ( $12 ) , the prize has enough prestige to guarantee a 100,000-copy sale to the novelist who lands it . To literary onlookers , the Femina 's entertainment value is even greater ; although the prize was created ( in 1904 ) to bring literary women closer together , the hatpin-tongued old fates who hand it out feud continually , and in a good season their pother can all but drown out the crash of a falling French Cabinet . <P> This is a good season , thanks largely to the leader of the " Red " faction of the Femina jury ( named for its sanguine literary tastes and bloody infighting ) , a novelist , playwright and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pauline Benda ) . " Several years ago , " according to an acquaintance , " she stationed her age at a permanent 75 . " She reads a novel a day , still manages to take a personal interest in handsome young writers . Madame Simone is haughtily and heartily despised by the " Blue " faction ( named for the hue of its blood ) , led by a scientist , mathematician and relative youngster , the Duchesse de la Rochefoucauld , 62 . An oldtime suffragette and notorious pincher of sous ( says a fellow juror : " She dresses in a splendid mink coat lined with rayon " ) , the Duchesse blazed in protest when her arch-antagonist grandly announced that she would accept no other Femina choice for 1957 than Le Carre four des Solitudes ( The Crossroads of Loneliness ) , by Christian Mgret . <P> Against Eroticism . To the Blue opposition the Duchesse rallied an impressive phalanx , including the Comtesse de Pange and onetime Actress Judith Cladel , 86 . But the Simone forces seemed stronger ; among others , the Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Novelist Jeanne Galzy and Germaine Beaumont , a jury sitter of indeterminate vintage ( " Age is fiction " ) . The week before the balloting , three lined-up Simone voters came down with the grippe . In silence , at the deciding luncheon , the embattled ladies spooned their bombe glace . When the voting began , the committee was deadlocked , but under pressure from Madame Simone , one Blue member began to abstain . Snarled another Blue : " My poor friend , once again you have understood absolutely nothing ! " The third abstention , on the seventh ballot , allowed crafty Parliamentarian Simone to invoke a tie-breaking rule : as acting President , she cast two votes , and Novelist Megret , 53 , had his Prix Femina . Cried the done-in Duchesse : " I am proud to have voted against eroticism ! "                     