@@494540

WHOEVER understands something about foreign policy and has the future of the United States and Western civilization at heart must have witnessed the events of recent weeks with emotions whose sequence started with incredulity , passed through disappointed hope and indignation , and has come to a temporary rest in a sadness and a sorrow barely illumined by a glim ? mer of hope . What is so terrifying in these events is not that the United States and her principal allies have blundered and suffered a resounding defeat . Blunders and defeats one must take in one 's stride ; for in foreign policy you can not always be lucky , always be wise . What has shocked the sensibilities is the sudden aware ? ness that these failures are the result not of unconnected mistakes but of the revival , within the government of the United States , of a philosophy which was obsolete as foundation for a rational foreign policy and , unworthy of a great nation 30 years ago when it was in its first ascendancy . That philosophy holds that domestic poli ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HANS J. MORGENTHAU is director of the University of Chicago Center for Study of American Foreign Policy . ances , especially with European nations , are an expensive nuisance , that a great nation does not need to fuse its power organically with its diplomacy and can afford to oscillate between the extremes of indiscriminate absten ? tion and indiscriminate violence , that the use of force can be minimized if not altogether avoided by the uni ? lateral renunciation of its use , and that foreign policy must be judged not by the interests at stake and the power available for their support , but rather in terms of some abstract principle , such as resort to violence or violation of treaty obligations . In one word , it is the philosophy of isolationism , adapted to the conditions of the mid-Twentieth Century . Some of us have been emphatic in the conviction that the United States had outgrown once and for all those glaring errors , and we were proud of the thoroughness , the speed , and the success with which the United States had adapted its thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We did not deem it possible that the United States would ever again believe in , and act upon , those comfortable absurdities , because to do other ? wise would have meant to despair of the common sense of the American people , of the sense of responsibility of their government , and of the future of the United States . For what was 30 years ago a laughable pastime without direct and drastic consequences for the United States has now become criminal folly putting in jeopardy the very existence of the United States . When we heard spokesmen for the government propound the legal and moral platitudes which had passed for foreign policy in the interwar period , we thought that this was the way in which the government ? as all governments must ? tried to make the stark facts of foreign policy palatable to the people . They were ? so it seemed to us ? the tinsel in the show window making the merchandise on the counter attractive to the customer . We were mistaken . Those platitudes are the foreign policy of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the store has to sell . Hence the alarm , the sadness , and the sorrow . This evaporation of the foreign policy of the United States into an amorphous fog . of irrelevant platitudes leaves the country with only two extreme choices , both incompatible with the national interest : retreat and vio ? lence , neither subject to rational limitations . In place of the statesman 's creative task to form out of the welter of conflicting interests supported by sovereign power a viable however precarious order on the foundations of balanced power , in place of that indispensable and noble task the government of the United States offers but three evasions : the refusal to use or threaten force except in response to somebody else 's use or threat of it , the in ? discriminate opposition to the use of force by others stigmatized as " aggression , " the subordination of na ? tional policies to the United Nations . THE NEW PACIFISM T HE attitude toward force which has been manifest in the recent moves of American foreign policy is a drawback to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of national policy and to the Stimson doctrine refusing to recognize terri ? torial changes brought about by violent means . This atti ? tude makes sense only on three assumptions : that nobody else pursues his interests by using or threatening force , that in case somebody else should do so sufficient force can be brought to bear upon him to deprive him of the advantage of having been the first to use force , and that a nation 's interests can not be threatened by non-violent means against which that nation can defend itself only through the use or the threat of force . It is trivial to state , but unfortunately necessary to demonstrate , that none of these assumptions exists on the international scene . There have always been nations who were willing to pursue their interests by violent means . Some nations were dominated by demoniac men with limitless ambi ? tions , others were confronted with conditions which seemed to allow them only the resort to violent means , THE NEW REPUBLIC Since the end of the Second World War , the Soviet Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries have been the first to use violence in pur suit of their national interest . There being no supra ? national authority in the world which could forestall that use of force , it is for the nations adversely affected by it to forestall or oppose it through the use of their own force . One nation declaring that it , alone among the great powers , will never use violence first or will not use it at all in some regions , such as Eastern Europe , or will use it only if authorized by the United Nations , expands drastically the freedom of ' action of its enemies and im ? poses narrow limitations upon its own . Within certain limits , the enemy can act in disregard of the interests and reactions of other nations and , as a corollary , the nation having foresworn force condemns itself to helpless inac ? tivity . When both nations meet at that point where the latter must either surrender or fight , the former , , through the timely use of force , might well have gained a decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no force will be used against it if it does not use it first , will naturally find means short of force by which to fur ? ther its interests at the expense of others . A nation can make its enemy ready for the kill by means of economic strangulation , subversion , or military preparations , and the prospective victim can take effective counter-meas ? ures only after the other nation has fired the first shot . When a thief hits you over the head in order to separate you from your billfold , you can reply in kind provided you are still in a position to do so ; but if the thief chooses the methods of the pickpocket for the same end , you must refrain from using force . The obvious absurdity of this principle as applied to individuals has not prevented the spokesmen for the government of the United States from stating it as a principle for American foreign policy . However , the seemingly conclusive argument against the use of force except as reaction to the use of force by others is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sibility and the weight of opinion ? from Arthur Krock to Norman Thomas ? supporting it , it has no merit . The possibility of avoiding atomic war rests upon two as ? sumptions : that no responsible government will resort to such a war and that the nations who are able to wage atomic war have responsible governments . The correct ? ness of these two assumptions allowed the Soviet Union to resort to force in Eastern Europe and threaten the use of force in the Middle East without the risk of atomic war . Yet we were deterred from threatening the use of force in the Middle East or in Eastern Europ. : by the fear of that risk . Do we then assume that the government of the Soviet Union is likely to commit all nations concerned to extinction by starting an atomic war ? Certainly our over-all global strategy of atomic retaliation is based upon the opposite assumption , the very same assumption from which the Russian initiatives were derived . If it were otherwise , if we really believed that , the Russian Government might start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our policy of atomic retaliation would be criminal folly and should have made way long ago for a policy of preventive war . The assumption which would make sense of our renunciation of force would make nonsense of our policy of atomic retaliation , and the assumption upon which the latter policy is based Makes nonsense of our renunciation of force . Yet the renunciation of force does more than that . It actually increases the risk of atomic war . For it is tanta ? mount to impotence before the threat of force . Even the most befuddled of nations comes to a point from which it will not retreat , where it will make a stand and fight . However , the succession of retreats , till this point is reached , may well have weakened the retreating nation decisively and may have made its enemy to underesti ? mate both its strength and , more particularly , its will to fight . In the event that if one of the two superpowers comes to believe , rightly or wrongly , that it can destroy the other without being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes acute . Weakness born of fear , then , is liable to call forth the very thing feared ; force rationally employed is the supreme guarantee of peace . THE NEW LEGALISM A s the renunciation of force is a retreat to the Briand-Kellogg Pact and the Stimson doctrine , so the indiscriminate opposition to " aggression re vives a standard for political action which baffled the international lawyers in the interwar period and proved unworkable and self-defeating in action . Only a few weeks ago , a United Nations commission trying to define aggression threw up its hands in despair and gave up the task . The impossibility of founding a foreign policy upon indiscriminate opposition to aggression stems from the fact , common to many similar ideas current in foreignpolicy , that the concept of aggression has been trans ? ferred from the domestic scene where it makes sense and performs a useful and vital function to the international scene where it makes no sense and works havoc in prac tical application . Domestic societies can afford to outlaw , at least as a matter of principle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the prohibition stick because they are integrated social organisms with common loyal ? ties , common . expectations of justice , and a government monopoly of organized violence , supported by authori ? tative and comprehensive legislative , judicial , and execu ? tive agencies . The individual living in such a society has under normal circumstances neither the chance nor the incentive to seek redress for his grievances by resort ? ing to violence . Domestic aggression as the use of vio ? lence for private ends , then , is definable by law and its prohibition is socially tolerable . International aggression is neither . In contrast to domestic societies , international society is unable to define authoritatively the interests of its members to be defended and to defend them . If the individual members , that is , the nations ; do not perform these two vital tasks for themselves , nobody else will . In view of the complete decentralization of these vital social functions , it is for the individual nation'to choose the means with which to defend its interests . It may reply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out above , it may have to commit " aggression " in order to defend itself against an attack no less dan ? gerous for being carried forward by non-violent means . Some " aggressions , " then , are justified ; others are not . And the distinction derives not from the nature of the means employed but from the nature of the interests defended and affected . To brand as an " aggressor " any nation who uses violence first regardless of the interests involved leads to theoretically absurd results , as the failure of the League of Nations and the United Nations to find a definition in such terms has shown . It also leads THE NEW REPUBLIC to perversity in action as demonstrated by Anglo-French policy on the occasion of the Russo-Finnish War of 1939 and recent United States policy on the occasion of the Anglo-French measures against Egypt . In 1939 the Soviet Union attacked Finland . This ac ? tion confronted France and Great Britain with two issues , one legal , the other political . Did that action violate the Covenant of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counter measures should France and Great Britain take ? The legal question could easily be answered in the af ? firmative , for obviously the Soviet Union had done what was prohibited by the Covenant . The answer to the political question depended , first , upon the manner in which the Russian action affected the interests of France and Great Britain ; second , upon the existing dis ? tribution of power between France and Great Britain , on the one hand , and the Soviet Union and other poten ? tially hostile nations , especially Germany , on the other ; and , third , upon the influence that the counter-measures were likely to have upon the interests of France and Great Britain and the future distribution of . Power . France and Great Britain , as the leading members of the League of Nations , saw to it that the Soviet Union was expelled from the League , and they were ready to join Finland in the war against the Soviet Union . If Sweden 's refusal to allow their troops to pass through Swedish territory on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain would shortly have found themselves at war with the Soviet Union and Germany at the same time . Their policy would have been unim ? peachable from the abstract point of view that all " ag ? gression- must be opposed without discrimination . From the political point of view , it would have been perverse since it would have run counter to all considerations of interests and power and would have conjured up the spectre of national suicide . The very same perversity has been manifest in our recent policy toward Great Britain and France , and we are still awaiting a Sweden ? or perhaps a Swede in the person of Mr. Hammarskjold ? ? to rescue us from the consequences of our folly . The legal question is as easily answered now as it was in 1939 . Great Britain and France have undoubtedly committed " aggression " against Egypt . What , then , should America 's answer to that " aggression " have been in view of the interests involved and the power engaged by the several nations ? Even if one would allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action could not be justified on any grounds , moral indignation and legal condemnation would not have justified American opposition unsup ? ported by considerations of interest and power . That in ? dignation and condemnation would not have relieved the United States of the obligation , owed to itself , to ask which outcome of the venture was more likely to be favorable to American interests and power . ffi HE answer to that question is complicated by the I dilemma which has beset the policies of the United States toward Great Britain and France since the end of World War II . On the one hand , the United States has had a vital interest , in view of its policy of containing the Soviet Union , in the continuing strength of Great Britain and France . On the other hand , the United States has always been vitally interested , again for the sake of containing the Soviet Union , to keep the former colonies and semi-colonial spheres of influence of Great Britain and France from turning against the West under Communist or Russian leadership . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial power won the voluntary support of the former depend ? ency by freeing it . More ' often than not , however , these interests proved to be irreconcilable since the loss of a dependency appeared intolerable to the colonial power . Confronted with a choice between one of its principal allies and one of the latter 's dependencies , the United States has endeavored to avoid making the choice by straddling the fence and being friends with all con ? cerned . The policy of neutrality benevolent to both par ? ties required great skill even under the best of circum ? stances and was not impossible of execution as long as the conflict between the colonial power and the depend ? ency had not entered a decisive stage . This stage has been reached in the Middle East , and the United States can no longer avoid making a choice . The United States has taken sides against Great Britain and France , not on the basis of a reasoned calculation of the interests in ? volved and the power engaged , but because Great Britain and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presi ? dent , " The action taken can scarcely be reconciled with the principles and purposes of the United Nations to which we have all subscribed . . . . And there can be no law if we work to invoke one code of international con ? duct for those who oppose , and another for our friends . ' ' Thus it has come about that of the seven main factors of interest and power present in the Middle East ? Egypt , the other Arab countries , France , Great Britain , Israel , the Soviet . Union , and the United States ? four have combined to destroy the power and jeopardize the interests of Great Britain and France and make Egypt and the Soviet Union the predominant powers in the area . That such an outcome is in the interest of Egypt and the Soviet Union is obvious . That it might be sup ? ported by the other Arab nations , is understandable . That it is against the vital interests of the United States stands to reason . For by helping to destroy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the United States destroys the power of its strongest and most reliable supporters in the area and in the world at large . And what does it gain in return ? It strengthens the power of its implacable enemies , the Soviet Union and Egypt , and the demonstration of its weakness and lack of policy will alienate whatever goodwill it might have gained temporarily by its opposition to Great Britain and France among the other Arab countries . Further ? more , the declared policy of the United States being a permanent settlement in the area , that very same weak ? ness makes it well-nigh certain that the enemies of the US will make the terms of the settlement . THE NEW INTERNATIONALISM BOTH the pacifism of the renunciation of force as an instrument of diplomacy and the legalism of indis ? criminate opposition to aggression are familiar ten ? ets of the isolationism of the interwar period . The third current manifestation of isolationism , the subordination of national policies to the United Nations , seems on the face of it to run counter to everything isolation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to imagine an isolationist of the twenties pleading that the United States pursue its policies through the League of Nations . However , the isolationism of the interwar period wanted to shield the United States from involvement both in the affairs of the outside world and in an active foreign policy . Some spokesmen for contemporary isolationism still believe that the United States can be protected in both respects by having nothing to do with international organizations , such as the United Nations and UNESCO . The more sophisticated isolationists of our day realize the finality of America 's involvement in the affairs of the world and concentrate upon . the other isolationist goal : the avoid ? ance of the responsibilities and liabilities of an active foreign policy . The United Nations provides an ideal means to that end . The United Nations is looked upon by many of its friends and foes alike as an alternative to national poli ? des . A great nation , such as the United States , so it is assumed , can either pursue policies of its own ? deter ? mined by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the policies of the United Nations ? deter ? mined by standards of wisdom and justice different from , and superior to , those which guide national policies . This juxtaposition , its popularity notwithstanding , has no foundation in fact . The United Nations as a policy-making agency does not exist apart from the great nations whose interests and power determine the fate of the world . A great nation entering the halls of the United Nations does not leave its particular interests and distinct power behind . Its vote in the General Assembly counts as much as any ? body else 's , but its interests and power in the real political world count for infinitely more . The United States might be outvoted by all Latin American nations twenty to one , but the actual distribution of power is the obverse of this numerical relationship . A resolution passed by the total membership of the United Nations against the dis ? senting votes of the United States and the Soviet Union must remain a dead letter if one or the other of the superpowers does not comply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily or even gen ? erally coincide with the weight , of the dominant interests and power , and a settlement recommended by the United Nations can be effective only insofar as it is in harmony with the interests and supported by the power of its most powerful members . For the United States , then , to refer a policy decision to the United Nations is tantamount to saying , " Let George do it , " only that George is in good measure the United States itself acting as a member of the United Nations . When the govern ? ment of the United States is asked , What is your policy for the Middle East ? and it replies , We shall act through the United Nations , it has only replied to the procedural question and still owes an answer to the all-important question , What is your UN policy for the Middle East ? The Administration has confused in its public utter ? ances as well as in its actual policies the procedural and the substantive issue . It has given the appearance of be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that reference of a political issue to the United Nations is an adequate substitute for an American policy . This pro ? cedural shift from the State Department to the United Nations will do little harm and may even be advanta ? geous if it is in the interest of the United States to avoid commitment to a clear-cut policy and taking responsibility for its execution . Unfortunately , the great issues which confront the United States today in Eastern Europe and the Middle East are not of that kind . They require con ? structive , imaginative , even daring policies , which , with ? in or without the United Nations , can only be provided by a great nation with sufficient interests and power to support them . To respond to such challenges with the stereotyped invitation to the United Nations to do what , in the nature of things , it is unable to do without the positive leadership of a great power amounts to the thinly veiled abdication of that leadership and the ad mission that the great power has no policy to meet the challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious than in the Middle East . The great issue which the Middle East has presented to the world since the end of World War II has been the creation of a viable settlement which , if not acceptable to the parties concerned on its merits , could at least be enforced by unchallengeable power . The United Nations endeavored to define suck : a settlement which none of the parties concerned saw fit to accept on its merits . Unable to support this settlement with unchallengeable power , the United Nations had to limit itself to pointing with regret to repeated violations of the settlement by all concerned . The survival of the settlement at least in a rudimentary form reposed upon a precarious balance of power between Israel and the Arab countries . The emergence of the Soviet Union as a dominant power in the region , using primarily Egypt and Syria for her pur ? poses , and the failure of Great Britain , France , and Israel to redress the balance has dramatically reopened the two basic issues : the substance of a viable settlement and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the . United States to the solution of these issues has been twofold : co-operation with Egypt and the Soviet Union in the destruction of British and French power in the area and support for a United Nations police force . The first of these contribu ? tions , as already pointed out , runs counter to the interests of the United States since the United States is not willing to substitute effective power of its own for that of Great Britain and France . The political and military vacuum created by the , destruction of British and French power in the area is being filled , and for all practical purposes has already been filled , by the power of the enemies not only of Great Britain and France but of the United States as well : Egypt and the Soviet Union . The sub ? stance of the settlement is bound to reflect this fact . The United Nations police force has nothing decisive to contribute to the twin issues of the distribution of power and the substance of a viable settlement . The successful operation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a legally defined status quo capable of defense and deemed worth defending , and an unchallengeable preponderance of the power of the police and the law abiding members of society over those opposed to the status quo . Neither condition is present in the Middle East . The real issue there has not been how to defend an existing status quo but how to create one that can be defended and is deemed worth defending by at least some of the parties concerned . The police are able to , protect my property because all concerned know what it is and most accept the law defending it as just . In the Middle East what one nation claims as its own others claim as well , and the conceptions of justice from which the rival claims derive are irreconcilable . In the absence of even an approximation to a con ? sensus about the legal order which the United Nations police force could defend , that police force would have to be of such magnitude as to be able to impose a settle ? ment upon the parties concerned even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them . It is hardly necessary to point out that the United Nations police force , as presently constituted , far from being able to impose a settlement on anybody , is politically and mili ? tarily at the mercy of Egypt . Out of the vague and ill-defined fUnctions assigned to it there emerge two major purposes for its presence in Egypt : to provide ' a thin and fragile screen of respecta ? bility behind which Great Britain , France , and Israel can withdraw their troops from Egyptian territory , and to provide a similar screen with which to mask , on the one hand , the triumph of Egypt and the , Soviet Union and , on the other , the diplomatic and military impotence of the United States . In one word , the United Nations police force is supposed to perform hardly any of the functions commonly associated with a police force . In its essence it is a polite gesture on the part of the com ? community of nations , a diplomatic device , an elaborate make-believe through which everybody pretends , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embarrassing spectacle of the bankruptcy of the foreign policy of the three great leaders of the West . How has the United States come to such a pass ? How is it that scores of knowledgeable and responsible men , within and without the government , witness such a disaster in silence ? How is it , in particular , that those who speak out appear to congratulate the nation on the defeat of its friends , the triumph of its enemies , and its own impotence ? How is it , finally , that the people at large , enthralled in a kind of somnambulistic trance , seem hardly to have noticed the recent momentous events pregnant with bigger disasters to come ? The answer to these disquieting questions must await another exposition .                     