@@487593

ON TUESDAY , September 22 , I was in my study near Columbia- University writing the first chapter of a long-planned book on civil liberties-when , at five minutes to twelve , the apartment phone rang and an unknown person announced that he had a subpoena for me from Senator McCarthy 's investigating committee . I told him to wait and immediately called my lawyer , who said that I might as well accept it So I went down to the front hall of the apartment house and permitted a CORLISS LAMONT , a director of the American Civil Liberties Union , teaches philosophy at Columbia-University . His books include " Humanism as a Philosophy/ ' " The Independent Mind , " and " Soviet Civilization . " - sour-faced man to serve me with the subpoena , a smudgy document typed in carbon with my name misspelled It summoned me to appear before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Senate Committee on Government Operations the next day at 2:30 p.m at the United States Courthouse in New York City . As I rode downtown in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I had only a little more than twenty-four hours to prepare myself for the ordeal . ' A witness should be given at least three or four days between the serving of the subpoena and his appearance at a- Congressional hearing It is part of McCarthy 's tactics to try to catch his victims off guard and to allow-them no adequate opportunity to prepare . , I had known of course that one of the Congressional investigating committees would probably tap me eventually , and had been thinking off and on about possible courses of action . I had been especially impressed by an article ' iri The Nation last May entitled How to Stop the Demagogues , by Philip Wittenberg , the attorney , and had talked briefly with him- about the new approach he recommended . He had informally agreed to take my case if I were called by a Congressional committee . Fortunatelyfor me Philip Wittenberg was - in town and was able to- advise me . I arrived'at his office at 12.30-on Tuesday - and had three long conferences with him before my Wednesday deadline We settled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of probable questions and the type of answer or refusal to answer I should - make to them . THE EVENTS leading up to my subpoena from McCarthy are enlightening . The Senator had recently discovered that the Military Intelligence Section of the United States General Staff published in 1953 a pamphlet under the title of : Psychological and Cultural Traits of Soviet Siberia . " Without thy knowledge this army manual listed in its bibliography my book " The Peoples of the Soviet Union , " a study of Soviet national and racial minorities , published by Harcourt , Brace in 1946 On the basis of this mere listing McCarthy widely asserted that ' the army document " quoted heavily " from me On September 9 Senatoi McCarthy gave the press excerpts from the army pamphlet and made the absurd claim that it was Communist propaganda On September 11 the army disclosed that McCarthy had failed to release passages hostile to the Soviet Union ; that only 100 copies of the manual had been printed , with some 40 distributed to high army officials ; and that since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " McCarthy 's unauthorized release of much of it constituted a violation of the espionage law . The army then proceeded to declassify the pamphlet from its restricted status " as a result , of prior disclosures . " With-these facts in mind , Mr. Wittenberg and I appeared before the McCarthy committee at the United States Courthouse early Wednesday afternoon , September 23 . Senator McCarthy was of course presiding as chairman and was the only member of the committee present He had announced this hearing as a closed executive session , which is supposed to be strictly private . Hence I was surprised to see about a dozen spectators , men and women , sitting in one corner of the room . In another part , by himself , sat the ever loquacious and pliant witness Louis Budenz , whom I recognized from his newspaper photographs . McCarthy did all the questioning himself , constantly pacing back and - forth at the end of a long table . Throughclut the hearing he was neither abusive nor impolite but asked his outrageous questions in a quietly persistent manner . His December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignified than that of the shouting , table-pounding members of the House Un-American Activities Committee  --  par ticularly Representatives John E. Rankin and J. Parnell Thomas  --  who had questioned me in Washington-back in 1946. . - I TOOK my most decisive step at the very start when I asked permission to read a prepared statement objecting to the jurisdiction of the committee . Since an objection to jurisdiction is absolutely basic and takes precedence over everything else , McCarthy had to allow my statement to be put into the record In this three-page document , which had been drawn up by Mr. Wittenberg in precise legal terminology- rather than in eloquent language about the Bill of Rights , I challenged the legal and constitutional power of the McCarthy committee to inquire into my political beliefs , my religious beliefs , my associational activities , or any other personal and private affairs . I advanced three main grounds for this position . In the- first place , I cited the protections of the First Amendment and quoted the concurring opinion of Justice Douglas in the 1953 United States Supreme Court decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right-wing Committee for Constitutional Government , to give testimony and produce materials before a committee of the House of Representatives . " The power of investigation , " wrote Justice Douglas , " is also limited . Inquiry into personal and private affairs is precluded . " In addition , I emphasized the First Amendment 's guaranty of freedom of the press and urged that since Congress could not pass laws interfering with freedom of the press and since a Congressional committee can only make inquiries relevant to constitutional legislation , McCarthy had no right to ask me questions about the content and purposes of my writings . In the second place , I relied , heavily on the three-way separation of poweis in the American government by which the legislative , judicial , and executive bunches possess definite and limited functions . Thus I claimed that McCarthy 's committee would be usurping the powers of the judiciary  --  from the Department of Justice through the courts and down to grand juries and trial juries  --  by inquiring into my personal beliefs and affairs . When in 1952 the . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain steel companies , the United States Supreme-Court declared the action unconstitutional precisely because it violated the tripartite separation of powers : It did this although the Korean emergency was still acute . In'November , 1953 , ex-President in Tru-man , n his letter refusing to testify before the House Committee on Un-American Activities regarding the Harry Dexter White case , maintained that the committee was invading the rights of the executive branch of the.government by subpoenaing him . In thus taking his stand on the doctrine of the separation of powers , Mr. Truman rendered valuable aid to the campaign to curb Congressional committees through the enforcement of this same general constitutional principle . In the third place , I claimed- that the statutes authorizing the ' appointment of the Senate Committee on Government Operations precluded an investigation of me on the basis of my written works , since I was not an employee of the federal government and was not even consulted about the listing of my book in an army pliblication . Also in my- opening statement I volunteered the information that I was not and never had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did in order to throw McCarthy off balance and to forestall his customary allegations in the press . AFTER RECEIVING my statement in silence McCarthy launched into a long series of questions . I answered a few concerning recorded facts . Yes , I had published a book about the peoples of Soviet Russia , had written a chapter for " U. S. S. R , a Concise Handbook , " and had sent a letter to the New York Times criticizing the decision of the United States Supreme Court in holding the Smith Act constitutional . But most of McCarthy 's inquiries I refused to answer , giving as my reason each time the objections expressed in my initial challenge to the jurisdiction of the committee . Almost every question the Senator asked was loaded ? as , for example , " Did you know that Mr. A , who wrote a , chapter in this book used by the United States army , was a member of the Communist Party ? " " Did you know that Mr. B was a member of the Communist conspiracy ? " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who to your knowledge engaged in either espionage or sabotage ? " I should have preferred to say no to all such questions , but that would have weakened my legal : position . And there was always the possibility that McCarthy was trying to trick me into a responie that would somehow lay the basis for a perjury indictment . . ' Chairman McCarthy continued with this grilling fOr about an hour and then brought the hearing to a close He said that I could not obtain a copy of the record because this session ( was " strictly executive . " At the same time he ordered me to appear at a public hearing the following Monday in Washington . At this point McCarthy , having taken the position all along that my Wednesday hearing was an executive session and therefore " closed , " suddenly announced that he was going to give a r  --  sum ? to the press . Accordingly he called the reporters in and talked to them for some thirty minutes , informing them that I was guilty of contempt on at least two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hearing , I gave out to the newspapermen copies of My statement objecting to the jurisdiction of the committee , and discussed briefly the reasons for my stand . On Friday afternoon a telegram came to my home from Senator McCarthy stating that my Monday hearing had been postponed . The wire added , " However , you are under continuing subpoena and both you and your counsel will be notified when your appearance is re= quired . " McCarthy went ahead with his public session " Mondaymorning and examined other witnesses To my astonishment the transcript of this hearing showed that at the very beginning the Honorable Senator had asserted : " Mr. Lamont has not been subpoenaed . He was notified that he could come today and purge himself of the contempt of failure to answer last week . Is Mr. Lamont here ? " " There was no answer , " the transcript recorded . Of course McCarthy had sent me no such message and had said in his own telegram that , I was still under subpoena . Apparently he thought that the cancelation of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and felt obliged to give the false impression that the responsibility for my not appearing rested with me . THE COURSE I followed before the McCarthy committee was similar in prin-. ciple to that taken by - Leo Huberman and Harvey O'Connor . Naturally each person summoned by a Congressional committee must make his own decision , taking into consideration all the particular circumstances in his case , as to the policy he will pursue . I believe , for instance , that reliance op the Fifth Amendment may be fully justified and that we must defend the right of witnesses Co use it without any penalties being imposed upon them by either public or private authorities . However , in seeking a court test to halt the excesses of Congressional committees we can not utilize the Fifth Amendment . We must stand upon the First Amendment and the separation of powers in the American governmental system . It is significant that my own approach along these lines has received wide support from conservative as well as liberal and radical sources . Should other witnesses- take a similar course , I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigative function of Congress is helpful and important in its authorized purpose of preparing the way for new legislation . But over the past decade Congressional committees have constantly roamed far beyond their proper authority , have illegally pried into the private beliefs and associations , of witnesses , and have flagrantly Usurped judicial functions by , in effect , conducting trials of American citizens , finding them , guilty , and bringing about their punishment . All I am attempting to do through my case , which I shall carry to the United States Supreme Court if necessar/ , is to have Congressional inquiries reasonably and Specifically limited in scope and methods , according to the , principles of the Constitution . The unrestrained activities of the McCarthy committee , not to mention the committees headed by Jenner and Velde , have resulted in alarming violations of basic American freedoms and have been a tremendous factor in creating an atmosphere of fear and conformity inconsistent with the true functioning of democracy . Joseph McCarthy is engaged in burning not only books but the Bill of Rights itself . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of the continuing battle of McCarthy versus the American people . It is a prim lege , too . And as a teacher , philosopher , and writerI naturally take my stand with all others who are striving to uphold the great American tradition of dissent and independent thinking .                     