@@487588

WHEN the Supreme Court rendered its decision in United States v. Dennis , on June 4 , 1951 , upholding the validity of the Smith Act , Cabell Phillips , WashingtOn correspondent for the New York Times wrote ( June 10 , 1951 ) : The decision of the Supreme Court Monday upholding the conviction of the eleven Communist Party leaders is one of the moscmomentous in the recent history of that tribimal. . . . the inescapable fact remains-that , for the first time , a political party in the United States has , to all intents and purposes , been put beyond the pale of the law . That under any circumstances , is a sobering thought for the citizens of the world 's freest democracy . .. The court has given the Department of Justice a long-awaited green light to go after suspected groups and individuals whom it could not tonal ? as long as the party 's dogma enjoyed the prdtection of legal status . . . . it is no secret that in the internal-security section there , is a huge backlog of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been sitting on pending the outcome of this case . . . . It is inconceivable.that the Department of justice , with this devastating , new weapon in its . hands and under the insistent pressure that comes from powerful segments of Congress and the public , will fail to use it freely .. .. this undoing of the Cominunist A. L. WIRIN is attorney for the Southern California branch of the American Civil Liberties Union . As private counsel he has represented defendants in the Smith Act prosecutions in both Los An-. geles and Hawaii . SAM ROSENWEIN is a , member of the New York bar with a special interest in civil liberties in the courts . - Party has been achieved only by a violent upheaval in our judicial concepts . The disenfranchisement of a political party is not an easy price for American , s to pay for any sort of security . ? This was shrewd analysis and accurate prognostication . The box score up to the present writing reads somewhat as follows : In New York City twenty-one so . called " Second string @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision wa 's rendered . Separate trials were granted for two of these defendants because of their illness or physical disabilities . Four others had not been apprehended at the time the case went to trial ? one of these persons has recently been arrested . Two defendants were granted judgments of acquittal by the trial court at the close of . theprosecution 's case . Of the thirteen who were convicted by the jury , seven received sentences of three years ' imprisonment and $6,000 fines , five received sentences Of ? two years ' imprisonment and $4,000 fines , and one received a sentence of one year 's imprisonment and a $2,000 fine . The convicted defendants are on bail pending appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit . In Baltimore-six persons were indicted in January , 1952 , and after a comparatively short trial convicted . One received a sentence of five years , one of four years , - three of three years each , one of two years . Each was fined $1,000 . An appeal , to the United States Court of Appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? . An appli cation to the-Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari ( permission to appeal ) ' ? ' was denied , Justices Black and Douglas dissenting without opinion . All defendants have begun ' to serve their sentences . In . Pittsburgh five persons  --  one was granted a separate trial  --  were convicted and given maximum sentences of five years ' imprisonment each . , One of the defendants had only shortly before been convicted of violation of a state sedition statute and given a sentence of twenty years . All defendants are on bail pending appeal to the Court of Appeals for - the Third Circuit . In Los Angeles the indictment was originally returned against fifteen persons . The trial of one defendant was separated because of his serious illness . The remaining fourteen were convicted , and each received a maximum sentence of five years ' imprisonment and a $10,000 fine . They are on bail pending appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit . In Hawaii seven defendants were indicted and convicted . Six received maximum sentences of five years ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years and a fine of $2 000 . All defendants are on bail pending appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit . In Seattle the trial of seven defendants recently ended with the jury acquittal of one , and the conviction of the others . Ea'ch received a maximum sentence of five years . Four were fined $1,000 and one $5,0,00 . The convictions have been appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit . Pending appeal the , efendanis are on bail . - The trial of six defendants has begun in Detroit In St. Louis the trial of five defendants will probably begin about the ' - first of the year Since the advent of the new Administration and Attorney General Brownell , prosecutions have been-instituted in Philadelphia , where nine persons have been arrested , andin Ohio , where ten are being prosecuted . In summary , about ninety-two persons have been indicted or face indictment for violation of the , Smith Act since the decision in the Dennis case There have been fifty-one convictions and three acquittals . Of the persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentences while the others are free pending appeals to the Courts of Appeal in the different circuits . IT ' IS NOT EASY to classify the defendants who are thud being rounded up in all parts of the country . The common description of " second echelon " or " second string " leaders creates an image of a homogeneous group which does not appear to be substantiated by the evidence adduced at the trials . The records reveal defendants as members and officers of the Communist Party occupying different positions in the various state and local organizations of that party , with varying degrees of responsibility and authority Some appear to have been members of the party since its inception in the early 1920 's ; others joined during the depression years of the 30 's or after the adoption of the " united front " policies in 1937 . A number of the defendants are veterans who served overseas during ' World War II ; all received honorable discharges and some- citations and awards for distinguished service . The defendants also include editors and publishers of newsp'apers and publications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials , ' persons who have held both elective and appointive public offices , Negro and white leaders in many civic and social organizations , and some professional persons -- -former school teachers and a lawyer . There have been quite a number of women defendants . The indictment in each case-virtually follows a single form ; differing only in names and dates and descriptions of alleged meetings . Each indictment charges the defendants with conspiring among themselves and with the eleven convicted leaders of the party and " divers other persons to the grand jury unknown " to commit offenses prohibited by the Smith Act . This use of the conspiracy weapon is not without significance . The Smith Act makes it an offense punishable by ten years ' imprisonment and $10,000 fine to advocate or teach the overthrow of the government of the United States by force or violence ; to publish or circulate printed matter advocating the forcible overthrow of the goVernment with intent to so overthrow it , to organize any society , group , or assembly of persons who advocite or teach such proscribed doctrine or to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No member or officer of the Communist Party has been prosecuted for the commission of any of these substantive offenses . Insiead , the general conspiracy statute has been.invoked ( five years ' maximum ) with indictments charging only illegal agreements by the defendants in the futige to advocate and teach , and to organize as the Communist Party a group which allegedly advocates and teaches , the forcible overthrow of the government . This exploitation of the conspiracy device affords the prosecution some- real procedural advantages . In a decision rendered in 1949 Justice Jackson stated : The unavailing protests of courts against the growing habit to indict , for conspiracy in lieu of prosecuting for the substantive offense itself , or in addition thereto , suggests that loose practice as to this offense constitutes a serious threat to fairness in our administration of justice .. . when the trial starts , the accused feels the full impact of the conspiracy strategy . . . he often is confronted with a hodgepodge of acts and statements by others which he may never have authorized or intended or even known about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conspiracy itself . . . ? The naive assumption that prejudicial effects can be overcome by instructions to the jury , . . . all practiCing lawyers know to ' be unmitigated fiction . - THE SMITH- ACT trials have confirmed the worst fears entertained by those who saw in the enactment of this peace-time sedition law dangers to the liberties of every person in the United States . Lawful assemblies are being given the " dynamic quality of crime , " and men and women are being convicted , not for what they did , but for what they said . As Justice Douglas foresaw in his dissent in the Dennis case , the ancient law of conspiracy is being used to turn speech into seditious conduct . How this is being accomplished should be of interest - to lawyers and laymen alike , for nowhere is it more evident than in the Smith Act prosecutions- that " the bell " may be tolling for " thee . " The various trials , with peripheral variations , follow a similar pattern . The - practice of the prosecution is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid informants and , former members of the Communist Party to identify the defendants as members and officers of the Com- mumst Party who were seen at various meetings of the party . Prosecution witnesses usually testify that they saw Communist Party literature , including the works of Marx , Engel , Lenin , and Stalin , sold or distributed at the meetings or discussed in classes conducted by the Communist Party . These writings are then introduced into evidence ' on the theory that they serve to establish the , " nature and character and aims and objectives of the Communist Party . " The books , pamphlets , and periodicals thus introduced may number as many as five hundred exhibits . They cover a wide variety of historical , philosophical , social , and economic ideas and events which could consume a lifetime of diligent study . ' Most of these writings were before the United States Supreme Court in 1943 when the court reversed a judgment denaturalizing William Schneiderman , an official of the Communist Party in California ( recently convicted in the Los Angeles Smith Act prosecution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are often over-exaggerated polemics bearing the imprint of the period and the place in which written " and noted in that case that the ' prosecution " with commendable candor " had conceded that " some Communist literature in respect of force and violence is susceptible of an interpretation more rhetorical than literal " The practice , nevertheless , in the Smith Act prosecutions is to read excerpts from the different volumes , especially those dealing with the events which preceded the Russian Revolution of 1917 , with emphasis on such phrases as " proletarian revolution , " ' - ! clictatorihip of the proletariat , " " smash the state machinery , " " turn the imperialist war into a civil war , " and similar phrases carrying a strong emotional impact . The defendants are generally permitted to read any other excerpts from the same books which they feel explain , modify , Deceinber 12 , 1953 or contradict the passages read by the prosecution . As a result , almost half of the stenographer 's transcripts , which sometimes are as much as 15,000 pages in length , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pamphlets , with emphasis on the " Communist Manifesto , " " State and Revolution , " " Foundation of Leninism , " " History of the Communist Party of the U. S. S. R. " THE WHOLE " battle of quotations " in these Smith ' Act prosecutions is a futile experience which serves only to pander to emotions , and prejudices A significant fact is that in most cases no attempt is ever made by the prosecution to prove that the particular defendants on trial understood or interpreted these writings as advocating and teaching the forcible overthrow of the government of the United States The books , and the excerpts , are simply " dumped " on the jury ; and the jurors are left free to , , decide whether the " principles of-Marxism-Leninism " are equivalent to the proscribed advocacy and teaching ' Since it would take months if not years merely to read the books , let alone to understand them , it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the Smith Act juries are making their findings concerning the " principles of Marxism-Leninism " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence . The professional witnesses , many of whom reappear in the : various trials and earn many thousands of dollars for their testimony , serve one other useful function It is the practice of the prosecutors to ask these witnesses what they heard some Communist teacher or party member say in a class or meeting about the " principles of Marxism-Leninism " or the policies of the Communist Party at a time and place when none of the defendants were present . In nearly every trial the F. B. I. informant relates what some third paity  --  not subject to confrontation or cross-examination  --  qold the F. B I. informant about the " dictatorship of the proletariat " or " revolutionary change " in a classroom or meeting usually in some city or state far distant from the one where the case is being tried . No proof is offered that the particular defendants knew of such statements , or that either the defendants or the Communist Party ever authorized or ratified the statements . As may be expected under such circumstances , the professional witnesses are beginning to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contradictions in their testimony at the different trials . Such testimony of " third-party declarants " ? to use the lawyers ' phrase ? is of course hearsay ; but the trial courts are admitting these declarations or statements into evidence upon the legal principle that the declarations of a third-party conspirator in furtherance of a conspiracy are binding upon all other members of the conspiracy , even if the latter were not present when the statements were made . In the Smith Act prosecutions no effort is made- to establish by direct or circumstantial evidence that the third-party declarants and the defendants at the trial actually agreed to teach and advocate the overthrow of the government of the United States by force and violence . How , then , do they become " co-conspirators " and thus warrant the admission of palpably hearsay testimony ? The answer of the trial-courts is this : they , the unseen third parties and the defendants , are all members and officers of the Communist Patty I It should be noted parenthetically that Section 4(f) of the Internal Security Act of 1950 specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any Communist organization by any person shall constitute per se a violation of any criminal statute . THE FOREGOING , in broad outline , describes the nature of the evidence now being presented in the Smith Act conspiracy prosecutions  --  identification of the defendants as members and officers of the Communist Party , readings from Marxist-Leninist books , and the hearsay declarations of alleged teachers and members of the party at meetings and classes On occasion , some equivocal statement of a particular defendant espousing the " principles of Marxism-Leninism " or the " socialist revolution " is offered into evidence , but it is fan to say that in none of these Smith Act prosecutions has there been substantial evidence of any defendant 's specific intent to enter into a conspiracy to advocate and teach the forcible overthrow of the government- with intent to accomplish such overthrow as speedily as circumstances . would permit . Most trial courts are permitting the cases to go to the jury upon the following theory : - Since the jurors may themselves conclude that the ' principles of Marxism-Leninism " are the same as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States by force and violence , and since the Communist Party bases it-self upon the principles of Marxism-Leninism , the jurors may infer that the Communist Party advocates and teaches the forcible overthrow of the government . Since the defendants are all long-time members or officers of the Communist Party , the jury may infer that the defendants knew that the Communist Party advocates - the forbidden doctrine . Since the defendants assembled and combined in the Communist Party , the jurors may infer that each defendant intentionally entered into a conspiracy to advocate and teach the forcible overthrow of the government . Since the defendants entered into such conspiracy , the jurors may further infer that the defendants actually intended to advocate and teach such unlawful doctrine . And finally , since defendants entered into the conspiracy with such intent , the jurors may infer thateach defendant specifically intended to accomplish the overthrow of the government of the United States by force and violence as speedily as circumstances would permit . Every meeting of the Communist - Party , every utterance of members or - officers , no matter how lawful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " overt act " in furtherance of the implied conspiracy . inference , juries have been convicting deBy this process of piling been upon fendants who , so far as the record shows , never uttered a- word while they were members of the Communist Party , or if They did , said only what many citizens are saying every day in the week . The acquittal in the Seattle case may be some indication that juries will not always accept the prosecution 's inference theory , and the trial judge , in granting judgment of acquittal for two of the defendants in the New York case , indicated quite clearly that mere proof of long-time membership or officership in the Communist ? Party would not be sufficient to send the case to the jury . In trials where " inference " substitutes for proof , the efforts of defendants to piove their innocence , to piove the negative , are largely ineffective . The fact that the proof shows only advocacy and teaching of opinions and ideaS normally protected from governmental invasion , together with day-to-day activities quite laudable from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be not " within the issues , " or , at best , defensive material which the jury is free to disregard . If the proof shows frequent disclaimer of the use of force and violenCe and specific disavowals in the constitution of the ComMunist Party , there is always a professional witness to testify that this is mere " Aesopianism " or " double talk , " In the present political climate , where a jury is free to infer all the essential ingredients of the offense charged in the indictment without direct proof of an individual defendant 's wrongdoing , the verdict is generally foregone . This may perhaps explain why , since the trial in the Dennis case , a hush has fallen over the courtrooms as the trial courts , seemingly bend over back- ward to give the defendants all the " due piocess " they want . THE - " clear and present danger " rule has in operation . and ? effect ' becOme a dead letter . A breach was made in the doctrine when the Supreme Court in the Dennis case substituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Justices Holmes and Brandeis . A further breach occurred when the issue was withdrawn from the jury as a question-of fact and left to the trial judge to decide as a matter of law Despite the admonition of the Supreme Court , the trial courts are disregarding each ' defendant 's " power to bring about the evil " and the " nature of his activities " as shown in the record , and are simply parroting Justice Vmsbn 's language in the Dennis case about " the inflammable nature of world conditions " and " the touch-and-go nature of our relations with countries with whom petitioners were in the very least ideologically attuned . " In effect , the obnoxious " bad tendency " test ? which preceded the formulation of the clear-and-present-danger rule in 1919 has been reviled . There are other . factors which complicate the trials in the Smith Act cases . The constitutional guaranty of reasonable bail in criminal prosecutions , for example , seemed for a time to be in serious danger as trial courts responded - to the " hydraulic pressures " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not without interest that after a second hearing , following the Supreme Court decision , the District ' Court still fixed bail at $50,000 for each defendant , without any additional evidence being adduced , and it was thus necessary to appeal again to the Court of Appeals , where bail was fixed at $10,000 and 45,000 for the different defendants . In the-meantime the defendants had spent almost four months in jail , with the result that their efforts to retain counsel , to prepare their defense , to raise funds , and to interview witnesses were con -- siderably hampered . ' After the conviction of the Los Angeles defendants the same trial court declined to fix bail pending appeal. - The Court of Appeals directed it to ' hold a hearing and determine whether substantial questions were involved in the appeal  --  the usual ground for granting bail pending appeal  --  and The NATION to fix reasonable bail . The District Court found no " substantial questions " and again denied bail . This time the Court of Appeals , upon its own examination of the case , ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each defendant in the sum of $20,000 pending appeal . In Hawaii the District Judge too could find no substantial questions , but again the Court of Appeals disagreed and granted bail , $15,000 each , pending appeal . Since the Supreme Court decision on bail in Stack v. Boyle , bail in Smith Act prosecutions has been averaging about $10 , - 000 for each defendant prior to trial and $20,000 pending appeal . IT IS STILL claimed in some of the cases that certain Yepresentativegroups in the community are being systematically excluded from jury service . No searching examination of the qualifications of the jurors at the time of their selection is normally permitted . The practice is for the lawyers to submit proposed questions-to the court , who in turn examines the jury . The opportunity to probe for hidden bias and prejudice is fairly well forestalled . Defendants who take the stand are invariably asked to identify persons as members of the Communist Party . Since the defendants are reluctant to subject others to possible prosecution and certain loss of job , they have generally declined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal contempt , the punishment usually being ? mprisonment at least for the duration of the trial . In Los Angeles one of the defendants , Oleta O'Connor Yates , who de2dined on cross-examination to identify certain persons as members of the Communist Party was jailed for the duration of the trial and then at the conclusion of her trial given sentences of one and three years ' imprisonment for alleged criminal contempt , in addition to the five years ' sentence after conviction on the Smith Act charge . These sentences for criminal contempt were also in addition to an order that Mrs. Yates continue to be jailed , pending her appeal from the Smith Act conviction , until the appeal was concluded , and in the event her appeal was successful and a new trial ordered , that she be further imprisoned until she answered questions which might be put to her in such new trial All these contempt sentences are on appeal ; and Mrs. Yates is on bail pending those appeals . There have been other sentences for civil and criminal contempt . The latest was on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed a three-year prison term on Dr. Herbert J. Phillips , former University of Washington professor , who was called as an expert witness on communism by the defense , and on two defendants who took the stand , Terry Pettus and John Daschbach . In the cases of the latter two , the pattern established by the trial judge in the Los Angeles Smith Act case is followed , the three-year sentences being in addition to the five-year sentence imposed for the convictions under the Smith Act . These sentences too are on appeal and the defendants on bail pending the appeal . Since the price of taking the stand is to become an informer , many defendants appear ready to forgo the giving of testimony in their own behalf . While publicity- will always attend Smith Act prosecutions , it would appear fair to grant continuances of the trial Where newspapers make it a practice to publish in- serialized form some book written by a former member of the Communist Party just as the trial is about to commence . In Los Angeles publication in serial form of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Phillbrick , began in the Los Angeles Times ten days before the commencement of the trial . A request for continuance was denied . In the same case , just at the conclusion of the arguments of counsel and before the case went to the jury , F. B. I. Director J. Edgar Hoover authorized publication of a sixteen-page report setting forth " documentary proof that the Communist Party , T.J. S. A. , teaches and advocates the overthrow and destruction of the United States government by force and violence . " This document , dubbed by the newspapers a " long secret F. B I report , " received wide press , radio , and television coverage . A motion for mistrial was denied . Although the Department of Justice concedes wire-tapping in " internal-security cases , " no trial court has yet granted defendants a preliminary hearing to determine whether the evidence adduced before the grand jury or trial jury has been obtained in , violation of law . In Hawaii , for example , specific evidence was presented by sworn affidavit to the District Court showing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tapped prior to indictment . Although there was no denial of this wire-tapping by the prosecutor or the F. B. I. , the court refused to hold any hearing . THE MOST ominous recent development in the Smith Act cases - was the comment by the Seattle trial court , on sentencing the defendants , that if he had occasion to preside over -a similar case in the future he would be inclined to take " judicial notice " of the prosecution 's version of Communist Party teachings and thus reduce- substantially the volume of evidence offered by the prosecution as to the nature and purposes of the Communist Party . - Faced by opposition from liberal as well as some conservative public opinion , Congress did not outlaw the Communist Party by legislative action , but here is outlawry by judicial fiat . The foregoing will perhaps make clear how serious are the questions now presented for decision to the . various United States Courts of Appeal in the country . The affirmance of the Baltimore convictions and the denial of certiorari by the Supreme Court are of course an ominous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the denial of certiorari does not necessarily mean approval of what has been said or done in the court below , and no court of coordinate jurisdiction is bound by the decision of another tribunal . One can only hope that the Courts of Appeal and , if necessary , the Supreme Court will - reexamine the whole ' question of the validity of the Smith Act and the prosecutions thereunder , for if the present trend continues , ' the opportunity for flee political discussion , to ' the end that government may be responsive to the will of the people- and that changes , if desired , may be obtained by peaceful means " may disappear . As Chief Justice Charles Evans ' Hughes warned almost two decades ago , this would indeed undermine " the security of the Republic , the very foundation of constitutional government . " WHAT I think about the state of our liberties is the blackest thought I have had in my lifetime . I am convinced that-the Bill of Rights would not be sub-mitted and ratified as part of the Constitution were it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief on November 5 in the second annual Elijah Parish Lovejoy lecture at Colby College , Waterville , Maine , in memory of America 's first free-press martyr , who was assassinated by an anti-Abolitionist mob at Alton , Illinois , on November 7 , 1837 . Since very few newspapers printed my remarks , I can repeat a few of them with little danger of duplication for readers of The Nation . " No amendment to the Constitution can be adopted without a fighting campaign , and I do not find the press today fighting for the principles and causes that the Bill of Rights embodies . . . . I find no reason to believe therefore that the press would lead a national campaign to adopt the - Bill of Rights were its protections and guaranties introduced in Congress today . " Take , for example , the very first of the historic ten amendments This is the only one which says that ' Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting ' the free exercise thereof ; or abridging the freedom of speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people peaceably to assemble , and to petition the goveinment for a redress of grievances . ' " There is widespread indifference , , , , among newspapers generally to freedom of the press itself , as demonstrated by their attitude in the Wechsler-McCarthy case . Many newspapers never havean editorial which touches the issue of the separation of church and state . Freedom ' of speech for the individual is often tiespassed on without causing so much as a word of protest . " The right of the people to be secure in their houses and their papers against IRVING DILLIARD is editor of the editorial page of the St. Lows- Post . - Dispatch . unreasonable searches and seizures , the guaranty- that no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause , supported by an- oath or an affirmation particularly describing the place to be searched and the person ' or things to be seized  --  these basic protections are trampled time and again , and a large - part of the press takes no notice . " The Fifth Amendment Provides that no person ' shall be compelled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This basic protection of an accused person is grounded deep in history . . Yet it could not be made a part of the Constitution today . Indeed , there is a campaign on in Washington , supported by many newspapers , to undercut the guaranty against self-incrimination if not to eliminate it altogether . And in saying this I do not approve of the Fifth Amendment 's abuse by those who hide behind , it . " I could go through the other guaranties in the Bill of Rights one by one  --  the guaranty of assistance of counsel for the defense of an ? accused person , the prohibition against'excessive bail , and so on . Many an accused person has gone to prison in recent years lacking assistance of counsel to tell ' him Of his rights , many a time excessive bail is required  --  with little or no objection in the press . " In the last decade these protections , have been chipped away in local , state , and federal courts , with the final approval , I regret to say , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Supreme Court opinions in civil-liberties cases for readers to have any notion of what is happening to their rights .. . " To'this I add that there are of course some editors who are devoted to freedom of the press and the Bill of Rights , But judging by a fair and more or less continuous sampling , they are the exceptions . The rest can prove me wrong very easily : they have only to become jealous guardians of the historic liberties and rights against whose invasion they now almost never raise a finger. -                     