@@494396

A Modest Proposal on Dishonesty How businessmen may be made as honest as government employees are loyal by Arthur E. Bestor Jr . MANY MEN and women , both liberal and conserva-tive , have thoughtlessly criticized current loyalty procedures and investigations . They have magnified the occasional injustices that have occurred , and have minimized the vast increase in loyalty that has obviously resulted . Worst of all , critics have failed to recognize that loyalty . programs offer a new approach to many age-old problems . These novel procedures , developing under our very eyes , open up tremendous possi- Arthur E. Bestor Jr . is Professor of History at the University of Illinois . His most recent book is Education Wastelands : The Retreat from Learning.bilities for fostering many other virtues which , like loyalty , are essential to a sound national life . Honesty is certainly one of the most important of these . No one approves of dishonesty except the dishonest . No one can think the nation safe if it is honeycombed with dishonesty . Yet it is obvious to any realistic observer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vestiges of dishonesty in America . There are statutes , it is true , which punish specific acts of dishonesty , but these leave large loopholes ; and many of the laws , alas , are imperfectly enforced . If we are to become a thoroughly honest nation we must embark upon a comprehensive , positive , forward-looking honesty program , which will cut through the red tape that has hampered us in attaining this ideal in the past . The purpose of the present article is to show that the new loyalty programs furnish the needed pattern for a constructive effort at fostering absolute honesty throughout the nation . Heretofore we have relied upon a negative approach to this problem . We have tried to promote honesty by catching and punishing those guilty of dishonesty . We have failed to do anything about those who were potentially dishonest , and we have waited until the damage was done before taking action against it . This , of course , is locking the barn door after the horse is stolen . We need to borrow from the loyalty program the positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that men prove their honesty before being allowed to engage in activities where there are temptations to dishonesty . B USINESS is obviously one of the activities where temptations to dishonesty are likeliest to occur . For this reason , and because business is a great national enterprise which we can not allow to be undermined , I should like to show how the procedures of present-day loyalty programs can be easily and effectively applied in a program designed to insure complete honesty in the entire business life of the nation . In simplest terms , the principle is to prevent anyone who is dishonest or who is suspected of dishonesty from engaging in business . The principle is self-evidently sound , for dishonest men clearly have no right to engage in business , where they are in a position to cheat honest men . Should a few honest businessmen be temporarily injured , their love of honesty will enable them to endure the hardship for the sake of the great and in view . Moreover , by making the penalties for dishonesty ruinous to those suspected of it , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adding material incentives to moral ones , as every wise law ought to do . The last paragraph somewhat oversimplifies the matter . The proposed honesty program should not actually prevent a man whose honesty is questioned from attempting to carry on a business . We should take our cue from current loyalty programs , which have drawn a sound and sensible distinction . A government official or a teacher who is suspected of disloyalty is not denied the right to practice his profession on his own . He is simply denied the privilege of being employed by a public agency or one which enjoys tax exemption . In similar fashion , the businessman who is suspected of dishonesty should not be denied the right to engage in business . He should simply be deprived of the privilege of using any services that are provided at public expense . The use of the mails is an example of such a privilege . The post office department loses money , hence a person who uses the mails is a recipient of benefits from public funds . If we are to promote honesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended to persons whose honesty is dubious . To deprive a man of rights is to punish him , but to deny him special privileges is not . A businessman whodoes not enjoy the privilege of sending or receiving letters and orders is handicapped , of course , but he still has the right to use private messengers , just as the teacher who is barred from employment in a school still has the right to teach private pupils . . There are , of course , many other privileges and public services ? fire protection , use of public thoroughfares , and the like ? which can properly be denied ' to those who are suspected of dishonesty . For the sake of simplicity , however , this discussion will confine itself to pointing out how denial of the mails could be utilized in an effective honesty program based on the precedents afforded by the frequently criticized loyalty program of today . The first step is to require a prospective businessman to prove his honesty beyond reasonable doubt before extending to him the privilege of using the postal service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be found in one of the so-called Broyles Bills , introduced this year in the General Assembly of Illinois . The following draft employs ( in italics ) the language of that bill , adapted ( by the words printed in roman type ) to serve as a Federal Honesty Act : Every postmaster , every person , and every board , commission , council , department , court or other agency of the United States , who or which supervises in any manner the use of the mails , shall establish by rules , regulations or otherwise , procedures designed t'O ' ascertain before any person , firm or corporation is permitted to use said mails , that he is not a dishonest person , and that there are no reasonable grounds to believe that such persons are dishonest persons . In the event such reasonable grounds exist , he shall not be furnished postal service . In securing any facts necessary to ascertain the information herein required , the applicant shall be required to sign a written affidavit containing answers to such inquiries as may be material . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting in business before being proved honest beyond reasonable doubt . The honesty of established business firms is sometimes called in question , hence there is need for honesty clearance procedures as well . A Federal Bureau of Honesty Investigations ( FBHI ) should be established to make confidential investigations of the honesty of businessmen or potential businessmen . It should receive and investigate all complaints of dishonest practices , and it ought to be in a position to assure customers and competitors of the firm under investigation that the source of any information they give will never be divulged . FBHI agents could be planted in the accounting departments of firms suspected of dishonest dealings . The " raw files " of the FBHI would eventually contain information about virtually every business concern in the country , and would furnish the means for a purification of business life far more thoroughgoing than any which could possibly be accomplished by using the cumbersome machinery of district attorneys , grand juries and formal judicial trials . Honesty Boards , rather than courts , would take responDECEMBER 14 , 1953 sibility for screening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' investigating committees , competitors , or consumers ' groups . Postal privileges would , of course , be suspended until the individual received clearance from the Honesty Board . Since a board 's investigations would not be trials in the legal and constitutional sense , but merely administrative hearings connected with the postal service , the formalities of court procedure could be dispensed with . The accused businessman would not be confronted with witnesses , for this might dry up the sources of information on which the FBHI must rely . Wearisome cross-examinations would disappear , and the law 's delays would become things of the past . The Honesty Board would weigh the anonymous allegations and the defense offered by the accused , and would give or refuse honesty clearance according to ? its best judgment , taking into account the public welfare . When cleared for honesty , the businessman would be permitted immediately to get in touch with his erstwhile customers . In particular he could request them to remit once more such orders and payments as might in the meantime have been returned to the senders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputation , these would have been stamped with the completely non-prejudicial notation , Temporarily undeliverable pending honesty clearance of addressee , " instead of the standard " Undeliverable under provisions of the Federal Honesty Act . " An Honesty Oath would be the final part of the program . Every businessman , corporation executive , and member of a board of directors would swear that he is not dishonest , that he has never counselled dishonesty , and that he has never been connected with a concern that was dishonest . Refusal to take the oath would immediately debar the individual and his firm from use of the mails . This is at once the simplest and the most effective method of separating the honest from the dishonest and of preventing the latter from doing harm . It is true , of course , that dishonest businessmen might be tempted to take the oath in order to escape the penalty , but the information gathered by the FBHI would be available for use in perjury trials . The simplicity of this Honesty Program is one of its strongest recommendations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be studied by legislative and administrative bodies in order to single out practices that ought to be dealt with by detailed laws . The new measures would constitute a blanket prohibition of dishonesty . Legislatures should avoid giving too sharp a definition of dishonesty , for one of the beauties of the new procedure is that it can be applied to any kind of dishonesty , including activities which had not previously been considered dishonest and which had thus escaped punishment . The use of expeditious procedures like these will end the costly and time-consuming process of gathering evidence sufficient to convince a court that a given individual has engaged in a specified dishonest activity . The Hon-13 esty Board will not concern itself with such details . It will go direct to the heart of the matter , passing judgment upon the characters and motives of men instead of merely upon their out-ward conduct . Its supreme responsibility is to protect the nation against dishonesty even before that evil tendency manifests itself in overt action . From a practical point of view as well , the simplicity of such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It should halt the dread growth of bureaucracy . The FBHI will , of course , employ many investi gators . But the agencies required by old-fashioned methods of enforcing honesty will ' wither away . Business itself will be relieved of a heavy burden of overhead , for it can discontinue the various complaint departments , credit bureaus , and better-business agencies that it now maintains . Under the new arrangements , complaints will normally go direct to the FBHI , which will have ample facilities for investigating them , and for bringing each matter promptly to the attention of the appropriate Honesty Board . T HE SUGGESTED honesty program abandons , in effect , the archaic presumption , inherited from the common law , that a man is to be deemed honest until he has been proved otherwise beyond reasonable doubt . This is a presumption which we have been forced to recognize as outmoded in the realm of loyalty . We must have the courage ' and the consistency to take the next step and recognize that the presumption of innocence is outmoded in the realm of honesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wiping out dishonesty . The loyalty cases have taught us , after all , that it is not so terrible a thing to place the burden of proof upon the individual accused . In simple justice , is not this where it really belongs ? A man is either dishonest or honest . If dishonest , he should certainly bear the expense of any fraudulent attempt to prove himself honest , for why should society tax itself to benefit the unworthy . If honest , should not a man be proud to vindicate , no matter what the cost , his claim to that high distinction ? Honor is achieved through suffering and its value is enhanced thereby . The accolade of honest man is too precious a prize to be bestowed upon those who are unwilling to endure bitterness and contumely in order to win it . An honesty program of the kind I have proposed could be carried through without the opposition that so often greets measures affecting business . Old-fashioned laws dealt with specific abuses , often so technical that few citizens could grasp their import . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will wish to be written down as an opponent of honesty . An honesty program , after all , can hurt only those who are dishonest . The public will be quick to realize that anyone who opposes the measure is a dishonest man . Honest citizens can be trusted to disregard the arguments of such a person . And the reign of absolute honesty , hitherto believed unattainable , will be ushered in almost overnight .                     