@@487566

MOST foreign wars have been fought for reasons above the heads of the citizens and soldiers of the countries involved . So long as they occurred one at a time , it was relatively easy to get domestic support for the needed steps  --  soldiers , taxes , and the dislocation of life  --  on the ground that , in an otherwise peaceful world , the enemy was arbitrarily stirring up trouble . So the colonial-empire system was built and maintained . After all , so ran the reasoning , native peoples only rot in their own backyard environments , and their children and grandchildren would reap the benefits of the economic development and civilized policing that accompany colonialism . It was " civilization 's " war , and gain both for conquerors and conquered resulted . Thus bit by bit world order was being created . Today industrialized societies are moving slowly toward what is hopefully called the welfare state , while the " backward areas " of the world are changing rapidly in their respective versions of progress . E. H. Carr , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calls the second trend " the colonial revolution . " In Chapter 5 of his trenchant little book on " The New Society " he discusses the causes and character of this colonial awakening : . . . we must start the says from an analysis of nine-teenth-century society with its division of the world into advanced industrial and backward colonial peoples . This division of function , broadly corresponding with a division of color , was the basis of the world economy . . . . Nor was this division seriously challenged till the new century opened . Then something began to stir . . . . It was Japanese action in the Second World War which brought the colonial revolution in Asia to a head . The . emancipation of Asia from the white race was loudly proclaimed ; and after the victory it proved quite impossible to restore white supremacy , either military or economic , over the greater part , of Asia . The movement has become a general revolt against political , economic , and racial inequality ; color is at least as important a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the march in Africa as well . .. . We shall be mistaken if we regard the Soviet Union as a prime mover in these developments . In the present configuration of world politics , the Soviet Union profits from the dash between Asia and the Western world and will do everything to intensify it . But Russia did not create the colonial revolution and can not even now control its course . It might easily take lines unwelcome and embarrassing to Moscow  --  if Western pressure were removed . The underlying essence of the colonial revolution is today economic rather than political . . ? . Political independence and political equality are no longer enough . These achievements . ? ? are now seen to be hollow and unreal unless they are backed up by the reality of economic independence and economic equality . In the face of such a momentous and humanly vital development , what are citizens of democracies to do when they are asked to approve and send their sons to die in twentieth-century colonial wars ? With General Eisenhower , a life-long military man of limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' More " positive " foreign policy in the making , it would appear that we had better stop viewing Western military ventures in Asia and Africa as isolated policing actions . They are part of the pattern of the twentieth century unrolling about  --  and over  --  our lives . The London Economist , referring to the French war in Indo-China , observed recently : " In human terms the losses have been appalling ; before the start of the most recent campaigns well over 30,000 French soldiers and some 1,500 officers had died . This latter figure means that the graduating classes of France 's military academy at St. Cyr are sent directly to Indo-China , and that few survive to grow into future staff officers and generals . " In this country we have watched the casualty totals mount in Korea in a war that the recent electlDn. suggests the American people do not want . There would seem to be at least the pOssibility that we are involved in a rapidly broadening counter-war against the long overdue woad colonial revolution . And the plain fact is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in response to what pressures . I for one , a reasonably intelligent citizen , do not know why peace has not been achieved in Korea . Are we really- to believe that the return of prisoners is the obstacle ? Is there a bigger pot cooking , and , if so , who is stoking the fire ? Why is Formosa so jubilant over General Eisenhower 's election ? Silence is kept , of course , for " reasons of state , " " top secret . " But are we to accept and believe the news handouts that may be preparing us for a third world war  --  as Britons accepted the need seventy-five years ago for a policing action in a corner of Africa ? As Mr. Carr points out , the dream that we Americans can treat this as " our century " and repeat t.1-4 pattern of Britain 's nineteenth-century colonial expansion is an empty one , because the world has moved far beyond the conditions that made Britain 's imperialism possible . And even if we could repeat that pattern , do we citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire ? The third generation of Rockefellers are engaged in develop . ments in Latin America , the so-called " China Lobby " doing business in Asia , and American capital is movin8 rapidly into Africa . Basil Davidson , a well-informed analyst of conditions in Central Africa , identified tho financial interests operating in Central Africa and de . scribed the pressure for federation they are exerting in an article in the London New Statesman and Nation of August 9 . He reported in this connection that some of the biggest mining- companies were moving their home offices from London to the Rho desia.s . One of these , Tanganyika Concessions , called " Tanks ' for short in the business and financial world , is , he reported , " the biggest financial holding corporation in tropical Africa . " " Tanks " have issued 3,831,412 ordinary shares . In April , 1950 , the British government sold 1,677,961 of these shares , which it then owned , to an Anglo-Belgian group . And in November , 1950 ? the date of geographical transfer  --  it was announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had sold had again been sold to an American group headed by Ladenburg Thalman and Company and Lazard Freres , in association with the international Basic Economy Corporation and Mr. David Rockefeller  --  in short , to the Rockefeller interests in one form or another . But that , again , is not the whole store . For the British interests mainly concerned in " Tanks , " acquiring their shares through the good offices of the British government , are mainly those which have hitherto dominated the economic development of Central Africa  --  the Oppenheimer gold and copper-mining interests , for example , and the British South Africa Company , which still retains all mineral rights in Northern Rhodesia and in 16,0 ( 0 square miles of Nyasaland . These are the interests which have pressed , and are pressing , hardest for Central African federation , for those political guaranties of economic dominion without which it might be hard to insure the necessary flow of capital . Gradually and unobtrusively , the last few years have brought - about a new and powerful alignment of monopolistic mining capital in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the top in " Tanks " ? so that half a dozen men . ? . are not so far today from controlling the economic destiny of these territories . They have had , and are having , dose support from the United States . . Now , it is no secret that the Americans have expressed themselves privately in favor of federation ; nor is it difficult to see why . These loans from E. C. A. , like British capital in the past , flow into precisely the same socio-economic structure of " white supremacy " and " cheap African labor " against which the Africans now struggle  --  and for which the supporters of federationare vehementLy united . All that changes is the principal source of imperialistic capital ; this becomes American . The Americans thus cash in on imperialist exploitation without incurring the public odium of doing so ... . Anyone who cares to spend an hour or so with the " Stock Exchange Yearbook " can very soon convince himself that this dose and intelligent tie-up in mining interests really does exist . He will find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " Tanks , " the British South Africa Company , and the Anglo-American Corporation . . . . What is new about this situation is not the fact or manner of exploitation but the skil fully engineered concentration of interests ? British , American , Belgian , South African  --  in a region of great mineral wealth over a part of which the British erectorate holds a protectorate and is pledged to advance the interests of'the African inhabitants . There can be little doubt that what the federationists have in mind is rapid transition to Dominion status  --  when the paper safeguards in the present federaticin proposals ; would be worth even less than they are today , would , in. fact , be worth nothing at all  --  and that the steady transfer of company headquarters to Southern Rhodesia is designed to give this potential Dominion a position of power and standing in the financial world . We are faced , indeed , with a well-prepared plan to saddle the whole of British Central Africa with a financial oligarchy designed to carry imperialist venture into a new phase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these great financial interests would have a clear path before them . . . . For this is not to be the federation of free men , but of vested interest ? Federation Ltd . None of this would have sounded ominous to an Englishman in the nineteenth century : Should it sound ominous to Americans in the middle of the twentieth century , in view of the present state of the world ? It does to me . If democracy means anything at all , this is setting back the clock disastrously . It is asking for trouble in a world in which colonial people need and have the right to develop their own potentials , and in which " trouble " means the renewal of colonial wars on a large and inhuman scale . And what may a young American citizen now say when commanded by his government to serve as a soldier ? Is it compatible with democratic responsibility for a citizen to accept " reasons of state " as docilely as did the Englishman of 1850 ? Many men subject to military service have been well indoctrinated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But what about the others , those educated to the point where they read Carr and Davidson and , in the main , agree with them ? What does integrity in. a democratic context prompt young men to do in the present international situation ? Suppose , for instance , a young man called up for military service were to say , without cowardice and in all honesty : " This is 1952 . You , my country to which I am deeply committed , have brought me up to believe in democracy and have educated me to act responsibly . I can not become a soldier in your wars until you convince me that more war in the present state of the world is intelligent and democratically responsible . " Does official Washington have an honest and adequate answer to such a question ? Frankly , I do not know . But I do not like the look of the things that are happening , and the election results deepen my skepticism . When and how in this managed society of " top secrets " and public-relations hand-outs does a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ?                     