@@241017

The two French scientists were standing near the dry-mud river bed when they heard the sound of the water . Looking up , they watched a shallow yellow wave ripple across the valley floor , driving before it a bevy of small animals , insects and snakes . Overhead the pelicans circled by the hundreds , diving occasionally to scoop up a flopping fish . Scientists M. Lefevre and A. Bouchardeau hurried back to their base camp to report that for the first time since 1873 the waters were running in the Bahr el Ghazal , outlet of Central Africa 's fabled Lake Chad . <P> Situated in the borderland of the Sahara and the Sudan , 175-mile-long Lake Chad is the last fragment of a sprawling inland sea estimated to have been roughly the size of the Caspian . It once constituted an inland trading route and a favorite hunting ground of pirates . But long before it was first sighted by Europeans in 1823 , the lake began receding before the southward encroachment of the Sahara Desert . Scientists suspect that it was also draining away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wilderness of swamplands and papyrus jungles , its water level dropped to a point where it no longer flowed out through the Bahr el Ghazal . Rice farmers along the river banks and the lake 's once-fertile shores packed up and moved southward . With the maximum depth of the lake down to 22 feet , the French set up the Commission Scientifique de Tchad to study ways of preserving the livelihood of the 200,000 people still clustered on its shores . <P> In 1953 the centuries-old trend was unaccountably reversed . The lake began to rise rapidly , spilling over into the mud flats and inundating the clay-and-sand islands that dotted its shallows . The rising water level created its own hazards . Grazing lands were flooded , and immense expanses of papyrus set adrift . In the course of one howling storm , 16 Kotoko fishermen in a four-boat flotilla were driven into a field of floating papyrus and held captive by the sinewy stems . The crew of one boat managed to cut their way out of the papyrus jungle when they drifted into shallow water ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> Despite such hazards , the scientists of the Commission Scientifique du Tchad are enthusiastic about the lake 's apparent resurrection . It will immensely increase the agricultural yield of the region and stimulate trade along newly created waterways . At the same time , none of the scientists will predict how long the lake will continue to rise . Although it is currently higher than it has been in 50 years , its rise has not been accompanied by any increase in rainfall . The scientists ' best guess : the underground reservoir of water into which the lake 's waters have apparently been draining is now filled , and Chad will continue to expand until it finds a new subterranean outlet . By last week , the scientists noted happily , the waters of the Bahr el Ghazal were already approaching their historic banks and irrigating lands uncultivated for generations .                     