@@487665

SYMPTOMATIC of what has happened to foreign-news coverage are the following bulletins recorded by Editor and Publisher : London , Oct. 4 ( AP ) ? Moscow Radio said tonight the Soviet Union had launched an earth satellite . London , Oct. 4 ( UP ) =Moscow Radio said tonight that Russia has launched an earth satellite . London Oct. 4 ( INS ) ? Moscow Radio reported the Soviet Union has launched an earth satellite . The news was picked up by monitors for the news services in London and then flashed to the world . It was in this fashion that the news of the Hungarian revolt and the Israeli invasion of Sinai also came to the outside world . Where were the on-the-spot reporters ? It is true that several weeks before the Sputnik launching , the Moscow UP bureau reported a Soviet broadcast as saying Russian scientists would shortly take the first step into cosmic flight  --  but this was a report which could just as easily have been picked up in London . In the Hungarian and Israeli situations , one might point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Jerusalem . The Budapest offices of the Associated Press and United Press were manned by Hungarian nationals ; the only outside correspondent was Canadian-born John MacCormac of The New . York Times Vienna bureau . As for Israel , no American newspaper , radio network or news-magazine considered'it worthwhile to station an American full-time correspondent there . Does this indicate that we do not have enough foreign correspondents abroad ? Or that the correspondents we do have are incompetent ? Or that the news agencies are so involved in selling their news services abroad that they have n't the time or desire to dig for information ? A professorial lint-picker , culling our press , could easily find enough material to answer all the foregoing questions in the affirmative , but a student of foreign reporting will find it more difficult to draw conclusions . For example , it is a simple matter to say that there are fewer newspaper correspondents abroad today than there were in the ' 20s and ' 30s . But , delving deeper , you quickly see that this is not because newspapers have closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happened is that many of the great newspapers of the past have died . I can think offhand of the Philadelphia Public Ledger , the Boston Transcript , the New York World , the New York Sioi  --  all with large foreign bureaus  --  and when they died their bureaus died with them . A cynic might conclude that the surest road to newspaper bankruptcy is to maintain a large and competent foreign staff . With the exception of the Toledo Blade , there have been no significant bureau openings abroad to balance these losses . The losses are purely a newspaper phenomenon , and do not hold for the other mass media . CBS and NBC , which had no foreign correspondents abroad in 1932 , now have larger foreign staffs than any American newspaper . Similarly , the newsmagazines , which once relied almost exclusively upon the news agencies , have expanded tremendously . And the news agencies have more than doubled the number of foreign bureaus in this same period . ON balance , there has been an increase in the number of foreign correspondents . If you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York Post , the Chicago Daily News , the Christian Science Monitor , the Chicago Tribune , the Baltimore Sun or the Toledo Blade , you are getting a full foreign service . Add to this the 200 or so newspapers subscribing to one of the news syndicates operated by one or another of these great dailies , and what you have left is the overwhelming mass of 1,500 monopoly newspapers which must rely solely upon the news agencies for foreign news . Do we have enough foreign correspondents ? I think the Israeli , Hungarian and Cairo experiences indicate that we do not have enough in the right places . We concentrate our forces in London , Paris , Rome , Bonn and Tokyo , leaving the rest of the world to the news agencies and local nationals for coverage . But what about the quality of today 's , foreign correspondents ? 473 It is a mistake to think that contemporary correspondents have turned in , their trench-coats for gray- , flannel suits and that they sit around waiting for official handouts . Barrett McGurn of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Russ Jones of the United Press , Joseph Dynan of the Associated Press , or any of the younger correspondents who have followed the lead of W. H. Stoneman , Harold Callender and Henry Wales in making foreign reporting a career and not a stepping stone to Hollywood or the lecture circuit , compare favorably with the glamorous correspondents of the ' 30s  --  the Fishers and Sheehans  --  when it comes to accuracy , initiative and courage . But to say that there are competent foreign correspondents to be found in all the media is to skirt the main issue . What about the foreign news received by the people in the thousands of Midtowns throughout the United States who rely almost entirely upon their local newspapers , radio and television stations for foreign intelligence . How well are they served ? IF THE newspaper reader in Midtown is not satisfied with the diet of foreign news in his local paper  --  and an International Press Institute survey indicates that 53 per cent are not ? he can tune in on a local newscast. * If Midtown is typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monopoly ' newspaper , one or more local non-network stations of New York 's WNEW type , as well as NBC , CBS or ABC affiliates . Here at least , the listener has a choice of news . Or has he ? At the breakfast hour , regardless of the network facilities with their world-wide array of correspondents available to him , the Midtown ' listener is likely to be tuned to the locally-originated newscasts . , The lo- *The I.P.I. Flow of the News study in 1953 indicated the following preferences in source of news : radio , 48 per cent ; newspapers , 47 per cent ; television , 24 per cent ; magazines , 10 per cent . The American survey was confined to those who read at least one newspaper daily and consequently may have a pro-newspaper bias . cal news editor ( if the station is large enough to afford one ) has incorporated a certain amount of foreign ' news in the program . The sources of these foreign items , are the same news agencies and the same bulletins which are available to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a network or not , has its own foreign staff . True , the network newscasts are serviced by large foreign staffs , and on some programs taped reports in the correspondents ' own voices may be heard regularly . But network newscasts have declined in popularity to the paint where their audiences are much smaller than for the local newscasts . ALTHOUGH television from abroad can not compete in speed with radio or , cable reports , it is a growing factor . The necessity for scoring a ten-second beat over the competition , ' the eternal bugaboo of the news agencies , is not important here . Released from this pressure , the TV foreign correspondent is able to plan integrated stories and to cooperate in the production of documentaries which are the ' modern equivalent of reporting in depth . The newspaper reader , to some degree , relies upon the news-magazines for his foreign news . But Time , Newsweek , and US News and World Report together do not reach more - than 10 per ' cent of the population , in contrast with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It all boils down to the harsh reality of today 's foreign news picture : the hard core of foreign news is still basically agency in origin . The difference between wire-service coverage and that provided by individual newspaper correspondents is best summed up by quoting from the 1957 report of the Associated Press Managing Editors Association : Both in background pieces and in spot news stories , the AP foreign file seems more inhibited and less sure-footed. ' . . . in telling the reader what it 's all about . It is as if there is a lag , with some of the foreign staff still struggling under the restrictions of a decade or so ago when the reporter was not supposed to explain the issue he was writing about , supplement it with corollary material or put it into perspective . One desk man observed this year : " A list of new cabinet members in France does not mean a thing , but an explanation of the forces they represent would . " The American news agencies are in a difficult spot . Critics judge the services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report may be a model of clarity , a synthesis of important facts relayed with almost lightning speed to thousands of clients-all over the world , but if the telegraph editor in Midtown chops it to pieces , it is AP that is accused of omissions or inaccuracies . That is the cross the news agencies must bear . TODAY , the American news agencies are directly competing in the sale of news not only with each other , but with three other international news agencies : TASS , the official Russian news agency ; AFP , a French subsidized agency , and Reuters , a British agency of the AP type . In addition , there is a national news agency operating in almost every country in which the American services gather news . In most of these countries , the American agencies either have exchange agreements with the local agency or must sell in direct competition . There is little point in discussing whether the American agencies trim their news sails to fit local winds . What we do know is that a large part of the news-agency staffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to gather news for American customers . This has a definite effect upon personnel . The foreign-bureau chief ; who rose to his position because he was a good reporter , finds himself bogged down in the mass of detail involved in selling the news service , dealing with translators and local employees , and other affairs which have little relationship to news-gathering . These pressures , in turn , are transmitted to the news-agency correspondents , who must submit or quit . ( There is no Newspaper Guild abroad to fight their battles . ) When one considers the large proportion of news-agency correspondents who move to other media operating abroad , it is apparent that they are quitting , not because they hate foreign reporting but because agencies do not provide them with enough scope . In this respect , I think that the American news-agency situation in Rome today is typical . In a five-year period , two of the American agencies have had three bureau chiefs ; the third has had two . During the same period , there has been an almost 80 per cent turnover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news agencies as monsters feeding upon our communications needs . The agencies filled the gap left by the inability , or unwillingness , of the vast majority of American newspapers and radio stations to send their own reporters abroad . The very nature of this global service requires the news agencies to be all things to all men , in essence an information " common carrier . " This service is more than adequate for performing the " bulletin " portion of communications . What iflacks is the reporting in depth which only individual  --  and independent  --  correspondents can provide . There are signs that American foreign reporting is coming of age ; news agencies are beginning to " background " the news , to emphasize interpretation . It may be that the new blood which has crept into the top management posts in all three American news agencies is already taking effect . If this surmise is correct , half the battle is won . The turnover in manpower of correspondents in the other media , which I noted in 1953 , has slowed to a normal attrition rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not a means to a different career . The rest is up to the American public . If the reader is content with bulletins instead of real information , if he is happy with radio flashes , if he is unaware of the difference between a David Lawrence analysis of foreign affairs and an on-the-spot report of a Homer Bigart , then there is , little point in having foreign cor-respondents . Radio Moscow can give the flash and George Sokolsky the interpretation  --  without wasting any ' money on cable charges . 