@@231055

Few delegates to the Tenth Inter-American Conference in Caracas last week doubted that Secretary of State John Foster Dulles could put through the U.S. program against Communism in the Americas . But in pressing his cause , Dulles ran smack into the age-old Latin American feeling against the Colossus of the North . Though the Latin statesmen for the most part could see the intellectual force of Dulles ' arguments , the fact was that deep in their hearts many of them resented such forceful U.S. leadership . Emotionally , they were prepared to cheer any David brash enough to give Goliath a symbolic kick in the pants . <P> In his opening address at Caracas , Dulles with cool logic coupled his case for joint anti-Communist measures ( " There is not a single country in this hemisphere which has not been penetrated by the apparatus of international Communism operating under orders from Moscow " ) with the prospect of U.S. economic cooperation ( more technical aid , continued Export-Import Bank loans , no price ceilings on coffee ) . The Secretary made no reference to Guatemala @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence . <P> Appeal to Bolivar . Guatemala 's Foreign Minister Guillermo Toriello , showing no such restraint , delivered a fiery counterattack , directly naming the U.S. , and made the biggest oratorical hit of the week with conference delegates . Rhetorically demanding : " What is international Communism ? " he lashed out at " imperialism " and " foreign monopolies , " then called the U.S. program " only a pretext to intervene in our internal affairs . " Toriello went on to recall " the Big Stick , the tarnished ' dollar diplomacy ' and the landing of the U.S. Marines in Latin American ports " that marked U.S.-Latin American relations in the old days before nonintervention became the U.S. doctrine . Having played his role of underdog to the hilt , Toriello wound up with a grandiloquent appeal to the Liberator Bolivar ( who lies buried in Caracas ) and won the conference 's first ovation . Argentina 's Foreign Minister rushed up to wring his hand . Said another South American delegate : " Ke said many of the things some of the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <P> Recourse to Rio . This week , with tension eased by a long weekend adjournment after Toriello 's blast , the U.S. put forward its anti-Communist resolution . The resolution provided that the republics agree that " domination or control of the political institutions of any American state by the international Communist movement . . . would constitute a threat . . . and call for appropriate action in accordance with existing treaties . " Under the 1947 Rio treaty , the American Foreign Ministers may meet and take action if two-thirds of the members of the Organization of American States decide that the political independence of an American state is affected by " an aggression which is not an armed attack . " This action could be anything from a reprimand to economic sanctions to the kind of put-out-the-fire measures that the United Nations took in Korea . But it would have to be a joint action , not a unilateral move by any country .                     