@@488258

Stevenson Narrows the Gap If Eisenhower wins the election it will be because Americans regard him as a hero and a man capable of rising above narrow party interests , because his name is familiar to everyone while Stevenson is still a comparative unknown , and because a lot of people simply want a change in Washington . The General is busy blasting the first reason into demagogic dust . On his campaign journeys he has been cleaving so close to the Republican Party line that he shifts as it shifts from one state to the next . Meanwhile Stevenson is busy making his name familiar and attaching to it associations of courage and consistency . How fan both men succeed in these activities will determine the people 's final conclusion about putting a different party in power . The one thing that can be said at this moment is that a profound change is under way . Stevenson is forging ahead ; he is getting better support from-party and independent organizations , and especially from labor . He has made notable progress in California , Nevada , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly from Eisenhower to Stevenson , who now has the active support of the influential McClatchy newspapers . Speaking from the steps of the state capitol in Sacramento , Stevenson drew an audience of 25,000 ? twice the number that had turned out to hear the General . More money is coming into the Stevenson campaign , although the financial problem is still acute . Truman 's barnstorming trip , at least in its Western phase , has been a huge popular success . Senator Morse 's switch to Stevenson has dramatized the disappointment over Eisenhower 's campaign that is permeating liberal Republican ranks . This feeling was summed up with eloquent sorrow in a recent column by Walter Lippmann , who , as of this writing , is still nominally a supporter of Ike : It would be helpful , I think , if the General would now consider the anguish . of his friends . Then he would take the risk of making at least one small public demonstration of how , as the leader of his party , he would resist pressure rather than yield to it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sustain them against the growing suspicion in the country that that man Stevenson may not only be speaking in the accentsof greatness b-ut that he may perhaps embody some of the qualities of a great American leader . Given time , Eisenhower would certainly talk himself out of the Presidency and Stevenson would talk himself into it ; but is there time for this process to gain enough momentum ? This is the question , and it is one that should spur Stevenson 's supporters to greater efforts between now and November 4 Policies Altered to Fit " Instead of taking a national position on the great national issues , " Walter Lippmann complained in the New York Herald Tribune of October 16 , General Eisenhower " has adjusted his position , state by state .. . to the demands of the local political machines . " This propensity for being all things To all men is well illustrated by the General 's attitude on public-power and valley developments . At Boise , early in his campaign , surrounded by Republican politicians hand in glove with the Idaho Power Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently , in Seattle , where local Republicans oppose plans for a Columbia River Authority , he denounced such authorities as " dictatorial super-government " and called instead for cooperation in power development between federal agencies and local utilities . In this connection he might have mentioned the very close cooperation between the Bonneville Power Administration and the Public Utility Districts which have taken over much of the power industry in the state of Washington . But no doubt he had been advised this situation was one that made the private utilities see red . In Memphis , on October 15 , the Republican candidate changed his tune and had nothing but kind words for the locally popular Tennessee Valley Authority , which he dedated " has served rural areas well and . . . helped conserve natural resources , control floods , and promote national defense . " But while he described the T. V. A. as " a great experiment " and promised if elected not to impair its effectiveness , he said it should not be regarded as a " rigid pattern for such development in other regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow . If an experiment is an admitted success , does it make sense to disreg-ard its lessons when tackling parallel problems in other areas ? The Battle of Columbia The capacity to delegate powers is said to be the mark of a great executive , but it can be carried too far . The faculty of Columbia University has apparently been able to bear with equanimity the fact that General Eisenhower has let somebody else run the institution during most of his tenure as president . The fact that ever since Chicago he has let Somebody Else run his campaign for the Presidency of the United States is one of the main counts on which some three hundred members of the faculty and staff of the university have now declared their support of Adlai Stevenson in a full-page advertisement in the New York Times . Meanwhile Dean Carl W. Ackerman , in a telegram printed in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch , has confirmed the rumor that officers of the university had been urged not to express their preferences in the Presidential race so that Columbia might not be thrust into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Silence on political issues , " he said , " is not academic freedom . Therefore I am announcing my support of Governor Stevenson . " And he went on to say that Eisenhower himself had thrust the university into politics by- using its name and property for campaign purposes . Only thirty members of the faculty have so far declared for Eisenhower , and though Columbia is not Maine , Republicans can take little comfort from this landslidefor Stevenson in the " constituency " where Eisenhower has had his first experience as a civilian executive . ? A Republican Recession ? More often than not in Presidential election years the stock market stages a pre-poll rally : this year we seem to be heading toward a pre-poll slump . For some months stock trading has been dull and slow , and although the Dow-Jones averages show only a moderate downward trend , many popular issues have fallen far below the high levels they reached earlier this year . It is probably safe to assume that a large majority of investors are Republicans , but it does not follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the contrary , stock prices seem to be dropping on the prospects that Eisenhower will win . Recently one of the best-known investment services pointed out that if the party 's campaign and program could be taken at face value , the advent of a Republican Administration would mean the release of deflationary forces . Investors were warned therefore to keep in mind the possibility of a recession which , even if it proved short and healthy , would cause a serious setback in profits and a sharp slump in stock prices . Since , generally speaking , investors have seldom " had it so good " as in the past twelve years , the approach of November 4 is causing an outbreak of schizophrenia among the well-heeled . At least one stalwart but uu-The NATION happy Republican has been overheard thinking aloud In a brokerage office : " I 'm beginning to wonder whether it is n't better to have high taxes and a high income than lower taxes and no income . " Running Mates and Their Records Senator Sparkman 's record on civil rights has provided Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic ticket . In an editorial last week the New York Herald Tribune listed Sparkman 's votes against civil-rights measures since 1937 . There were twenty-three of them and they were all negative . The record is deplorable ; certainly this journal would be the last to soft-pedal it . But when the Herald Tribune uses it to prove Governor Stevenson a hypocrite , we consider that no less deplorable . The Governor has not , as the Herald Tribune says , merely " professed " to be cmsading for civil rights . He has gone into the South and defended the party pledge on civil rights before hostile audiences , and for his courage forfeited the support of prominent Southern Democrats . If this is hypocrisy , we wish General Eisenhower had more of the same brand . As for Sparkman , his sins are those he was born and bred to . Perhaps he can expiate them if he has a chance to serve as Vice-President under Stevenson . But he has virtues as well , and they shine with a brilliant luster when you compare him with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take a few sample votes in the Eighty-second Congress : Aid to India : Sparkman , yes ; Nixon , no . Limit spending for Point 4 : Sparkman , no ; Nixon , yes . Control meat prices : Sparkman , yes ; Nixon , no . More public housing : Sparkman , yes ; Nixon , no . Reorganize Internal Revenue Bureau : Sparkman , yes ; Nixon , no . Aid to medical schools : Sparkman , yes ; Nixon no . Amend the McCarran Immigration Act : Sparkman , yes ; Nixon , no . Override the President 's veto of McCarran act : ' Sparkman , no ; Nixon , yes . Franco-American Aid Controversy M. Pinay was lucky : the incident created by our refusal to grant the $650,000,000 in aid upon which he had counted to balance his ' midget for 1953 turned out to be his political salvation . He had been uneasy about the reconvening of the National Assembly , knowing that during the recess members had grown extremely impatient with the " soft " policy toward Washington and Bonn attributed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multiplying . In that difficult hour American diplomacy came to the Premier 's rescue . Along with a formal letter from Washington advising the French government that it could not expect the full sum of $650,000,000 , Ambassador James C. , unn handed to M. Gaillard , Under Secretary of State , a communication never intended for French official eyes . In effect it stated that the french government would have to increase its aramament budget if it wanted more United States aid . M. Pinay 's crisp rejection of this note momentarily deflected the storm brewing in the Assembly and made him almost a national hero . A few days later , however , Edouard Herriot 's sensational criticism of the European Army Treaty confronted the Premier with new difficulties . y announcing that he opposes changes in the treaty as proposed by Herriot and his friends , M. Pinay is heading toward a serious crisis . Behind it lies not only the fear of Germany but the strain on the French people caused by the effort to carry out a program of rearmament beyond their strength . Readers will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French official of the real factors underlying the tension in the Franco-American " misalliance . " American-Trained Guerrillas ? As if feeling against Germany 's rearmament were not strong enough already , especially in France , the revelation by Minister President August Zinn of Hesse that German guerrillas have been organized by the United States high command has provided the opposition with fresh arguments . Herr Zinn toia a stunned legislature that American officerS , at a secret camp in the Odenwald , had trained members of the neosNazi German Youth Association for action in the event of a Russian invasion . Although the group was dissolved a month or two ago , German police rounded up some of its leaders and seized lists of persons destined for liquidation when the Russians arrived . Among them were a few Communists and a much larger number of Socialists , including Erich 011enhauer , who succeeded Schumacher as party leader ; s Max Brauer , - mayor of Hamburg ; Heinrich Zinnkann , Interior Minister of Hesse . So far no statement has come out of Washington , but an official explanation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good one . A Year of Tory Rule jUST a year ago enough British voters decided they " wanted a change " to give the Tory party a slender majority in the Commons and send Mr , Churchill back to Downing Street . Today , opinion polls indicate , a new election would have a very different result . Large numbers of those who switched to the Tories last year have already decided that they haVe " had enough . " For although the changes achieved by the Churchill regime have been less horrific than Labor supporters feared , they have alienated many independents without doing much to cheer the Tory regulars . Food supplies in Britain now are less plentiful and more expensive than - they were a year ago . The total number of unemployed is not much greater , but path time is far more prevalent . That " bonfire of controls " forecast by Tory orators has proved a smoldering fire , giving no warmth to the champions of " economic freedom . " The income-tax burden has been slightly reduced and some social-security payments have been increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compensation for the rise in the cost of living brought about by drastic reduction of the food subsidies . The Tories can hardly be blim  --  d- for continued austerity in Britain ; in fact , it does them credit , for lessened austerity in Britain 's present straightened circumstances could not mean a larger- total of consumers ' goods but merely a less equal distribution . The Tories were at fault , however , for promising at the last election more than they could possibly perform . Now they are losing the voters they won by false pretenses . A year ago it was plain enough that whichever party was returned to power in Britain its paramount task would be to cope with the balance-of-payments crisis that was threatening the country with bankruptcy  --  a task which necessarily precluded any relaxation of austerity . The Tories are now claiming credit , not unjustifiably , for bringing this situation under control . Since last March the drain on the sterling area 's gold and dollar reserves has been stopped . Moreover , in the first half of this year Britain has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 , excluding American aid , in its international trading accounts , which compares with a deficit of ? 394,000,000 In the second half of 1951 . These results have been made possible by a sharp reduction of dollar imports by both Britain and other countries in the sterling area . In addition , Britain has not only expanded exports to a moderate extent but enjoyed an improvement in its terms of trade . That is to say , import prices have declined while export prices have risen , so that a given volume of exports pays for a larger amount of imports than it did a year ago . Although the immediate crisis has been eased , Britair 's external financial problem Is by no means solved . Limitation of imports may be a necessary expedient , but it is a most unsatisfactory one , particularly for a country whose standard of living depends on its capacity to import . The only tolerable solution for the problem is a vast expansion of exports , something which is very hard to achieve in a world market that has been severely restricted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market Britain is meeting increasingly stiff competition from Germany and Japan , countries whose need to export is no less than its own . Consequently it is of great importance for Britain to hold down its internal price level . The Chancellor of the Exchequer , R. A. Butler , daims that as a result of Tory policies the internal - situation is " a good deal less inflationary than a year ago , " while " unwise deflation " has been avoided . In a recent speech to London bankers he noted four signs of reduced strain . There had been , he said , a 4 per cent decline in personal spending this year , an improvement in labor mobility , a slackening in the rate of increase of wages and prices compared with 1951 , and a substantial fall in the volume of private credit . However , as the London financial press has been emphasizing , the anti-inflationary effects of the decline in - private credit have been offset this year by-government borrowing from the banks which add indirectly to the total supply of money . Despite much talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharply in the first six months of the current fiscal year , while revenue has fallen slightly . As a result , the deficit on September 30 was nearly double that of a year before . Mr. Butler claims that this imbalance will shortly be corrected . Defense expenditures , he says , are being more evenly spread this year than last , and revenue from new taxes will soon begin to appear in the national accounts . But while the deficit will doubtless be trimmed in the next six months , it is not likely that the surplus for which Mr. Butler budgeted last spring will be achieved . The Tory party conference a few days ago passed by a large majority a resolution declaring that " public expenditure has increased , is increasing , and ought to be diminished . " In the course of the debate Richard Law , M. P. , said : " Continued rise in public expenditure is causing bewilderment among people who supported the party at the last electiOn . " Replying , Mr. Butler pointed out that " big economies could only be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! the conservative British press is saying ; but when are we going to get the changes in policy ? There is the rub . In Britain there are only two possibilities of really large economies  --  wholesale slashing of the-social services or drastic reduction of the defense program , That is a choice the Tory government  --  and the leaders of the Labor opposition as well  --  still refuse to face . The NATION                     