@@493799

THE REVOLUTION that is torment-change . She needs consumers ' goods ing Asia was aimed at economic misery to permit a diversion of domestic man and foreign rule . Today these two aspects of the rev ? olution are in conflict with each other . Formerly , eco ? nomic misery was blamed on the imperialist power ; na ? tional independence would end it once and for all . Now , increasing misery is the responsibility of the new govern ? ments of Asia . They must turn to the imperialists for aid . The need for aid starts with technical assistance to maintain the services established in colonial days , and to do all that the colonial powers failed to do . Health is only one problem . The health needs of the Asian village are analyzed in a recent survey by a private agency , the Pennsalt Health and Agriculture Service . " Various doctors advised that the death rate for chil ? dren was very high due in large part to malaria , infant diarrhea , typhoid and many other infections . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many villages visited it was noted that most of the chil ? dren who were too small to fan off the flies had flies gathered on their faces and bodies , especially on areas where open sores appeared . One particularly significant aspect was the presence of flies crawling on nursing mothers and their infants during feeding . " Flies were found to breed in the manure piles in the stables , in the human feces scattered throughout the villages and in the pads of manure which were being dried to be used as fuel . " This survey happens to describe conditions in Iran . But ' the same words would describe any one of four million villages throughout Asia and in all the under ? developed areas where technical assistance is urgently needed today . Asia 's second need is for short-range economic aid , to start rehabilitation in war-torn areas , and to combat inflation . The most dangerous aspect of inflation is ris ? ing food prices . The immediate cause of rising food prices is speculation and hoarding . A million tons of rice and grain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and released by governments whenever speculation de'velops , would lower food prices and help to bring inflation under control . Asia 's third need is for capital . She needs equip ? ment to raise industrial production . She needs raw ma ? terials for use in plants now idle , or restricted to one shift , because of shortages caused by lack of foreign ex power to the expansion of industrial capacity without further reducing living standards . The need is urgent . " The economic situation in Southeast Asia , " according to an Indian economist , N. V. Sovani , " has become so acute that without a bold and drastic attack on the situa ? tion there is almost a certainty that the whole area will go the way of China . " This bold attack must be led by the peoples of Asia . But it may never develop without the stimulus of for ? eign aid . Diplomats , civil servants , industrialists and labor leaders in Asia all insist , in public or in private , that foreign aid is necessary . Our Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially aid the economies of Indonesia , Malaya , Thailand and Ceylon . But it adds that India can not survive without aid . Gray concludes that about $13 billion in loans and grants is needed each year for the underdeveloped areas . India alone needs $200 million a year for five years to maintain minimum safe stand ? ards of living . Private enterprise is not going to invest one-tenth of these sums overseas when the average rate of profit is 15 percent at home . And it is not welcome . Asians are suspicious of private investment , fearing that it will strengthen the political power of their own irresponsible capitalists , and wanting to strengthen their own strug ? gling governments instead . The solution they seek , as Sovani states , is " the reorientation of the Point Four pro ? gram along the.lines of the Marshall Plan . " Tel foreign aid means foreign interference . Technical assistance at once raises explosive religious , social and political issues . Short-range aid involves the West in domestic programs to combat inflation . Above all a Marshall Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia understand this . Sovani adds , " In some respects the Plan will have to go much further than the Marshall Plan . . . It will be imperative for the US to give the capital equipment and the technical per ? sonnel , to provide the consumers ' goods to ease the strain of absorption , to plan the program more directly than in Europe and to take a more active part in the actual execution of plans . . . In addition economic aid can succeed only if it is preceded by political and military settlements and by social reforms . The US , for example , is certainly not ? going to give up needed supplies to finance either a trade war or a military conflict between India and Pakistan . Sovani concedes that in South Asia a wild armaments race , and a drive to develop competitive light industries is forcing economic nationalism and a diversion of needed resources . He concludes that : " The US will have to combat these tendencies by a guarantee against mutual and outside aggression . . . . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also help to ease growing tensions in these plural societies . " For these reasons , revolt against misery in Asia ends in reliance on foreign governments for aid . There it clashes with the revolt against foreign rule . For this revolt is still boiling in Asia . It may not express itself in open resentment of the former colonial powers . In fact in India , Pakistan and Ceylon there is a kind of patronizing sympathy for Great Britain as America 's newest colonial possession . There is no widespread hatred of Americans comparable to the feelings stirred up by Communists in industrial France and Northern Italy . But there are tensions that place limits on the help that Asians are willing to accept , even if aid is available . These tensions can not be overcome until they are understood . And mutual understanding , is hard to achieve . Subject peoples are trained to conceal their true feelings . And we are not famous for patience and discernment . An American accused of every crass and wicked motive tends to be so hurt and outraged by these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they serve to conceal . I was helped , in Delhi , when after weeks spent with high-minded intellectuals I was visited by two reporters from a small Hindustani paper . I complained to them about Nehru 's sanctimonious attitude on Korea . They quickly interrupted me . " You must never pay too much attention to what our leaders sa'y , " they insisted . " You must ask why they say it . " " Our leaders may express their own convictions , " they added . " But their words are significant only because they corresponcho our unspoken desires . On Korea our leaders elevate to terms of morality and principle our sympathy for the North Koreans , our fear of becoming involved on your side , our belief that if Indian soldiers are to fight they should fight Pakistan . " They asked : " Is not your country the same at heart ? " For these reasons , an attempt to catalogue the under ? lying tensions between Asia and the West is a dangerous but worthwhile task . They seem to derive in part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of interest . The fear of loss of prestige . British Socialists after lifetimes spent in damning capitalism choke in defend ? ing capitalist America . Liberals in the US hate to admit that they flirted with Communism too long . In the same way the inertia of the national revolution in Asia is still strong . Men who rose to power by arousing ardent na ? tionalism find it humiliating to admit that independence solves few problems , and to plead for aid from nations they thrust aside . The fear of loss of sovereignty . National sovereignty , for most of Asia , is five years old or less . Naturally it is guarded with passion against all encroachments . No colonial power can regain politically the power that Asia has won by political action . But Asians fear that economic control may transfer to America the dominat ? ing role that the colonial powers lost . Political leaders , in search of issues , work naturally on these fears , although at the same time they welcome pressures if they are applied on the right side . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary of the Indian Socialist Party . By night he warned mass meetings to guard against the twin evils of Soviet and US imperialism . By day he insisted that US aid should be given to India , Pakistan , Burma and Ceylon but only on condition that they form a South Asian federation with free trade and a single armed force . The fear of foreign involvement . The conflicts within Asia are more bitter than those between Asia and the USSR . The domestic problems of Asian governments are overwhelming . They are hard pressed in peace time . They know that like Nationalist China they will be de ? stroyed by involvement in a Third World War . They can contribute little in wartime . They intend to keep out of the world war they see approaching . They be ? lieve , with good reason , that the West sees them as pawns rather than peoples , and is concerned not with their welfare but with their contribution to the welfare of the West . The Western nations may protest that the struggle against Communism is world-wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not anti-Communist . They are not finally committed , for democracy or against the police state . And lacking modern armies and stable economies they are certainly not going to provoke the USSR . They have not experienced direct pressures from the USSR . They have been subjected to direct pressures from the West . Those are the pressures they recognize and resist . Beyond these fears there are sev ? eral sources of antipathy . Psychological antipathy . The basis of nationalism is pride . In newly-formed nations pride is inflamed . Nothing wounds national pride more than to depend on the charity of another nation . For that reason anti-American feeling was strong in Britain in 1946 . For the same reason Asians resent having to lean on the US today . They prefer to believe that we are selfish and ruthless rather than to admit that they depend on our generosity and goodwill . Economic antipathy . All those who thrive on super ? stition and misery in Asia fear the intrusion of a nation committed to science and modern technology . And with some reason . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with those of a slowly turning economy the results are bound to be painful . For ex ? ample , we assume that technical assistance is welcomed in Asia . On the contrary the Indonesians do not want it on the terms that it is offered . A press made for Detroit is useless in Malaya . In Pakistan and India wells are infested and roads are worn down , yet there is a high uncmployment rate among graduates of MIT . In addition , the tensions between haves and have-nots are bitter and cause resentment of the US . In contrast Asians sympathize with Russia as a have-not nation . Racial antipathy . Resentment against attitudes of white superiority is a natural and bitter feeling in Asia , perpetuated by the treatment of Indians and Moslems in Africa , and by continued prejudices of Westerners in Asia . It is not openly discussed . But every attack on the status of the Negro in America is fully reported throughout the press of Asia . Partly the emphasis on discrimination overseas represents a transfer of guilt . **Indignation at South Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian magazine Thought declared , " has always been keener with us than any concern at the age-old and continuing practice of untouchability in our own midst . " Cultural antipathy . The traditional line drawn be ? tween the mysticism of Asia and the materialism of the West is misleading . " The East in its great beginnings in India and China , " as the Eastern Economist argues , . , was scientific and rational ; the West taking its religions from the East , was mystical and religious even in the throes of the Renaissance . " The US is an individualist rather than a materialist nation today , and the crying need of Asia is for a rise in material standards . At the same time there are deepseated sources of cultural antipathy between Asia and the US . Nehru cer ? tainly feels that American culture is shallow , mechanistic and mass-produced . He distrusts a society in which the man of learning is held in such contempt , and the man of wealth can purchase political power with so much ease . He senses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immense power thrust upon them . The man of peace is still the great man of Asia . The way to peace is conciliation and deals made behind the scenes . Asians fear our apparent willingness to accept a Third World War . Above all they fear our methods of waging war . Survival has been the first objective of the individual in Asia . As long as the common man could shut himself in his house through wars and revolu ? tions , it did not greatly matter which side in a succession of foreign and domestic tyrants oppressed him . The B29 , blasting away the house itself , has given him a new sense of insecurity . The Communists , of course , have squeezed the last drop of political benefit from their mechanical inability to match the strategic air power of the West , and its atom bomb . Beyond these antipathies are the misunderstandings concerning the West , and above all , the US . There is the quaint notion of the US hanging suspended in the 19th century , with Adam Smith in one hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world to laissez-faire capitalism . There is the ugly notion of the US as a country thirsting for war . There are three persistent illusions that lead Asians to believe that US aid can be taken for granted and public opinion in the West safely ignored . The fuss illusion is sired by Marxism and teaches that since capitalist nations are bedevilled by falling profits , * idle capacity and mass unemployment , they must export their capital to foreign nations gracious enough , or fool ? hardy enough , to accept it . The second illusion is sired by Hollywood , and teaches that the US is a huge storehouse of unlimited wealth where at the twist of a spigot goods pour out in such profusion that the most miserly nation would not be ? grudge giving peoples overseas all that they need . The third illusion is sired by our Government and our press . It teaches Asia that the US is gripped by such an unreasoning hysteria that if any nation conjures up an apparition of Communism we shall insist that it accept a blank check on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that create dangerous optimism and destructive fear , just as false complacency is created in America by Asian diplomats who draw a 1- .. nares veil across the crying needs of their peoples . . Beyond these misunderstandings are genuine conflicts of interest between Asia and the West . They have been significant . Efforts to organize Asian neutrality , to keep the UN as an organization to which neutrals can safely belong by restricting its anti-aggression role , and to play balance-of-power politics by backing Communism as the weaker side in the world struggle , have run counter to legitimate Western aims . Now as Soviet pressures bear down on Asia the values that we share become fu more important than the conflicts and fears that divide us . Our deepest antagonisms must become superficial in comparison to the overriding determination of all inde ? pendent peoples not to be crushed in the Soviet mill .                     