@@487583

A FOUNTAIN plays gently outside the sculptured. , entrance to one of the most impressive buildings in Johannesburg , the headquarters of the Anglo-American Corporation of South Africa . Within these walls projects are planned that dominate the lives of countless people between Cape Town and the Congo Along with other financial groups , all organized in the Chamber of Mines , the corporation controls the production of gold , copper , and various other minerals , including uranium . Some 300,000 African laborer 's work in the mines of the Rand , several thousand feet underground . This enormous labor force is recruited from many areas . Less than half is drawn from the Union of South Africa , the test comes from far afield  --  from Portuguese East Africa , from Basutoland , from Rhodesia , Nyasaland , Angola , and elsewhere . The Chamber of Mines spends large sums and employs a regiment of ingenious white men to insure that the recurrent shortage of African labor never becomes really serious . The African tribesmen leave their , distant rural homes , their wives and children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the mines . No legal compulsion is applied to make them do this . They are driven by indirect measures that the public conscience can accommodate . The Africans are not allowed enough land to live on . Their reservations , overcrowded and eroded , are unresponsive to the primitive type of agriculture practiced in . them . Africans must also earn cash to ' pay their taxes . To this economic pressure is added the lure of the modern city . Wonderful tales are told of the excitement and magic that await the adventurous traveler to the golden Rand . As if to prove his very manhood , the JULIUS LENIN , a specialist on African law , teaches at the University of the Witwatersrand and is the author of " Britain 's Color Bar in Africa . " ? by Julius Lewin extent , in the Belgian Congo . But significant differences mark the three areas . In the Transvaal all but 1 per cent of the laborers ale migrants housed in compounds holding a maximum of men with a minimum of elementary human comfort . In Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their families with them and live in houses in the mining township . In the Katanga area of the Congo as many as 83 per cent are accompanied by their families In Rhodesia too the low wages were raised in 1953 , but here the increase was the result of a British economist 's arbitration , following a three weeks ' strike by the African labor union . A dozen years earlier the idea that African tribesmen could organize a union had been laughed at . Legal obstacles were removed after 1940 when the British House of Commons inserted in the Colonial Development and Welfare Act a clause forbidding financial aid to a colony unless its laws allowed African trade unions to function . The black miners , given the opportunity and some assistance , were not slow to follow the example of the white miners , long organized in their own exclusive union of skilled men . This latter union had never been able to prevent the black miners in Rhodesia from taking part in semiskilled work , like blasting and drilling , as the parent white union on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigid color bar had from the beginning prevented black men from doing the best-paid types of work . These are still reserved for white immigrants to the colony from South Africa and Southern Rhodesia . THE WHOLE system of migrant labor is wasteful and destructive of human energies and aspirations . It plays havoc with the social structure of the tribes deeply affected by it . In war time any white community soon feels the absence of a small proportion of husbands , fathers , and sons . In Africa , year after year , the percentage of able-bodied men away from the tribe has risen ; it has reached 43 in parts of Nyasaland and 70 in many parts of South Africa . The Belgians were the first to think of putting a limit to the proportion of absentees . A generation ago , after careful inquiries , they set the figure at 10 per cent of adult men . Whether migration ever has been or can be- kept within such limits may well be doubted . Under present circumstances , no one would propose to limit migration by law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They would starve because-their lands often can not produce enough to keep them alive , let alone provide a surplus for sale . The absence of the men leaves agriculture to women- and children and to the aged and infirm . When the men do return home , it is to rest and recuperate before their next spell of work at the mines or in some other white employment . They are in no Mood to respond to tribal discipline or to their chief 's demands . They have learned a new freer dom , and to exercise it they are ready to abandon old customs or , at best , to observe them in perfunctory fashion . Strange ideas about morals and manners , about wealth and work , even about human rights and wrongs are brought back to the tribes when the menfolk return from the mines . But these ideas do not include new ways of cultivating the exhausted soil . IT IS THE recognizable process of industrialization , and with it urbanization , that has come to claim the best physical and mental energies in south-central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the early predatory stage in which wealth accumulates and men decay . The African gets only a tiny share of the tremendous wealth produced in the three rich mining areas of the Rand , the Rhodesian copper belt , and the Katanga He was formerly poor in a poor country , today he sees that he is poor in a rich country , and he wonders why he is told that poor he must remain . No less a personage than Sir Ernest Oppenheimer , chairman of the Anglo-American Corporation , has told him so in clear terms . When wages in the copper belt were forced up to an average of about 70 cents a day this year , Sir Ernest was quick to issue a warning . Admitting that with copper at its unprececientedlY high cold-war price , the mines could well afford to pay the new wage rates , he pointed out that Africans in other employment and in neighboring territor , ies were making similar demands , which were " naturally very difficult to resist . This new level is one which the present low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and which his elementary needs do not yet require . " HERE WAS a hint of the mine-owner 's constant dilemma , in which he must let " I dare not wait upon I would . " He would like to employ Africans in the whole range of semi-skilled and even skilled work . He knows how quickly even untutored Africans learn to use modern tools and machines . He knows , too , that Africans could , before very Long , displace the more highly paid white workers at most of their jobs . The color bar in industry - was nowhere introduced by the desire of employers . It is supported on the Rand by law and in Rhodesia by an agreement made under pressure of the white union . Recently there have been indications in the copper belt that some mine-ownerswant to relax the color bar . The British Colonial Office has had this aim in mind since 1948 when the Dalgleish commission of inquiry showed how it could be gkadually achieved . But like all mineoivners Sir Ernest remembers vividly what happened on the Rand in 1922 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to employ fewer whites and more blacks . The first result was a small civil war that shook South Africa to its very base The second result was the defeat of Smuts 's party at the polls and the advent of a new government formed by a pact between the Afrikaner Nationalists and the white Labor Party , both grimly determined to defend white supremacy in industry as in politics . From that time the problem and the politicians ' way of handling it have remained unchanged . The toughest element in the whole pattern of white supremacy is the fact that a racial attitude supports an economic case that is not on the face of it unconvincing when it is known how long the white workers had to struggle to secure the standards of living they now refuse to share with black workers . Today the white societies in South Africa and Rhodesia are ready to rally round the cause , of the white miners whenever it is menaced by the mine-owners . Mining policy might have taken a different course , certainly in the copper belt , where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made on the Rand in the 1890 's . The color bar in Rhodesia was almost surreptitious in its operation until in 1940 the second serious labor disturbances exposed it as a. , major source of African grievance . Thereafter procrastination lost more than one opportunity : a firm policy could have exiled Jim Crow and kept him in his home south of the Zambesi . Now Britain has . surrendered its trust to the new self-governing Rhodesian Federation , which is dominated by white politicians ; and already a " Confederate Party " is contesting elections on a policy indistinguishable from Malan 's held . The Belgians have arranged these things with somewhat better foresight . They have never encouraged white settlement in the Congo ; and they have always limited the political power of those white residents whose presence industry and trade require . Consequently , their copper Anines have never felt the pres- , sure of a white society insistently proclaiming its supremacy in " a white man 's country . " The Katanga mines have thus been free to employ Africans in a wider range of skilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mining areas . The Belgians have not avoided all the harm done by migrant labor , but they perceived the danger at an early stage and took steps to diminish it . They also take regular steps to protect Africans from contamination by democratic ideas , and the Roman Catholic church-is always at hand to control the education of Africans . It may be too late now for any external agency to make an impact on the established habits of South Africa and Rhodesia in normal circumstances . The mining industry has long defended itself with ease against critics at home and abroad . The International Labor Office produced a series of conventions setting minimum standards over the whole field of contract labor . Yet Britain , Belgium , and South Africa have stood alone and unashamed before the United Nations , insisting on their need to retain imprisonment and whipping to enforce contracts against the numerous deserting migrant laborers . Even when I. L. a standards halie been reluctantly accepted in theory , they have made small practical difference to African situations . Belgium may enjoy a superior reputation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has displayed exceptional anxiety to escape the criticism of colonial policy that the international trusteeship system allows . - YET CHANGE does come . Since the Africans ' own efforts to bring it about are still weak , change comes mainly through sheer necessity , such as the need to overcome the shortage of labor . The post-war growth of industry and Lade generally is slowly compelling the mines to accept the stabilization of their labor and to reduce , however reluctantly , their dependence on migrants . Making a virtue of this anticipated necessity , the Anglo-American Corporation wanted recently to build quarters for married men in the new goldfields opening up in the Orange Free State . At present , however , Dr. Verwoerd , Minister of Native Affairs in Dr. Malan 's Cabinet , is hostile to the idea . He is afraid that African workers living permanently in urban areas will learn too much too quickly . If wise policies are not yet- pursued in African mining areas , it is not for want of knowledge or direction Twenty years ago , when the copper belt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included two Americans , described the social problems connected with this economic development . In 1946 the Labor government 's Colonial Office in London issued a White Paper on colonial mining policy , full of admirable sentiments : " The rate of development and exploitation should-have regard to social as well as economic considerations . . . Provision should be made for the indigenous people to fit themselves for the highest technical and - administrative posts . . . An adequate share of the proceeds of mining should be retained in a colony " Public ownership of mineral rights and royalties should be properly safeguarded . But these noble principles have rarely , if ever , received from colonial governments and mining corporations more than the tribute of a smile  --  or a shudder . The White Paper has been buried and forgotten . No more than other people will Africans be handed human rights and fundamental freedoms bn a platter by benevolent foreign rulers and investors . World opinion can no doubt play its part , but in the long run the world helps those who help themselves . The hopeful fact- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for progress and African feet have begun to stumble along the hard , winding road- that leads to the summit where racial freedom and social justice are plainly visible                     