@@494490

WHEN a letter came from the State Department , February 14 , 1952 , saying that Professor Linus Carl Pauling could not have a passport , he could not believe it . But there it was , neat and official , signed " Sincerely yours , R. B. Shipley , Chief , Passport Division " and stating that the passport fee of $9 would be returned at a later date . Professor Pauling required a passport to attend a sym ? posium in his honor in London , arranged by the Royal Society to hear him describe his latest discoveries regard ing the complex mole ? cular combinations that make up the human body . The matter is fun ? damental to all biology and medicine involving proteins in particular , and molecules whose mysterious arrangements of their 10,000 atoms determine their proper ? ties . Discoveries by Paul ? ing and his associates considered so important that the Royal Society called its special meeting . Now the State Department forbade him to go . " I could n't believe it had really taken place ! " observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who habitually wears a subdued smile . There was some reason for his surprise . A native-born Oregonian , of native-born parents , 33 years a teacher at the California Institute of Technology , Pauling had received Navy and Army certificates for war work and the Presidential Medal for Merit , the highest award given to civilians . The certificate accompanying the medal recounted discoveries in an astonishingly wide field : one , " used wherever investigation of rocket power is under way " ; another , an " oxygen deficiency indicator for subs and aircraft " ; still another , " a substitute for human serum . " Every field was highly classified . Pauling was accustomed to going abroad several times , a year to keep in touch with other top research men who were peering , like him , across scientific frontiers into the unknown . Generally on such trips he ' picked up an honorary degree or two . He is n't quite sure but thinks he now has 14 honorary ' degrees : " I am Doctor to the 14th power , " he explains . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Pauling first wrote directly to President Truman . The latter had given him his Medal for Merit which marked the proudest moment of his life . Now the same govern ? ment did not trust him to go abroad . Truman 's Correspondence Secretary William Hassett wrote back a month later saying the matter was up to the State Department . So Pauling wrote the Department . By instinct he included the fact that he was then under attack by Russian scientists . Pkuling 's name is associated with something called " the theory of resonance . " A metaphysical storm was then sweeping the Russian scientific world with one group of chemists accusing their fellows of slavishly following Pauling ? " an idealistic representative of the capitalist West . " The war paralleled the earlier Lysenko struggle in genetics . Great scientists are odd fish endlessly seeking out first causes . Pauling , not unlike . Einstein , became involved with suspect groups all over the lot . He was a sponsor of several organizations listed by the Attorney General not only in the field of foreign policy but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society would obvi ? ously abolish all great scientists if only it could learn to get on without them . Pauling had strong opinions and was not particular before what audiences he spoke . On the other hand he was stirred that Russian scientists discussed the Theory of Resonance in terms of dialectical materialism . " I am a searcher after truth , " he says . " I do n't think I know what truth is . But if I talk and other people talk and work , then I think we get closer . to discovering truth . " This attitude might have appealed to Einstein ? but Einstein never applied for a passport . hurried to Washington with his wife . There were two weeks to go . Professor Pauling remembers without animus that he signed an affidavit saying that he was not a Communist . He can not recall a time when he came to WashIngton in recent years without being asked . to sign such a docu ? ment . At a conference with Mrs. Shipley 's superior , Di ' rector Boykin of the Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Scott McLeod ) , the latter asked why he had n't submitted evidence rebutting the charges against him ? " But no charges have been made , " replied Pa.uling innocently . " How can I rebut them ? " Boykin suggested that they talk about what Pauling might submit . The scientist got together what evidence he could at short notice and waited . He could not believe the ban would hold . On April 28 there was still time to catch the transatlantic plane leaving New . York at 6 p.m . He waited in the office of Dr. Detlev Bronk , . President of the National Academy of Sciences . At 5 p.m. when Mrs. Shipley called , she had been sustained in her ban by Under-Secretary of State Hurnelsine . The Paulings caught the plane back to Pasadena . He cabled London simply that he had not been issued a passport . He made no other comment . On May 5 , Sir Robert Robinson , President of the Royal Society , wrote one of those quiet letters to The Times which sometimes cause a stir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been prevented by his govern ? ment from coming . Then the fat was in the fire . OOKING back on it now Pauling sadly observes that he felt the incident " damaged " the United States . He does not like to dwell on it . But a sample of the feel ? ing in scientific circles was a letter signed by all the full professors of the Institute of Nuclear Physics at the University of Chicago except one who was not a citizen . The list included Enrico Fermi , Edward Teller , Willard F. Libby ( one of the Atomic Energy Commissioners at the time ) and in fact the majority of thOse who -were-responsible for the development of the A-bomb and H-bomb . They spoke deprecatingly of Pauling 's political views . But most scientists . of America , they wrote , , - felt they knew Linus Pauling " and those who knew him intimately had unquestioned faith in his - integrity and sincerity and . , . . his essential loyalty to the United States . " To withdraw his passport , they said , without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal was shocking . " What harm , what information , what tales could ' Professor Panting take with him to England , even were he so inclined , that can compare in damage to the in- , credible advertisements that this country forbidsone of its ilhistrious citizens to travel ? " This was Chapter One of the Pauling story . Oregon Sen. Wayne Morse made a . couple , of speeches in the Senate condemning the action , ? arid Pa.uling received morei foregn nvtations than ever . Maybe , some thought of him as a martyr , but more practically they wanted to hear at first hand how he and his group were pushing back the frontiers of human knowledge . In Paris he was chosen honorary president of a Symposium on the Biogenesis ' of Proteins of the International Congress in Biochemistry , and England invited him to address the Cambridge University . Faraday Society . So in July , 1952 , Pauling again applied for a passport . The passport was issued . This experience was now repeated four times . Pauling applied for passport validation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last moment ? often on the very day when the plane was to leave , by which time a man of weaker nerve might have called the whole trip off . The validation usually came after Pauling had signed a new statement that he was n't a Communist . ( The Paris-Cambridge trip was made conditional upon his signing such an affidavit. ; not " another affidavit " but " an affi ? davit . " ) The passport validation was never for the usual two years ' unrestricted travel , but for limited periods of , one or two months and only to specific countries . He went to Brussels in February , 1953 , to attend the Solvag Congress in Chemistry ; he visited German medical schools in May for the Unitarian Service Committee and also to give the principal address at an international conference of chemists at StOckholm . On September 11 , 1953 , Pauling again wrote the State Department . He had accepted a more ambitious series of invitations , in Israel . before the Weitzman Institute , in Athens for a week 's lectures at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government ) to address the Indian Science Congress Association and participate with Nehru in delicating a new science laboratory , and on to Thailand and Japan . The invitations came to Pauling from governments which sought to learn from , and to honor , the great scientist . He wanted to get the trip settled early , out of consideration for his hosts . NO final word had come by Decemb6r 14 , when he telephoned and telegraphed again ( his 38th communication with the State Department according to his methodical scientific notation ) . Time was once more urgent . He flew to New York where he was informed orally that validation was re- , fused , He went to Washington and hired a lawyer . It was now December 22 ; and he had hoped to be in Jerusalem by Christmas . He cabled Athens cancelling his proposed week of lectures , then as proceedings dragged on cancelled his lectures in Jerusalem . It hurt him to do this because he knew no substitute lecturer could be found at the last moment and ? because he hated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambassador . He remained doggedly mild . He signed non-Communist affidavits as fast as they were presented to him . " I was doing my best to be polite , " he told the Hen nings Subcommittee on ConstitUtional Rights before whom he testified last week , " in fact ? I was polite : I did anything that anybody in the State Department ? Mrs. Shipley or anyone else ? ever suggested to me that I do . I was not pugnacious . I was as co-operative as pos ? sible . I am , I think , gentle by nature . " What sources of information the Passport Division tapped can only be surmised . Some hint was given in later testimony of Scott McLeod , though this did not directly deal with Pauling . To a question from Senator Hennings , McLeod admitted that anonymous attacks are now received by his department and kept if they seem " to have some substance , or the information is well-phrased . " Hennings asked McLeod what would be done with such information ? McLeod , who is a former FBI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ file and maintained there , unknown to the citizen whether the latter ever applies for a passport or not . Just how big this file of putative passport applicant " risks " is under the Shipley-McLeod regime nobody knows . Since there ' are 160 million or more Americans who may someday want to travel abroad , its possibilities are large . On January 5 , 1954 , Pauling acknowledged defeat . He had had one indeterminate hearing in Washington , was called again Dedember 31 and told no decision would be made before January 5 , and at that point de ? cided to drop the trip , so informing those governments to which he had not already cabled . He had never felt so miserable , he recalls , and his wife looked haggard . The State Department had blocked him by a process of cat-and-mouse delay without ever specifically formulat ? ing its charges or citing its informants . But the government of Iridia was persistent , so on June 7 , 1954 , Pauling sent back his passport once more with another request for validation . Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19 , in denying the application , she gave what he had waited a year and a half to get , a specific list of 24 written allegations against him . Number One , sensational under the cir ? cumstances , was that this famous professor , recipient of the Presidential Medal for Merit and internationally recognized , was " a concealed member of the Communist Party . " This Pauling flatly denied . SOme of the other allegations Pauling found true , some untrue . He filed a detailed affidavit in reply , going over each charge . Mrs. Shipley countered with her second refusal . These were the opening gambits in the game that was familiar , by this time , and subsequent moves stuck to the previous pattern . Mrs. Shipley pointed out that Pauling had the right to appeal . But now it was October again and he once more decided to give up . Mrs. Shipley ad ? dressed het last letter to him , declaring The Department has concluded on the basil Of evi dence at hand that your activities during the years fol. lowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Communist Party Line on a variety of issues , and through shifts and changes of that line . . . This seemed conclusive . ' Btit there was to be one final chapter . A month and two days after Mrs. Shipley 's concluding broadside Pauling received another letter announcing that he was winner of the 1954 Nobel Prize for chemistry . As the man who had made the greatest contribution to the world 's knowledge in his chosen sub ? ject , he was told to come to Sweden on December 10 to receive the diploma , the gold medal , and the prize of $35,066 from the royal hand of Gustaf V of Sweden . Pauling , mild and polite as always , did not lose his customary eager-Calm attitude . Another man might have struck a pose . Pauling simply wrote the Department once more explaining that he had " never been a hidden Communist or any sort of a Communist " and took the occasion to revive the request for permission to . visit Sweden India and other way-stops around the world . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before it had branded Pauling a " concealed Com ? munise ' who followed the twists and turnings of the party line . It could have stuck to its guns and let the world know that , for no mere bauble like the Nobel Prize , would it abandon its faith in the charges of anonymous informants . But other advice prevailed . The letter this time came not from Mrs. Shipley but from Charles Saltzman , Un ? der-Secretary of State , ( after the customary two weeks ' delay ) granting the full request and forwarding a pass ? port for a normal two years without restriction of place . There was no reference to earlier differences save a cryp ? tic notation that Pauling had now denied being a Com ? munist . THE STORY has one post-script The Nobel Prize Laureates picked Paiiling to respond for them to the speech of welcome given by the students of Swedish universities who traditionally enter in great procession with banners in the final ceremony . Pauling told the youths : When an old and distinguished person speaks to you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not believe hitia . Never put trust in ' anything but your , own intellect . . . . The younger generation finds out what was wrong among the things their elders said So you Must alWays be skeptical ? always think for yourself . You will find some great problems to solve . The greatest of all these is the problem of peace and war . I believe that this problem has been solved by the Hydrogen Bomb ? that there will never be a world war . The knowledge that a world war would . mean worldwide destruction , perhaps the end of civilization , will surely now lead to permanent ' peace . Those were Pauling 's words ' to the students and the essence of what he has preached for 10 years ? eloquence from the lips of the winner of a Nobel Prize but darkly suspect in the files of the Passport Division of the US State Department .                     