@@242229

In Canterbury 's 700-year-old cathedral , more than 300 bishops of the Anglican Communion knelt five rows deep on a crimson carpet to receive the blessing of the Archbishop of Canterbury . Bowed under the weight of his damask robes and overshadowed by a huge silver cross , Geoffrey Francis Fisher intoned : " We humbly beseech thee that thy Holy Spirit may lead into truth thy servants the bishops gathered together in thy name . Grant them grace to think and do such things as shall most tend to thy glory and the good of thy holy church . " Thus last week opened the ninth ( since 1867 ) Lambeth Conference , which every decade brings together the world 's Anglican bishops . This year 's attendance : 72 Church of England bishops from Great Britain , 90 Episcopal bishops from the U.S. , and the remainder from the Anglican Communion throughout the world . <P> Before last week 's opening service began , the invited dignitaries from other churches entered the cathedral in solemn procession-among them Alexandrian Archimandrite Parthenios Coinidis , Armenian Bishop Bessak Toumayan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pitirim of Minsk ( Cyprus ' Archbishop Makarios had been invited by Dr. Fisher , but to everyone 's relief failed to turn up ) . Then came the overseas bishops of Canterbury 's jurisdiction-the Anglican colonies and provinces . The procession showed the Anglicans ' racial diversity . Among 32 members of mission dioceses , there were nine black bishops from West Africa , four Japanese bishops , eight from India-Pakistan-Ceylon , a Maori from New Zealand . <P> Down to Work . After a social series of garden parties , tea parties and a boat trip on the Thames , the bishops this week will move into the raftered hall of London 's red-turreted Lambeth Palace ( the Archbishop of Canterbury 's residence ) and buckle down to work . Though the conference , strictly closed to outsiders , has no official , binding force on the Anglican churches , the bishops know that their decisions will carry considerable weight . <P> First topic on their agenda : THE HOLY BIBLE , ITS AUTHORITY AND MESSAGE . So far has the pendulum swung from literalist respect for the authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some professing Christians are tending to look upon it as a collection of fairy stories . To combat this tendency , the bishops hope to educate the public to interpret Biblical statements and events in terms of the thought forms of the people who wrote the Scripture down . Said one bishop : " The Bible must n't be thought of as the Koran is thought of . It has n't got the personal authority of the word of Mohammed behind it , but its every word is illuminated by the Holy Spirit . This idea we must get across once again , and if we can , people may understand that the Bible can help them deal with many of today 's problems by guiding them in the way the problems should be approached . "                     