@@488249

THE election campaign now drawing to a close has been monumentally irrelevant , inept , and evasive . It is as if both major parties had initialed a secret protocol to exclude the major issues . Thunderous debates have echoed across the country over such questions as whether a candidate for sheriff in Cook County , Illinois , once said that " police officers have a disproportionate number of wives that were former prostitutes , " the views of Charles E. Wilson on bird dogs versus kennel dogs , and whether the Adelaide Case who once had a nervous breakdown is the same Adelaide Case who once sipped cocktails for Spain . The tendency to evade issues has been reflected , too , in the choice of candidates . In several key Senatorial campaigns , voters have been presented with candidates neither of whom , from any coherent liberal point of view , represents a desirable choice . In others , ' such as those in New Jersey and Kentucky , the margin of preference is microscopically thin . In only isolated instances , as in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's in Colorado , do liberals have.a wholly admirable candidate to support for the United States Senate . There has been no significant debate on foreign policy , on the loyalty-security program , on foreign-trade policy , on civil liberties . Little has been said about the United Nations , though the Charter of the U. N. will be up for possible , revision next year . " Gentlemen 's agreements " in New York and elsewhere have banned McCarthyism as a debatable subject . The most sharply disputed issues have been those related to the Great Giveaway or , as in many Congressional districts , bearing on local concerns . It is not surprising , therefore , that the pollsters report widespread apathy or that registration fell off in many states . THIS is not to say that there is no basis for an intelligent preference or that the liberals should stay at home on November 2 , reading Spengler and Toynbee . For one thing , the control of Congress is at stake . A quick rundown of the key Senate committee chairmanships will indicate , on this score @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should win control of the Senate , these would be the key substitutions : Agriculture ? Allen J. Ellender , Louisiana , in place of George W. Aiken , Vermont ; Ap-propriations ? Carl Hayden , Arizona , in place of Styles Bridges , New Hampshire ; Armed Services ? Richard B. Russell , Georgia , in place of Leverett Saltonstall , Massachusetts ; Banking and Currency ? J. W. Fulbright , Arkansas , in place of Homer Capehart , Indiana ; Finance ? Harry F. Byrd , Virginia , in place of Eugene D. Colorado ; Foreign Relations ? Walter F. Georgia , Georgia , in place of Alexander Wiley , Wisconsin ; Government Operations ? John L. McClellan , Arkansas , in place of Joseph R. McCarthy , Wisconsin ; Interior and Insular Affairs ? James F. Murray , Montana , in place of Guy Cordon , Oregon ; Interstate Commerce ? Warren G. Magnuson , Washington , in place of John W. Bricker , Ohio , judiciary ? Harley M. Kilgore , West Virginia , in place of William Langer , South Dakota ; Labor and Public Welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alexander Smith , New Jersey ; Public Works ? Dennis Chavez , New Mexico , in place of Edward Martin , Pennsylvania ; Rules ? Theodore Francis Green , Rhode Island , in place of William E. Jenner , , Indiana . - Senator Paul H. Douglas , Illinois , would probably head the Joint Committee , on the President 's Economic Report , whose chairman is now Representative Jesse P. Wolcott of Michigan , and Senator Clinton Anderson of New Mexico would probably head the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy , replacing Representative W. Sterling Cole of New York . - READILY conceding that the Democrats are not , in each instance , ideal choices for these key - committee posts , nevertheless in only two cases would The Nation feel that the Republican was to be preferred . Senator is a real conservative , whereas Senator Byrd is a reactionary . And it might be argued that Senator Aiken is a better choice for Agriculture than Senator Ellender . But the legislative outlook ' would be definitely improved if the Democrats were to Organize the Senate , and the situation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preference , is not political but based on the greater ability or longer experience of one of the men ? For example , Senators Saltonstall and Russell are not too far apart politically , but Senator Russell is one of the ablest committee chairmen in Washington . His handling of the " smear " charges against Anna Rosenberg was most skilful . Similarly Senator George on the score of ability and experience , is greatly to be preferred to the maladroit Senator Wiley in the key Foreign Relations chairmanship ? . It should be ' noted , in passing , that a Democratic sweep of both houses would much dilute the strength of the " China Lobby " in Congress . Admittedly the basis for these preferences is purely pragmatic , but we have alwa:Ys thought of the " lesser evil " not as a fallacy but as a political truism . Saints are as rare in politics as in barrack halls . Moreover , once the candidates have been selected , the unfortunate voter must react rather after the manner of a person who wants to place a bet at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Neither may be a very fast horse ; the problem , of course , is to select the better bet . While from the liberal point of view this has been a thoroughly unsatisfactory campaign , nothing is to be gained by lamentations . Unsatisfactory as the candidates are , in many instances there is ground for an intelligent choice . Liberals can perhaps work up some enthusiasm by reflecting that they will be voting in this campaign not for their hearts ' desire but for the chance to create a set of conditions out of which more meaningful alternatives may emerge . This is just not their inning  --  indeed , they are not competitors at the moment  --  but if they want to keep the know-nothing elements out-of power , they should choose " the better bet " on November 2 . Near-Miracle in Paris - PERHAPS the new-born Western European Union , delivered last Saturday at Paris , is the " near-miracle " Secre- tary Dulles has called it . At any rate , with the signing of various ' protocols , conventions , declarations , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal German Republic , a Europe torn by dissension less than a month ago has recreated something that looks like unity . It has also agreed to the rearming of a sovereign West Germany under controls less rigid than those pro-. vided in the defunct E. D. C. plan , but fortified by Britain 's full commitment to the W. E. U. and by Adenauer 's acceptance of permanent economic integration of the Saar with France . - The chief diplomatic victory went to Premier Mend  --  sFrance , who managed through a remarkable combination of agility and firmness to win almost every point in a difficult , tricky match . But the real substance of victory went to Chancellor Adenauer , - Whose impressive concessions on non-essentials won for Germany the two solid objectives he has steadfastly pursued  --  sovereignty and an armed alliance with the West . And by the same token Mr. Dulles came home with ' a success he seemed at some earlier stages to have lost for keeps through his rough tactics of pressure and threat . It is natural that he should look upon the Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from finished . In France and-Germany the political forces against the agreements are regrouping for a new fight . The German Socialists oppose both the Saar settlement and rearmament ; conservative elements within the-Adenauer coalition are preparing a showdown on the Saar . The opposition in France , though probably stronger , is more diffuse , and Mend  --  s-France has disarmed part of it by the concessions he won from London and Bonn and the promises he has made . But the deep-rooted hatred of German rearmament will have time to crystallize before ratification is finally voted . The new Russian note to France , Britain , and the United States , calling for talks next month on Germany and European security , will no doubt be rejected or countered with demands for more explicit terms. , It was well timed none the less . And its text , apart from a few foolish statements such as the claim that no " strongly armed Soviet grouping " exists in Eastern Europe , is effectively designed to play on Western fears of a revived German military machine . As the hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with good cause . Premier Mencl  --  s-France won preliminary Assembly support for the plan just adopted at Parts only after he promised that talks with Russia would be carried on " parallel " with the rearming of West Germany . The Moscow note will probably not prevent French acceptance of the W. E. U. treaties , but it may help the opposi ton to tie ratification tightly to negotiations with Russia for an over-all settlement which would make the arming of Germany an anachronism . The Paris " miracle " may be the end of one battle , but it is the beginning of a new and much longer one , The Back Door BY J. ALVAREZ DEL VAYO United Nations CLEAR proof of how profoundly the recent H-bomb test explosions have shaken the world 's conscience is to be found in the fact that disarmament and the control of atomic weapons are the issues which dominate this session of the General Assembly . No one feels secure any more , and even President Eisenhower , who last week spoke'again of maintaining " enough military strength to deter aggression and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps a practical one five years ago , is today an impossibility . With Russia in possession of the ' H-bomb the West is no longer in a position to dictate terms to the East . I could quote a dozen American military and political experts who have come to this conclusion . It is not only that the West 's faith in its superiority in nuclear weapons has been diminishing ; its faith in , finding an effective defense against them has likewise diminished . The United States recently created a Continental Air Defense Corrimand to solve this problem , butat every hand there are indications that it has a long and difficult road to travel . The fact is that nobody seems to have produced an answer to the question : What happens in an atomic stalemate ? Reliable reports from Russia indicate that the stalemate is imminent- if it is not already here . Former Secretary of the Air Force Thomas K. Finlet-. ter suggests that the answer lies in the spending of eighteen to twenty billions a year on the air force . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the kind of air atomic power which would give us reasonable assurance that the Russians would not dare to start an atomic war or allow one to start . " But Western experts point out that such an expansion by the United States would be offset by expansion on the part of the Soviet Union . Perhaps , say these experts , the United States would forge ahead for a year or two ; then the Russians would catch up and the stalemate would be upon us again . IF there exists any solution for , the problem , pit would seem to lie not in a futile atomic race but in the Political Committee.of the General Assembly , which is now seeking a compromise on disarmament and atomic controls that would be acceptable to East and West . The committee started its work encouraged by the earlier general debate in the Assembly in which practically every speaker expressed grave- concern at the prospect of an atomic war . During this debate Andrei Y. Vishinsky announced that Russia would no longer insist on its old plan for atomic control but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London , as a basis for discussion . The Vishinsky statement gave , the Political Committee something to work with , even though the skeptics remained skeptical and argued that the " persistently aggressive design " of the Russians and Chinese " shows no evidence of genuine change . " This feeling , however , was by no means shared by most of the Western delegations , which agreed that the Soviet acceptance " in principle " of the Anglo-French proposals represented substantial progress . Up to the moment Vishinsky stepped to the Assembly rostrum , at any rate , the situation had been hopelessly deadlocked for years , with the-East insisting on , and the West rejecting , the prohibition of atomic weapons befeqe any control plan was put into effect . The Anglo-French plan provides for a series of simultaneous operations designed to reconcile the opposing views. * There still exist Weighty differences between the two sides . The Anglo-French scheme , for instance , envisages the creation of a single control organ , while the Russians want two such bodies  --  one to obtain the reduction of conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   