@@487553

MAJOR GENERAL Charles A , Willoughby set out to expose the American press when he wrote " The Truth About Korea " for the December issue of Cosmopolitan . He succeeded in exposing General Douglas MacArthur instead . Few seem to have noticed that MacArthur 's Chief of Intelligence in that article contradicted much that MacArthur had testified to in the past . If General Willoughy is telling the truth , MacArthur misled the U. N. in his first report on the Korean war . MacArthur informed the U. N. that " the character and I. P. STONE , for many years The Nation 's Washington editor , now writes for the New York Compass . He will soon bring out a new book , " The Hidden History of the Korean War . " BY L F. STONE disposition of the Republic of Korea army indicated that it did not expect this sudden attack . " General Willoughby now writes of the attack as an " alleged surprise ' " and says , " The entire South Korean army had been alerted for weeks and was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is telling the truth , MaCArthur also misled the Senate committee which investigated his dismissal last summer . MacArthur gave the impression that he paid little if any attention to events in Korea before the outbreak of the war . " I had no jurisdiction whatsoever over Korea , " MacArthur told the Senate committee . " I had nothing whatsoever to do with the " policies , the administration , or the command responsi7 bilities , until the war broke out . " Senator Morse questioned him about the gathering of intelligence in Korea before the war began ; The NATION Senator Morse . General , regarding this matter of our intelligence information , as to what was going on north of the Thirty-eighth Parallel , whose responsibility was it in the military organization to supply whatever intelligence would be made available ? General MacArthur . I fancy that it was the South Korean government . . . . Senator Morse . And if they did and they found any information that would be of importance to the military defense of this country , were they under obligation to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would assume they would . . WILLOUGHBY is critical of American reporters , indeed of Americans generally . Born a German aristocrat , the son of a Freiherr von Tscheppe-WeidonEach , not naturalized until he was eighteen , when he took his mother 's name , MacArthur 's G-2 chief writes that " these ragpickers of modern literature . . . have developed an insufferable but peculiarly American characteristic : they have come to believe that they are omniscient . " Willoughby says they " thrive on sensational exaggerations . Accuracy is quite unimportant . " This is distinctly hurled from a glass house . Accuracy has not always seemed a prime consideration in the briefings Willoughby himself gave , if one compares his new revelations with the information he supplied in the past . December 15 , 1951 several of MacArthur 's critics " have sought to lay at his door some responsibility for our negligent intelligence . The General was not to blame . Korea was not part of his domain . " On the basis of what he was told in Tokyo , Gunther wrote that " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of SCAP in Tokyo , were taken utterly by surprise . They were as blankly astonished as if the sun had suddenly gone out . The North Koreans achieved complete tactical and even strategic surprise . It was more disgraceful than Pearl Harbor . Our eyes were shut , and even our feet were sound asleep . " Willoughby did not tell Gunther the truth in Tokyo . He does not single him out for criticism now . This is the version of events MacArthur HQ preferred . - " No doubt , " Gunther wrote , " this will all be investigated in good time . " It was investigated the very day after the Korean war began . The inquiry was initiated by two pro-MacArthur Republicans ? Bridges of New Hampshire and Knowland of California . The latter declared the day war broke out that the Administration had been caught " flat-footed . " The former moved that the Senate Appropriations Committee , of which they were both members , summon Rear Admiral Roscoe H. Ilillenkoetter , then director of the Central Intelligence Agency , for questioning on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affair but emerged from that private hearing on Monday afternoon , June 26 , strangely mollified . The supposed failure of intelligence was not made an issue . It is dear now that if it had been made an issue MacArthur 's own intelligence would have been put on the spot . Though Senators Bridges and Knowland told waiting reporters outside the hearing room they were satisfied that intelligence had been " doing a good job , " the official version of MacArthur HQ , the State Department , and the U. N. Commission on Korea was that the outbreak of the war was a surprise . The State Department White Paper spoke of it as a " surprise attack . " The U. N. Commission reported to the Security Council that the South Korean forces " were taken completely by surprise , as they had no reason to believe from intelligence sources that invasion was imminent . " MacArthur , as we have seen , repotted to the U. N. that the South Korean army " did not expect this sudden attack . " All three now appear to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials have been as reluctant as General MacArthur to speak frankly about the inception of the Korean war . This may be seen from the testimony given by Assistant Secretary of State John D. Hickerson last summer at a routine budget hearing before the Senate Appropriations Committee . Hickerson described how his phone rang on the night of June 24 " and we had our first news of the Korean difficulty " ( the war began June 25 , Korean time ; June 24 , Washington time ) . Senator McCarran asked whether they had not known " about the Korean situation before that . " Hickerson replied , " The attack , so far as I was concerned , came without warning , sir , and it was news to me . " Unfortunately for Hickerson , Senator McCarran was familiar with the secret testimony of Admiral Hillenkoetter before the same committee the year before . Senator McCarran drew a series of piecemeal and unwilling admissions from the witness . Hickerson acknowledged . that there had been warnings . Senator Ferguson wanted to know what the State Department had done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a plan In id out as to what you were going to do . " Hickerson. replied , " We had done some thinking about that . " Senator Ferguson . Well , thinking is rather indefinite . What had you done on paper ? What had you planned to do ? Mr. Hickerson . We had planned to take it to the United Nations for immediate action . Senator Ferguson . Did you have a proposed resolution drawn up ? Mr. Hickerson . We did not have a proposed resolution drawn up on Korea , because we did not know when an attack might come . Senator Ferguron . Then you did not have a plan . Mr. Hickerson . We knew we were going to take it to the United Nations . We knew in general what we were going to say . Senator Ferguson . That did not take much thinking because that was your department . Mr. Hickerson . Yes . We had a skeleton of a resolution here first . . . but only in very rough outline form . So the Assistant Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without warning " ended by admitting that warnings had been received , preparations discussed , and " a skeleton of a resolution . . . but only in very rough outline form " drawn up for submission to the U. N. The day after Hickerson testified before the Senate Appropriations Committee , Acheson put those two MacArthur intelligence documents into the record of the MacArthur inquiry . But Hickerson 's testimony and Acheson 's MacArthur documents attracted little attention , and Acheson did not point up their significance . It would appear that there are skeletons hidden in the Administration 's closet as in MacArthur 's . Willoughby 's article inadvertently opened another crack in what appears to be a bipartisan wall of silence about the beginnings of the Korean war . If there was good reason to suspect that an attack from the north was brewing , why were not public opinion and the U. N. alerted , North Korea warned ? MacArthur was not slow to alert publk opinion on Formosa , which was also outside his sphere of authority . Similar warnings have been utilized when there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The week before the war broke out Dulles was in Korea conferring with Rhee ; General Bradley and Secretary of Defense JohnsOn were in Tokyo conferring with MacArthur . Why did they say nothing about the possible danger ? The question was not put to Bradley and Johnson in the MacArthur inquiry . Dulles was not even summoned . ACHESON 'S answer about the failure to take these warnings seriously deserves to be carefully considered , for it raises another passibility . " The view was generally held , " Acheson told the MacArthur inquiry , " that since the Communists had far from exhausted the potentialities for obtaining their objectives through guerrilla and psychological warfare , political pressure and intimidation , such means would probably continue to be used rather than overt military aggression . " This coincided with Willoughby 's own estimate in his cable of March 25 , 1950 . " The most probable course of North Korean action , this spring or summer , " MacArthur 's G-2 advised Washington in that cable , " is furtherance of its attempt to overthrow the South Korean government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrilla activities and psychological warfare . " The moment chosen did seem a poor one for the North . On the preceding Monday a newly elected South Korean Assembly had convened in Seoul with an overwhelming anti-Rhee majority . It seemed folly to attack a government which might so soon be transformed from within . The Russians were boycotting the U. N. in protest against the failure to seat Red China , and there would be no one at Lake Success to veto counter-action against a North Korean attack . On . the other hand , Rhee might have felt that it was better to provoke an attack than wait for one under circumstances - which promised to become increasingly less favorable to himself . It was too ' soon decided that the North Koreans were lying when they said they went over to the offensive that Sunday morning after repelling three attacks from the South . This , if true , would excuse neither the political folly nor the aggressive magnitude of the North 's response ; both sides were spoiling for a showdown . Attacks repulsed that quickly and easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precipitated many outbreaks of fighting during the preceding months along that tumultuous border . But a " civil war " ? the phrase is from that cable of Willoughby 's  --  so provoked would call for different treatment from that emotional world mobilization into which the United Nations was stampeded . It would hardly excuse that quick protectorate over Formosa so long desired by MacArthur and Chiang and so quickly put into effect in the wake of the Korean outbreak . As Gunther reported , " At this period not many people thought that the Chinese would enter the Korean war . One story was , in fact , to the effect that they deplored it  --  strange as this may seem now . For the North Koreans , aggressioii had , for the moment at least , cost Mao Tse-tung a prize he coveted above all ? Formosa . " " I do not believe , " Secretary Acheson told the MacArthur inquiry , " that there was a failure of intelligence . " There was certainly a failure of the U. N. to look before it leaped , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Department in dealing with the public . The hypothesis here suggested of a deliberate feint from the south to provoke a North Korean attackprematurely and bring American and U. N. support for Mee would explain a curious story told by Gunther . He was lunching with " two important members of the occupation " the day the war began , when one was called to the phone and " came bark and whispered , ' A big story has just broken . The South Koreans have attacked North Korea . ' " The war began at 4:20 a.m . Lunch time was about eight hours later . Gunther dismisses the incident lightly . " The fact that the first information reaching Tokyo , " Gunther writes , " as relayed to our party , was of an attack by South Korea on North , instead of vice versa , is ' not particularly important . The message may have been garbled in transmission . Nobody knew anything much at headquarters the first few hours , and probably people were taken in by the blatant , corrosive lies of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting to ask MacArthur and Willoughby whether they were still dependent on the North Korean radio that many hours after the war began . One item should be added which Willoughby did not see fit to discuss ' in his " Truth About Korea . " An intelligence staff officer during a briefing at MacArthur 's HQ in Tokyo on July 30 made the curious statement that " the North Korean army had not carried out its full mobilization plan at the time the war began June 25 . . . that only six full divisions had been ready for combat when the invasion started , although the North Korean war plans called for thirteen to fifteen " ( Walter Sullivan dispatch from Tokyo , New York Times , July 31 ) . The intelligence officer offered no theory that day to explain why North Korea should launch an invasion before it was fully ready . Perhaps some day General Willoughby will explain . 