@@184990

Athens awaited its moment of musical glory . Conductor Dimitri Mitropoulos was returning to his native Greece for the first time in 17 years , bringing with him the 104 members of his touring New York Philharmonic-Symphony Orchestra . Thousands , many equipped with food and folding chairs , camped all night in front of the box office , and scalpers set the price of seats at $30 . When Mitropoulos arrived four hours late at Athens ' airport , after a bumpy flight from Naples , hundreds of admirers greeted him with cries of " Yassou , yassou-Hello , hello . " and thrust bunches of tuberoses and laurel into his arms . But the maestro was in no mood for adulation . " I was sick as a dog , " he blurted into a microphone , " and I still feel ill . I 'm very happy to be back . Now please let me pass . " <P> In Athens , lanky , egg-bald Conductor Mitropoulos ( some members of the Philharmonic affectionately speak of him as " E.G. " - for egghead ) visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ praying for rain so that he could play in an indoor theater and would not have to compete with the splendor of the floodlit Acropolis and Parthenon . He had his wish . A downpour washed the first concert indoors-not before King and Cabinet Ministers were consulted on the crisis . The switch came so late that Chief Baggage Master Vincent Jacoby tried to shoulder the orchestra 's harp into a bus in order to get it to the theater in time , was thrown out by the bus conductor . ( He finally made it by hitching a ride on a truck . ) King Paul , Queen Frederika and their two oldest children applauded the maestro 's interpretation of Schumann 's dramatic Second Symphony , and Mitropoulos joined them for a chat at the theater bar , where Princess Sophie served him a glass of water ( a Mitropoulos must at intermission ) . When the royal couple extended him an invitation for lunch for the following day , the maestro casually replied : " I 'll try and be there if I 'm not too exhausted . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a rag doll as he conducted Shostakovich 's Tenth Symphony . The frenzied applause , foot-stamping , cries of " bravo , " and rhythmic chants of Mitropoulos continued for a full 20 minutes . Next day , after an unscheduled concert for overflow crowds of the night before , Mitropoulos found that he was not too exhausted for the royal meal , after all . ( " The King 's expecting me , and I hear he has a good lunch waiting . " ) <P> By the close of his final concert that night ( including Brahms 's Second and Skalkottas ' Greek Dances , Maestro Mitropoulos was getting used to Athens ' adulation . Said he : " I 'm beginning to feel like Frank Sinatra . " But the Greeks had some other words for it . Mitropoulos , one critic wrote , conducted " with an Olympian serenity that was both Apollonian and Dionysian. "                     