@@492388

Driving cross-country from Los Angeles , John Johnson got into a traffic accident near Chicago and weak from loss of blood , was rushed to a hospital . A transfusion revived him and he was discharged in a few days . Hospital insurance covered his bill except for a few laboratory fees and one item : Blood , three pints : .5 " 120 . As he stepped up to the cashier 's window , John Johnson was confident . A member of the donor club at the aircraft plant where he worked , he had given two or three pints of blood a year for several years to assure himself and his family of all they might need in emergencies just such as this . He reached in his pocket for his membership card in the world 's largest blood bank at Los Angeles , which would be recognized by any of the fifty-two other regional blood centers of the nationwide Red Cross system , and handed it to the clerk . But the llerk glanced at the cardboard folder and handed it back without even looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Red Cross blood-bank credits are n't accepted here . This hospital is affiliated with the American Association of Blood Banks . The charge is still a hundred and twenty dollars . " John Johnson  --  which is n't his real name  --  was finding out what many a victim-patient has learned before and since , that reciprocity between the two great coast-to-coast blood-bank systems , both supported almost entirely by voluntary donations of the public 's blood , is at best capricious and frequently nonexistent . Patients who are not members of a donor club of either chain may be permitted to replace blood , or have friends or relatives replace blood for them . on the hospital 's terms . This may be on a pint-for-pint basis , but it may be as high as five pints for one . Some hospitals make a charge SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK ( Continued from Page 37 ) even if you replace the blood they gave i you , and they quadruple the charge if you do n't . Some hospitals do n't allow replacement , simply charging from twenty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of needing a transfusion this year are only about one in eighty , but if you do , it makes a big difference which emergency room you 're rushed to . This lack of reciprocity between the two nationwide blood-bank chains is only one symptom of the need for a hard look at this mushrooming field of medicine . After all , what a donor wants is the return of some of the blood he has given , and he 's not particular which chain he gave it to or gets it from , But by no means all of our blood-banking troubles are attributable to conflicts between the two national systems . An investigation by the New York Academy of Medicine revealed many unrelated defects in the blood banks there , ranging from lax standards to waste and unnecessary commercialism . The academy 's investigation , of course , covered the metropolitan New York area , where some of the finest hospitals in the world are located . While some of its findings apply particularly to conditions there , especially that of unnecessary commercialism , many of the criticisms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applicable to conditions in other cities too . The academy 's investigators reported that the examination of donors varied widely and at some hospitals was superficial . At many institutions controls for keeping blood at constant temperature in storage were inadequate . Most hospitals were lax in keeping records , some having no records at all of transfusion reactions , despite specific requirements in the city health code to that effect . The investigators reported the need for education to reduce the waste of blood . Examples cited were : ( 1 ) doctors who ordered transfusions too liberally , ( 2 ) surgeons who took an extra pint to the operating room where , with no refrigeration , it spoiled , and ( 3 ) patients who insisted on transfusions because they had unused credits . But the most surprising revelation was that 42 per cent of the blood used in New York hospitals came from paid " donors , " as compared to the national average of about 10 per cent . The academy declared this was a " disproportionately large amount , " and stated that New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " For one thing , the use of paid donors " increases the cost of the product , " the doctors went on , and they recommended that New Yorkers form a community organization to do something about the situation . How did we get into this mess , as the situation is frankly described within the medical profession itself ? Growing pains are partly responsible . The first blood bank was set up in Chicago 's Cook County Hospital only twenty-two years ago . Today there are more than 3500 blood banks , or blood-handling facilities of one kind or another . In 1958 more than 2,000,000 Americans got transfusions , a greater number than in any year of World War 11 . Upward of 5,000,000 pints of blood , almost half as much as the 13,000,000 pints collected during the entire war , were transfused . Most of that , about 90 per cent , was donated voluntarily . But the processing  --  laboratory work to type and preserve it  --  cost about 850,000,000 . The transfusion itself , including the cross-matching -- the test for compatibility with the patient 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost nothing into a multimillion-dollar operation within two decades explains some of the blood-banking troubles . For example , the academy investigators pointed out , there is still a shortage of trained technicians to keep the records . But the grand schism ba. , tween the two major systems goes much deeper . Here arc the relevant facts . The Red Cross became the first nationwide blood-collection agency during World War 11 , when it served the armed forces . But it abandoned its blood program with other war activities after V-J Day . This was unfortunate , for doctors were now beginning to use new war-developed surgical and transfusion techniques that demanded a lot of blood . And without a concerted community effort to collect it , hospitals soon ran into chronic shortages . How to meet this growing need for blood was the subject of much discussion within the medical profession For the next year or more . In the summer of 1947 , after discussing the matter with officials of the American Medical Association , the national directors of the Red Cross authorized local chapters to establish blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affiliate of the A.M.A. , gave its approval . About this time a number of independent blood-bank administrators , who had been talking among themselves about forming a national organization for some months , were galvanized into action . Al a meeting in Dallas in November , 1947 , they formed the American Association of Blood Banks , and invited the Red Cross to join and become the recruiting department . But by this time the Red Cross had already announced plans for opening its first regional blood center at Rochester , New York , in January , 1948 . The Rochester center was opened on schedule , and others have been opened periodically since then . The fifty-third opened only last November in Baltimore . All together , the Red Cross centers collected more than 2,000,000 pints of blood last year , about 40 per cent of the country 's supply . The A.A.B.B. has between 350 and 400 institutional members , hospitals as well as commercial blood banks , and supplies about 30 per cent of the total . The remainder comes from unaffiliated banks . Behind this bare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a settlement of the rivalry . It would be like ignoring the sun and the stars to pretend that no doctor resents Red Cross participation in blood banking . At the A , A.B.B organization meeting , blood banks were described as the medical profession 's " birthright , " which ought not to be controlled by any " outside agency . " Even today some doctors speak of the Red Cross blood program as " socialistic , " and forecast the Free dispensing of aspirin soon , The complaint seems somewhat illogical in view of the Fact that official A.M.A. policy opposes as unethical any profit-making in handling blood . All blood banks sponsored by A.M.A. operate on It nonprofit basis , or claim to . if the two organizations could only learn to make no money harmoniously , the public would be better off . On the other hand , not all doctors resent Red Cross blood-bank operations . Medical approval was given to the establishment of the fifty-three regional Red Cross centers , including the largest one in the world , in Los Angeles , which drew more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of the doctors who serve with mobile units that collect most of the blood today are volunteers from local medical societies . In fact , there are some areas where even the relations between the Red Cross and the A.A.B.B. are downright friendly . In eleven Pacific and Rocky Mountain states , and in six southeastern states , the two organizations have been accepting each other 's credits in an unofficial exchange that is n't even in writing . It 's what might be called a friendly pint-for-pint basis that has been going on without fanfare for quite a while , and last year it probably aggregated an exchange of more than 15,000 pints in the seventeen states . Why ca n't this fraternal feeling be transfused into the veins of officials in the East , Middle West and South ? Personalities , perhaps . In addition , the Red Cross has held fast to a one-for-one replacement policy . That ratio is acceptable to many , possibly most A.A.B.B. members , but a few claim the ratio should be higher because some of the blood is lost in processing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the opinions of a minority . Talks about a settlement have been carried on in Washington within the past few months by officials of the two organizations . Their offices are only four blocks apart , yet they ca n't seem to get together . Maybe if every donor who went to a blood bank in the next month or so asked what was holding things up , something might happen . Meanwhile the requirements for blood are rising steadily because of the increased use of two new hospital aids , the heart-lung pump and the artificial kidney . After many years of experimental developments , these devices are now in regular use in operating rooms and kidney clinics throughout the country . The heart-lung pump , used for open-heart surgery , must be primed with twelve to fifteen pints of blood every time it is used , although some of this blood can be reused . In the Washington , D.C. , area , four hospitals have open-heart operations scheduled once or twice a week . Over a period of a year , the priming of these heart-lung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood quota of about 10 per cent . The artificial-kidney machines require only eight pints for priming at each operation , but they are usually in use several times a week . For one reason or another , most hospitals will need more blood this year than last . What are their prospects of getting it ? One of the most encouraging things about the confusion in blood banking is the fact that the medical profession recognizes the confusion and is seeking remedies . Despite the lack of progress on the reciprocity front , and the wide range of deficiencies unearthed by the New York Academy 's investigation , the majority of blood banks are quite safe . Meanwhile , progress is being made in bringing all hospitals up to a single standard . The agency responsible for this important job is the Joint Blood Council Created by the A.M.A. in 1955 to establish a national blood program . The council consists of two representatives each from the A.M.A. , the Red Cross , the A.A.B.B. , the American Society of Clinical Pathologists and the American Hos pita ! Association . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson , got the organization off to a solid if unspectacular start by conducting a comprehensive census of all the blood banks and transfusions in hospitals throughout the United States and the territories . This was the first survey of its kind , although there have been blood banks for twenty years and transfusions for more than fifty . His next assignment , just completed , was to draw up a set of standards . Blood banks shipping whole blood or its products in interstate commerce must be inspected to secure a license from the National Institutes of Health . But only about 350 of the 3500 establishments that participate in some phase of blood banking require a license . For the nation 's remaining blood-handling facilities , there are no rules but those they choose to follow . While most hospitals maintain standards as high or higher than those set by the N.I.H. , many do not , and a patient has no way of differentiating . The result of numerous meetings of the council 's scientific committee , headed by Dr. Max M. Strumia of Bryn Mawr ( Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Standards Committee of the A.A.B.B. , is a new code that calls for reporting of everything from the physical condition of the donor before the blood is drawn to the reaction of the patient after the transfusion . " We believe this is a big step forward , " Doctor Wilson said , " and we expect to get voluntary compliance within the next year or so . " Another Joint Blood Council problem , blood insurance , has two phases . The first is to discourage the reliance upon professional donors . The second is to encourage voluntary donations . In connection with the first aim , the council is asking health-and-accident insurance companies to drop coverage of the cost of a pint of blood , which has been included in many industrial contracts , even with plants where employees are already members of voluntary-donor clubs . " Blood is n't just a pharmaceutical product , " Doctor Wilson said , " and it ca n't be produced for a price that depends on supply and demand . It does n't seem to us good policy for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The effect would be to depress the motivation for voluntary giving of blood . " Under the council 's plan to encourage voluntary donations , a member of a donor club would pay a nominal fee and pledge to donate a pint of blood on demand , and in return he would be guaranteed all the blood he needs . Doctor Wilson expects to have the plan ready to announce in detail later this year , The Joint Blood Council 's concern about professional donors , as well as the New York Academy 's criticism of their excessive use , sent me to New York to find out whether this was a new trend . Were professional bleeders edging out the amateurs ? Would they in the long run put voluntary banks out of action there and in other communities ? At first , things did n't look encouraging . Two new commercial blood banks had opened in the past few years , private corporations organized for profit the same as any other hospital-supply firm . One of them , besides maintaining a blood-collecting station for paid donors , serves also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Birmingham , Alabama . This firm also maintains several stations near Army camps in the South and Middle West . The principal user of professional donors , however , is University Hospital , a part of The New York University-Bellevue Medical Center , which is the largest hospital blood bank in the metropolitan area . Although it relics mainly on paid donors for its blood , it is a nonprofit institution . I asked Dr. August H. Groeschel , associate director of New York Hospital and chairman of the executive committee of the recently formed Community Blood Council of Greater New York , about paid donors . " I think New York is much more dependent than it needs to be on professionals , " he said . " I have no doubt it increases the cost . But we 're correcting that and many other things . " The New York Academy 's study was made at the request of the organizations that now form the Comniunity Blood Council . Among them is the Greater New York Hospital Association , composed of 100 voluntary nonprofit hospitals and thirty-three municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , charitable , religious , business and professional organizations also have joined the Community Blood Council . A central office is working toward the development of a donor-recruitment program , standard replacement ratios and whatever other practices may be necessary to make possible a city-wide exchange system . " The academy recommended a community setup to improve the procurement , standards and economic handling of blood , " Doctor Groeschel explained . " We took its advice . It 's too big a job for the doctors alone or the hospitals alone . It takes the whole community to do the job right . " No one I talked to about paid donors , including Doctor Groeschel , believes they will ever be  --  or indeed should be  --  eliminated entirely from blood banking , although his organization is committed to diminishing their role . The prevailing price for ordinary types of blood in the New York market and rather generally in the commercial field is five dollars a pint . A nonprofit blood bank such as University Hospital , which has handled as many as 100,000 pints of blood annually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sells what it does n't use to other hospitals for 512.50 . The patient  --  if he does n't have an acceptable blood credit or does n't replace the blood he uses  --  pays from twenty-five dollars up for that pint of blood . It would thus appear that some hospitals are purchasing blood for 512.50 a pint and selling it to patients for twenty-five dollars , and this despite the A.M.A. 's edict against trafficking in blood for profit . Some hospitals maintain a list of donors of various blood types whom they can call in as needed , and usually these donors receive the full twenty-five-dollar fee charged to the patient . But the Joint Blood Council 's census estimated that only 2 per cent of the paid donors are in this twenty-five-dollar category . An authority familiar with this peculiar area of medical statistics guessed that the majority of paid donors get five dollars a pint or , at most ten dollars . The academy report scored this nonprofit hypocrisy  --  turning blood profits into the hospital 's general fund or using it to cover deficits in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cut instead . After learning of the blood-banking difficulties in New York and the efforts under way to correct them , it was reassuring to me to visit Milwaukee , where a sound program has been in effect for many years . The Milwaukee Blood Center , one of the topflight establishments of its kind in the country , was the result of the efforts of an unusual team . The Milwaukee County Medical Society was worried about the scanty postwar blood supplies at the same time that the Junior League was looking for new worlds to conquer . Mrs. Virginia B. Jefferson , now executive director of the center , was chairman of the league 's new-projects committee at the time . " Blood , " she recalls , " was the last thing we had in mind . But blood it turned out to be . " This was no debutante 's midnight-supper decision . After extensive talks , the league and the medical society agreed that the league would not be merely a marching club to recruit donors for the hospitals . The latter would give up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate a central bank to keep the hospitals fully supplied at all times on a nonprofit basis . The community would own the whole works . The hospitals agreed . The deal was made . First , the league staged a musical show that raised $25,000 for working capital . Then the chorines  --  in street clothes  --  made the rounds of luncheon clubs , Kaffeeklatsches and union halls , signing up donors . They got some wolf whistles in the union halls , but they got signatures too . The largest donors ' club is the Minute Men at the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company . After the new center started receiving donors , the girls overcame their squeamishness and staffed the clerical and technical jobs on a volunteer basis for the first five years . " The center , " Mrs. Jefferson told me , " is the community 's way of supplying its own needs for blood . We plan ahead for what we estimate our requirements will be . So far , we 've always been able to meet them . We appeal to the donor to protect himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . " Dr. Tibor J. Greenwalt , who has been medical director since the Milwaukee Center opened in September , 1947 , now heads a staff of nearly seventy-five . The work is financed by the flat processing fee of ten dollars a pint . Approximately 42 , - 000 pints of blood were handled last year , most of it donated in advance or replaced later . Had those 42,000 units been paid for at the hospital rate of twenty-five dollars a pint , they would have cost the patients more than $1,000,000 . Milwaukee citizens using blood can estimate they saved themselves about 5630,000 collectively in 1958 . Even in community blood banks , professional donors are called in from time to time ; about 6 per cent of the blood in the Milwaukee Center came from paid donors last year . The center maintains a roster of members of donor clubs who have already given voluntarily at least once , and who arc willing to respond for a fee in an emergency . They receive the twenty-five-dollar fee less three dollars the center deducts for maintaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the winter months , " Doctor Greenwalt said . " We run low around the year-end holidays , as blood banks do everywhere . Sometimes a spell of virus infections will throw our bloodmobile schedule off , and we then have to call on paid donors to keep our inventory up to par . Occasionally we have to call on paid donors for unusual types of blood too . " When I asked Doctor Greenwalt about the problem of waste , he smiled wanly as though it had a familiar ring . " We 've been checking our figures for last year , " he said , " and find that almost forty-four per cent of our transfusions were for a single pint of blood , as compared with the over-all average of two and three-tenths pints . Now obviously there are times when one pint of blood can make a great deal of difference , even of life or death , to a patient . How many of those were absolutely necessary is hard to say . We believe some were n't . About the only direct answer I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' If you intend to give an adult patient a single-unit transfusion , count to ten before writing the order. ? One of the most compelling considerations faced by the doctor in ordering a transfusion is the risk of infectious hepatitis or catarrhal jaundice , for which no sure means of detection has yet been discovered . Despite all efforts to eliminate donors with any evidence of the disease in their medical histories , it is transmitted on the average about once in 200 transfusions of whole blood . Improved methods have been found for ridding plasma of the hepatitis virus , but plasma is used so seldom for transfusions nowadays that they have not greatly altered the situation . Whenever a doctor orders a transfusion , he must consider the possibility that the blood may harbor the hepatitis virus as one of the inherent risks of the transfusion process . Research has made many advances in recent years in new uses for various components of the blood , such as fresh-frozen plasma for treatment of hemophiliacs , fibrinogen as a clotting agent in stopping severe hemorrhages in maternity cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only recently available in clinical use . What may prove to be one of the most significant of these was illustrated by a case at the Naval Hospital at Bethesda , Maryland . The order that came down to the blood bank looked strictly routine : two pints of Group B , Rh positive . But the blood sample of the patient , Mrs. Mary Niiranen , a Navy dentist 's wife , turned out to be an unusual subtype . The operation , fortunately , was not an emergency , because it was ten days before Cmdr. R. M. Dimmette , in charge of the blood bank , located two pints of exactly the right type of blood  --  one in Washington , another in Boston . The operation was a success . What sets this patient 's case apart from other harrowing searches for rare blood types , however , is that it wo n't happen to her again . That 's important to her , and it could be to all of us . In the past eighteen months , Mrs. Niiranen has paid three visits to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rapid freezing e. blood cells has been carried on for marl than four years . Each time , a pint of he blood has been drawn , the red cells es . traded , immersed in glycerol and frozen to - 45 ? centigrade . The freezing i5 as simple as putting something in your kitchen freezer , and it takes about , thirty minutes . Mrs. Niirancn has three pints stored there in case she ever needs them , and she 's about to add a fourth . Thawing is more complicated  --  takes two skilled technicians about five hours . In the lab. oratory the process is expensive . Mrs. Niiranen has n't had occasion to use her private store , but the feasibility of preserving red cells indefinitely by freezing  --  plasma has been kept as long as five years  --  has already been shown at the Naval Hospital at Chelsea , Massachusetts . A similar procedure used there wee perfected by Dr. James L. Tullis and his co-workers , of the Harvard Medical School . This method uses a lower temperature than N.I.H. does : - 80 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centrifuge to remove the glycerol , thawing time hag been cut below an hour . Red cells frozen for as long as twenty-two months have been used successfully in some 200 transfusions at the Chelsea hospital without a single adverse reaction . If enough freezers were available in various parts of the country , persons with rare types of blood could store up enough of their own in advance  --  as Mrs. Niirancn is doing as an experiment  --  to guard against emergencies . Eventually it might be possible to smooth out some of the peaks and valleys of supply and demand that give blood-bank managers gray hair . A few words of explanation may help . Blood is a highly complex substance , composed of liquids and solids . Plasma , the fluid portion that makes up about 55 per cent of the blood volume , keeps for years when separated from the solids . But plasma is used today in only about one transfusion in 100 , mostly for burns and shock , or when whole blood is not immediately available . The solid parts of the blood  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carbon dioxide back to the lungs , the white cells that fight infection , and the platelets that aid clotting  --  all arc perishable . Red cells , by far the most numerous and the ones we 're mainly concerned with at the moment , live about 120 days . In the body , the bone marrow is continually creating new red cells to replace the old , dying ones , Once blood is withdrawn and bottled , the red-cell level , or concentration , in the bottle starts decreasing . In 120 days all th , cells will be dead , and in only tweneeee. days so many of them will have died that the concentration is considered ineffeo rive for transfusion purposes . Because of a combination of adminie trative and safety factors , from 12 to U per cent of the whole blood collected na tionally is not used within this three-weel period . Before it becomes outdated ant goes to waste , the plasma is salvaged In drying or by separation into useful corn . ponents . But the solids , being perishable have just been thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be salvaged by the new freezing process , it might revolution ize blood banking . Dr. Sam T. Gibson , head of the Res Cross national blood-bank program , be lieves that within a few years it should b possible to accumulate a " frozen reserve ' that could be tapped in emergencies . " W have been watching the clinical tests a the Naval Hospital at Chelsea with grey interest , " he told inc . " The cost still i higher than getting blood , even ran types , from a live donor or from a cor ventional blood bank . But with improve equipment , ( Continued front Page 98 ) the cost could be brought within the financial means of our regional centers , and I believe within those of the larger hospitals and the community blood banks . " The freezing process , when it is financially practicable , will help . But the backbone of any blood bank is the donor . No donors , no bank . Without rallies or speeches , people give for their families , for parents , for relatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acI do remember that Arthur countered with a lawsuit for $101,000 charging that they " confederated and conspired " to " cheat and defraud " him by intentionally turning out scripts that had more plugs for outsiders than laughs . Billy Rose devoted a column to this legal polka. lf the courts ruled in Arthur 's favor , he said , it would revolutionize American life . " Take the theater , for instance , " he went on . " As of now , there 's nothing the backers of a frumpy flop can do but laugh hollowly and ask the ingenue for one last date . However , if Arthur Murray 's logic prevails , there 's no reason why said backer ca n't sue the playwright for electing to write a turkey when he could have written a hit . By the same rule of thumb , 27,000,000 citizens could sue Adlai Stevenson for cheating them out of an election victory by maliciously making witty speeches which were over the heads of the public . " The case was settled amicably out of court . We have n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arthur 's name on big-time TV shows , and Arthur counts them as friends . After this hassle we got along without writers , and our television rating climbed . But fame led indirectly to a very disagreeable incident . In December , 1953 , I came back to our apartment from M.C.-ing a department-store fashion show , put on a sweater and skirt and prepared to cook dinner for Arthur . Just as I started to tell him about the fashion show , the hell rang . I opened our apartment door . There stood four hulking men , three in Halloween masks and one with a white handkerchief over his face . The elevator man was with them . 1 started to laugh , figuring it was a gag of some sort . They pushed through the narrow doorway , knocking me over . " Arthur ! " I yelled . He ran into the hallway . " Give us your money and jewelry , and we wo n't hurt you , " said the man with the handkerchief mask . Arthur sized up the men . Three of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He looked carefully at their .38 revolvers and decided they were real . " Take anything you want , " he said . " It 's all insured . " And taking my hand , he sat down calmly on the sofa . Actually nothing was insured . I seldom wear jewelry , and besides we had no outstanding collection of valuables . Arthur and I refuse to clutter up our lives with possessions ; after twelve years of living in that small apartment , all the storage space we needed was one hall closet . Stacked in there with a small safe containing my jewelry were labeled boxes with all my TV costumes and gowns  --  at that time I made seven gowns " do " for twenty-nine TV shows . Outside of jewelry and table silver , the only valuables in our apartment were paintings  --  a Pissarro scene of Paris which hangs in our dinette because I like to see it at breakfast ; a lovely Boudin sea scene ; a small painting by Corot which T11 E cept blood for expected arrivals . When I interviewed Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Blood Bank , the first to erect a building just for blood banking , he told me about the room for transfusing ambulatory patients , saving the time and expense of going to a hospital . One of the patients he mentioned was a clerk stricken with aplastic anemia , a disease doctors ca n't do much about now , except for transfusions to postpone death . looks murky to me , and a Blakesley so tiny that my mother once asked , " Did you buy it for the frame ? " Fortunately our youthful robbers lacked an art education . One of them pointed his .38 at me and said menacingly " Diamonds . " I opened the safe and handed him the tray . My jewel collection was n't worth very much , but it cost me a pang to part with the lovely antique sunbursts Arthur had bought in London on our honeymoon and the diamond necklace my father had spent years completing for my mother . SATURDAY EVENNO 1 ' 0111 Well , this clerk belonged to the office donor club , and would come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his transfusion and go on to work . He led a pretty normal life although he was getting transfusions twice a week toward the end , He 'd had 126 altogether , and could have been going yet , as far as his friends at the plant were concerned . They did the best they could  --  kept him alive for two years . That 's the incident about blood banks I 'll remember longest . The robbers were caught within a few weeks and sentenced to jail . They got the idea of robbing us , they said , after seeing my " diamonds " on television . Actually , the ones I wear on the show arc fakes . None of the jewelry was recovered , but Arthur did n't seem to mind . He had run out of things to buy me for birthdays and anniversaries , he said . Arthur loves to buy me extravagant things , but when he once brought home a magnificent sapphire-and-diamond bracelet , I returned it the next day . I ca n't take costly baubles as casually as other women 