@@263794

Before leaving for a visit to his home town in Sicily last week , Italy 's Premier Mario Scelba sent strict word ahead that no fuss was to be made over him . But the folks back home in Caltagirone , where Scelba 's aged mother still lives , paid no attention . They greeted their fellow townsman outside the town with a triumphal fanfare of trumpets and drew him through the streets in a ceremonial coach , bright with caparisoned horses and liveried postillions . As the Premier stood on a balcony to address his old neighbors , a blaze of electric lights spelled out the message : " Viva Scelba ! " <P> Such a greeting was a welcome change for sober-sided Mario Scelba , whose public appearances in the recent past-and his face on newsreel screens-have more often been greeted by Communist-led hisses than by cheers . At the end of his first two months in office , Italy was beginning to feel different about the quiet but resolute onetime Interior Minister now its Prime Minister . The nation as a whole showed no likelihood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was beginning to nod in pleased approval at the vigor and efficiency he has injected into its government . <P> Decisions for Dodgers . Mario Scelba 's four-party coalition has dared to make decisions which no previous Italian government had thought it nice to face up to . It has stopped dodging around the corners of the Communist problem and has faced the issue squarely by spotlighting the Communist conspiracy as an alien program , directed and abetted from abroad . When the Ministry of Defense recently caught seven spies in Foggia. the government saw to it that the newspapers got the full story of how they were trained in a Russian spy school in Prague . <P> Scelba 's practical moves against the Communists entrenched in Italy 's own economy have been equally telling . He decreed that some 300 state-paid employees now on loan to predominantly Communist unions of government workers must go back to work for the government itself . He threatened to remove state backing from the Red-ridden Italian film industry . When Scelba set out to reclaim some 1,300 pieces of confiscated Fascist property now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by urging that the reclaimed properties be turned into badly needed schools . Last week the new Premier made plain his identity with the West by urging Italians to ratify EDC without waiting for a settlement on Trieste . <P> Jail for Dodgers . Economically , Premier Scelba has also given Italians new heart and new hope . Previous administrations had compiled vast reports on poverty and the unemployed , one 13 volumes thick , the other , twelve . Scelba put the authors of these works on the job , one as Minister of Finance , the other as Minister of Labor . Upcoming as a result is a whole program of new legislation : a self-liquidating housing scheme larger than anything previously planned in postwar Italy ; a vigorous new set of tax laws , which for the first time will provide jail sentences for such blatant tax dodgers as those who shocked all Italy during the unfolding of the Montesi scandal ( TIME , March 22-29 ) .                     