@@487580

THE purge trial of fourteen former leaders of the Czech Communist Party , eleven of whom were Jews , took place in Prague and was conducted by a government which was Czech in name . But the trial might just as well have been held in Moscow under the Czars . As Solomon F. Bloom once pointed out , anti-Semitism under the Czars became " a settled policy of the state , a policy implemented by ' spontaneous ' outbursts of suborned mobs . " The Soviets are not likely to indulge in anti-Semitism in this open form or permit official anti-Semitism to " get out of bounds " ; but the use made of anti-Semitism in the Prague trial as a gambit in power politics shows a cynicism no less than that of czarist foreign policy . To be sure , the objectives of Zionism and communism have never been compatible . But since the creation of the state of Israel , with Russian help , and its recognition by the entire Soviet bloc , one might have assumed that Zionism would cease to be an inadmissible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportune , however , the Czech regime showed as little compunction about using anti-Semitism as an ingredient of foreign policy as did the Czar 's foreign ministers . In this instance , the Kremlin is obviously seeking to curry favor with the governments of the Arab world , where , poverty is a close and effective ally of communism . In that context the official anti-Semitism of the Prague purge is of course intended to remove from Arab minds the recollection of the vote which the Soviet bloc cast for partition and the establishMent of the Jewish state in 1947 . When this vote was cast , it came as a great surprise to the satellite delegations themselves , as well as to the Jewish world , which remembered the unremitting campaign that had been carried on against Zionism within the Soviet Union for so many years , not to mention the imprisonment of Zionist leaders . But sympathy for the Jews formed no part of Moscow 's purpose in backing partition . This decision , like all Soviet decisions in the field of foreign policy , was determined by Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The objective then was to push Great Britain out of the Middle East . Now a vacuum is developing in that strategic area . Britain is losing its hold in Egypt ; Iraq and Syria are bubbling with discontent ; and the Soviets are trying to move in . As part of this reorientation of Soviet policy  --  an announcement , , as it - were , of Moscow 's intentions  --  the Czech government has been indulging in anti-Semitic slander reminiscent of Hitler and Goebbels . The moral implications of such a policy are evidently of no more concern to the Soviets than the consequences measured in terms of the security and well-being of 3,500,000 Jews still in Eastern Europe . AGAINST this background it would be absurd to analyze the " substance " of the charges against the defendants in the Prague trials . The guilt or innocence of the accused would be impossible for any outsider to gauge on the basis of the evidence reported abroad . It should be pointed out , however , that there was certainly nothing covert or conspiratorial about the fact that Czechoslovakia supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as the basic interest of the Soviet bloc was to smash British power in the Middle East , the partition resolution and the Palestine war both served this end . And even so , the Israelis paid in cash for whatever assistance or arms were received . It is also , of course , quite possible that the use of anti-Semitism in the trial may have been intended to divert attention from mistakes of the Czech Communist government or to offer the Czech people a scapegoat . The motivation was doubtless multiple ; but however devious or clever , it could not possibly justify the use of anti-Semitism as part of the current struggle for power -- either inside the Soviet structure or in its relations with other countries . The injection of anti-Semitism at Prague merits passing comparison with the manner in which the American Communist Party has sought to exploit anti-Semitism as an issue in the Rosenberg case . The contention has been advanced , for example , that the Jewish judge and prosecutor in this trial leaned over backward so far , in an effort to avoid the appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figured as an element in the trial . While " anti-anti-Semitism " may have been a factor in the conviction and sentencing of the Rosenbergs , it should be noted that they had a public trial , , that the world press was not excluded , and that the case was conducted under established rules of law . The execution of the Rosenbergs has now been set for the week of January 12 . For reasons pointed out by Arthur Garfield Hays in a recent issue ( November 8 ) , The Nation feels that the sentence of the defendants should be commuted . The Rosenbergs were found guilty of espionage , not treason , and the offense was committed at a time when Russia was our ally in World War II . Even in treason cases the death penalty has been imposed only twice by our civilian courts ; it has never been imposed in espionage cases . The Rosenbergs are entitled to mercy as individuals , upon the merits , and not because an exhibition of clemency might help this nation in its global struggle for power with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any way the attempt of the Communist Party to exploit the issue of anti-Semitism in the Rosenberg trial while remaining silent about its use as an instrument of Soviet policy at Prague . For such tactics we have only contempt . The " Great Zionist Conspiracy " unveiled at Prague will not find many takers in this country , unless it be among the more gullible followers of Gerald L. K , Smith . OR is the use of anti-Semitism the only revolting feature of the Prague trial . Consider , for example , the petition of Lisa Lonclanova , wife of - the accused Deputy Foreign Minister Arthur London , who asked the " court " to find her husband guilty and in doing so said that she had told their two older children what their father had done and that they in turn had promised her they would remain good Communists all their lives . A regime that would exhibit a petition of this kind as evidence of the " guilt " of a defendant displays a disdain for intelligence and world opinion that is as shocking as the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Americans should read the accounts of this trial with care , and having read them , should then reread the testimony of the professional informers and de , nouncers , the ex-traitors , the self-confessed perjurers and espionage agents who have testified before the various Congressional committees in this country to see if they can find a parallel or any similarity between the two witch hunts . Soviet criminal procedure has never excited our ad. imitation ; hence we were neither surprised nor disappointed  --  although we were dismayed  --  by the brutal cynicism of the Prague purge . We are disappointed , however , and will not cease to protest , when American Congressional committees reproduce , even in milder form , procedures and pressure techniques that have become an established part of the Soviet sacrifice of individual rights in the struggle for power . Hatred of such procedures could best be exhibited through denunciations , not only of Soviet justice , but of witch hunts wherever they take place . The Shape of Things The T Is for Taft Ezra T. Benson  --  the T is for Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best of President-elect , Eisenhower 's Cabinet appointments . Those who have known and worked with him over a period of years are impressively agreed that he is intelligent , honest , forthright , deeply . religious ( a member of the twelve-man governing body of the Church of the Latter-Day Saints , , Mr. Benson is the first active Mormon to be appointed to the Cabinet ) , quiet , sweet-tempered , and considerate . All in all , the reports on Mr. Benson as a person seem almost too good to be true . On policy questions , he is known to have deep conDecember 6,1952 victions about the social value of the family-size farm . A strong supporter of cooperatives , he served as secretary of the National Council of Farm Cooperatives from 1939 to 1943 . Although critical of many New Deal farm policies , he was respected by both the Roosevelt and Truman administrations . President Roosevelt made him an adviser to the Department of Agriculture and to the National Industrial Conference Board . His social philosophy reflects the emphasis on self-help through cooperation which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will probably favor placing responsibility for the carrying out of agricultural programs with the land-grant colleges , the extension service , and the state agricultural councils . A very conservative man , he is said to fear " big " unions and " big " business in about equal measure . The new Secretary of Agriculture has a good background in European affairs : he spent two years in Great Britain on a mission for his church after leaving college , and he was in charge of the Mormons ' famine-relief program in Europe in the post-war period . In general , Mr. Benson would seem to represent the best in the social tradition of the Mormon church , which is of course high commendation . Upset in Venezuela ? Colonel Marco Perez Jimenez and his associates in the military junta that has ruled Venezuela since the coup d'etat in 1948 publidy boasted about the exemplary freedom in which the general elections on November 30 were going to be held . But even when the boasts were uttered the facts denied them . The voting itself was orderly and apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an atmosphere of terror . The liberal AcciOn Democratica , party of the last legitimate government , is outlawed , as is the Communist Party . The conservative opposition parties , the Democratic Republican Union and the Catholic Copei , were not permitted to hold public meetings . According to Antonio Martin Araujo , former Venezuelan ambassador to the United States , , nearly four thousand of his fellow-countrymen are today in jails or concentration camps waiting for trials that never take place . Dr. Araujo represented the junta in Washington until last May , when he resigned after a visit to Venezuela made with the purpose of investigating personally the reports of mounting persecution . Best known of Venezuelan concentration camps Is the island of Guasina , a tropical inferno which was used as a detention station for illegal immigrants until a commission of doctors visited it in 1942 and ordered it closed on sanitary grounds . One of the " constructive works " carried out by the junta was the reopening of Guasina as a prison camp for members of the opposition who could no longer be jammed into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , business men form the bulk of the camp 's population . But the astonishing fact is that , in spite of the repression , the Nationalist Democratic Union headed , by Jovito Villalba , an independent with a long progressive record , is leading the field as this issue goes to press . Obviously its vote has been augmented by supporters of the outlawed opposition parties . That Separate but Equal Doctrine On December 9 , 10 , and 11 the- Supreme Court will hear arguments on five cases concerning the constitutionality of segregated public schools . Three of them  --  from South Carolina , Virginia , and Kansas  --  were heard by three-judge federal courts which held such schools constitutional . The fourth case comes from the District of Columbia . The fifth  --  from Delaware  --  is unique in that the state Supreme Court held that the Fourteenth Amendment 's " equal protection " clause required the admission of Negroes to white schools despite a state constitutional provision requiring segregated public schools . By agreeing to hear arguments on all five cases at the same time the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The court 's action also suggests that it is now prepared to pass directly on the proposition that segregation per se is discriminatory , since the issue can hardly be avoided in the Delaware and Kansas cases . The Department of Justice has announced that it will file a brief in the cases in which it will argue that segregation is itself unconstitutional . The brief will doubtless follow the line adopted in the 1949 dining-car segregation case , in which it was argued that the " separate but equal " doctrine is " a constitutional anachronism which no longer deserves a place in our law . " The Bourbons Sound Off The court 's decision in these five cases will have far-reaching effects . South Carolina and Georgia have already passed laws providing for the abolition of the public-school system should segregation be held unconstitutional . In a recent speech , in which he doubtless voiced the sentiments of the bourbon South , Virginia 's Attorney General , J. Linsay Almond , said that " no greater catastrophe could befall the public-school system of Virginia " than a decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compel a legislative body . . . to appropriate funds or levy taxes against the will of an overwhelming majority of a sovereign people .... The public-school system would wither and die . " Should " subsequent events ' : strike down the present system of segregation , the South must not fall prey to the " insidious wiles and blandishments of subversive forces which will move among us to arouse and inflame base prejudices into a deplorable conflagration of civil strife . " If the Supreme Court rules  --  as it seems to us it must rule  --  that segregation is merelyanother name for discrimination , and if " deplorable conflagrations " then occur , the blame will surely rest with the Southern bourbons who by word and legislative actions have invited disobedience to the mandate of the Supreme Court even before it has been issued . f National Security vs . National Conceit Dr. Karl T. Compton , in a recent address to the Society of Naval Architects , took a timely poke at the complacent assumption that the important , scientific discoveries of the future will be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep American accomplishment in science in its true perspective . Every time the public is told that some new gadget , or textile fiber , or medical development is the product of an American laboratdry when in fact the basic discovery was made abroad , the illusion of our scientific superiority is dangerously inflated . The outstanding American genius thus far has not been in scientific discovery but in a combination of Yankee ingenuity with mass production and distribution techniques . Unfortunately this perspective is not reflected in current national-security policies . The Atomic Energy Act , Dr. Compton feels , now cuts American scientists off " from any possibility of exchanging information in the field of nuclear science " even with colleagues in friendly and allied nations , and in some instances has denied them access to information freely available to scientists in other nations . Similarly the McCarran act now prevents many distinguished foreign scientists from attending scientific conferences in this country . " The thing which the United States has preeminently , " Dr. Compton concludes , " and which is its greatest asset is the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas from whatever source into useful products . " By shutting out new ideas , from which we stand to benefit to a greater degree than any other nation , we are not only handicapping our country ; we are denying the American genius in science . In the name of security we deprive ourselves of access to information and ideas vital to national security in much the same way , as Claude Bourdet points out in this issue , that we reject the facts and accurate intelligence vital to a sound foreign policy . Is the - source of the trouble to be found , perhaps , in a national conceit which has been nourished for so long , on the myths of the American " free-enterprise system " that it has begun to assume the inflated proportions we find so ludicrous in the Russians ?                     