@@487539

10 CRUSH German imperialism , to extirpate German militarism , raised to the highest and most fearsome power by the Nazi regime  --  such was the purpose of World Wars 1 and II . Once the goal had been attained , Germany ceased to exist . All that was left was an eastern zone occupied by Soviet Russia and a western zone split into three parts by the Western powers . " Any German , " reads Paragraph 13-a of the Law for Liberation from National Socialism and Militarism decreed in the American zone in 1945 and not rescinded to this day , " who by spreading National Socialist , militarist , or racial ideas , or by other activities on behalf of National Socialism and militarism , impedes the reconstruction of a peaceful , democratic state , or endangers the peace of the world , is liable to punishment . " Five years later tens of thousands of young men in Germany 's eastern zone are being pressed into a military force designated the " People 's Police . " In the western zone the Neue Zeitung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 , 1950 , published an article , identified only by three asterisks but originating in the office of High Commissioner McCloy , which states : The United States alone can not provide the defensive strength necessary to guard against Communist aggression . Indeed , the volume of its contribution will essentially depend on the contributions of the other nations of Europe , Germany among them . It is evident that the United States will make available strong forces in Germany only if the Germans themselves participate in the defense oftheir country . The issue between East and West that developed at Potsdam has now taken such a turn that it is apparently the Germans who have the power to tip the balance one way or the other . " Muster thirty divisions , " Churchill has been exhorting the Western Germans for months , " or Europe will be Russian ! " The Neale Zeitimg says to them without mincing words , " In the American view , there is no time left for petty bickering or haggling over the price of collaboration . " The Germans are being given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West depended on them . Would Hitler have won the war if on May 1 , 1945 , he had had a few CAROLUS is a West German liberal who was exiled from Hitler 's Reich . Since the war he has been active in West German politics and for that season prefers to mite ender a pseudonym. extra divisions at his disposal ? The Germans are quite willing to play the balance-tipping role assigned to them , and this lends a farcical twist , such as the world has rarely witnessed , to the tragedy of our time . It seems well worth while to reexamine this latest ally of the Western powers in the light of recent events . Dr. Heinemann , the recalcitrant Minister of the Interior in the Adenauer government , has quit . A Moderator of the Synod of the Evangelical Church , he said on his departure : " God did not twice strike the sword from the hands of the Germans , only to have them pick it up a third time . " Rid of this evangelist , Chancellor Adenauer , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on November 8 , was able to declare : The Federal Government views the Pleven plan as a - valuable contribution toward the integration of Europe . It is of the opinion that a general peace settlement must be brought about through negotiations with the Soviet Union , but that such negotiations will stand a chance of success only when a defensive front of the Western powers is built up that is at least as strong as the Soviet threat . The Federal Government is of the opinion that the Federal Republic of Germany , if requested by the Western powers , must be prepared to make an appropriate contribution toward the creation of such a defensive front . . . . A condition is that Germany shall enjoy complete equality with the other powers that participate in this defensive front and furthermore that this-defensive front shall be strong enough to make any Russian aggression impossible . As early as August 29 the Chancellor , in an unsolicited letter withheld from the German people to this day , advised the State - Department that the Adenauer government , which represents big business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Just how , in view of the situation in the Far East and French resistance to German rearmament , Dr. Adenauer 's conditions are to be met is another question . What the German government had in mind , at least for the time being , was proclaimed by the new and practical-minded Minister of the Interior , Dr. Lehr , who told a meeting . " We need an army not merely for defense against the East but also for defense against the excessive wage demands of the trade unions . " Another ambiguity in the declarations of government spokesmen is how " complete equality for Germany " can be reconciled with the Pleven plan . Coupled with this plan is acceptance of the Schuman plan , strongly urged in Washington . Yet the big industrialists of the Ruhr and the Rhine have little interest left in the Schuman December 16 , 1950 plan , which was so impetuously indorsed only yesterday . Since the war in Korea began , everything is changed . Today , even without a Schuman plan , there is again a world market for German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import credits , an unexpected industrial boom . Since Korea the German production index has risen from 101 to 125 , as against 100 in 1936 . The Schuman plan was to be signed in ' August . Now Christmas is knocking at the door , but it would seem that the good little bor Robert Schuman may have to wait far beyond the holidays for his Santa Claus from Germany  --  if , indeed , he may not wait altogether in vain . Meanwhile the gentlemen of the Rhineland and the Ruhr are clamoring more and more insistently in their press for the Allies to return control of German -decartelization and deconcentration to the " German authorities . " In other words , WaShington is to set the fox to mind the sheep . If the Schuman plan should come into being under such auspices , the great-vertical German coal and steel trust , with its vast productive capacity and low wage scales , would be confronted by corresponding industries in Belgium , Luxembourg , and ultimately even France of such inferiority that these partners in the Schuman plan would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A concentrated German army would have at its disposal a concentrated573 German industry , provided ' by the Marshall Plan with all necessary imports . Dollars earned by German exports would ; to a considerable degree , be safely locked up in foreign vaults . Even now domestic capital stringency is such that the German discount rate has ' had to be raised to 6 per cent , while already at least half a ' billion dollars in German accounts , the fruit of exports , rests safely in foreign banks . Economic power backed by an army  --  that is the political formula of which the gentlemen represented by Dr. Adenauer and his government majority have dreamed from the beginning , the formula which has been applied so fatefully in two world wars and will be applied again tomorrow . What this reborn economic power of trusts and cartels means to democracy is readily seen from the organizations and " brotherhoods " that meet Sunday after Sunday to listen to the aims proclaimed by the ex-generals , former Nazi leaders , and war criminals who are rolling off the Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the devil 's grenadiers , " as Panzer General Eberbach put it on November 2 . Simultaneously a " Reich Brotherhood " which dabbles in European politics was meeting in Bielefeld . Among the guests of honor were Himmler 's daughter , Hitler 's Youth Leader , Axmann , and the former Nazi Women 's Leader , Frau von Scholtz-Klink , while Europe was represented by Sir Oswald Mosley , who was able 574 The NATION to do no more than send a warm telegram from Spain . And all this at a time when Dr. Adenauer had only just announced his " contribution to the defense of Western civilization " ! The character of these gentlemen is highlighted by the fact that they are at the same time flirting with Soviet Russia and a German brand of " National Bolshevism . " The picture is rounded out by the Minister for All German Questions , Herr Kaiser , who delivers Sunday addresses before audiences of expelled Silesians and East Prussians running into the tens of thousands and promises them that they shall soon return . V IEWED in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple as Washington would make it seem : " Is Europe to become BolsheVized and Russianized ? " No , indeed ! Moscow has forced Washington to consider another choice : " Shall the European continent be dominated tomorrow by Russia or by Germany ? " To vanquish Russia  --  according to the formula proposed by General McCloy  --  would only mean handing Europe over to the Germans . Or does anyone imagine that Germany , once it has rendered a vital " contribution " toward victory over Russia , could ever be reduced to its status of 1945-50 ? Or that the United States would be willing again to intervene in Europe if its German ally engaged in aggression against a neighboring country ? This alternative of a Russian or a German Europe is utterly hateful to France , Italy , Belgium , Sweden , and all the other nations of Europe ; nor do the German masses loathe it any less . The German masses are afraid of their own shadow , of the militarism that has cost them so dear ; and the ruins of their cities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child shuns the fire . That is why the great speech , with its resounding " no " to remilitarization , delivered to the Bonn Parliament on NoRussia could be held in check by two or three dozen divisions , that Europe and the world could be thus defended against Soviet conquest . Russia has foreseen the danger of a remilitarized and economically reinvigorated Germany ever since its vic-torious soldiers marched through the Brandenburg Gate in 1945 . It was this danger that kindled the conflict between East and West , that gave rise to the Berlin blockade , a separate West Germany , a Russian satellite state , the remilitarization of East Germany , the re-militarization of West Germany . Each wedge opened the way for the next  --  but at the beginning stood Russian fear . And now this reinvigorated West Germany , to be remilitarized tomorrow , is actually to become the great ally of the United States ! What of the role to which such a development consigns a France that is even today far weaker than Germany , let alone Italy and the smaller Continental nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any balance of power on the Con-tinent , Would ultimately render war against the East inevitable , whether the United States desired it or not . The fate of Europe and possibly of the world could be determined by thirty German divisions only if those divisions were inseparably mingled with the divi-sions of the United States . Still enjoying freedom of action today , the United States , in creating a German army , would tomorrow be the prisoner of that army ? the prisoner of Dr. Adenauer and his German industry . Such a German army would be bound to lead a life of its own , to sweep the United States into any and all military adventures , to expose it to all manner of blackmail and threats , even the threat of a Russo-German alliance . The whole German question has arisen only because Russia and the United States have dug them-selves in on either side of the Elbe . And it is because they are unable to come December 16 , 1950 " Adenauer is no better than Piedc Russia 's handyman in the East German satellite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Niemoller and his friends have proposed that Russian , American , British , and French troops be withdrawn from-Germany , to be replaced by neutral United Nations forces . Free , equal , and secret elections to an all-German parliament would then take place under the supervision of these forces , and the resultant new , d &; militarized Germany would become a neutral territory , separating East and West . It is a good proposal that represents one method of stamping out the smoldering fire 575 between East and West in Germany , of once again investing the German question with that meaning for the sake of which millions of young Americans and Russians , together with their allies , went to their-mass graves in two world wars . The resolutions adopted by the satellite countries at Prague may be dubious , one-sided , and imperfect ; but Moscow has made them the basis for its proposed four-power conference , and that conference should be held . The peoples of Europe are anxiously waiting for it . The fate of the world rests with such a conference  --  not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   