@@431411

 | Siam ; Land of Smiles By Blake Clark IAM ? or Thailand ? a fertile , orchid-shaped country somewhat smaller than Texas , is a little oasis of peace and plenty . Its neighbors ? Burma , Malaya and Indo-China ? are desperately short of rice and torn by internal conflicts . Yet the 18 million persons in Siam are relatively healthy , well fed and prosperous . They live amiably together and with the people of other countries , and enjoy leisure and relaxation to a degree unknown elsewhere in their part of the world . In the Far East , Siam is known as " the land of smiles . " Most Oriental capitals are drab . dirty and depressing . Bangkok is colorful , clean and splendid . Fly over it and it scintillates ; magnificent temples and graceful enamelencrusted minarets glisten below ; spectacular spires and pinnacles , some of them 20 stories in height , pierce the green foliage . Waist high above the tamarind trees sits a giant golden Buddha , tall as a skyscraper . The great curving Menam River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a city of the sun . No WESTERN MIND could have conceived the strange architecture of the " vats , " the temple buildings , Its chief characteristic is exquisitely proportioned multiple roofs which terrace downward in brilliant yellow-tile tiers of three . Close to 400  | groups of these weirdly beautiful buildings occupy one fifth the area of Bangkok . Their pleasurably strange effect is heightened by infinite imaginative details ? handsome half-maiden , half-winged gilt creatures ; grotesque demons in brilliant garments of porcelain ; pearlinlaid doors ; walls decorated with enameled rosettes ; and eaves hung with golden bells whose heartshaped clappers swing in the smallest breeze to fill the courtyards with a delightful silver tinkling . Inside the exquisite Marble Temple , in an audience chamber no larger than an average living room , the East and West merge incongruously . There a microphone rests on an arm of the priest 's golden throne . " Why does he use a loudspeaker in such a small space ? " I asked . " This priest is very modern , " replied my Siamese friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the non-Christian world is the Emerald Buddha . No one knows the origin of this magnificent statue , carved out of solid , emeraldlike , translucent jasper , nearly two feet in height . It came to light in the 15th century when it fell out of a small pagoda split open by lightning . Reverently brought to Bangkok , it was placed on a golden throne 34 feet high in a chapel of the palace . Attended by four other Buddhas of solid gold , wearing rings of sparkling rubies , diamonds and sapphires , it surveys its world in smiling , beatific calm and gazes down upon a steady stream of suppliants who kneel in prayer for wealth , comfort or a handsome mate . The Siamese treat the Emerald Buddha as a person . They change his gorgeous garments of gold and precious stones according to the season . His warm-weather attire consists of jeweled armbands , necklace , bracelets , anklets and a belt of rubies , pearls and sapphires ; his winter raiment is a golden shawl completely covering his shoulders and waist . This Buddha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lamps and chiming clocks , he possesses property and a considerable sum of cash willed him by wealthy admirers . During the war a government agency attempted unsuccessfully to borrow a substantial sum of money from the Emerald Buddha . A VAST PART of Bangkok 's population are born in boats and are in and out of water all their lives . So many live in houseboats or in aquatic bungalows on stilts that a roving market of sailing tradesmen caters to their needs . A typical river sound is the honk of an old-fashioned auto horn , trademark of the coffee boy . In his bobbing , narrow sampan he keeps a tin of Java coffee hot on a charcoal brazier . Without moving from his seat , he pours out a steaming drink , hands it across to a bargeman , dunks the empty glass in the muddy water and serves the next customer . Drifting restaurants serve red-hot bahmi , a tasty mixture of meat , fish , noodles , chopped onions and cabbage sprinkled with hot pi-  | mento . For dessert there are crisp rice cakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Downstream floats a traveling general store  --  a sampan laden with dishes , knives and forks , pots and pans , nails , toothpaste , combs and brushes . An Indian merchant , reclining on pillows and surrounded by gay bolts of silks and cashmeres which hang from above like colorful awnings , figures profit and loss as his bargeman poles him along . Paddling hardware peddlers , greengrocers and charcoal sellers all have their characteristic gong , bell , horn or whistle which identifies them from far away . Fanlike palms , bamboo , bananas and flaming bougainvillea compete for space with the houses that half float on the marshy canal banks . At every doorstep is moored a small boat , like a car waiting in the driveway . Turning and twisting through these water alleys in a motor launch , the passer-by obtains intimate glimpses of family life . Winsome brown girls help their mothers beat out clothes and wash them in the water lapping over the front steps , while naked little boys dive off the porch or skim rapidly along the canal in skiffs made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built on stilts lie as open to view as a theater stage . The teen-age son 's pin-up girl smiles down from the rice-paper wall ; sister 's pet white gibbon eats sesame seeds ; mother turns the prawns she is frying for lunch while on the porch a friend lies idly on his back , occasionally reaching up with bare foot to swing the baby 's hammock . UNLIKE most of the millions of the Far East , these fortunate folk have never known famine . Virtually everyone can take shrimp and lobster from the stream passing by his back yard . More than too varieties of fish swim in the country 's waterways ; 50 kinds of luscious fruit , an abundance of chicken and other meats are within reach of all ; their paddies provide the world 's best rice . There is an absence of beggars . With lavish generosity , homes are always open to friends and neighbors . A stranger can go from the northern to the southern border without money and never want for  | food or a place to stay . Country boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any one of the countless monasteries , share the food brought in by the holy men . Bangkok 's most colorful earlymorning sight is the stream of shaven-headed , golden-robed monks who step into the streets with the offering bowls in which they receive their day 's food . These barefooted but dignified men do not beg . They accept offerings from those who wish to gain merit ; it is the giver who puts his palms together and makes the bow of gratitude . Early risers on their way to work purchase a bowl of rice topped with prawn or lobster and a water lily , summon a passing monk and put it into his copper bowl . Some householders set up elaborate buffets with trays of oranges and bananas and huge tureens of steaming rice . They train their children in charity by letting them serve the holy men . THE samlor , or tricycle taxi , is a vast improvement over the rickshaw used so widely elsewhere in the Orient . Westerners have no twinge of conscience as they do behind a sweating rickshaw boy , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets just enough exercise to keep in top physical condition . Gaily lighted in red and green at night , thousands of these rubber-tired little carriages dart like fireflies among the streams of traffic . Someone has said that beauty inspires love , but cleanliness preserves it . If true , the Siamese are the most lovable people on earth . Even peasants bathe three or four times a day . Standing on the canal banks only a few feet from the busy road , they inconspicuously slip out of their garments and into the stream , preserving an unsullied reputation for modesty . The neat dress of the Siamese is almost entirely Western . Men who can afford them are handsome in tailor-made suits of cream-colored silk . Others wear clean , short-sleeved cotton shirts , knee-length khaki shorts , and sandals . The women like skirts of native silk plaid . They have excellent figures . A New York artist who had painted more than 3000 models of all nationalities said that he had never seen people more beautifully proportioned . The flaming sun god dominates Bangkok . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fierce , dry heat as if someone were ironing the shirt on your hack . In summer , perspiration drips off typists ' fingers , asphalt streets are mushy , people are exhausted after walking three blocks . From I:3o to three , servants and masters take siestas and only burglars are abroad ? their favorite working period . ON MY first morning m Bangkok I was awakened by a rapping sound . My visitor , I discovered , was a ghekko , a fat , lazy , friendly little whitish lizard , almost transparent . The ghekkos ' favorite dish is mos-  | quitoes ? insects that are a menace throughout Siam . In the early evening the mosquitoes rise from swamp and swarm over the population . Smoke from stacks of straw burned to ward them off rises from houses along the canals . Insect repellents go round at parties like a cocktail tray ; and guests douse themselves . U1 : country , hostesses provide silk sack , for the women to slip on over their stockings . Most homes are not screened , so that bedtime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in six get , malaria and some 50,000 die . THE happy-go-lucky Siamese love to play games . A favorite is takraw. into which they throw their whole hearts and almost every part of the body except their hands . A circle of six or eight boys keeps in the air a hollow rattan ball about the size of an indoor baseball , without touching it with their hands . Using feet . knees , elbows , shoulders and head , a skillful group succeeds in bouncing it aloft as long as five or six minutes A clever player may let it fall behind his shoulders and return it with a swift backward blow of the heel There are no teams , no score , nc competition to win ; yet it is one o the most exciting of games . On Sunday mornings the sports men of Siam match their fighting fish . Specially bred for pugnacity these little iridescent combatant swell , bristle their fins , flare their gills and turn an apoplectic red at the sight of a rival . While excited spectators make bets , the belligerents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several minutes they break as if by mutual agreement , shoot to the surface and gulp in air . They battle from three to six hours until one turns tail and swims away . Then he is scooped out by his owner and lives to fight another match . Some of the best parties in Siam are cremations , when the living give the departed a glorious send-off to what they are convinced is a far better world . Bejeweled dancers compete for prizes . One of these ceremonials began at 8 p.m. with a Mack Sennett comedy , the white wall of a temple being used as a projection screen . The guest of honor was burned just before midnight , and the party ended at 4 a.ni . after a hilarious I2-course Chinese dinner , The bigger the ceremony , the more prestige for the family or person responsible . No SIAMESE WIFE can get a divorce simply because her husband brings home another woman to share their marital bliss . A man may register only one wife but he may , with no stigma , live with as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American businessman lives happily with a legitimate wife , eight unrecorded companions and their 20 children , all in the same house . Two wives who lived with a prosperous merchant brought a sick baby to a foreign physician 's office . " Whose is  | it ? " he asked . " Ours , " they replied . When King Phumiphon returned to Siam last spring , he rejoined the largest royal family in the world . His grandfather , King Chulalongkorn , the boy prince of Anna and the King of Siam , gloried in the possession of 84 wives and 362 children . Ten of his widowed queens are still living . The entire aggregation of royal blood in Siam today totals a fabulous ro , 000 members . Princesses are often salesgirls and princes are newspaper editors , government workers and garage mechanics . By a " democratic " system according to which royal rank decreases one grade with each generation , even a prince 's descendants can slide down that family tree to a commoner 's branch in less than four moves . SIAM IS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altars , the only country in Southeast Asia able to balance the budget ? a feat performed for the past two years , in large part because the ill wind blowing across other rice-growing countries has carried their unfulfilled orders her way . Grain , teak , rubber and tin are sent out to pile up credits and bring back gasoline , oil , textiles and capital equipment . The Siamese have the latchkey out for us . American Presbyterian missionaries introduced inoculation against smallpox , established a medical center , brought the printed word and invented a typewriter using Siamese characters . During the war Americans trained by the Office of Strategic Services parachuted into the country while it was Japaneseheld and helped organize and lead the Siamese underground . Siamese appreciate the fact that Americans have helped them more than they have exploited them .                     