@@494458

PART from this pseudo-influence there has been , nonetheless , a growing recogition of Kierkegaard 's importance by many outstanding writers . Karl Barth , Emil Brunner , Reinhold Niebuhr , Paul Tillich , leaders of the Protestant discussion in our time , owe much to Kierkegaard 's uncompromising inwardness . Heidegger and Jaspers , Sartre and Camus , the German and French " Existentialists , " are indebted to him . Kafka and Rilke , to a lesser extent Thomas Mann , responded to his ideas . To a reader familiar with Kierkegaard 's ideas and underlying preoccupations a great deal in contemporary literature seems to relate . Faulkner 's Light in August , for example , expresses in its symbolic and paradoxical manner , in its veiled but intense religiosity , an " existential " experience not unlike Kierkegaard 's . Kierkegaard 's overwhelming interest was in religion . And yet , our current revival of popular religious writing has nothing to do with him . Faith in " positive thinking , " in the idea that we may reach God through prayer and interest Him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Kierkegaard 's concept of God 's transcendence and total otherness ; from his conviction that , while God may reach us and break into our consciousness in an Instant of timeless , utterly incomprehensible revelation , we can never reach Him , be it through thought or feeling , deed or suffering , although we may prepare for His coming through inwardness and a profound , total experience of dread , which is our spontaneous admission of sin and our emotional response to our loneliness and forlornness in the universe . N DR does Billy Graham 's success in converting thousands to a greater sense of Christian faith and responsibility correspond to Kierkegaard 's idea of true conversion . The criterion of real religious conversion for Graham and his followers is essentially an increased usefulness to the church and to fellow humans , accompanied by a strong inner sense of peace and happiness . Kierkegaard 's experience of Christ , the core of his thought and , one might be tempted to say , the bane of his life , was fused with his realization that Christian faith and worldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost impossible to achieve ? meant to be ready to suffer unendingly , not only because of unavoidable misunderstandings on the part of others , or because of personal shortcomings , but above all because of Christ 's otherness , his divinity , which must seem to man paradoxical and absurd and which he nevertheless must learn to obey and love . Kierkegaard resisted all attempts on the part of " good Christians " ( he personally respected and liked the head of the Danish Lutheran Church , and his older brother was a minister ) and of his own brilliant intellect to " solve " the divine enigma , to substitute dogma for the Instant of living contact , unless the dogma be the Incarnation and Passion of Christ , the greatest paradox of all . At the end of his life he stated that he believed in the love of God , and he seemed to find a touchingly humble , silent bliss in His grace . But up to then he had sensed an element of cruelty and torture in Christianity ? to which , he suspected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bible , life , literature , the human record and his own mind and experience for signs of meaning which would reconcile , but not undo , the basic polarity of love and suffering . In Fear and Trembling he wrote : The ethical expression for what Abraham did is , that he would murder Isaac ; the religious expression is , that he would sacrifice Isaac ; but precisely in this contradiction consists the dread which can well make a man sleepless , and yet Abraham is not what he is without this dread . .. When I have ' to think of Abraham , I am as though annihilated . I catch sight every moment of that enormous paradox which is the substance of Abraham 's life . . If people think that by considering the outcome of Abraham 's story they might let themselves be moved to believe , they deceive themselves and want to swindle God out of the first movement of faith , the infinite resignation . They would suck worldly wisdom out of the paradox . Perhaps one or another may succeed in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith , with its miracle of turning water into wine , it goes further , it turns wine into water . The movements of faith must constantly be made by virtue of the absurd , yet in such a way , be it observed , that one does not lose the finite but gains it in every inch . . . to express the sublime in the pedestrian ? that only faith can do . K lERKEGAARD was intensely self-observant . He knew well his owl ' mental assets and weaknesses . An inherited tendency towards melancholy , aggravated by a rather lonely and eccentric childhood , coupled with a keen sense of humor , a gift of ready wit and an ability to dissect and challenge every kind of logical argument and rational speculation made him an often delightful , but just as often intolerable , companion to others and to himself . His journals and notebooks contain the detailed record of his lonely struggle against his fears , sometimes amounting to phobias , his depressions , his decisions and doubts . There are indications of manic depressive cycles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insanity . When he broke his engagement to the only woman he ever loved and who sincerely loved him , he doubted the sense and necessity of rendering her and himself unhappy . Yet at the same time he was sure that he stood under sealed orders from Governance ( God ) , which were incompatible with marriage . The suffering which this decision brought to him served as a powerful stimulus to his creativity . Therefore , in retrospect , his conviction does seem upheld by fact . H ow ever this may be , what makes Kierkegaard so interesting and alive today is his remarkable ambivalence of mind , his determination not to accept easy solutions , neither on the natural or psychological , nor on the metaphysical side . His ability to doubt and believe ; to be unreservedly , perhaps pathologically , subjective and devoted to the service of God who he understood to be the God of all ; to respond with a poet 's sensitivity to earthly beauty and sorrow and deem it all nothing IV compared to the orders from the spiritual world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be simple and one-sided , purely rational or emotional , pragmatic or speculative , scientific or metaphysical , because the human mind embraces all this and still longs for more . Above all , to Kierkegaard , the human mind longed for thought related to feeling , and for feeling related to personal ex- perience on the existential level , deeper than that of any partial knowledge . I quote from The Sickness unto Death , one of his later works : The high aloofness of indifferent learning is , from the Christian point of view , jest and vanity . . . Let us never forget that the ignorance of Socrates was a kind of godly fear and divine worship ? . ? Let us never forget that precisely out of reverence for the Diety he was Ignorant , that , so far as a pagan could be , he kept watch as a judge on the border between God and man , that God and man may not in a way philosophise poetise , etc. , coalesce into one . . . A priest surely ought to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A believer is surely a lover , yes , of all lovers the most in love . With respect to enthusiasm a lover is after all only a stripling in comparison with a believer ? . Is it not evident that it could never occur to one who really is in love to want to prove it by ... reasons or to defend it ? For in fact he himself is that which is more than all reasons and more than every defense ? he is a lover . Much of Kierkegaard 's ambivalence may be called romantic . He was , in fact , influenced by the German romanticists . He shared the romanticists ' aesthetic responsiveness , he loved nature , especially the woods , and music . But his favorite composer was Mozart . And his rapport with nature was not so much mystic and emotional as observant and reflective . The aesthetic experience , particularly the pleasure of molding thought through language , always remained important to him . In the lightness of his touch , the spiritedness of his rendering a common experience he is comparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his youth , Either/Or . For example : There are different kinds of feminine blushes . There is the coarse brick-red blush which romantic writers always use so freely when they let their heroines blush all over . There is the delicate blush ; it is the blush of the spirit 's dawn . In a young girl it is the ineffable . The passing blush produced by a happy idea is beautiful in a man , more beautiful in a young man , charming in a woman . It is a gleam of lightning , the heat lighthing of the spirit . It is most beautiful in the young , charming in a girl because it appears in her girlishness , and therefore it has also the modesty of surprise . But already in Either/Or , he came to the conclusion that aestheticism was a philosophy of despair , that the aesthetic moment was time-bound and transient , that he wanted values removed from this purely personal sphere . We have here again the curious paradox that Kierkegaard insisted on subjectivity , on the Here and Now , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T HE alternative to aestheticism of- fered in Either/Or is the ethical interpretation of life centered in marriage and a profession ; active , responsible , enthusiastic participation in community living . This is the choice of Edward and Lavinia in T. S. Eliot 's play The Cocktail Party , . but it is presented with more hope and sympathy . Nevertheless , to Kierkegaard , who published Either/ Or under the pseudonym of Victor Eremita , thereby indicating that it was only an " experiment " and not his personal conviction , an ethical view of existence was no solution . In subsequent works he continued the argument , his own broken engagement lending urgency and pathos to his words . His aim was the religious life , although not in any conventional form . He continued to hide behind pseudonyms and thus to present his problems indirectly , dramatizing them in semi-fictional form . Once he remarked that he might have been a playwright ; his works reveal his gift . There is a constant dialectical tension between Kierkegaard 's search for the absolute and the experimental application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as relevant illustrations of reality . Being only illustrations and islands , as it were , in the stream of his search , they lack complete and rounded individuality . Still , they are eloquent and concrete enough to implant in the reader the suggestion that thought has no value unless it is lived . Kierkegaard 's psychological perspicacity has often been singled out as his link with our psychology-minded day . T ome , his insights , approaching Freud 's , are not as impressive as his singular sense of crisis . In a peaceful little country , in Copenhagen , a residential city of modest and conservative traditions , in the early nineteenth century , a burgher of independent means brought up in the Lutheran faith , Kierkegaard experienced the crisis of individualism which has become the greatest threat and challenge of our own time . He experienced it not as the mere failure of certain cultural standards , or the spiritual defeat of the middle-class , or the twilight of Western Man . Kierkegaard had no recipe of any kind . His faith was something everyone had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . despair and revelation . Because so very few experienced it on this profound , life-giving level , he sensed a crisis of individualism which , to him , was the crisis of Man . He saw in his day alarming signs of the rapid deterioration of individual thinking , the shallowing of personal feeling , the increasing pull pf conformity . Being exceptionally sensitive , he felt these signs as catastrophic . When he grew older and correspondingly less wrapt up in his private life , this sense of a general crisis increased until it drove him out of his hiding and into the market place . Kierkegaard 's final act was an all-out attack on the Danish Protestant Church of his time , and , I suspect , of all times . Not unlike Tolstoi , he had little faith in institutions . However , he did believe that the church , since it claimed to be Christian , should live up to Christ 's teachings and example and forego worldly prosperity in any form . In this respect his demands approach the rules of austerity of the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laxity of so-called Christians , and in his attack on the ministry he aimed at self-deception rather than conscious hypocrisy . ( He is at once more radical and more understanding than Samuel Butler . ) Nevertheless his words were fiercely hostile and scornful : We are assembled in the magnificent cathedral . His lordship , the right reverend court ' preacher , adorned with many titles , the chosen favorite of the highest circles of society , steps forward to preach . Standing before a chosen elite , he preaches under the stress of deep feeling upon a text he has himself selected : " God has chosen the base things of the world , and the things that are despised . " And nobody laughs . . . . Had the Apostle Paul any sort of official position ? No , Paul had no official position . But did he perhaps earn a great deal of money ? No , in no way did he earn much money . But at all events he must have been married ? No , Paul was not a married man . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? No , Paul was not a man of earnest life . There have been prophetic voices from time to time throughout history . There have been some much closer to our own age : Gandhi , Tolstoi , Albert Schweitzer . Why single out Kierkegaard 's voice ? Perhaps because the very absence of spectacular doings and events in Kierkegaard 's life brings him closer to our own life experience , illustrating how profoundly unconventional and individual one neverthless can be . Then , too , he was a writer of rare creative gifts . He dealt with the sublime , but he dealt with it in concrete terms and never as though he owned it , Irony and humor , imaginative freshness , even playfulness do not lose out to abstract and pedantic preaching , and yet we never forget that these human experiences are but means by which the self strives to find itself . He was dedicated to his mission and not out to entertain . But even in his final thrusts his language is that of the dramatist and the poet , searching God through life @ 