@@493915

CORRUPTION IN GOVERNMENT-AND COMPETENCE CORRUPTION in government has proved to be a very live issue in the minds of the American people . There has been much talk of what should be done , but not much fundamental thinking . A few wise reforms have been suggested , but there has been little attempt to analyze a condition which is recurrent in American public life , or to probe the circumstances that make possible , perhaps inevitable , the big and little bribes , or to estimate the economic , social and political pressures that invite dishonesty in high places . The public is more shocked than usual . They are certainly angry and indignant . Their indignation must be often mixed with a sense of their own guilt and indifference . For the dishonesty has touched us all , touched the American system of which we are so proud : the basketball scandals , cheating at West Point , the deep freezes and the mink coats , the frauds in the Bureau of Internal Revenue . " The public now knows , " reported the Kefauver Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every community throughout the , country . " These things are not isolated phenomena which can be neatly exorcised by a new set of administrative rearrangements , or banished into the omniverous past by exhortations eagerly welcomed because they are so soon forgotten . They touch us all . And because they touch us all , no group can with intellectual honesty shift responsibility for their existence to the shoulders of ; orne other , some rival group . The public is angry because today they pay annually some $60 billion in taxes , most of them not concealed taxes , but taxes that are reported and paid directly . Every man and woman today knows the huge slice that taxes take out of the family budget . Sure , we are in the midst of the greatest prosperity the world has ever seen ? but the taxes are insatiable , and prices mount and mount . Where do you come out ? And what about those dirty grafters who bribe the tax collectors and get off scot-free , or just about , while the rest of us pay through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The public is angry , but the public has no clear idea of specifically what should be done ? except to get the rascals ' out . And to let in a new set of rascals ? The American mind is not long on history , even on the splendid ? or shameful ? pages of its own story . We tend to think that we are less honest than our ancestors , forgetting that public dishonesty has always existed . Jonathan Dayton , Speaker of the House from 1798 to 1800 , was forced out of office for embezzling about $15,000 from money due the members for their pay and travel allowance . Who of us now remembers the Yazoo land frauds , which took place a few years after the Constitution was adopted ? Speculators had obtained huge tracts of land along the Yazoo River in Georgia by corrupting the state legislature . The grants were repealed by a subsequent legislature , and the speculators turned to Congress for relief , attempting to bribe the state legislature , the Postmaster-General personally lobbying the bill on the floor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent , was the notorious Whiskey Ring , that flourished under General Grant , formed for the purpose of defrauding the government of revenues from taxes on liquor . Indictments were filed against 250 individuals who were responsible for the losses to the government , which ran into millions , including Gen. Orville E. Babcock , President Grant 's private secretary . " Let no guilty man escape , " the President said . Many of the defendants were convicted or pleaded guilty . The most prominent were pardoned six months after their conviction . Shortly after the Whiskey Ring scandal Secretary of War Gen. William W. Belknap was impeached for collecting large sums of money from federal office-holders . He resigned , and largely for that reason the requisite vote of two-thirds for conviction , was not obtained in the Senate . There were the scandals under President Harding , the Veterans Administration , Teapot Dome , Secretary Albert B. Fall bribed for 8100,000 to give away public property . all of these things beginning soon after the President had been elected in 1920 . At that time the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact to be remembered before we nod with grave approval to the commonplace remark , currently heard at the dinner table or along the corridors , that when any party has been in power too long the boys grow careless and corrupt . Doubtless true . But , one is tempted to add , or when they have been long out of office , and have grown lean and hungry , a little desperate for the " trough . " . . . " There is no kind of dishonesty , " Benjamin Franklin once said , " into which otherwise good people more easily and frequently fall than that of defrauding the government . " Perhaps , indeed , it was not unnatural that a young and rebellious people , pioneering , . eager , active , land-hungry , should have used any means to get what they wanted . This characteristic can be less easily exorcised or explained , however , in a country which we hope is mature , and would like to think of as responsible . Laxity of public men in accepting favors also goes back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that when Congress was concerned with renewing the Charter of the Bank of the United States many Congressmen had loans , largely unsecured , from the bank , including Webster and Clay , both of whom were counsel for the bank at the time . Webster had , a few years before , written to his friend , Nicholas Biddle , president of the bank , that since for years he had represented it " in and out of the halls of Congress , " the time had come when consideration should be given as to whether his retainer should be " renewed and refreshed . " As Secretary of State , Webster did not hesitate to represent Danish , French and Spanish claimants for damage that was done by American shipping during the War of 1812 . No one knows to what extent corruption exists today in the federal government . Last year I publicly recommended to the President that he appoint two distinguished lawyers ? a Republican and a Democrat ? to make an objective investigation of the facts , and to cause indictments to be brought where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone much further than the present situation , and have , as I have previously suggested , analyzed the pressures surrounding public servants , which from the beginning of our history have resulted in these shocking public scandalS , and made recommendations for preventing them . They do not , for instance , occur in England . Is their system better than ours , from this point of view ? Does it result in obtaining more honest men in government ? Is their Civil Service more calculated to induce men of a higher calibre to accept public service ? . Does it create a better esprit de corps , and a greater dignity and pride in the service ? Many proposals have been made to cope with the situation , chiefly of a prohibitory nature. , Sen. A. S. Mike Monroney ( D , Okla. ) , believing that legislation should be adopted to " double-insulate " the Bureau of Internal Revenue against political interference , suggests that its agents should be put under a strict merit system to remove them from the confirmation rights of the Senate , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of the House or Senate , of a state political committee , or anyone in the government , or in private life " ? to intervene in any tax case . That a Senator should be more interested in honest public service than in - political patronage is a pleasurably refreshing shock . The Reconstruction Finance Corporation , he continues , should make public announcement of " any intervention by anyone " in any RFC loan . He believes that givers of bribes should be punished as severely as the recipients ? both should receive mandatory jail sentences ; and finally that any government . employee should lose his retirement benefits if convicted of a crime ' involving the public trust . Many other suggestions have been made , some wise , some impractical , few basic . It has been suggested ? not an altogether new idea ? that , in order to eliminate or at least to control the political expenses of candidates for elective offices , the government undertake to finance them . The exposure of all sources of income by government employees has been suggested , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Congress . But when the suggestion was taken seriously by Mr. Newbold Morris , and he was about to issue an immensely complicated questionnaire to employees in the Department of Justice ? and a nice , logical theory was put into horrid and immediate practice ? wails of anguish went up on all sides ? and Mr. Morris went back to New York . President Truman 's solution was reorganizing the Bureau of Internal Revenue , where corruption had been proved to be widespread , by substituting 25 Commissioners for the present 65 Collectors , and blanketing them under Civil Service . Congress with much latent , and not a little outspoken , irritation went along . The desire for this ancient patronage ? Senatorial confirmation ? had to be sacrificed to the good of the - country in an election year in which the issue of corruption was very much in the foreground . The President followed this up by bringing United States marshals , hitherto valuable political plums , under Civil Service . These measures of course were steps in the right direction . But the easy formula @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they are and the kind of men they are calculated to attract into government service , is not a complete answer to the problem . And what is that problem ? . It all comes back , in my view , to one basic essential ? the recruitment of competent and honest men into the government , service . For competence and honesty in the public service are apt , I believe , to be found together . A man of ability who Joins the government does so out of larger considerations than those of getting an easy living . He is influenced to his choice by the satisfactions of public service , which enlarge the horizon and stimulate the vitality of so many men today . The able man usually could have chosen a more lucrative career in private activity . But he is often more tempted to exert his capacities in a field from which have been excluded many of the small but cumulatively pressing disturbances of the competitive struggle . And all men are not competitively inclined , if making more money is the sole test of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital energy , and offer a more enduring satisfaction than service to a private corporate giant . Men of limited background and training are less apt to see the degradation involved in the smaller temptations which lead to the larger moral failures . I doubt whether the petty seduction of deep freezes and mink coats appeared to the " boys " as more than thJ accepted padding of positions which they had obtained usually by hard work on a political level . Why , . if it was legal to accept these . pleasant amenities , was there anything improper about it ? When you get a job surely you were entitled to what goes with it . . . . Men graduating from the flaccid school of public opinion which teaches the ideals and practice of the spoils system can hardly be expected to resist accepting little things for the little things they have to give . The moral tone is always low if public service is conceived as anything but the dedication of self to the common cause . Lawrence Lowell , lecturing on government at Harvard some 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay in its ability to use experts . " Whether popular government will endure or not , " he wrote later , " depends upon its success in solving its problems , and among these none is more insistent than the question of its capacity both to use and to control experts . " Decisions within the government bureaucracy , such as settling for cash or prosecuting a tax case for crime , supporting a particular piece of legislation , granting a license or approving a contract , often involve a close balance of judgment . It is so easy to steer a decision one way or the other , and either direction may be supported by logical or moral grounds . After all there are often two sides to a case , although the public is apt to think of such decisions as clear choices between . black and white , right and wrong , the public interest against private advantage . But the issues are not usually presented in such a clear-cut manner . What is the public interest is often a debatable question . Should , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and prosecution dropped , where it is very doubtful whether a jury will find for the government on a weak set of facts ? Should a contract be granted to the most efficient bidder in the field , an industrial giant , even though this will to some extent increase its monopolistic position , under a statute which favors but does not insist on an anti-monopoly policy , favorable , ? wherever possible , to small business ? The final decision is largely made as a result of the recommendations of the men who have analyzed the facts . Necessarily , their superior , who will exercise the final judgment , must depend on his subordinates ' views , buttressed by their detailed knowledge , particularly where clOse questions of judgment are involved . These decisions stem of course from the men in power , but not always , perhaps not usually , from the men at the top , the heads of the great bureaus and divisions , but from the lower echelons , the chiefs of sections whose word is never final but whose " slant " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who sift and sort and weigh the facts , and lay the ground for the final decision . It is important therefore that all down the line the work be done by men who are not only honest , but who are independent and courageous . The exercise of their courage and independence will of course depend on the quality of the leadership of their superior . No department can be efficient in the best sense without such leadership , which can obtain and inspire first-rate work all down the line . But , on the other hand , no head of a department can achieve over-all leadership without independent and able men under him . His chances for effective work can be cut away by the appointment of politic hacks , or routine subordinates . A great administrator , the late Harold Ickes for example , will pick first-rate men to serve under him , hold them responsible for the quality of their work , and , above all , leave them alone . These men belong to the 10 percent that , counts . The 90 percent are almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast bulk of employees ? not from any inherently superior virtue , but simply because in their decently sheltered and mildly mechanical lives matters of judgment do not often arise , and they are note exposed to the temptations and pressures which surround their superiors . It is the 10 percent that counts . It is to them that we must address our thinking .                     