@@488242

Herewith eight of The Nation 's foreign correspondents report the views of as many countries ? Asian as well as European  --  on the American Presidential campaign. ? Ed . GREAT BRITAIN By R. T. McKenzie London . EXCEPT FOR those whose business or hobby it is to follow American politics , there is hardly the faintest interest here in the American election ; the " serious " press and the BBC carry only brief reports , while the popular press is ignoring it almost completely . The average Briton ( whose interest in foreign politics is , I suspect , R. T. McKENZIE , a noted British political commentator and author of British Political Parties , teaches at the London School of Economics . 338 even fainter than that of his American counterpart ) , appears to view the campaign with a blend of detachment and casual curiosity which is reminiscent of his attitude to the World Series . In each contest  --  the election and the baseball engagement  --  two teams , which stand for nothing at all so far as the British public is concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little or no resemblance to any contest , athletic or political , which takes place here . Who are the Democrats ( or the Dodgers ) ? What do the Republicans ( or the Yankees ) stand for ? And why does the crowd get especially worked up over this particular play or that piece of individual virtuosity ? It is all too confusing to disentangle . One difficulty is that the American election is far too long-drawn-out by British standards . Here an election is usually announced no more T than five or six weeks before polling day and campaigning is effectively confined to the last three weeks . A contest that lasts ' from August to November is bound to look rather like an adagio dance which has been deliberately extended into an endurance contest . Perhaps the ennui of the British should be treated as a compliment . The clear implication is that this American election is a cause for neither concern nor alarm ; neither side represents , in British eyes , the incarnation of Good or Evil . Mr. Dulles ( he is probably the third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of his consciousness , the others being " I Marilyn Monroe and Liberate ) is often a source of consternation and confusion here . Since 1952 , he has been fairly consistently disliked by supporters of the Labor Party ; currently , he is the bete The NATION tifiir4 , , ? f the active members of the Conservative Party . But , one suspects , there is no clear understanding of where Mr. Dulles fits into the picture . Perhaps some of the more sophisticated of the Labor or Conservative rank-and-file harbor the secret wish that he might " disappear , " after this election , rather in the way that strange man , Mr. McCarthy seemed , unaccountably , to disappear sometime ago from American public life . There is an exception to this widespread disinterest . Almost by definition , the British " egg heads " are the sort of intellectual busybodies who are interested in other people 's elections . And what do they think ? Where do their sympathies lie ? Sad to relate , their attitude , compared with 1952 , also appears a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they no longer actively fear the Republicans . It has seeped into their consciousness that , in comparison with . this country , there has been no inflation in the United States during the past four years , and neither has there been a " depression " ; the Republicans , like the British Conservatives , have broken the bands of steel which linked their names with " unemployment . " It has also A seeped through that McCarthyism is dead or rather that its death rattle is now no louder than the ugly but comparatively harmless din that the lunatic Right has been making , year in and year out , in America for many decades . Even the name Richard Nixon does not any longer make flesh creep over here . It has become clear that he would rather be President than be Right . He begins to look increasingly like a younger ( is it possible ? ) version of Thomas E. Dewey . And who would break out into a cold sweat at the thought that he might succeed to the Presidency ? Moreover , the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1952 he evoked the kind of enthusiasm which ought to be reserved for the political messiah , if ever he appears on the democratic scene . Now he , too , is viewed with detachment even by intellectuals in Britain . Here , for example , is a October 27 , 1956 fairly , typical comment by , the American correspondent of a leading British Sunday newspaper , The Observer : There is in America a deep tide running in the direction of the Democratic Party but it is a doubtful question whether Mr. Stevenson is part of it . He has a slightly hunted air in the midst of his own crowds . He is a little remote , with a prim smile that clicks off and on ... a portly man with a strained , set , oval face and pale blue prominent eyes ... one feels a real sympathy , indeed affection , for him  --  emotions politicians rarely evoke . But despite the sharp devaluation of Mr. Stevenson personally , no doubt a majority of those who follow American politics are hoping for a Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stevenson will make a stronger President , under whom American foreign policy will be more consistent and clearheaded ; and because they assume that under the Democrats an American depression is even less likely to occur . ( Some left-wingers here would dissent ; they fear that in office the Democrats , like the Labor Party here , would be either less willing or less able than their more conservative opponents to reach some sort of understanding with the Russians . ) But whatever the result on November 6 , there will be little sleep lost here contemplating the outcome . Canadiene Gaya. fairy consistently ' favored the Democrats over the Re , publicans . The feeling probably reached its height in 1952-53 , when Canada observed trends and events south of the border with a revulsion and uneasiness unmatched since the Nazi thirties . In those days , intel-lectuals here prophesied the immi-nent rise of " American Fascism , " the press waged daily battles on McCarthyisrn and official Ottawa unhappily awaited yet another bombastic declaration from this or that of President Eisenhower 's aides . By contrast , Adlai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. George . The fears then held are not yet wholly gone , but they have been allayed . The relaxation of cold-war tensions has been felt here too , and " Ike " is given some of the credit for it . If his health holds out , it is believed , Canada need not fear unduly the revival of immoderation in Washington . And , with the rise in " Ike 's " prestige , there has been a corresponding dimming of Mr. Steven-son 's attractions . He is still conceded to be four cuts above Mr. Eisenhower intellectually ; opinion here is far less certain that , if elected , he could keep peace as well . In a typical comment on Mr. Stevenson 's demand for the suspension of the draft and the H-bomb tests , the Montreal Star , one of Canada 's most influential newspapers , suggested the other day that he was not likely to convince the American voter he knew more about the problem than the President , " whose chief asset is the trust , confidence and liking of his fellow-citizens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflect on his party . A correspondent notes in the Winnipeg Flee Press that the President is the GOP 's " solitary hope of victory in November , " and adds that " never before has an American party shrunk so visibly and so completely to the dimensions of one man . " Nor does President Eisenhower 's great prestige rub off on Mr. Dulles . The " brink-of-war " statement may be old history by now , but the Secretary is still widely regarded  --  and attacked  --  as a bumbling statesman . Canada 's foreign policy and her 339 economic health both depend on her great neighbor . In the past two years , President Eisenhower has done a good job persuading most Canadians that he stands for peace , and sees eye to eye with Ottawa on how to preserve it . The Canadians have been far less happy about the shape of their economic relations with Washington . In this field , criticism of the American protectionist policy is sharp , and it is openly suggested that the President is easily swayed by various American lobbies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictions were felt here more painfully , the Canadians would undoubtedly revert to their traditional pro-Democratic leanings . But as long as the United States is going through a boom , and some of the prosperity spills over across the Canadian border , the resentments here are subdued . And since " Ike " has become synonymous in many minds here with the American boom , the Canadians would just as well see him win again . INDIA By Elisabeth Partridge New Delhi INDIANS , you might say , like Ike but want Stevenson . The American elections are not a popular issue here yet , but well-informed Indians  --  including Nehru  --  are watching developments with interest , conscious that America 's choice will prove vitally significant to India . Indians share the world 's conviction that Ike is a man of integrity and peace . Even when U. S.-Indian relations were at their worst last spring , Indians did n't criticize the President personally . But they do n't like those around Ike : a party united for the elections but ignoring his liberal lead during office , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for America 's " subversive " activities in Asia , including India . Then there is the matter of Ike 's health and the Nixon succesELISABETH PARTRIDGE is a free-lance writer now living in India . sion . Above all , Indians dislike Dulles , described by Frank Moraes ? the liberal editor of the Times of India and author of a political biography of Nehru  --  as the " greatest single enemy of democracy and democratic ways in Asia . " For Moraes and others , this " purblind person " typifies " the deliberate indifference of Western policies to Asian susceptibilities . " It is India 's belief that Stevenson and his supporters do not share this indifference , which the people of India believe has already lost America the cold war in Asia . Many here realize that if the indifference continues , Asia will go Communist by default . Stevenson , Walter Reuther of the CIO-AFL , and above all Chester Bowles , former American Ambassador to India , made a remarkable impression here . All three approached Asian problems with an endearing humility and a desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solutions ) . This suggests to Indians that the Democrats would base their policy-making on coming to terms  --  with no dishonor to themselves or their country  --  with the realities of Afro-Asian nationalism . Stevenson and his colleagues have apparently noted the warning of Bandung : the West can ignore Afro-Asian nationalism only at its own peril ( as Suez has since shown Britain and France ) . Once Americans understand the pride and the growing pains involved in nationalism , their relations with India will ease almost miraculously . One exception to the above is in the right-wing of Nehru 's Congress Party . These business interests , though Left of the American Congress politically , feel that only Ike has the stature to take a step which would probably prove unpopular at home  --  the giving of more aid to India as a matter of enlightened self-interest . But whoever is in the White House when Nehru calls will find him more eager than ever before to improve Indo-U . S. relations . It seems that the Indian Premier now realizes that his gestures toward Communist countries have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less  --  than neutrality , and havecreated dangerous pro-Communist thinking among his own masses . To counteract this , he is prepared to go more than halfway toward clearing up misunderstandings both in Washington and at home . ITALY By William Weaver Rome IT 'S DIFFICULT to assess Italian public opinion on the current American Presidential campaign . In the first place , the man-in-the-street here knows about as much about American politics as his American counterpart would know about the political situation in Italy . Secondly , because of their rigorous space limitations , the Italian daily papers have given the campaign very scant attention . Despite the scarcity of coverage , it seems clear that Italy 's best Washington correspondents are all for Stevenson . This is true even of a semi-official paper like Il Messaggero , Rome 's leading morning daily . Milan 's new daily paper Il Giorno ran a piece in its rotogravure section by their American correspondent , Auro Rosselli , entitled : " What Are These American Parties ? " This was an attempt to explain the two parties rather than an evaluation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mystical : " The Democratic Party is . . . of the heart , of those who believe themselves generous , everybody 's friend . . . . The Republicans are those who attach special importance to economic necessities , those who believe themselves wise , mature , skeptical and practical . . . . " For the Italian reader , it was n't hard to figure out which party the author thought more simpatico . Politically , Il Giorno is uncommitted but mildly liberal ; more outspoken is the liberal intellectual weekly , Il Mondo . Its latest Letter WILLIAM WEAVER , who contributes periodic Letters From Italy to the book pages of The Nation , has written articles and stories for many Italian and American magazines . from Washington , by Leo J. Wollemborg , gave a clear and serious exposition of the political situation in America , summing up by saying that , in essence , the American voter was faced with a choice of " Eisenhower minus the Republican Party , or Stevenson plus the Democratic Party . " Again , without having to read too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the author 's inclination towards the Democratic candidate . Appropriately quoting Karl Marx ( " . . . In the United States the people enjoy the privilege every four years of choosing those representatives who represent them badly " ) , the Communists ' high-brow weekly 11 Contemporaneo , in an American report by Joseph Starobin , asks the question : " Are all the principal candidates in favor of capitalism ? , " and answers it : " Certainly , they are . " And though even here one feels that Mr. Starobin might cast his vote for Adlai , one senses a greater in-. difference to the two major candidates than in the other papers of a milder political hue . The **26;1540;TOOLONG attitude is common to the Communists and to the extreme Right . Like the party-line papers , the die-hard neoFascist publications are so rabidly anti-American that they could hardly be expected to express a preference in the campaign To them , all candidates are equally bad . Though the more conservative members of the government and the Christian Democratic Party are probably for Eisenhower , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans officially or unofficially . A few weeks ago , several prominent members of Parliament , including Social Democrats and Democristiani , set about organizing an Italians-for-Stevenson group . They quickly recruited a number of liberals , including even the editor of one of the C D ' s official daily papers . Their plan was to canvass , by air mail , halo-American voters  --  much as halo-Americans had been urged to canvass Italian relatives during the 1948 elections here . But when the organizers got in touch with the Democratic National Committee , they were apparently told October 27 , 1956 to lay off , on the grounds that American voters might resent " foreign interference . " The irony of the objection  --  in view of some of Mrs. Luce 's antics  --  was not lost on the Italians . In this country without Gallup polls and Crossley ratings , the average man 's sympathies remain harder to plumb . Still , all the most reliable judges agree that the Italians in general are fond of the Democrats . FRANCE AND RUSSIA By Alexander Werth Paris IT 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West  --  about the farmer 's vote , the Southern vote , Dixiecrats , and all that . All that matters to him really is how the result will affect the chances of peace in the world . Firs , a few words about the present Russian attitude . In Russia , oddly enough , there is a marked difference between what might be called the popularized view of American elections , and the diplomatic view . The popularized view is well represented by the " **25;1568;TOOLONG " cartoon in last week 's satirical weekly , Krokodil , reprinted on the next page . But when you come to the more reasoned political articles in the serious Soviet papers , you find that there is a good deal of difference , in the official Russian view , between the Eisenhower-Nixon and the Stevenson-Kefauver teams . There is little doubt ' that , looking back over the last ten years , the Russians have been much happier with Eisenhower at the White House than with Truman Truman symbolizes the cold war to them more than any other American ; Eisenhower represents the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But , paradoxically , Dulles is cold- ar man Number One of the Eisenhower Administration ; and it has been giving Russian commentators many a headache to have to explain the restraining influence that Dulles ALEXANDER WERTH is The Nation 's Paris correspondent . has been exercising , in the course of the Suez crisis , on the " Anglo-French warmongers and inperialists . " The explanation given by Pravda is that Dulles has had to pull his punches owing to the American elections , but that , in reality , he is just as aggressive and " imperialist " as the British and French ? and will so show himself if the Republicans are returned to office . But Pravda quoted with great approval the words of Stevenson to the effect that he believed in a peaceful and reasonable settlement , acceptable to all , of the Suez crisis , and that it was high time account was taken of the great nationalist forces that had come into motion throughout Asia and Africa . So , on the face of it , it would seem that the Russians would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deceptive interpretation . Stevenson , from the Russian point of view , has many disadvantages : he may very well act as a defender of the Arab countries ' outcry for independence and advocate a more vigorous " underdeveloped country " policy which would be in straight competition with Russia . He might also display a greater " idealism " than Eisenhower has done in the case of countries like Hungary and Poland , which might be highly dangerous to the USSR at a time when the " destahnization " ferment in these countries is causing Moscow the greatest anxiety . On balance , then , the Russians would probably prefer Eisenhower to Stevenson , except for the possibility of Nixon taking over in the course of the next four years ; Nixon they regard as " unpredictable . . . 37 What of Western Europe , and particularly France ? At present attention is focused on Suez , Algeria , Poland and on internal economic difficulties ? and not on the American elections . Seldom , in the last twenty years , has there been less excitement over the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . I believe that on the whole France would prefer Eisenhower to continue , provided he continued for four years . The reason for this is simple : the last four years have been more peaceful than the 341 Truman era . But with Nixon , no one can tell . As Maurice Duverger wrote in le Monde on August 8 ( and neither his nor the paper 's line seem to have changed since ) : The fact that Nixon was originally recruited by small ads and financed by private business , and the fact that he is a pure product of the " machine " are not absolutely decisive . . .. But what is disquieting is that he has not , apparently , shaken off his origin . He still looks like a pawn in the hands of the right-wing extremists , of the powerful lobbies . . .. Nixon as President would arouse the greatest distrust among all the nations of Europe . .. As for Stevenson , there is certainly a preference for him among the JAPAN By Akira Iwasaki Tokyo UNLIKE THE situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are hardly audible here . Four years ago Japan , still an occupied nation , was oriented toward Washington ; today it looks mainly westward toward the Soviet Union and Peking . Current news headlines are made by Prime Minister Hatoyama 's trip to Moscow and the anti-American demonstrations on Oki-naw a aimed to prevent further expropriation of farm land for U. S. military bases . As this is written , sports fans are devouring details of the World Series , music lovers crowd the performances of the first Italian opera troupe in Tokyo , and intellectuals are looking forward to a series of lectures by Arnold Toynbee . " I know Eisenhower , but the only .1 Stephenson I know is the one who invented the locomotive , " giggled an office girl in a movie company at Ginza . A labor union man said to me : " Ike and Stevenson are peas out of a pod . Makes no difference . I will like Ike if he pulls U. S. forces out of my country . " He paused . . " But Dulles is a warmonger  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H-bomb . Housewives , disgusted by the almost ceaseless rains  --  exceptional here in the fall  --  blame them on the nuclear tests . And , of course , there is the better-grounded fear of radioactive ash . " If Stevenson really means to ban H-bomb tests , " say many Japanese , " I 'm for him . " Intellectuals here , recalling Mr. Stevenson 's trip through Asia , consider him sensitive to the historical role being played by that continent in this " transition " century , and as much more qualified than Ike to be the future maker of American policy . Rut generally there is indifference and " neutrality . " The only major group which seems to hold a strongly AKIRA IWASAKI , whose Letter from Tokyo appears periodically in The Nation , is a writer and critic who has worked for many years in the Japanese film industry . partisan opinion consists of Japanese financiers and " big business " men ; they are for Stevenson and the Democrats . This is not so paradoxical as it might sound to many Americans who identify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are aware that the Japanese economy is dependent upon U. S. policy , the American Presidential election is of special importance to them . And they feel that Japan has suffered severely under trade restrictions imposed by the Republican Administration ( for example , in textile and canned-goods exports to the United States ) . Moreover , they want the untrammeled right of trade with Communist China and Southeast Asia  --  and for this , . they say , Stevenson holds out more hope than Eisenhower . WEST GERMANY ? By Carolus Bonn THE AVERAGE West German shrugs indifferently when asked whether he prefers Eisenhower or Stevenson to win the U. S. Presi ? dential election . The American movie , Rock Around the Clock , now making the rounds of West German theatres under the meaningful title of Ausser Rand and Band ( Quite Out of Focus ) has attracted ten times as much attention as the American campaign . The press publishes many political reports from America , but they are mostly a rehash of the hand-outs of both candidates . No bourgeois paper has dared so far to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the Democrats . Yet these are misleading surface impressions . Once the foreign observer enters into a serious discussion of the personalities of the candidates or the platform of the parties , he finds the Germans both interested and knowledgeable . Their indifference is revealed as a pretense  --  a symptom of the great loss CAROL US is The Nation 's correspondent in Bonn . October 27 , 1956 of moral and political prestige that the United States has suffered here . The Germans , from Adenauer to the ordinary worker , no longer expect anything from Washington , politically or militarily . Whatever the sins of its internal policy , the Adenauer regime was wrecked primarily by its adherence to Dulles ' " policy of strength " and the West German remilitarization program . At least 80 per cent of the German people reject remilitarization . No Rock and Roll film is required here to produce youth riots ; whenever the soldiers of the new army show themselves in public , they are mobbed and sometimes bodily attacked . An official order forbids them to appear in uniform at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other Dulles-Adenauer policy ? that of " negotiating from strength " with Russia  --  has proved an equally abysmal failure . The reunification of Germany which was expected to follow from it now looks less likely than ever . And so the West Germans are beginning to take the matter out of the hands of Dulles and Adenauer and to act independently . Social Democrats and the Free Democrats , the party of big business , which left Adenauer 's sinking ship some time ago , press for relations with East Germany and the satellite countries . One of the most respected men of the government coalition told me : " Under Stevenson there will be no Dulles . " He might have added the obvious : " There would be no Dulles without Eisenhower . " But if the West German ruling class , risen once more to wealth and power , has no use for Dulles , it also has no use for Stevenson and the welfare state the Democratic candidate wants to lead . That is why they shrug expressively over the American Presidential election . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets  --  and neither of these is to be found in the West . There remain the Social Democrats , who have long opposed , Dulles and his policies . Behind the President , whom they respect as a man of unimpeachable integrity and an undoubted desire for peace , they see the figures of Dulles , McCarthy and the business , tycoons . It is hardly surprising , therefore , that their hopes center on Stevenson , whom they believe could restore America 's lost prestige as the symbol of peace , freedom and social democracy . AUSTRALIA By W. Macmahon Ball Melbourne MOST Australians , I am sad to report , are not greatly interested in the Presidential election . Everyone , of course , knows who Ike is , and feels a strong personal liking and respect for him . But to most Australians the names Nixon , Stevenson and Kefauver ring no bell . There is less election news and comment in the Australian press than usual . This is partly because Suez has been taking so much space , and on this issue it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that grips anxious attention . In any case , Australian interest in American politics is mainly a concern with foreign policy , and even this interest fluctuates with changes in the international situation . In 1948 the Berlin blockade and in 1952 the Korean war created critical situations and a correspondingly acute interest in how America faced them . But no one seriously expects a war over Suez and with the general easing of world tension American foreign policy does not now arouse such widespread , urgent interest . Hence active interest in the U. S. election is confined to a small minority . Even among these , I think , the contest is seen mainly in personal rather than in party terms . Australian observers of American politics have always found it hard to distinguish sharply between the interests and policies of the two major parties , though they have the general impression that the Republicans are rather more conservative and more strongly influenced by big business than the Dernuerats . If this - contest were not complicated by Mr. Eisenhower 's health , I think it probable that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States would support Eisenhower and most professional and academic people Stevenson , with an overall majority for Eisenhower . The President was winning increasing admiration and support in Australia for his international policies , for die sincerity of his Geneva pi ? - grimage and his restraint in the Far East . But there is widespread anxiety that his health may not stand the strain of another four years of office and his victory might therefore mean Mr. Nixon as President . It would be going too far to say that there is distrust of Mr. Nixon , but I think it would be fair to say that Australian observers would be doubtful whether , on his showing todate , he pbssessei the ekeeptiOnal qualities of mind and character that we hope for , however unreasonably , in the man whose office gives him more power than any other man in the world . For this reason I think it likely that the balance of reasonably informed Australians would at the moment favor the Democrats , particularly since they picture Mr. Stevenson as a highly civilized , intelligent and responsible @ @ 