@@477466

The guest editor in the Easy Chair this month is an editorial writer for the Washington Post and author of The Loyalty of Free Men . He spent the past academic year as visiting professor in the political science department at the University of California in Berkeley Y0U might as well put detectives back in uniform , pounding a beat . The only way they will be able to solve a crime is to see it happen or find a witness . " This was the bitter comment of Deputy Police Chief Edgar E. Scott of Washington , D. C. after the Supreme Court , in 1957 , upset the conviction of Andrew Mallory , a Negro who had confessed to raping a young married white woman . Chief Scott 's indignation led him , indeed , to suggest examining defenders of the Supreme Court 's decision " to see what selfish interest " they have ; and he remarked ominously that one of the first acts of persons seeking to overthrow the government would be to break down law enforcement . Policemen and prosecutors all over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They accused the Court of sentimentality , of exalting the rights of individuals above the " rights " of the community , of frustrating effective law enforcement . The Washington public which had felt rather pleased with the police for having solved a difficult case with efficiency and dispatch and for having put an ugly and dangerous fellow behind bars , was correspondingly outraged when this same ugly and dangerous fellow was once more set at large in the streets of the Capital on the basis of what most people considered a " mere leg-al technicality . " All that the Supreme Court had done , however , was to reassert a rule which it had laid down fifteen years earlier in the McNabb Case , that confessions obtained through unlawful detention of a suspect may not be admitted in federal courts . The purpose of this rule was to prevent theextortion of confessions by third-degree tactics , by intimidation , or by taking advantage of an arrested person 's ignorance of his constitutional rights . Mallory was a twenty-one-year-old Negro of not much more than moronic mentality . The rape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young Mallory was living along with his older half-brother , the janitor of the building , and the half-brother 's two grown sons . As so often happens in cases of this kind , the victim of the crime was unable to make any positive identification but told the police her masked assailant resembled Mallory and his two grown nephews . No other persons had easy access to the basement . The police arrested the three Negroes , took them to a police station and questioned them intensively . They told Mallory that his half-brother had identified him as the masked assailant . Mallory strenuously denied guilt . After some hours of persistent interrogation , he was induced to take a lie-detector test ; and after almost an hour and a half of steady questioning with the machine , he agreed to sign a statement that he had committed the crime . By that time it was late in the evening , and Mallory was not brought before a United States Commissioner for arraignment until the following morning . There was no evidence that the police had used any physical force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorance and fear to persuade him to tell what was presumably the truth . When Mallory 's trial finally took place ? it was delayed for a year because he was deemed mentally incompetent to stand trial ? his confession was the principal evidence against him . He was convicted of rape and sentenced to death . The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit sustained the conviction in a two to one decision , Judge David Bazelon dissenting . The Supreme Court reversed the decision on the ground that the confession should not have been admitted as evidence because it was obtained in violation of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure . Under Rule 4 of these rules , a suspect may be arrested only if there is probable cause to believe that he committed a crime . It is unlawful to arrest a citizen for questioning or on suspicion ? that is , in order to establish the probable cause required to justify the arrest in the first place . And Rule 5 provides that when a person is arrested , he must be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay . " At this arraignment , it is the duty of the Com missioner to inform the arrested person of the precise charge against him and to advise him of his rights ? his right to have the benefit of counsel , to avoid self-incrimination , and to have a preliminary examination . It is also the duty of the Commissioner to determine whether the evidence constitutes probable cause to believe that the arrested person committed a crime and to hold him for trial , discharge him from custody , or admit him to bail . JUST A " TECHNICALITY " ? T H E police in the Mallory Case were following standard operating procedure . The requirement that arrested persons be arraigned without unnecessary delay ? a requirement in state as well as federal jurisdictions ? has long been interpreted by the police almost everywhere with great laxity . It is common practice , in most states as well as in the District of Columbia , to question suspects and often to hold them incommunicado in order to build a case against them prior to arraignment . The Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illuminating report on " Secret Detention by the Chicago Police . " It discloses , among other significant facts culled from a study of case files in nine branches of the Municipal Court of Chicago , that : Fifty per cent of the police prisoners produced in Felony Court have been held without charge for 17 hours or longer , according to the ACLU sample of 334 cases . Another 30 per rent could not be accounted for in terms of pre-booking detention because of police failure to complete the arrest slip . Only 20 per cent of the files showed on their face that the defendant was booked within 17 hours of his arrest .. . . One out of every ten Felony Court defendants in the sample had been held fur 48 hours or longer . One out of every 20 had been held for 60 hours or longer . One out of every 40 had been held for at least three days , before he was charged with an offense . That the victims of such police practices are not always criminals is attested by the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union . Wakat was arrested by Chicago police officers " for investigation " on September 21 , 1946 . Two days later , when his wife learned where he was , she retained a lawyer who filed a petition for habeas corpus . On September 24 a judge ruled that Wakat 's detention was illegal and ordered him released . Four hours after the judge 's ruling , however , the Chicago police re-arrested Wakat " for investigation . " For the next three days Wakat was held incommunicado at a police station . His lawyer tried to see him but was turned away . Throughout his detention , Wakat was not charged with any crime , was held without bail , and was denied any communication with the world outside . On September 27 the police succeeded in wringing from him a signed confession of burglary . Then , and only then , did they take him to court and charge him with a crime . On the basis of his confession Wakat was convicted and given a ten- to twenty-year prison sentence . Seven years later the Illinois Supreme Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to prove that his confession had been extorted by a series of violent beatings by the police during his secret detention . Behind this flagrant disregard of the law by law-enforcement officers lies a public tolerance or indifference ; the community prefers to keep its eyes closed . Ordinary law-abiding citizens find it hard to identify theriselves with those who fall afoul of the law ? for the most part the scum of society , vagrants , pickpockets , dope peddlers , robbers , rapists , and others who present an indisputable threat to law and order and the safety of the community . It is not easy for respectable citizens to recognize that their own rights are bound up intimately with the rights of such outcasts . There has been an undoubted and very disquieting increase of crime in the postwar years . The causes are complex . Among them , certainly , are social conditions which lie entirely outside police jurisdiction and beyond the power of the best of police departments to correct , Some have said that the causes of contemporary crime are to be found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on that peculiarly distressing and disconcerting sort of anti-social conduct which is commonly referred to as juvenile delinquency , Mr. J. Edgar Hoover remarked that juvenile delinquents " are the victims of a society which has substituted indulgence for discipline . They are the victims of a breakdown of authority and moral standards in the home , in the neighborhood and ? too frequently ? in the entire community . " PRESSURE ON THE POLICE THIS may well be the case . if so , however , it is perplexing to find Mr. Hoover advocating tougher treatment of youthfsil lawbreakers , including full public disclosure of their identities . " In recent years , " he testified before the House 17 Appropriations Committee last May , " reports on youth crimes have indicated a mounting savagery , a senseless brutality , which leaves little doubt that in the interest of self-preservation , it is now time for sterner measures to be taken by the communities and the courts . " The only way to civilize these young barbarians , it would appear , is to treat them with the utmost savagery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to inadequacies in educational and recreational facilities . Some blame the impact of motion pictures , television programs , and comic strips . Still others regard the incidence of juvenile and adult delinquency as symptoms of a pervasive sickness of our society . In any case , whatever the causes , there is now a very widespread popular alarm over the growth of crime and violence . This alarm finds expression in innumerable newspaper and magazine articles . Its feverish nature can be seen in the following brief excerpt from a series of articles in the San Francisco Chronicle which appeared some months ago under the titillating title , " Terror in the Streets . ' and presented a succession of lurid stories of violent crime culled from the newspaper 's files : This is the hoodlum era. the era of the switchblade and the zip gun , the flailing belt buckle , the slashing bicycle chain . This is the era of violence on the streets , This is the problem the new police administration has inherited , a problem they are now facing . Police statistics show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or assaulted on San Francisco streets as before World War II . What the statistics do n't show is the spreading pattern of senseless brutality , the increasing outbursts of pure sadism . It is this , more than anything , that sends the fear drumming through the city 's streets . This is not an isolated instance of journalistic viewing-with-alarm . A year or so ago , the Washington Evening Star , published on the other coast of the continent , edified its readers with a series under a similar headline , " Crime in the Streets , " recounting much the same sort ofrecord of assaults , beatings , rapes , purse-snatchings , and general hoodlumism . Such newspaper stories excite , as well as reflect , public panic about the incidence of crime . They operate to make the public impatient with police forces . And they operate to make the police forces , in turn , impatient with the restraints imposed upon them by the Constitution and the courts . Police under pressure ? police with a zeal for law enforcement ? tend in these circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil liberties . There has been no comprehensive study of police practices throughout the country since the Wickersham Commission made its shocking report on " Lawlessness in Law Enforcement " in 1931 . There is reason to believe , however , that the worst of the abuses , and especially the widespread employment of third degree tactics revealed by the commission , have abated . Perhaps this improvement has been due in part to police recognition that psychological pressure can accomplish the same results as physical brutality . As the late Judge Jerome Frank put it : " Policemen have discovered that they need neither intricate devices nor violence . The easiest way to persuade a man to confess to whatever you want is to deprive him of sleep beyond the point of normal exhaustion , questioning him endlessly . " THE PRE-DAWN RAID POLICE continue to use methods which breach the law and encroach seriously on rights of privacy . An illustration can be seen in the widespread abuse of the so-called vagrancy and disorderly conduct laws . These laws are commonly stretched and distorted to provide a pretext for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause . The same can be said about dragnet arrests which the police are fond of making whenever they confront some particularly ugly instance of crime for which they have no ready solution . In the District of Columbia a year or so ago , for example , when the police found a waitress who had been brutally beaten by some thug , they rounded up and arTHE EASY CHAIR rested more than ninety suspects . This was , to be sure , a demonstration of police vigor and enthusiasm ; but it involved at the same time a flagrant invasion of the civil liberties of ninety-odd innocent citizens . Arrests without warrant have become so much a commonplace that an arrest warrant is now almost a collector 's item ? a relic of some distant law-abiding and law-respecting past . Under the law , policemen in most jurisdictions may arrest without a warrant whenever they have " probable cause " to believe that the person to he arrested has committed a felony . But probable cause gets stretched pretty thin by zealous policemen . Upwards of 600,000 arrests are made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example-100,000 of them for felonies ? and 90 per cent of them are made without using a warrant . It is notorious that wire-tapping , although indisputably a violation of the Federal Communications Act , is widely used as a technique for crime detection by federal and local police alike . Mr. J. Edgar Hoover candidly acknowledges from time to time that the FBI taps wires in a limited number of cases involving national security . Electronic eavesdropping techniques which involve grave invasions of privacy are also widely employed as aids to law enforcement . And the Supreme Court itself ? perhaps in response to public clamor for strengthening the power of the police ? has sanctioned detection devices which scent altogether repugnant to the spirit of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution . The Fourth Amendment provides . without equivocation , that " the right of the people to be secure in their persons , houses , papers . and effects , against unreasonable searches and seizures , shall not be violated , and no Warrants shall issue , but upon probable cause , supported by Oath or affirmation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persons or things to be seized . " It can hardly be denied that this provision imposes upon the police a heavy handicap . Undoubtedly the authors of the amendment intended that it should do so . They placed great value upon privacy . In Justice Brandeis ' words , " They conferred , as 20 against the government , the right to be let alone ? the most comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men . " A year ago , in support of this right , the Court reversed a conviction simply because the police failed to observe a procedural rule which to many may seem a mere formality . At about four o'clock one morning , without an arrest or search warrant , the police unceremoniously forced their way into the apartment of one William Miller , arrested him , and seized a quantity of heroin they found on the premises . The police had ample reason to make the raid . Their sole delinquency was that they failed to give notice of their authority and purpose before breaking open the door . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the English common law since the fifteenth century and a basic rule of American law since the earliest days of the Republic . And as Mr. justice Brennan said for the Supreme Court , " However much in a particular case insistence upon such rules may appear as a technicality that inures to the benefit of a guilty person , the history of the criminal law proves that tolerance of shortcut methods in law enforcement impairs its enduring effectiveness . " It should be recognized , of course , that the police have a very difficult problem , when they are in hot pursuit of a criminal , in determining just what constitutes probable cause for an arrest and just when a search is reasonable within the constitutional meaning of the term . They often have persuasive reasons indeed for a failure to observe amenities which must sometimes seem to them , in the course of their difficult and dangerous jobs , to be silly and frustrating impediments to law enforcement . These amenities are , nevertheless , the very essence of civil liberty . And it is a vital responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed . The courts have thus far discovered no more effective means of doing this than to exclude resolutely from a trial any evidence which was obtained by unconstitutional means . This is called the exclusionary rule , and it has been in force in all federal courts ever since the Supreme Court adopted it in 1914 . " If police officers know that evidence obtained by their unlawful acts can not be used in the courts , " said Mr. justice Douglas , they will clean their own houses and put an end to this kind of action . " Perhaps this is an overly optimistic view ; but the exclusionary rule serves at least to admonish the police and to keep the courts from connivance in their law-breaking . It is hard to see how popular respect for the law can be maintained if the police are permitted to flout it . Many states have not adopted the exclusionary rule ; and many able , conscientious lawyers feel it confers undue advantages upon criminals at the expense of the community without effectively curbing the police . There can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indisputably guilty defendants . And whenever this happens , police and prosecutors react with just the same sort of frenzied indignation that was expressed by Deputy Police Chief Scott in Washington , D. C. HOW TO KEEP LAWYERS IN THEIR PLACE N 1955 when the Supreme Court of California adopted the exclusionary rule for that state , upsetting the conviction of a notorious gambler because it was based on evidence obtained through a flagrantly unlawful search , the Police Chief of Los Angeles commented as follows : " the decision is a terrible blow to law enforcement and has conceivably set law enforcement back fifty years . I am only concerned with the security and welfare of the law-abiding element of our people . With these further restrictions being placed upon us ? what are we going to do ? " And the District Attorney of Alameda County said on the same occasion : Thej net result of the exclusionary rule is that the persons who will benefit the most , in fact almost exclusively , are the blackmailer , the kidnaper , the big-time narcotic peddler , the racketeer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gullible public , the panderer and procurer , the entrepreneur of syndicated prostitution , who like the pimp , lives off the earnings . of pros-22 titutes , and other types of organized syndicated crime , such as , for example , the international conspiracy of communism to destroy the American way of life . and the very constitutional rights which the majority opinion seeks to protect . This kind of protest from policemen and prosecutors has evoked a sympathetic response among legislators . Senator Kenneth Keating of New York has introduced , in collaboration with Representative Edwin Willis of Louisiana , a bill which has already at this writing passed the House , designed to modify the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure in such a way as , in effect , to overturn the Supreme Court 's decision in the Mallory Case . The Keating-Willis bill provides simply that " evidence , including statements or confessions , otherwise admissible , shall not be inadmissible solely because of delay in taking an arrested person before a Commissioner " or other judicial officer ; and it imposes on the police a duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is not required to make a statement and that any statement made by him may be used against him . " It is plain that this bill , in the interest of law enforcement , would relax restraints on the police and correspondingly diminish the protections which American law has traditionally thrown around accused persons . It would operate to deny arrested persons the right to counsel at precisely the time when this right could be most important to them and it would effectively nullify the privilege against self-incrimination . During the course of a recent trial in federal district court in Washington , the prosecutor unintentionally revealed one of the reasons why police prefer to question suspects prior to arraignment . In his argument to the jury , the prosecutor declared : " They say why did n't we put him downstairs in jail , that is , after arraignment and call him back the next morning . Why ? We would find the place crawling with attorneys telling him , ' You do n't have to talk to the police . ' " Naturally enough the police do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telling arrested persons to keep their mouths THE EASY CHAIR shut . Nevertheless , the fact of the matter is that counsel can be a great deal more useful to a defendant before he makes damaging admissions than after the admissions have been made . Moreover it is one thing to be advised of one 's rights by a commissioner or magistrate in a courtroom and quite another thing to be told about them by a police officer in the lonely and intimidating atmosphere of a police station . A policeman may tell a prisoner of his rights in such a tone of voice as to warn against any resort to them . FOR RICH PEOPLE ONLY T H E police preference for questioning prisoners prior to arraignment makes a mockery of the concept of equal justice . Well-to-do and respectable persons who know their rights are likely to assert them and have them recognized . And this is even more clearly the case with well-to-do and unrespectable persons ? the big-time gamblers , members of criminal syndicates and organized vice rings ? for the protection of whose rights a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedural rights are breached by the police are almost invariably the poor , the ignorant , and the friendless . Perhaps the weightiest objection to the Keating-Willis bill is the consideration that , if it became law , it would transfer the authority to determine what constitutes probable cause for arrest from a judicial officer to a police officer . It would , in short , make policemen judges of the legality of their own arrests . And this is , when you come to think about it , an identifying charcteristic of the police state . As judge Bazelon observed in his dissent when the Mallory Case was in the Court of Appeals , " The law 's requirement of arraignment without unnecessary delay is grounded upon the theory that where policemen are judges , individual liberty and dignity can not long survive . " The Mallory and Miller Cases briefly recounted here are cases in which odious and dangerous criminals were involved , in which there was no doubt whatever as to their guilt , and in which zealous police work was frustrated by the Court 's decisions ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o criticism and protest . In a limiter sense , the safety of the conmainit ? was imperiled by the release of Mal lory and Miller . But in a much more vital sense the safety of the community was pro teeted by these decisions . For the ! serve to safeguard the communit ' against that most terrifying syrnbo of the police state ? the ominous raj upon a householder 's door at night the random search and the arbitrary arrest and detention of a citizen by policemen who have become masters , not servants , of the law . " The history of liberty , " Mr. Justice Frankfurter once observed , " has largely been tht history of observance of procedural safeguards . And the effective admin istration of justice hardly requires the disregard of fair procedures imposed by law . " THE POLICEMAN 'S LOT T H E men who wrote the Constitution and who consciously imposed in the Fourth , Fifth , and Sixth articles of the Bill of Rights sweeping restraints upon law enforcement were well aware of the community 's concern with the prevention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the community 's overriding concern with the insidious perils in overbearing police authority . In Justice Brandeis ' words , " they did not exalt order at the cost of liberty . " And perhaps the healthiest tradition which they handed down to their posterity is the tradition that among free men the policeman 's lot can hardly ever be a happy one . The dangers which arise from " terror in the streets " are undoubtedly real and serious dangers . It may be , however , that elimination of " terror in the streets " must he sought not alone in vigorous police action but in reform of the social conditions which give rise to this terror . The offspring of terror is panic . And panic is always a poor counselor . It can lead at times to a senseless sacrifice of the very values which it is the fundamental function of law to sustain and secure , If there is danger from the outcasts of society who violate the law , there is also danger from the law-abiding who , in an excess of anxiety , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 