@@492602

BERLIN , GERMANY . S the German people approach the fifth anni-versary of their defeat and occupation , they should be the most frustrated community in Europe . They live in a country which has lost one sixth of its most productive territory , where the re-mainder is split between two German governments which are not on speaking terms , and where foreign conquerors are so firmly settled that nobody even ventures a guess about when they will leave . Almost 12,000,000 Germans are displaced persons , expelled from homes their families have occupied for gen-erations . Fifteen million were made homeless by air raids and shellfire . More than half have lost their savings through looting , requisitions and inflation . But in spite of all this , the Germans have come back with so much determination that they frighten neighboring countries recently conquered by them . Only people with an assured future usually work so hard and to such purpose . And everybody here agrees that the past few months have brought about a conspicuous revival of German confidence . What is the explanation ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which Germany has emerged as the chief beneficiary . The beaten Germans are being offered a choice between alliances , a choice which gives them a chance to rise again , as most of them see it . This fact was dramatically demonstrated last October , when the Western Powers and Soviet Russia made almost simultaneous moves in Germany . In the West , British Foreign Secretary Ernest Kevin urgently requested an immediate conference in Paris with the American Secretary of State andthe French Foreign Minister . The timing was not favorable , because another shaky French Government had just been formed , and the State Department was preoccupied with events in China . But Mr. Bevin presented such forceful arguments that the Paris conference was arranged in great haste . In a few days an agreement was reached to bolster up the West German Government by halting the destruction of German factories which had been approved years ago by all the occupying powers . Even reluctant French ministers were persuaded that the West had to make another strong bid for German support , and make it quickly . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a big factor in those Western concessions to Germany . On October fourteenth , just a few days before Mr. Bevin proposed the Paris conference , Joseph Stalin , of Russia , sent a message he his newly formed East German Republic in which ne said : " The experience of the last war has shown that the German and Soviet peoples made the largest sacrifices in that war , and that both these Peoples have the largest potentialities in Europe to complete great actions of world significance . " To German nationalists  --  and most Germans are nationalists , just as most Americans and Frenchmen iire  --  Stalin 's declaration looked like the most significant development since the war . The Soviet leader pointedly omitted any mention of communism , but spoke only of the " German people . " His Words strengthened a growing impression that Moscow was sidetracking its plans for a German communist dictatorship , and is now chiefly interested in an old-fashioned nationalist alliance  --  that the same Soviet leaders who have made two previously mutual-1Y profitable deals with Germany are laying the groundwork for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has afflicted Europeans for generations  --  the nghtmare of a Russo-German alliance uniting the two largest and moat active peoples on this conti-ient . Stalin 's statement recalled bitter memories that , whenever Germany and Russia have come to terms in the past , they have indeed shared in " great actions of world significance . " . The possibility of a complete shift in Soviet policy iuziword Germany has been suspected since March , 4919 , when the Russians started a systematic camPaIgn to get in touch with all German leaders hav- g interests in the East . Ever since then , Russian-controlled newspapers and broadcasting stations have been playing down communism and Playing up the common interests of the German and Russian peoples in arguments which can be sumMarized as follows : Germany and Russia are natural allies , and the Most astute German statesmen since Bismarck have recognized this fact . Germany suffered its only two defeats after breaking with Russia , and the Russian revolution did not prevent the resumption of friendly relations . The 1922 Soviet-German Treaty of Rapallo enabled the Germans to burst the bonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the 1939 Hitler-Stalin agreement could have saved both countries from a costly war if Hitler 's stupidity had not hurled the Germans against Russia . But it is still not too late for Germany to return to the policy of its wisest statesmen . A personal experience has shown me that these arguments appeal powerfully to many Germans who heartily dislike communism . During the four years I worked as a reporter in Moscow in the 1930 's , the German ambassador there was Count Friedrich von der Schulenburg , a conservative aristocrat . I had periodic conversations with the ambassador in the course of my work , and learned that he was a vigorous advocate of a Russo-German alliance . Despite the fact that he represented Hitler , the ambassador managed to get closer to Stalin than most foreign envoys . He frankly expressed to me his dislike for Hitler 's hostility to the Soviets . He repeatedly declared to me that a Russo-German war would be disastrous for Germany . What happened later to Ambassador von der Schulenburg explains some things which are happening in Germany today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ files . In 1939 , Count von der Schulenburg played a major role in concluding the Hitler-Stalin agreement , and his dispatches to the German Foreign Office then and later expressed confidence that Stalin would faithfully respect his bargain . The ambassador became extremely unpopular with Hitler because of his persistent warnings that Germany could not afford to invade Russia , and after the invasion started he was relegated to a relatively minor post in the Berlin Foreign Office . The count was so embittered by Hitter 's attack on Russia that in 1941 he joined one of several groups of conspirators who plotted to assassinate Hitler and to form a pro-Russian government pledged to negotiate peace with Stalin . In that projected government , Ambassador von der Schulenburg was assigned the post of foreign minister , because his coconspirators agreed that he would be the most effective negotiator with Stalin . Although the plotters disagreed among themselves upon many points , almost all approved an alliance with Russia . If they had succeeded in their original plans , they could have offered peace to Stalin as early as 1942 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was not until July 20 , 1944 , that the bomb which injured Hitler was set off in his headquarters . This failure destroyed most of the conspirators , including von der Schulenburg , who was executed by the Gestapo . Another diplomat in the plot kept a diary which was found after his execution . He reported that " von der Schulenburg swears by the possibilities of an understanding with Stalin . " Ambassador von der Schulenburg 's private secretary while he was in Moscow , Gebhart von Walther , says that his chief never stopped trying to get in touch with Stalin . During the war von Walther worked at the German Embassy in Turkey . He and von der Schulenburg devised a code by which efforts to approach Stalin through the Soviet Embassy at Ankara could be reported . Just a month before the ambassador was arrested , he wired von Walther to report to him in Berlin , but his former secretary arrived too late . The present significance of this story is that the archconaervative German ambassador , who knew Stalin personally and had made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained confident to his death that Stalin would welcome a German alliance , and that Hitler was solely responsible for the breakin ( Continued on Page 73 ) EUROPE 'S OLD NIGHTMARE RETURNS ( Continued from Page 23 ) Soviet-German relations . Harry Hopkins also reported that Hitler 's double cross did not change Stalin 's attitude toward the German people . In 1941 , after his first conversation with Stalin , Hopkins wrote : " Hitler 's invasion aroused in Stalin a hatred which nothing but the death of the German . chan- cellor can lessen . But as Stalin made clear to me , this is not a hatred of the German people , nor of the General Staff . " Well , Hitler has been dead for almost five years now , but the German people survive , and so does Stalin . The same forces are at work which have brought the Russian and German peoples together in the past , and the Russians today are holding out prospects which are disturbingly attractive to Germans like von der Schulenburg . And among the Germans who have listened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the survivors of the plot against Hitler in which von der Schulenburg lost his life . One of these is Andreas Hermes , Rhineland leader of the Catholic conspirators . He was condemned to death by Hitler 's judges and was awaiting execution when he was rescued by the Red Army . In 1945 the Russians appointed Herr Hermes food administrator of Berlin , and later he became chairman of the Catholic Party in the Soviet Occupation Zone . However , he proved to be too independent , and was ousted by the Russians in December , 1945 . He returned to the Rhineland , where he revived the West German Farmers ' Association . Despite these early unpleasant experiences with the Russians , Herr Hermes has been active during the past year in organizing meetings between Germans living in the eastern and western zones to explore the possibilities of an agreement with Russia . Several of these meetings were held without official interference . Then , last November , the local German authorities in the Rhineland town of Rengsdorf refused permits for another session . The 150 professors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discuss a deal with Russia Were accused of being " subversive and threatening . " These Germans who gathered at Rengsdorf included a few Members of the West German parliaMent , and the ban against their meetings showed a growing official alarm about such activities . Soviet propagandists naturally made the most of this incident as evidence of Western hypocrisy in proclaiming freedom of speech . Though many observers in Germany have noted the recent shift in Soviet Policy , most Western officials have attributed it to the Allied concessions Made to the West German Government , and to the generous share of Marshall Plan funds allocated to Western Germany . However , there are Signs that Russian policy here has been even more influenced by the defection ? f Marshal Tito , of Yugoslavia . Tito , a Moscow-trained communist , has raised the specter of a rival communist movement more dangerous to Moscow 's pretensions than any move made by the so-called capitalistic countries . Yugoslavia , with its 15,000,000 people , is not big enough or rich enough to challenge successfully Moscow 's leadership of world communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar movement could present a very different picture . The founder of Soviet communism , Nikolai Lenin , once declared that when Germany became communist it would automatically supersede Russia as the world leader , because of German technical superiority . Lenin assumed that German and Russian communists would work smoothly together . But Tito 's revolt has made this prospect more doubtful . In Germany , too , recent developments . have been disturbing to the Russians . Last summer Karl Scholz , a veteran member of the German Communist Party , applied for a license to form an anti-Russian communist party in the Western sectors of Berlin . Scholz claimed that he had 16,000 supporters in Western Berlin , equal to the old Communist Party 's entire membership in the Soviet sector . He also asserted that his group was operating underground in the Soviet Zone , and that several of its members were among the hundreds of German communists arrested there during the past year . Whether Scholz 's claims were exaggerated or not , there can be no doubt that Russian confidence in all foreign communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given high posts in all communist-governed European countries as trustworthy Soviet agents , have been imprisoned or shot during the past year . This goes far to explain recent Russian reconsideration of its German policy . From the Soviet Zone come authentic reports that the Russians have increased their attention to noncommunist German politicians , intellectuals and industrialists there . A series of visits to Moscow has been arranged for them , where they have talked with Soviet leaders , and have been told that Russia is anxious to leave Germany as soon as friendly Soviet-German relations can be established . The Catholic leaders in the Soviet Zone , Otto Nuschke and Georg Dertinger , have returned convinced that Russia almost certainly will be the first to withdraw troops . The leaders of the so-called Liberal Democratic Party , Dr. Hermann Kastner and Dr. Karl Hamann , reported that their talks in Moscow persuaded them that Russia has a better understanding of Germany 's future than the other occupiers , and urged their party to come out for an outright Russo-German alliance . Since Tito 's revolt the Soviet Zone administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is especially true of the police force , which is being trained like an army . Several high-ranking German officers who have never pretended to like communism have been promoted to key posts , and training courses for recruits are taking on an increasingly nationalist tone . For the first time , these young Germans are being taught that ideological differences need not come between Russia and Germany , which are bound together by other common interests . The new Soviet policy toward Germany consists of holding a club in one hand and a bunch of carrots in the other . The club is the well-armed Soviet Zone administration , contrasted to a West German Government which the Western Powers have forced to forswear rearmament , and whose very existence therefore depends upon continued foreign occupation . The Russians have so arranged matters that if all the occupying powers withdrew from Germany today , the armed East could overrun the unarmed West in a few weeks .. or a few days . But every German knows that the Western Powers will not withdraw under present circumstances , so that Russian carrots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin with , the Russians have made a welcome present to Western Germans by their cold war , which has enabled the Germans to wring concessions from the reluctant West . Now they are holding out advantages which only the Russians can give , and which appeal most strongly to three classes of Germans : the nationalists , the refugees and the businessmen . The most serious weakness of the West German Government is its lack of appeal for the nationalist majority here , who want their country to be united again , free from occupation , and with Berlin as its capital . By agreeing not to arm itself , ? the West German Government has concurred in a policy which keeps Germany divided and demands the retention of Allied protective troops . Moreover , its policy exposes Western Berlin to a long period of decay . Today the most disillusioned group in Germany are the 2,250,000 residents of the Western sectors of Berlin . When I was here last , the blockade and the airlift made them the center of world attention , and the subsequent letdown has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West of American , British and French officials , together with the lucky Berliners who work for them . Hundreds of Berlin bureaucrats also have departed to posts in the Western government . This city attained greatness as the political and railroad center of united Germany , and after the war it retained much of its importance as the seat of four-power administration . But now Western Berlin has become an anachronism , with no effective role to play in a divided Germany . Its only poli tics is local ' , and Allied officials use it chiefly as a week-end resort . Its trade and factories were designed to serve Eastern Germany much more than the West , and now the Allies discourage trade with the East . Unemployment in Western Berlin has risen to 400,000 , compared with only 40,000 a year ago . Berliners who can not find work get little comfort from speeches praising their courage from occasional American visitors like Dean Acheson and Louis Johnson or from Allied assurances that small garrisons will be kept here to protect them from communist conquest . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who tell them every day that Russia has recognized Berlin 's importance by making it the capital of the East German Republic , and that the real enemies of Berlin are the Western Germans who have set up a rival capital at Bonn at the instigation of their masters , the Western Powers . These Western Berliners proved , in free elections , that they are strongly anticommunist . But now many of them begin to feel that their only chance of a decent future lies in some kind of understanding with Russia . This is also true of a second anticommunist group , the so-called expellees , who have now reached the appalling total of 11,613,000 . These Germans were uprooted from their homes by four-power agreements and dumped into a defeated country which lost two fifths of all its buildings by air bombardments . They were thrown into truncated Germany from all the Eastern European countries now dominated by Russia , and from the huge hunks of Germany annexed by Russia and Poland . The original estimates that these expellees would not exceed 6,650,000 were extremely bad guesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the flood of immigration has been aggravated by 750,000 voluntary fugitives from the Soviet Zone . Last summer these fugitives crossed zonal borders at the rate of 15,000 monthly , apparently with Russian connivance . The Russians knew that this influx complicated the problems of the West . These homeless millions , compelled to abandon most of their property , ( ( ' . nntinm  --  fl on Page 76 ) ( Conti , oiard fro rte Page 74 ) often arrived with only the clothes which they wore . They were jammed into the farmhouses and city homes of other Germans , who were compelled to feed and clothe them until they could find work , and to share their kitchens , bathrooms and even bedrooms . The expellees included 1,200,000 children for whom places had to be found in overcrowded schools . These expellees have had to accept whatever work they could get , and 86 per cent of them hold menial jobs today , although a third of them are skilled farmers and another third are skilled craftsmen , tradesmen and professional men . They occupied a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are an impoverished proletariat . They express almost as much dislike for Americans as they do for the Russians , holding us chiefly responsible for the agreements which made them propertyless displaced persons . They can see no future whatever for themselves in Western Germany . These discontented people , numbering almost one fifth of the present population of Western Germany , are thus pulled strongly toward the East , despite their distaste for Russia and cornmuniam . Their chief spokesman , the Catholic priest , Georg Goebel , recently declared , " We have a short-range and a long-range goal . The short-range goal is human rights in the West . The long-range goal is the right to a home in the East . " These people are ready to leap at any offer which holds out the prospect of resettlement in their former homes , and such an offer also would appeal to many Western Germans who would like to get rid of their painfully burdensome guests . The gulf between the expellees and the native population has recently widened , because the expellees have organized pressure groups demanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their spokesmen , recently declared , " The property of Western Germans does not fully belong to them any more . Part of it really belongs to the expellees . The West Germans were able to keep their property because the East Germans lost everything . " Moreover , the expellees have alarmed propertied Western Germans by threatening to combine politically with other " war victims " ? the 10,000,000 Western Germans who were bombed out and the 5,000,000 who lost their savings through currency reforms . Another advantage the Russians enjoy is that they can hold out the lure of unlimited trade to Western German businessmen . Envoys from Eastern Germany recently have approached Western German industrialists with arguments that Germany 's business future lies in the East . They have pointed out that French and British industrialists already have expressed alarm about German competition in Western markets  --  that the Western Powers can not be expected willingly to permit enough German production to restore the old living standards . Only in the East , they say , are vast opportunities opening for German trade . The communist conquest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for German businessmen . China 's 450,000,000 people have fallen under the control of pro-Russian leaders with grandiose plans for the development of their backward country . Because modern industry is almost nonexistent in China , the new rulers must try to import great quantities of machinery and industrial products for generations to come . Before the war , most of China 's imports came from Japan , a source of supply which is now extinct . For some months Russian officials dropped hints to German businessmen that this huge market would soon be open to them . Then , last December , the Russians made their first direct approach to Ruhr industrialists . They offered to buy 75,000 tons of rails for Manchurian railroads , and German managers of steel plants immediately applied for an export license , which requires the approval of the Western Powers . One American official , asked to comment on this offer , replied that it " vividly illustrates the pillarlike importance of Germany to Soviet hopes for world dominance . " However , this official neglected to mention that the offer also placed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temptation to German steelmakers  --  who had been forced to slow down production because they had not found markets for the finished steel already on hand . By approving this deal , the Western occupants would help to consolidate the new Russian empire . By rejecting it , they would discourage Western German hopes for full production so long as the West controls their industries . The Russians can be expected to make the most of this advantage . They have already explained to the Germans that the Soviets can not supply most of china 's needs for a long time . Moscow 's willingness to arrange German-Chinese trade adds to the attractions of a Russo-German understanding by suggesting a long-range outlet for German products bigger than any market visible in the West . The effects of the Soviet shift in Germahy from ideological to economic and human appeals can not easily be calculated . Soviet leaders often boast of their scientific approach to world affairs . But in practice they often behave more like poker players . During the first four postwar years they held cards which encouraged them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won jackpots for them in Poland , Rumania , Bulgaria , Hungary , Czechoslovakia and China . Then they lost one huge pot in Yugoslavia , which looked like the safest bet of all . And the Kremlin 's poker players have since been more cautious . Today , Russian caution is particularly apparent in Germany , where a communist dictatorship seems to be a worse bet now than it was in 1948 . In the first place , German communists have proved to be so unpopular that even in the Soviet Zone , with full Russian support , it is estimated that they have not recruited more than 50,000 reliable followers . In the second place , Yugoslavia 's example has made the Russians suspect that they already have more communist dictatorships than they can handle . So Russia 's position in Germany today resembles Hitler 's Eastern front in 1939 , when the Nazi dictator struck a bargain with Stalin to give him a free hand in the West . Just as Hitler made generous concessions to Stalin then , so Stalin can be expected to increase his bids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably show how high Stalin is prepared to bid . And events during these months also may demonstrate whether the East can still exert enough of its traditional pull upon the Germans to create new and more serious problems for the Western Powers .                     