@@491762

34 MY BATTLES IN WAR AND PEACE : PART TWO : " KEEP THE ARMY OUT OF POLITICS " By GENERAL MATTHEW B. RIDGWAY AS TOLD TO HAROLD H. MARTIN General Ridgway tells how political pressures hampered him in his duty , and explains why overemphasis on air power can be dangerous . r arly in my service as Chief of Staff of the Army it became clear that there were three , i major tasks confronting me . First , to pre-serve the spirit and pride of an Army that was rapidly being reduced in numbers and was steadily being deprived of those small perquisites which make a military career attractive . Second , to deploy the Army 's waning strength in such a way that combat units would be as effective as possible in the event of war . And third , while doing these other things , to lay the groundwork for a totally different Army ? an Army that could fight and win a nuclear war . I was well aware that my attack on these problems was subject to misinterpretation . My efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were sometimes construed as an effort to subordinate civilian control of the military to the will of a hierarchy of professional soldiers . My opposition to overemphasis on air power , and my repeated assertions that the Army of the future might require more , not fewer , men , were at times presumed to reflect a desire on my part to retain in being a mass Army , armed and trained to fight the wars of the past . Neither interpretation of my views or my motives could have been further from the truth . My attitude toward air power was in no degree whatever a reflection of a foot soldier 's distrust of a new and more glamorous branch of the service . As an airborne commander in World War II , I jumped to battle from the air , and I believed with complete conviction that the principle of vertical envelopment , when properly employed , was the keystone of the attack . In the first hours of combat on the ground , before paratroops and glidcrmen also possess the capability to lift whole armies armed with nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth 's Surface where their tremendous , and selective , firepower may be needed . And all I had to say about air power was said in an effort to bring about this capability , which we do not now possess . Neither at any time during my two-year tour did I protest against the legal and proper exercise by civilian authorities of their control over the military . Despite all the vast changes that time and technology have brought to the profession of arms , one fundamental concept has not changed in the 180 years since the United States Army was created . Since George Washington 's time , no Chief of Staff , or officer with corresponding responsibility , has forgotten that he is a citizen first and a soldier second , and that the troops under his coaunand arc an instrument of the people 's will . 1 tried to make my views in this regard crystal-clear at my own swearing-in ceremony . To Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson , and the Secretary of the Army , Robert T. Stevens , and the other notables assembled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main points laid down by President Eisenhower in his reorganization of the Defense Department : First  --  in maintaining a democratic institution by insuring that the nation 's military forces should come under the direct personal command and control of civilian leaders ; and , second  --  in protecting the integrity of the military profession . To me the first idea was so unquestioningly accepted throughout the officer corps of the Army that it needed no elaboration . The statement sometimes made by influential men , who should know better , that the Army 's civilian secretaries do not control the Army , but arc " captives " of the political generals , is completely false . The second  --  the protection of the integrity of the military profession  --  I felt needed continued explanation to others in GoVernment and to the American people . The " integrity of the military profession , " I said , means that we must have an officer corps of such character and competence as will provide the highest professional and spiritual leadership to our citizen armies . It means a noncommissioned-officer corps indoctrinated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guides and whose standards it emulates . This professional , long-term cadre must be adequate both in size and in quality , I pointed out  --  a great reservoir of character , of devotion to duty , of loyalty , of professional competence . If we arc to have this fountainhead of leadership . I added  --  and witImut it we do not have an Army  --  it must truly represent a cross section of the nation 's life  --  must include a fair share of the best men the country can produce , in character . in intellect , in morality and in culture . Finally  --  and this is the essential point  --  the civilian authorities must scrupulously re-spelt the integrity , the intellectual honesty , of its officer corps . Any effort to force unanimity of view , to t ompel adherence to " party line " against the honestly expressed views of responsible officers is a pernicious practice which , if persisted in , will jeopardize rather than protect the integrity of the military profession . Parenthetically , I would like to say that I have never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have the cream of the nation 's young men because of the greater complexity of their weapons and machines . There is simply no comparison between the operator of a machine , however intricate its mechanism , and the leader of men fore , ? he corporal who leads a rifle squad in battle should be every whit as intelligent and as competent as the man who flies a plane or mans a ship 's gun battens All branches of the military today require men of the highest type , the Army no less than its sister services . From such an officer corps , I told my civilian superiors , they could expect fearless and forthright expressions of honest , objective professional opinion up to the moment when they themselves , the civilian commanders , announced their decisions . Thereafter they could expect completely loyal and diligent execution of these decisions . However , I pointed out , loyalty and complete trust cut both ways . They must flow just as strongly from the top clown as from the bottom up . The civilian authorities must give their military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army to function with the deep devotion and the high esprit which are its proud traditions , it should know at all times that it has the support , confidence and understanding of the people it serves . " With humble pride and a prayer for divine guidance , " I concluded , " I assume support from Secretary of Defense Wilson . From that office stemmed many suggestions that I take actions which , had I done SO , would have seriously impaired the Army 's capability to accomplish its missions , and would have weakened , rather than enhanced , the esprit , the pride , the confidence of victory , which are the basic strength of any military organization . For example , it was suggested that I reduce the strength of combat divisions overseas , that I inactivate certain units and reduce others to a cadre basis . Finally , in a letter to the Secretary of Defense , transmitted through the Secretary of the Army , I pointed out that it was just such thinking as this , applied to the Far East theater , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korean war , and I made it explicitly clear that I would not reduce the strength of combat units facing potential enemies overseas , thus subjecting them to the possibility of annihilation , unless I had a direct order to do so . That the authority to issue such an order lay with the Secretary of Defense I did not question . But the responsibility for the consequences . I felt , must also be his , and for that 74 ( Continued from Page 72 ) reason I submitted my views in writing . Throughout my tour there was never any lack of willingness on the part of thc Defense Department to exercise hill authority , Frequently , though , this was not accompanied by an equal willingness to assume full responsibility for actions taken . The suggestions to reduce troop levels were presented to Inc on a basis of economy , which was natural , since 76 per cent of the total reductions in military expenditures were to come out of the Army 's budget . In the name of economy also , the Army 's policy regarding dependents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the career personnel of our active Army has been serving overseas . If present conditions continue , they can expect to spend half their time in the future on foreign duty . To Inc it was unrealistic and unreasonable to expect that these men should be denied the right to have their families with them . I know the evil effects that the separations a military career demands can have upon family life . The prolonged separation of a soldier from his family in time of peace impairs his spirit ; it breeds social problems of the most pernicious kinds , and gives rise to unfortunate liaisons and all the evils that flow from them . Therefore , 1 had no patience with the arguments of these gentlemen who , never having been separated from their own loved ones in their lives , except voluntarily , were advocating such separation for other men on the ground of economy . Certainly , it costs a great deal to provide the essential facilities and services for the families of servicemen overseas . But it is a small fraction of the value received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negligible part of the cost of a war that their presence overseas might avert . Other matters , small in themselves , profoundly affected the rsprit of the Army . There was incessant attack on the so-called " fringe benefits " ? the simple , modest material perquisites. such as commissary and post-exchange privileges , and medical care for servicemen 's dependents  --  which help to narrow the gap between a soldier 's pay and what he could reasonably expect to tarn in civilian life . These things were protested on the basis of economy also , but the basic criticism . I knew , stemmed from local merchants who looked upon the commissary and the PX as a competitor to be destroyed . There was also a feeling within the service that , as regards tenure , the Government was unfairly changing the rules in the middle of the game . Older officers had come into the Army with the tacit understanding that if they gave competent and faithful service , they could remain on active duty until they were sixty-four . This would give them opportunity to educate their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to lay away for themselves some savings for their retired years . In 1947 the retirement age was lowered by law , and now that the law has had time to take full effect , many fine officers are forced into retirement in their middle 50 's . This is a personal disaster to them , and a loss to the Army of their wide experience and mature judgment . The drastic and rapid reductions in force levels greatly aggravated these basic inequities . Reserve officers on active duty have suffered even greater dislocations . With World War II behind them , and supposedly a long period of peace ahead , they were called back to fight the Korean war . Many remained in service thereafter , their talents desperately needed by an Army deployed around the world . Then suddenly , with their lives again adjusted to a military career , they find themselves being forced to return once more to civilian status , at an age when starting anew in their business or profession is not an easy thing . All these matters which in my view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I protested , either by letter or in personal conference with Mr. Wilson . After each exchange of views , I came away convinced that either the secretary was a man whose mental processes operated on a level of genius so high I could not grasp his meaning or that considerations beyond the ken of a soldier 's logic were influencing his thinking . And while I am on that subject , 1 would like to unburden myself of one concept which I believe is of utmost importance now , and will grow increasingly important in the future . That concept is simply this : The gentlemen who accept these great posts of authority and responsibility in the Defense Department should be as completely divorced from politics as is humanly possible . I think the tendency , which was manifest many times during my tour as Chief of Staff , of civilian secretaries making military decisions on a basis of political expediency , constitutes a danger to this country . The power that is vested in the civilian secretaries , particularly in the Secretary of Defense , is so enormous that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what is good for the party , instead of what is good for the country . They should base their decisions solely on the security interests of the United States , in the light of the best judgment God gave them , free of political considerations . Above all , they should never bring political pressure to bear on their military advisors . As I have said before , in all sincerity . the idea of civilian control of the military is so deeply rooted in the heart of every Army officer , it would never occur to him to question it , were not the matter persistently agitated by civilian authority itself . But how long will that idea endure when civilian commanders , themselves largely ignorant of military matters , persistently disregard the counsel and override the judgment of loyal , competent professional officers who have risen to posts of high responsibility after having spent a lifetime in the military service ? In France we did not beat the German Army at its peak . We beat an army whose spirit and confidence had been eroded away , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the defeats it had suffered in battle . That lesson should not be lost on the American people . My right to protest decisions which I believed to be unwise in no way relieved me of the responsibility of doing the very best I could with what was given Inc . It was obvious from the lirst that the cuts in Artny strength proposed in 195S would leave us dangerously overextended geographically , with a personnel base incapable of supporting the overseas deployment we had considered essential to our safety since the Korean war . There were only two alternatives as I saw them  --  partial withdrawal from Europe or from the Far East . Major withdrawals from Europe to my mind were unthinkable . The whole strength of the great NATO coalition lay in the fact that we were maintaining forces , armed and ready , on the continent of Europe , and had promised to keep them there until the threat of Red aggression had abated or disappeared . To have pulled troops out of Europe would have abrogated these solemn promises to our allies , and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have meant the dissolution of NATO . Withdrawal from Japan , on the other hand , might have a serious effect on the delicately balanced truce situation in Korea , and would leave us in a most difficult position should war break out anew in the Far East . We had hoped that , following the signing of the peace treaty , Japan would rapidly develop ground armies strong enough to protect her home islands , thus enabling us to transfer our own troops elsewhere . This hope grew dimmer day by day as Japan fell further and further behind schedule in the creation of her own defense forces , and there is still no adequate protective force in being there . orca presented a somewhat different picture . To my mind , we had far too many troops committed to that area , in the light of our over-all strength and commitments elsewhere . If grand-scale war should erupt suddenly in other parts of the world , we would find it extremely difficult to shift these trained troops to another theater . With 600,000 ROK troops under arms in Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewed attack from the Red Chinese in the event our own Army forces were withdrawn . However , the presence of these ROK forces presented another facet to the problem . No one knew what our old and belligerent friend , Syngman Rhcc , might do if we were not there to restrain him in his determination to drive his country 's enemies back across the Yalu . The possibility that Mr. Rhee may send his armies marching north at any moment still exists . And nobody , so far as I ant aware , knows exactly what we would do if that should happen . It would be a decision for the President to make , and to my mind a most difficult one ? for the flare-up of new war its the Far East might well be the spark that would set the whole world aflame . There would undoubtedly be strong pressure on us to plunge back into battle on the Korean peninsula , just as there was a strong advocacy , in some quarters , for us to send troops to Indochina . I did not share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the light of the fact that the focus of infection lay outside the confines of Indochina . And I believe that the analysis which I directed the Army to make and to present to higher authority played a considerable part in our Government 's decision not to embark on that tragic adventure . The third great task facing me as Chief of Staff was to vitalize the development of an Army which could meet the challenges of nuclear war . Since the first bomb fell on Hiroshima the Army has been acutely aware of the vast changes in tactics , techniques and organization which the tremendous destructive power of that weapon will bring about . No thinking soldier believes , however , that the nuclear bomb has given us that quick and easy key to victory which mankind has sought since wars began . In spite of the terrible power of these weapons , war still will be fought for the control of little bits of the earth 's surface , and of the people who dwell thereon . I have little confidence in the theory that by bombing alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese into submission . They arc not yet sufficiently advanced to be truly vulnerable to the nuclear bomb . Their civilization is not based on a complex nerve fabric , a web of interrelated and interdependent functions and services , as is ours . Theirs is a simpler and more primitive society that would be harder to destroy , just as the turtle and the crocodile are harder to kill than the higher animals . Finally , these countries spread out over enormous distances , It is nearly 6000 miles from the area bombers to Oder-Neisse to Sea Japan , a vast na for To my mind the most dangerous doc-trine this country could adopt would be the belief that we could conquer the Red enemy by massive bombing alone . True victory in war is obtained only by defeating the enemy 's armed forces , destroying all his hope for victory and his will to resist , and establishing control over his land and people . Mass destruction of his industrial resources is only one way to neutralize his capaCity to wage war . Such destruction may not destroy his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such destruction may have little immediate effect on his armed forces . It does not establish control over his land . Furthermore , such mass destruction , to my mind , is repugnant to the ideals of a Christian nation , and incompatible with the basic aim of the free world in war , which is to win a just and lasting peace . This peace can be won only by changing the defeated enemy into a friend , by reorienting him toward the victors ' viewpoint , by making his strength work for freedom . However , suppose that , in retaliation against a strike by nuclear weapons against ourselves , we did loose against an enemy such powers of destruction that we did lay waste his lands . Who , then , would strike the final blows that would destroy his great armies on the ground ? Who would move into the vacuum of unparalleled chaos and destruction to seize the ground itself and restore order and law ? Who would exercise control to prevent another evil conspiracy from arising from the ashes of the atomic avalanche ? That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Army , today and tomorrow , as it has been throughout history . To prepare the Army for that role in the atomic age , I put to work the best military brains we could spare . Several senior officers of vast experience and maturity of judgment , as well as younger officers of brilliance and imagination , were withdrawn from all other duties to devote all their time and thinking to one question : what should be the form and shape of the Army of the future ? Though no man living had had any experience with the tactical use of the nuclear weapon , we felt that there were a few fundamentals that still were valid . The basic principles of war  --  the principles of the objective , the offensive , economy of force , of mobility , surprise and simplicity of plan  --  had not changed . But it was clear that the application of these ancient and unchanging principles would undergo a vast transformation on the battlefields of the future . The first big problem was to decide how far into the future we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decade 1960-1970 . If we tried to confine our thinking to two or three years ahead , I felt that we should soon become so submerged in the pressures of the present that we could not plan boldly and with sufficient imagination . If we projected our thoughts too far ahead , unforeseen developments in the field of science as applied to weapons , transport and communications would make our plans obsolete before they could even begin to go into effect . That study , begun in I9.53 , is still going on . It has made great progress . It has uncovered new and thorny questions for which answers are still being sought . It has produced some new and forward-looking theories , which arc being analyzed in the service schools and tested by the troops in presume to have final answers the field . do . not to all problems yet . We do not expect the answers we do adopt will ever be final in this fluid art of war in an ever more rapidly changing world . But we do think we can see , in broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms the Army must be a streamlined , hard-hitting force , armed with nuclear weapons in adequate numbers and with greatly improved nonnuclear weapons . Its basic combat units will probably be a grouping of small battle groups of all arms  --  infantry , armor , artillery and engineers . These units , and to a lesser degree the groups themselves , will be semi-independent , self-contained and capable of operating over great distances on a fluid battlefield for long periods of time with a minimum of control and support by higher headquarters , These groups and the higher echelons into which they will be formed will correspond roughly to the regimental combat teams of our present divisions and to the divisions themselves , but their numbers , types and groupings , and their systems of control , all remain to be determined . All elements of these forces except the heaviest armored units should be transportable by air , both strategically , between continents , and tactically. within the confines of the battle zone , to the greatest practicable extent . Their weapons must be AS light and compact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can make them without detriment to their capacity to accomplish their missions . Ground combat will still consist of fire and maneuver , but stylized concepts of battle and formalized battle organizations as we have known them will no longer be employed . The battle commander of the future must possess initiative , self-confidence , daring and imagination in the highest degree , He must be a man of greatest mental flexibility , physical stamina and moral and physical courage . The nuclear weapon must set the pattern for both offense and defense . The defense must disperse to survive , in staggered tactical formations disposed in great depth , and the composition and dispersion of the larger units must be such as to allow them to absorb an atomic blow without shattering . At the same time they must be capable of moving swiftly to prevent the enemy from exploiting his strikes . This rapidity of movement is also essential in order to maneuver the enemy into forming remunerative targets for our own nuclear weapons . In the offensive , men and equipment must move from dispersed positions with great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrate rapidly , and once the objective is seized , they must disperse with equal swiftness to avoid a counterblow . Not only close supporting fire but guided missiles and rocket firepower , directed from widely separated , far-off points , must be directed against the objective . Forces must be capable of moving into the area of mass destruction before the enemy has time to recover . The velocity of movement must be such that we strike before the enemy has time to bring his land forces to bear , while offensive actions by our airborne and armored units further confuse and paralyze him by hit-and-run hell-raising in his rear , on missions similar to those of historic cavalry . This technique , the operation of airborne " cavalry , " was demonstrated at the recent " Sage brush " maneuvers in Louisiana . Superior firepower will be absolutely essential to successful operations . It must extend throughout the entire field army . It must be based on a family of weapons capable of delivering nuclear and conventional explosives on any type target anywhere in the combat zone , regardless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wo n't mean much , however , unless the combat units can be fed , supplied and transported quickly . Fixed land lines of communications and huge supply dumps will be obsolete , for they will be vulnerable to atomic attack . In the main , aircraft must provide the means for transport , resupply and communications , and both the supply and transport systems must be flexible enough to adjust to quick changes in task-force organization and to swift changes in the location of widely scattered combat units . Air carriers of every type will be needed  --  big planes for strategic airlift over long distances , helicopters and fixed-wing carriers for battlefield transport , reconnaissance , communications , control and supply . And all planes must be able to operate from small , unprepared or hastily prepared fields . It is obvious that the Army described above bears little resemblance to the massed , slow-moving armies of World War II . It also is obvious that it does not ignore , but utilizes to the fullest , the capabilities of the air arm . It is an army in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organization . It is an army seeking the combinations with which to light tomorrow 's wars with tomorrow 's weapons and techniques , and this it will do when tomorrow 's weapons are in hand . No soldier doubts that American inventive genius will provide the tools it needs . But an army needs more than weapons . It needs what every artny has needed since Caesar 's time  --  the assurance that it has the trust and confidence and ungrudging support of the people it protects . It must have the bold and competent leadership of men who are proud of their profession . It must have sufficient numbers oftrained , courageous men . For in the last analysis , man is 0-only ultimate weapon , and upon his determination , hiscourage , his stamina and his skill rests the issue of victory or defeat .                     