@@492627

Ocean-spanning ballistic missiles may eventually change the strategic situation , but at the moment the island of Newfoundland  --  floating like an enormous battleship at the mouth the St. Lawrence River  --  is one of America 's great bastions of defense . There arc three United States military bases in Newfoundland , another on the Labrador mainland , which is part of Newfoundland province . And on many isolated headlands facing the sea , small , lonely clumps of American servicemen ceaselessly scan the skies with radar . Strategically speaking , the importance of Newfoundland is its geographical location . It juts far out into the North Atlantic ; when a plane from New York sets down at Gander international airport , it already has traveled one third of the way to Europe . It is also within nodding distance of the arctic  --  the shortest air route to and from Russia . Here we are on guard . Both American and Canadian flags fly over the base at Argentia on Placentia Bay , a deep , protected . ice-free harbor where in August , 1911 , President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drew up the Atlantic Charter . Though both flags fly at Argentia , it is an American naval air base . Every day , in daylight and darkness , in all sorts of weather , United States Navy planes roar down the concrete runways , taking off on interception flights to the Azores and back . And from Goose Bay in winter-dark Labrador the United States Air Force and the Royal Canadian Air Force maintain grim patrol over northern wastes and northern seas . Another American installation is Harmon Air Base at Stephenville , on the western side of the Island of Newfoundland ; it was from there last fall that a plane flew halfway across the . , retie , landed on a cracked-up ice floe and rescued a scientific team adrift near the pole . Also , just outside St. John 's , the capital of the province , is Pepperell Air Base , established ' here in the early days of World War II , but now in the process of being transferred to Harmon . There is more than a military relationship between Newfoundland and the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servicemen . Independent of Canada during most of its history , Newfound-and long had a habit of trading with the United States . During hard times  --  and the island has known its share  --  many residents migrated to the United States . Today there arc more Newfoundlanders in Boston than in St. John 's , as many in Brooklyn . When I visited isolated fishing villages on Conception , Trinity and Bonavista bays , I found that most of the local people had brothers , sisters , uncles or ousins in the States . A well-traveled correspondent once de , cribed Newfoundland as the " only place in the world where the American GI is loved . " This is an exaggeration , but nowhere else have relations between civilians and military personnel been so equable . There have been incidents , but authorities on both sides of the reservation fence have acted with promptness and understanding . cynics may attribute this " era of good feeling " to the money pumped into the island economy by the United States , and that is , of course , a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our installations are still a major industry . Last year at Pepperell Air Base alone the civilian payroll was 55.000,000 , and 54,000,000 was spent for supplies and services . In addition , military personnel spent an estimated 513,000,000 locally . Total : 522,000,000 . It is literally true that the war boom and American money brought the island out of bankruptcy . Newfoundland has had a strange , sometimes tragic history . It was the first British possession in North America ; John Cabot , who claimed this territorial find for the crown in 1497 , reported multitudes of fish in coastal waters . Three years later most of the cast coast had been explored and European fishermen already were sheltering in its harbors . More than a century later began what has been called " Britain 's greatest experiment in retarded colonization . " Seafaring men and English merchants persuaded the crown to impose restrictions on settlement to isolate the area as a fishing preserve . Legal authority was lodged in " fishing admirals , " the first captains to arrive in the various harbors each spring . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They had no legal rights . No one could achieve a lawful title to his home or get permission to have his own garden . The fishing admirals went home every autumn ; the Newfoundlanders were able to exist by a happy , illicit trade of salt cod and fish oil for sugar , flour , molasses , woolens and rum from New England . As late as 1789 a British naval commander in Newfoundland ordered destroyed every building which had a chimney . Not until 1811 was the right to hold property confirmed , and not until 1855 was self-government granted . The road of self-government was rough , Newfoundland was a poor country with only one industry  --  fishing . Just before the turn of the century , leaders hoped to join Canada as a province , but union fell through when a parsimonious Canada refused to shoulder 55,000,000 of Newfoundland 's public debt . After a brief prosperity during World War F came complete disaster in 1932 . One fourth of the population was on relief ; the national credit was exhausted . Newfoundland turned to Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Six commissioners  --  three from Britain and three from Newfoundland  --  and a British governor ruled the island ; elections were abandoned . When the new regime took over , there was not a mile of paved road in Newfoundland , and health and welfare services were almost nonexistent . While the commissioners ' primary concern seems to have been sound bookkeeping  --  expenditures were guided by cautious civil servants in England  --  they did create the framework of a public-health service . They built cottage hospitals at strategic points and established nursing services to succor isolated communities . The dole rate , however , was kept at six cents a day in food orders and the old-age pension at fifty dollars a year . This guarded tinkering with the economy brought no outstanding results . It was World War II which put Newfoundland back in business , and piled up a surplus in its treasury . As in all receiverships , there was an escape clause , and in 1947 a national convention of some forty-five men met to consider the island 's future . Some wanted to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some preferred annexation by the United States , others argued for confederation with Canada . It took Newfoundland two years to make up its mind , and the bitternesses are not yet dead . Families split down the middle , brothers refused to shake hands . Out of the tumult arose Newfoundland 's still-dominant political figure  --  Joseph R. Smallwood . It was Smallwood who , almost singlehanded , brought Newfoundland into confederation with Canada . Probably only Smallwood could have turned the trick . In u first referendum there was no clear majority ; in thc second , confederation just sneaked by with 52 per cent of the vote . Smallwood has been premier of Newfoundland since 1949 and is now one of only two Liberal Party provincial premiers  --  the other is in tiny Prince Edward Island  --  who have survived the big wind blown up in Canada by the triumphs of Prime Minister John Diefenbaker and his Progressive Conservative cohorts . A feverish orator , a pitiless adversary , a master of political sleight of hand , Smallwood has sometimes been compared by his enemies to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The comparison is inexact , but there are resemblances . The premier has , as did Long in Louisiana , the complete loyalty of humbler householders . ( " Joey will take care of us , " is a spoken word of faith in countless fishing villages . ) Self-confidence , impatience with slower-moving minds , a desire for one-man power are also common characteristics . And , occasionally , a suave ability to compromise when intrepidity fails . Joey Smallwood is now fifty-eight , not quite the dynamo of energy he was ten years ago , but still the unchallenged boss of Newfoundland . He stands five feet , four inches tall , weighs perhaps 140 pounds , wears horn-rimmed spectacles and , when he smiles a dimpled smile , rather startlingly resembles Harry S. Truman . His horn-rimmed glasses , bow tie and his cigarette holder once were political trade-marks ; the bow tie survives , but the premier has given up tobacco . The premier was born in Gambo , on the island 's northeast coast , the eldest of thirteen children . His father was a woodsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy with a taste for adventure and reading . Newfoundland has no public schools in the American tradition . The village school grew out of the village church , and primary and secondary education , supported in part by government grants , still is directed by the various religious denominations . Smallwood attended school in the city of St. John 's , sampling Methodist , Catholic and Church of England varieties of learning , In one of the three interviews I had with him , he told me he achieved this first window on the world at Bishop Feilds College  --  actually an Anglican high school . There he read H. G. Wells and Bernard Shaw , the Fabian socialists , and led two student strikes . While still at Bishop Feilds he became a printer 's devil , then a reporter , and at eighteen was the acting editor of the St. John 's Telegram . " I romanticized my profession , " he said to me . " Newspapering was not just a job ; it was an adventure . " To make it more of an adventure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Halifax Herald , moved on to the Boston Herald , and free-lanced in New York City . He was fascinated by politics and  --  although not a United States citizen  --  campaigned for Sen. Bob LaFollette for President in 1924 on a third-party ticket . He recalls that at one open-air rally he spoke in competition with a Democratic stumper named Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt , and still thinks he came off rather better . When Smallwood returned to the island he fell under the influence of Sir William Coaker , who organized the first fishermen 's protective union , and whose biography he later wrote . The premier has written five books on Newfoundland and hopes eventually to return to his typewriter to tell his own story . During the late 1920 's he organized the Pulp Sulphite and Paper Mill Workers ' union HE SA ' 11 U It I/ A 1 ' JIVE. 11 l ? ? - ? ? T T F. ! E s UR DAY P.VESFINC : P ( 13/ ( Continued from Page 1 321 remade Newfoundland which would be prosperous enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although Newfoundland 's treasury had a 550,000,000 surplus in 1949 , the island was still backward in many ways . When I first interviewed Premier Smallwood , he told me that Newfoundland had spent more in nine years on public health than had been spent there in the previous seventy-five years . The results are spectacular . At one time the island had the highest death rate of all Canadian provinces ; now it has the lowest . In 1948 the mortality rate from tuberculosis was 104 per 100,000 population  --  one of the worst in the white man 's world . In 1957 it was nineteen per 100,000 . Recruitment has raised the number of practicing physicians from 144 to 258 , and the number of nurses  --  mostly in government service  --  from 260 to 739 . Infant and maternal mortality have been greatly decreased . Aircraft ambulances and helicopters are used to transport the gravely ill from isolated communities to the hospitals . Three hospital ships  --  the Sir Robert Bond , the Sir William Whiteway and the Dr. William Carson  --  call regularly at coastal settlements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or an appendix , X-ray chests , or inoculate babies against once-fearsome childhood diseases . The story of progress in education also can be told by statistics . Nine years ago the province was spending 53,500.000 a year for schools . Now the appropriation is 515,000,000 . No other province in Canada can match this acceleration . The number of teachers has increased from 2400 to 3600 ; a thousand new classt , oms have been built . Government scht , larships for gifted or needy students have been raised in nine years from five to 1700 . During most of its history , the island was innocent of higher education ; children of the wealthy went to the United States , to Canada or to England . In 1949 a two-year college at St. John 's was expanded into Memorial University , now attended by some 1200 students . A census of motorcars often furnishes an index of the money in people 's pockets . At confederation there were 14.000 cars , trucks , buses and motorcycles owned by Newfoundland people Today there are 49,000 . There are , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $93,000,000 in 1949 , and it had grown to $334,000,000 in 1957 . The 1958 figures are not available , but , for the first time in nine years , there will certainly be a downward dip . On the screen of a neighboring economy the United States recession made larger images than at home . By confederation Newfoundland got , as Smallwood promised , ( I I family allowances , ( 2 ) old-age pensions and ( 3 ) unemployment insurance . The family-allowance plan is usually called , in Canada , the " baby bonus " ; for every child under the age of sixteen , the family receives a monthly check for six dollars or more , based on the children 's ages . This added up to about 515,000,000 in Newfoundland last year . Under the commission government , Newfoundland had an old-age pension ; it was six dollars a month . Now all persons over seventy receive fifty-five dollars a month . " This , " the premier told me , " has taken some of the bite out of poverty . " The current annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment insurance-516,000,000 last year  --  come out of the federal treasury . There is also " old-age assistance " for those in actual need between the ages of sixty-five and seventy . This costs an annual total of $3.350,000 , of which the province and the federal government each pays half . Smallwood likes to compare the small lump sum Newfoundland spent on services and improvements for its people during the decade before confederation with the handsome total that has accumulated since confederation . His figures , excluding grants and payments by the Canadian federal government : $77,000,000 before ; $343,000,000 since . Few of They Smallwood 's critics quarrel with his dream of making life more agreeable for the island people . And most of them are now convinced that union with Canada was inevitable . But many of them are convinced that Smallwood has paid too high a price . " Joey believes what he wants to believe , " said a Stephenville merchant who first knew Smallwood when he was walking the railroad . " And what he wants to believe too often is n't true . Result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tune of eighty-six million dollars . " The debt figure is accurate . And the premier has made some conspicuous blunders . " They were errors of the head and not of the heart , " Smallwood told me himself one afternoon as we rode from St. John 's to his farm at Roaches Run . Smaliwood 's official car is a big , middle-aged , black American make which he always drives himself . The premier 's farm of 400 acres  --  and this may give American farmers some clue to Newfoundland 's food problem  --  is the largest cleared area in the whole province . There was a time when Smallwood thought that pigs , then sheep , could nibble a living off Newfoundland 's anemic grasses . Now he has put his faith in Aberdeen Angus cattle , imported grasses , chickens and mink raising . The farm , RussWood , is owned by a family corporation . His daughter , Clara ; her husband , Edward Russell ; and his son Ramsay , who studied poultry raising at Michigan State , make their homes there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's lawyer and a member of the provincial parliament . Mrs. Smallwood , a plump , friendly woman , looks after her five grandchildren and the riotous flower planting on the place . The farm is an ambitious undertaking employing twenty to thirty people , and nowadays the premier spends his happiest hours there . But there are tragic memories also , Several years ago an aviation company sent a helicopter there to give a demonstration . Ramsay Smallwood and his young American wife went aloft . The helicopter struck telephone wires just after the take-off and crashed . The pilot was killed , Mrs. Smallwood died of burns and Ramsay himself was so badly burned that he still is undergoing plastic surgery . Since confederation had been so largely his own project , Smallwood had the responsibility for making it successful . A prime danger , once the old immigration bars were down , was that the islanders in great numbers would move to Canada for better jobs and opportunities . To meet this hazard the Smallwood government engaged in a sweeping campaign to bring in industry and to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or subsidized the building of many of the plants and factories , and ( Continued on Page 1381 ( Continued from Page 136 ) Smallwood admitted publicly that this kind of spending was a gamble , but one he intended to take . Since that time , such varied enterprises as cement plants , gypsum mills , a glove factory , a rubber factory , knitting mills , a shoe factory , a tannery , a cotton mill , a textile plant , even a chocolate-candy plant , have come to Newfoundland , Some of these were obviously ill-conceived ; raw materials had to be brought in from the outside . Some plants never opened . others opened and closed . Some are successful and sonic are marginal . Newfoundland 's largest industrial payrolls are still the great paper mills  --  the Bowater plant ( founded in the 1920 's ) , at Corner Brook , and the Anglo-Newfoundland Development plant ( founded in 1906 ) , at Grand Falls . Also there is the rich iron mine at Bell Island  --  recently modernized at a cost of $10,000,000 ? which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Buchans and two fluorspar mines at St. Lawrence , on the south coast . The fisheries remain the mainstay of the economy , and the government has actively assisted private companies in the construction of up-to-date processing plants for fresh and frozen cod . Newfoundland , as many Americans who fly in there every summer know , is a sportsman 's paradise . Hundreds of lakes and streams provide the angler a chance to tangle with the fighting Atlantic salmon and trout . For three successive seasons tuna taken from Conception Bay have set a world 's record for that particular year . But thus far the development board at St. John 's has issued no voluptuous appeals to American and Canadian tourists . They do not want to risk disillusionment . Sportsmen are rugged fellows , but most of the tourists would be motorists used to sleek , manicured highways . The truth is that , except for about 125 miles of pavement , the Newfoundland roads are , by American standards , execrable . It is now possible to drive across the island , but no one does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four-year . $56,000,000 road-building program , but road building comes high in difficult terrain , and there will be need for eating places and comfortable night accommodations if the pampered American is to be satisfied . What kind of land is Newfoundland ? It is so many kinds of land that it is hard to give a true answer . With an area of 156,000 square miles , it is a land of great beauty , noble spruce forests  --  arid trackless miles of bogs and wastes . Its northern peninsula , like Labrador , is frozen-in for many months . But the east coast a year ago had a milder winter than Washington , D.C. Thousands of travelers on seventeen international airlines are filtered through the airport at Gander every month , and the Canadian Department of Transport has built there in the barrens a completely new town , housing 8000 people . Such industrial centers as Corner Brook on the west coast ( population 24,000 ) and Grand Falls ( population 6000 ( in the center of the island are as modern as , and indeed resemble , Wilmington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same . Each town has its golf course and country club , its service clubs , such as Rotary and Kiwanis , neon signs , and , I suspect , a feeling of isolation and loneliness . The roads out of town lead nowhere very much . St. John 's  --  with a population of 80 , - 000 of the province 's 450,000 ? is something else again . It calls itself the oldest city in North America , but there are few relics of ancient days ; the town has burned down too often . Viewed even from the eminence of Signal Hill , where Marconi 's first transatlantic wireless message received , it is not a beautiful city nor eve a quaint one . Yet the moldering , Icanin houses on some of its climbing streets ar nostalgically reminiscent of Dickeasia London . The headquarters on Water an Duckworth streets of its generations-4 mercantile firms  --  Harvey 's , Bowrini Ayre , Winter and many more  --  arc hide into modest two-story buildings flanke , often by cheap-jack stores . The fishing fleets of the world have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the centuries ; in keeping with tradition , ses enty Spanish and Portuguese fishing vna sels were sheltered at St. John 's when they and I waited out Hurricane Helen ( last fall . The flamboyance of Joey Smallwaix has never appealed to the conservativt men of Water Street , but they have no been able to shake his political domi. nance . In the last two elections the pre mier has not even bothered to campaign in his own constituency of Bonavista North . That he is fanatically loyal to ha friends and sometimes blind to their shortcomings is generally agreed . A cast in point is the scandal involving Dr. Alfred Valdmanis , his trusted director economic development . Valdmanis went to prison in 1954 for fraud , charged with collecting $470,000 in kickbacks from German companies selling machinery to the province . The premier himself had Valdmanis arrested , and his government survived the scandal . The present setup in the legislature is overwhelmingly pro . Smallwood : thirty-two Liberals and four Progressive Conservatives . Currently , Newfoundland 's economic situation is not rosy , and it looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiated , a saving clause in the terms provided that after eight years a royal commission would review the financial situation and , if necessary , recommend the additional assistance for Newfoundland to continue its public services at an agreed standard . A Newfoundland commission , after four years of study , recommended an annual grant of $17,000,000 . The royal commission set the figure at $8,000,000 . Albert B. Perlin , a St. John 's newspaper editor and businessman , has pointed out that Canada , as well as Newfoundland . profited by union . " Since we produce virtually nothing we consume , " he told the Atlantic Provinces Economic Council " almost ninety cents of every additional dollar earned since union by Newfoundlanders goes to pay for goods and services provided by the Canadian mainland . We are a captive market . Before union our purchases from Canada were about fifty million dollars a year . Now they are five times that amount . We rank next after Britain and America as a Canadian export market . " Newfoundland , the newest Canadian province , like Alaska , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a lack of capital for development . Both burn with a believable dream . mineral wealth and wealth by water power . Until Smallwood came along with his wasp's-sting energy , no one had made an adequate survey of Newfoundland 's and Labrador 's resources When Smallwood the salesman took the results of the surveys to England , he interested the Rothschild banking firm . The British-Newfoundland Corporation  --  Brineo --  ; stock is now shared by most of England S greatest investment companies . Bianco has found iron , uranium , copper and illimitable water power in Labrador . and has vouchsafed its interest by spending millions more in exploration . It may be that the Smallwood dream  --  extravagant always  --  will literally come true                     