@@476256

THE private office of the Secretary of the Air Force , a long room on the fourth floor of the Pentagon , is furnished with many of the perquisites of high governmental station , including a separate table for conferences . Assembled here on one occasion , following a change in occupants of the job , were the general officers of this , the newest Service . In spite of the fact that on their shoulders , together with the stars of rank , rests the future of national air power , they are aggressively youthful in appearance . The most familiar would be General Hoyt S. Vandenberg , chief of staff , thin-lipped and thin-figured , or Lieutenant General Lauris Norstad , now commander of the USAF in Europe , whose small bony face is capped with a crop of boyish hair . As they left the room , one of the others , a brigadier , is said to have asked : " What do you think of the new boss ? " " Ca n't figure him out , " was the reply reported , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! " This impromptu characterization , though the subject of the remark denies that it was made , is probably the best that circumstances will allow ; for Thomas Knight Finletter , master of the Air Force and custodian of one of the most powerful strike weapons on the face of the earth , is not the most dramatic person in Washington , nor does he stimulate descriptive comment . Set beside the flash andglitter of his officers , in fact , Finletter is a bald-headed , medium-sized citizen as American as the First National Bank on the corner and twice as plain . " Yes , I know , " he says of himself , " no points . " Though it is anomalous that the man chosen by the President to run interference for the razzle-dazzle Air Force should be so untheatrical , Finletter has little " ham " in his make-up . But he is not without humor . Talking off-the-record at the Mayflower Hotel in January , he was asked a lengthy question as to whether Korean refugees might be transported to Southeast Asia following the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is a very interesting question . It is also one on which I will yield to no man in Washington on lack of information . " His speech is plain and unadorned , and the bare facts of his everyday life are so unspectacular that one of the Secretary 's close associates can not remember whether or not he ever takes a drink . His posture and general appearance are formal , yet he would be lost in a crowd of three . Other vitally unimportant statistics : the Secretary lives in a rented house in the heart of Washington . He arrives at the office at eight-thirty . He lunches there , usually combining sustenance with business , and remains at the Pentagon until any hour of the night . He works seven days a week . Anyone who did not know him might make the mistake of labeling Finletter a light-weight government drone who knows just enough to do his job and keep out of hot water , but the appearance is deceptive . For example , he does not look athletic , but Major Robin Hippensteil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on in doubles . " Sure , we beat him , " Hippensteil says , " but not by much . He plays a hard brain game . I would rank him one of the best doubles players in town . " Similarly , an Air Force general , after a conference with Finletter , found that he had swung from one impression to another . " That man , " he told a colleague , " first told me that he knew nothing about my problem , then listened carefully while I explained it to him , and finally asked one question ? which led directly to the solution . He 's a damn genius . " T HE question of whether or not he is a " damn genius " is one that Finletter himself would presumably answer in the negative , but a list of his acknowledged accomplishments ( since he took office last-April ) might include the following : ( 1 ) If not inventing , at least promoting real understanding of the " joint task concept " ? the philosophy of judging what has to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army , Navy , and Air Force can best do it ? which has lifted military teamwork a long way above the bitter wrangle of the " B-36 investigation " by the House Armed Services Committee , a few months before Fin-letter took office ; ( 2 ) Strengthening the principle that the strategic air arm have first priority in United States military planning by arguing persuasively to his colleagues and superiors that the atomic bomb , plus our ability to deliver it , is the greatest single force for peace in the world today ; ( 3 ) Building up the total Air Force , with the aid of popular support resulting from the Korean war , from forty-eight groups ( at the time he took office ) to somewhere along the road toward the ninety-five " wings " scheduled for sometime in 1952 ( a " wing " is equivalent to a combat " group , " plus its necessary housekeeping attachments ) ; ( 4 ) Introducing to Air Force councils , in the words of Under Secretary of the Air Force MAGAZINE John A. McCone , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an insistence on facts and research , and an ability to co-operate and get along with the officials of the other two Services . He is today the Air Force 's chief critic and its most determined advocate . " Add to this record the facts that to date he has made no enemies and that he appears to be able to work calmly and objectively in an atmosphere of political high tension . Nominally a Democrat , Finletter is rarely seen at party conclaves but paradoxically is a whiz on Capitol Hill , where his testimony of last July before the House Appropriations Committee , on the delicate subject of future funds for his Service , was so well received that Congress appropriated all he asked and more besides . At the time he took charge of the Air Force , however , very little was known about Finletter in the country at large . He had served the year before as ECA administrator in England , and the year before that he had been chairman of the President 's Air Policy Commission , which described our defense against atomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force . In 1945 he had been " consultant " to the U. S. delegation at the United Nations Conference at San Francisco , and during the war he had worked for the State Department as a Special Assistant to the Secretary of State . Even in the government , where this much was known , many people had a hard time remembering what Finletter looked like when he returned to Washington . " Funny thing about Tom , " one of his friends remarks , " he is as anonymous as a bug under a rock . It is n't that he objects to notoriety ? he just does n't bother about it . " THIS past November 11 , Secretary Fin-letter was fifty-seven years old , though he looks ten years younger . He was born in Philadelphia ; his father , the late Judge Thomas Dickson Finletter , was presiding judge of a common-pleas court for thirty-six years ( his grandfather had been a common-pleas judge for twenty years ) . Young Finletter was as clearly headed for the bar as anyone could be . Two facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was born smart as paint : at the age of seventeen he was graduated at the top of his class from Philadelphia 's Episcopal Academy . Second , he lived in France for a year . He went there with his mother to " learn French " and " grow up , " as he describes it today . He also took piano lessons . As a result , he speaks French today almost without an accent , and lie still plays , according to his daughter , Margot , a " mean four-handed piano . " In the fall of 1911 , Finletter entered the University of Pennsylvania and in due course was graduated with top honors . He went on to the University 's Law School . Before we entered the war , he left law school halfway through to join the first Plattsburg Encampment , the extraordinary volunteer group which turned out so many trained junior officers at a time when the Army needed them most . Shipped to France with the 312th Field Artillery , he emerged a captain . Today , when he discusses it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privately dismisses this period in his life as " my Napoleonic war " and neglects to mention having met an attractive volunteer worker at a Paris YWCA Canteen . She was Margaret Blaine Damrosch , better known as Gretchen , daughter of the late conductor and granddaughter of President Harrison 's Secretary of State ( later she was to write winningly of her childhood in a book called From the Top of the Stairs ) . Shortly after the Armistice Captain Finletter was - released from the Army and the two were engaged . Returning to the States and law school , Finletter graduated with top honors and was editor-in-chief of the law review ; in mid-July 1920 , back in Paris , they were married . On his return to America , Finletter decided not to practice law in Philadelphia , in spite of the advantages his family tradition might have offered . Though he might well have wound up a judge in his own right had he chosen to stay , on talking the matter over with his father and his new wife he decided to move to New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bright twenty-four-year-old lawyer . The gamble paid off ; he started with the law firm of Cravath 8 , - Henderson and shifted at the age of thirty to Condert Brothers , where he has been ever since , except for the periods he has spent in the government . In 1926 he became a full Coudert partner . Why and how Finletter decided to go into teaching in his mid-thirties is hard to determine , but teach he did , commuting for ten years between his Manhattan office and his old law school in Philadelphia . One of Fin-letter 's academic innovations , since widely adopted by other law schools , was to permit students to bring into the examination rooms any notes or books they chose . " We 're training future lawyers how to use books , not to memorize them , " was his explanation . Not content merely with practicing law and teaching it he also wrote three texts on the general subject of corporation bankruptcy in his spare time . " I marveled then and I marvel now , " a New York publisher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hard worker . " BY TILE time he was forty-five Finletter had apparently done pretty much what he set out to do ? he had become a corporation lawyer in a good New York firm , won an enviable reputation , and provided comfortably for his wife and two daughters . He had a- small country house in East Norwich , Long Island , and he could well afford , as he did in 1939 , to take his family abroad in the summer for a cycling trip through Germany . In some ways the trip was a turning point in his career and the beginning of his government service , for anyone who saw Germany at the peak of her prewar power could make a good guess at her future intentions . Finletter came home convinced that we would have to do something to stop the Nazis . He did n't have long to wait . In 1939 France called on Coudert Brothers , who did considerable foreign business , to prepare the legal groundwork for a large order of military aircraft in the United States , and Fin-letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was hopeless , this assignment did serve to expose the future Secretary to some of the difficulties of getting aircraft production under way . The French were desperate for planes , and the job was to expand our production in time to get the badly needed aircraft to the French front and stop the German assault . Actually , few of the planes ever got there , and this introduction to the perplexing problem of " lead time " in the building of aircraft was something Finletter never forgot . In March 1941 ? nine months before Pearl Harbor ? he willingly accepted an offer by Secretary of State Cordell Hull to be his Special Assistant . The job has never received the publicity it might have , and even today the Secretary merely comments that it was a " stockpiling " operation ? purchasing critical materials from all over the world which would be needed in a war economy . Later on it turned out to be a double-edged business , obtaining substances which would be useful to the Nazis and thus depriving them of essential supplies . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Finletter was appointed , first , Executive Director and , later , Deputy Director of the new organization . Herbert Feis , a State Department adviser on international affairs , recalls that Finletter " threw himself into every task with intensity " and was in his element when handed a complex assignment . " He could slice to the heart of any matter with the dispatch of a sharp knife cutting bread . " Some of Finletter 's assignments were broad in scope ? for example , the obtaining of badly needed chrome ore from abroad . We needed chrome to make steel , and our supplies were dangerously low . The Turks possessed chrome ore in quantity , but Turkey was neutral and constantly threatened with war by the watchful Nazis . Fin-letter was handed the task of buying chrome ore under the noses of the Nazi Embassy in Ankara , arranging secret transportation from Turkish mines to a seacoast port via a carefully watched railroad , and finding neutral shipping to haul the load to this country while avoiding German submarines . It is to his credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Turkey , maintaining the quality of our steel production . ( This past February , at the request of the Turkish government , the State Department sent Fin-letter on a two-week tour of inspection of Turkey 's military preparedness . ) When Stettinius became Acting Secretary of State early in 1944 , there was a general shake-up in the department , and Finletter 's OFEC was absorbed by the Foreign Economic Administration . Thereupon Finletter resigned . Various reasons have been given for his action , but the concensus is that he was unhappy about the bickering and rivalry in the Department and felt sure that the war was coming to , a close . A man who worked in the Department and knew him well during this period recalls , " He was a remarkably good chairman . He was one of the few who would accept responsibility without being called to do it . If he took charge of a meeting , for example , it would never adjourn without something getting done . He probably left the Department for the same reasons he went into teaching ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T HE same characteristic caused Finletter to become an author . Returning to his law practice , he wrote in 1945 a book called Can Representative Government Do the Job ? in which he proposed linking the executive and legislative leaders of the government in a joint Cabinet . He suggested a sort of parliamentary compromise in which the President and members of Congress would each serve a term of six years in office ; in any deadlock between the Congress and the President , the latter would be empowered to dissolve Congress and the Presidency and call a national election . " I got the idea from the way Mr. Hull worked with Congress , " Fin-letter observes . Both President Roosevelt and his Secretary of State had been determined that lack of co-operation between Congress and the Executive would not prevent United States acceptance of the United Nations , as the rift between President Wilson and the Senate resulted in the rejection of the Treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations . Arthur Krock of the New York Times commented that the idea was " the most original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this correspondent has seen . " Other critics , however , like Finletter 's friend Robert Moses , New York 's outspoken Parks Commissioner , found the plan stimulating , visionary , and unworkable . Perhaps the best explanation for the book is that the author had to get it out of his system . and though it may have been an intellectual exercise , it led him directly to the problem of representative government for the world as a whole . First , he was called as " consultant " to join the U. S. Delegation to the United Nations Conference at San Francisco ; Finletter 's job there was largely to meet the press and represent the American contingent , though the post did offer a liberal education in the problems of international government . That job done , he returned to his desk at Coudert Brothers . He joined a group known as " Americans United for World Organization " ? which merged in 1947 with the United World Federalists ? and he did considerable work , including articles for the Atlantic , to stimulate interest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . In October 1949 he testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee in favor of a congressional resolution approving in principle the theory of giving the United Nations sufficient , though limited , powers to prevent war . To date the resolution has not passed Congress but the concept has survived . It can be found in a document the New York Times described on its publication as " one of the most solemn reports on the defense of the United States ever prepared in time of peace , " the President 's Air Policy Commission report entitled " Survival in the Air Age . " W HY the President picked Finletter to head the temporary Air Policy Commission is something of a mystery , except that he was known to be impartial , if not ignorant , in aviation matters , and he was credited with tackling and solving complex economic and logistical problems in the State Department . In a letter dated July 18 , 1947 , the President wrote five men expressing his concern over " danger that our security may be jeopardized . . . by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern methods " in aviation development ; he asked them to form a commission to make " an objective survey into national aviation policies and problems . " The survey was to include commercial as well as military aspects , for if Russian rearmament threatened our military position in the air , the domestic airlines at home were also in critical financial shape , and the overseas airlines could be considered commercial instruments of national policy . For almost four months , Finletter and his four commissioners listened to the testimony of 150 witnesses , the leaders of the nation 's military and commercial aviation establishment . There is probably no more individualistic group of men than those who run American aviation , and the majority were bitter over the drop-off in size of the Air Force and the plight of the aircraft industry following the war . Finletter and his colleagues listened patiently , toured the nation 's air bases and aircraft factories , and in December settled down to write the report . " Survival - in the Air Age " made good reading for aviation enthusiasts . Painstakingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nontechnical language the commission described what it had found and warned that the old safeguards of armies , navies , and oceans were " no longer enough " in an atomic age ; it submitted that 1952 was the date beyond which it would be " reckless " to assume that other nations might not have the atomic bomb in quantity , and made long-range recommendations for strengthening the forces of the military and commercial air arms . It also called for funds for pure research , a reorganization of civilian aviation policy , a seventy-group Air Force , and a modernized air reserve of military planes and pilots . The New York Times remarked editorially that the report presented a " policy so well thought out , so calmly presented , so well buttressed by straight thinking that it is difficult to see where it can be attacked except in details . " And the Times did not go into details . Finletter worked hard on the report ? in fact , he wrote a major portion , the section dealing with military requirements , himself . The introduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for establishing the rule of law in the United Nations . " We will not be rid of war , " he wrote , " until the nations . . . give the United Nations ... the legal and physical powers ... to keep the peace . " For this view he was to be attacked when he later became Secretary . The president of the Veterans of Foreign Wars complained that the World Federalists were " making capital " out of Finletter 's appointment . Truman replied characteris-tically : " There is no better or more able public servant than Finletter . . . he is better equipped to be Secretary of the Air Force than any man in the United States , and that is the reason I appointed him . " ON MAY 19 , 1948 , Paul G. Hoffman , Economic Co-operation Administrator , appointed Finletter chief of the agency 's special mission to the United Kingdom , and shortly afterward , with his wife and daughter , Margot , Finletter left for London to tackle one of the most ambitious assign : ments in Europe ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole sterling area . Times were had in England in the spring of 1948 . At a moment when Americans were enjoying an economic boom , the average Englishman considered himself lucky to get one egg a week , and a single slice of bacon with the egg was not only luxurious but in many cases illegal under the rationing system . The government was making every effort to maintain full employment , control inflation , and with the aid of the American gift money , to close the dollar gap . Eight months later , in January of 1949 , Finletter reported to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he had spent $1.2 billion and that England was on her way to recovery . Thanks to American aid , British exports were on the increase , and the fear of collapse ? including the threat of actual starvation -- was no longer felt . Furthermore , he reported that U.S. aid to England in the second year could be reduced to $900 million , and that a dollar balance between the two countries at the end of four years was probable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manner in which Finletter played the part of Santa Claus to a proud and desperately dollar-poor nation . The British had to accept the American gift whether they liked it or not . The fact that the aid was offered through Finletter with care and courtesy did much to keep our relations with England something more than cordial . Sir Stafford Cripps , commenting on the achievement , remarked that there was a " Finletter cult " within the British Treasury which was " prepared apparently to do anything he asked . " In June 1949 , feeling that his job was over the hump and that England was getting back on her feet , Finletter resigned , and after a short rest again returned to his law practice . Less than a year later , he was back in government harness as Secretary of the Air Force . FROM the moment he entered the Pentagon , Finletter was under sharp ap-praisal , for there was much at stake in the way he handled his job . The inter-Service brawl , in which Navy and Marine elements had been quarreling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only four months dead , and there were still officers on both sides so bitter they were scarcely on speaking terms . The critics of strategic air power had been baying at it like hounds after a treed coon , and at the same time President Truman had impounded $735 million which Congress had earmarked for a fifty-eight group Air Force . The Air Force was then at forty-eight groups , far below the seventy-group level for which Finletter had argued in " Survival in the Air Age " ; and there was no evidence of willingness on the part of high officials in the National Military Establishment to go for a bigger force . It might have been asked whether Finletter had not been compromised in accepting the apparent policy to hold the Air Force near its forty-eight group strength . His answer would be that he made no commitment when he took the job to advocate an Air Force of any size other than that in which he believed , and once in the Pentagon he began a series of studies to bring " Survival in the Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big an Air Force was now desirable . Within twenty-four hours of taking office , he attended an Air Force commanders ' meeting in Puerto Rico , and for two days and nights he listened to officers from all over the world talking with complete frankness of their own problems and proposals . Back in Washington , he spent most of the next two months in " briefings , " the Pentagon 's question-andanswer sessions with charts . General Curtis E. LeMay , the cigar-chewing chief of the Strategic Air Command , came in from Omaha with his staff to tell the Secretary what targets they could hit , how long it would take to do how much damage , and how long an attack could be kept up with the existing supply of bombs and bombers . Lieutenant General Ennis C. Whitehead , then commander of the Continental Air Command , and his officers came down from Mitchell Air Force Base , New York , to tell the Secretary how well the United States could be defended against air attack . They told him that an enemy raid in force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interceptor defense money could buy would stop only a relatively small part of the invading aircraft . These reports were supplemented by those from other commands . In all of this , Finletter sat and listened and asked thousands of questions . From time to time he would interrupt to say , " Excuse me , General , I 'm a little stupid . Would you go over that again . " Or , " If I get this correctly , what you have been saying , General , is that . . .1 , and then sum up in a few sentences the substance of a long discussion . These briefings did two things : first , they acquainted the Secretary and his officers with each other ; second , they left Finletter with a burning conviction that in order to keep peace in the world this country must give first priority to long-range bombers . To be sure , this belief had been implicit in " Survival in the Air Age , " in which Fin-letter had forcefully expressed his feeling that a strong counteroffensive weapon would be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently ? to discourage an aggressor from a war with the United States . Thus he was already identified with a plea for a strong Air Force , and when he returned to Washington it remained to be seen how this would affect his dealings with the other Services . By the time Finletter became Secretary , the Air Force ? Navy difficulties which centered around the B-36 investigation were over . The appointment of Admiral Forrest Sherman as Chief of Naval Operations had brought this unhappy period to a close , and co-operation between the three Services had been much improved . But it can be said of Finletter flat he has consolidated the peace , and by his friendly personal relations with his co-Secretaries , Frank Pace of the Army and Frank Matthews of the Navy , he has done much to stimulate an indispensable spirit of objectivity . " I do not attempt , " he said in a speech at the University of Pennsylvania last June , " to arrogate to any one Service a special position of importance in our defense establishment . ... We must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself with a sharp division of responsibility such as used to characterize the operations of allies . ? . . Loyalty to a Service , however important , must be subordinated to the interest of the coun try . " Finletter believes that each task which is put before the Department of Defense must receive the co-ordinated effort of all three arms , and though this " joint task concept " is not revolutionary it differs greatly from the idea of narrow and limited loyalty to one service merely because one happens to be in it . The joint task concept , in Finletter 's hands , is also applied to matters outside the Air Force . He believes that in defending the free world the idea must be extended to all nations who decide to act together , and he argues this view persuasively as representative of the Department of Defense in the relatively new Senior Staff of the National Security Council , which meets three times a week in the old State Department Building next door to the White House . T HE place of strategic air power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been debated at length , but Fin-letter 's thesis is briefly this . The nations of the free world today can not hope to compete with an enemy such as Russia in terms of our outnumbered ground forces . Similarly , Russia has no great naval power with which to launch a major attack by sea . In the air , however , Russia is believed to have an Air Force great in numbers and growing fast ? and , more important still , an atomic bomb stockpile that is also growing . But as long as her stockpile is substantially less than ours , or at least insufficient to mount a major attack on the United States , Russia can not hope to be anything but the loser in an all-out war . Our strategic bombers , if she were to launch such an action , would immediately strike at the Russian heartland . in such numbers and intensity that industrial and military Russia would he devastated and demoralized . As long as our Air Force can keep the Russian leaders aware of this awesome possibility , Secretary Finletter will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all possible speed and efficiency . While this force is operating as an effective " deterrent , " he hopes that it will be possible for the statesmen of the world to keep talking , and through the United Nations to work for an equilibrium in which peace through agreement might possibly be maintained . Though a variety of divergent opinions will no doubt continue to be voiced , one of the main objections to this thesis so far has been a moral one , centering on the threat of the atomic bomb . On this point Secretary Finletter is clear and categorical . " I do not believe , " he said in the same speech at the University of Pennsylvania , " that the moral position of the United States will be judged by the kind of weapons we have in our arsenal or the kind of strategy and tactics we use . I believe that our moral position will be judged by the vigor with which we push our efforts to achieve peace . " There is no merit , moral or otherwise , in having a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest sense in trying to make a war a bearable business . But if anyone can say truthfully that we are not doing all we should to eliminate war as a human institution then we would have cause to worry about our moral position . " I have little sympathy with the idea that we should not be ready to defend ourselves if despite all our efforts to achieve peace we are attacked . Indeed I conceive the morality to be the opposite . I believe we would be faithless to our duty to ourselves and to our friends and allies of the free world if we were not to have a military force which would make it very plain to all that it would be a mistake to break the peace . "                     