@@234924

Sir Anthony Eden flew into Bangkok annoyed and disappointed with Secretary of State Dulles . Dulles ' New York speech , carrying a U.S. pledge to defend the offshore islands if they were invaded as part of an assault on Formosa , seemed to flatly contradict Eden 's hopes that Dulles was coming to agree that the islands should be given up . In Britain , while Eden was aloft on the way to Bangkok , the Labor Party was giving the government a rough time . " The danger of war in the Far East arises not from Chinese but from American aggression , " cried Bevanite Harold Wilson . " Surely it is clear by now that peace will not be insured until Chiang Kai-shek and his chief lieutenants have been safely stowed away on St. Helena and the U.S. Seventh Fleet sent to guard him there . " At week 's end , the Labor Party unanimously approved a resolution demanding that the government tell the U.S. " it could not reckon on any military assistance from Britain in hostilities connected with the offshore islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embarrassment is compounded by the fact that its policy , though not its present tone , amounts to much the same thing . Anthony Eden has himself argued that the offshore islands rightfully belong to Red China . Last week , in response to Labor hectoring , Winston Churchill laid down a careful reply : " There is a great difference between the coastal islands of China and the island of Formosa . As there is no question of our being involved or indeed of our being needed in the defense of the coastal islands , we should be careful of what advice we should offer to our friends and allies upon it . " <P> Then , as if to sober Socialists , who sometimes talk as if the Red Chinese are just aroused democratic workers on the British model , the government released an official account of the tortures inflicted on British prisoners in Korea by their Chinese captors , including such incidents as taking prisoners onto the frozen Yalu River and pouring water over their bare feet until they froze to the icy surface . The incidents were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned by the British press or government , for fear the truth might be considered too inflammatory . <P> Dinner Debate . In Bangkok , Eden tackled Dulles over a late dinner . He urged that the U.S. announce , publicly and unilaterally , that it has no interests in Quemoy and Matsu . This would force a Nationalist evacuation , put the wide Formosa Strait between the contestants , effect a de facto ceasefire , and kill the military potential of the Formosa forces . Dulles indicated that if the Reds would talk reasonably , he might be willing to discuss the coastal islands , but that an attack on Formosa would mean war . With that Eden had to be content .                     