@@494710

Hopeful , If Not Happy Tears can be shed over 1959 ( the pages of this journal are damp with them ) , but as the year ends the account can not be balanced without entering some assets that may have been overlooked . Beginning with the least momentous , it can be reported that the circulation of The New Republic went up , though neither the price , the profit nor the advertising did likewise . " Doom-criers , " as Time calls them , wrote despondently about the apathy of the American public , but there is an explanation for that indifference , if it exists , which is not wholly unflattering to the public : " If men find statecraft uninteresting , " Walter Lippmann remarked 45 years ago , " may it not be that statecraft is uninteresting ? At first it was a hard confession to make , but the more I saw of politics at first hand , the more I respected the indifference of the public . " And not everyone has been indifferent . Eleanor Roosevelt was able to tick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kick back . It was heartening too to find Old Harry still believing that any Democrat is better than , and can lick , any Republican , though it may not be true . The quality of Presidential candidates who did not announce in ' 59 was extraordinarily high ; none is a blind isolationist ; and Nelson Rockefeller tempts one to believe that a Republican can run for the Presidency and at the same time say something substantial . Mr. Eisenhower 's " pilgrimage for peace " has been all to the good . Pageants are not policies , but that does not mean they are n't useful . Unquestionably , the President learned something along the way . Proctor and Gamble has Mr. McElroy back selling soap , but as the former Secretary went out the door of the Defense Department , he treated us to some rare candor when he said that the US is not likely to close the missile gap for another three years , if then . Moreover , in and out of the defense establishment a healthy disenchantment has developed with the magical potency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thaw , " on which a correspondent reports from Moscow in this issue , seems to be continuing and gives promise of a further mellowing of the Soviet dictatorship ; and if the governments of the US , UK and the USSR have not agreed formally to halt nuclear tests , none of the three has for more than a year thrown more radioactive poison into the atmosphere . Communist China has been helpful , too , positively by its behavior on the northern frontier of India , and negatively by not yet attacking Formosa . A hundred years ago , John Brown went to the scaffold and the United States was on the eve of a civil war . Today , not only does the South not intend to withdraw from the Union , it shows no enthusiasm for withdrawing even from the Democratic Party . Compliance with the courts ' orders to desegregate the public schools is slow , resentful and incomplete , but the movement is forward . It appears , too , that the public ? Northern and Southern ? wants an improvement in the quality as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other gains . Cars became compact ; the broadcasting industry got the black eye it deserved ; so did some drug manufacturers . Not only did a great many people-go to church during the past 12 months , but judging from magazine articles more of them worried about whether they went for the right reasons . And this sort of self-scrutiny , widely noted , was reflected in stacks of studies on what is wrong with the US . Never has the nation been so X-rayed and prescribed for , in reports by or for the committees of Congress , the Rockefeller Brothers , the Rand Corporation , the Brookings Institution , the Committee for Economic Development , the Percy Committee of the Republicans , the Democratic Advisory Council and countless commissions set up by the White House . We have been acquainted with the moral imperfections of labor leaders , with the willingness of high-ranking military men to accept a holiday in the Bahamas as guests of Glenn L. Martin , with the venality of New York butchers who rigged their meat scales and of contestants who played rigged quiz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payola as a foreign policy . On the whole , it has not been a bad year , rich in self-doubt and with reasons for not despairing . The capacity of the economy to produce what is needed remains almost unlimited ; the creative opportunities for world leadership are still there ; and very soon the voters will again be free to throw the rascals out , or keep them in . India : Weapons and Food The President 's visit may make it easier in the future foil India to get the weapons and food it wants , among other things , from the US . Throughout the Cold War years our government has reserved late-model equipment for military pact partners and , even when releasing it for sale to other non-Communist governments , has driven such a hard bargain as to rule out any large-scale purchases in the US . The Chinese border skirmishes have brought home the fact , however , that the Indian military is vital to free world security simply as the guardian of Indian independence and irrespective of Mr. Nehru 's commitment to US policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concedes the desirability of a close US-Indian relationship . Though discounting all thought of joining any US-sponsored collective security arrangement , the Prime Minister in an interview with NBC 's Welles Hangen did say that " we may , if necessity arises , seek some equipment or something ? that 's a different matter . " Reliable sources indicate that the Indians have al ready been advised that they need no longer pay cash at the time they order equipment ? thus tying up scarce foreign exchange for months ( or years ) until the order is filled ? but may instead pay on delivery . The prospect is that this relatively easy adjustment on the part of the US will be followed as time passes by other changes in the terms of repayment designed to ease India 's increasingly difficult foreign exchange position ( e.g. , some sort of installment plan and partial repayment in rupees on the order of the present US military-sale arrangement with neutralist Indonesia 's Army ) . Another important policy change now probable is a shift from the uncertainty of our present surplus food program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , S. K. Patil , is pressing for a seven-year agreement to replace the present year-to-year PL 480 contracts . Such an agreement would serve to discourage grain speculators in India who are almost uncontrollable when grain is scarce . The Patil bid for a continually replenished " food bank " of at least five million tons of grain , stored in India , was discussed in New Delhi by Agricultural Department officials visiting the World Agricultural Fair ? and food , like military equipment , is said to have figured in the Eisenhower-Nehru conversations . Patil is scheduled to visit this country in April and a decision on the precise shape of the new US surplus program in India is expected to follow soon after . The Administration must decide whether to seek special legislation along the lines of Sen. Hubert Humphrey 's " Food for Peace " plan or settle for short-term assistance to the Indians within the three-year time span possible under existing PL 480 legislation . Interestingly , Senator Humphrey 's unsuccessful effort in the last session of Congress to revise the surplus program and place it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ihe Administration to take some smaller steps in the same direction . Shortly before the President 's departure , he US and India signed a $257 million PL 480 agree-sent which embodied one of the most important provisions of the Humphrey bill . Under previous PL 48o agreements the US had retained possession of all but 15 percent of the rupees received in payment for foodstuffs . This 15 percent was returned to the Indians for health and educational projects . With the expansion of the surplus program and the mounting stocks of US-owned rupees , the Indians have grown understandably anxious at the thought that the US would , in time , control a sum of rupees rivalling Indian Government holdings ! The Humphrey bill specifically urged larger grants to recipients out of the US rupee holdings and the new agreement provides , accordingly , for returning 40 percent of the rupees accumulated by the US . This establishes an important principle which should be incorporated in the new agreement Mr. Patil hopes to negotiate . The Oregon Primary By law the Republican Secretary of State of Oregon is required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can pick and choose among primaries , but in Oregon the Secretary of State is required to place on the ballot the name of anyone who is " generally advocated or recognized " as a candidate . The inevitable result , it appears , will be a test of strength between non-candidate Stevenson and open-candidates Kennedy and Humphrey under circumstances that will be confusing to say the least . Oregon 's law permits a candidate who has been listed by the Secretary of State to enter a disclaimer of any intention to run and so remove his name from the ballot . Presumably , Mr. Stevenson , however reluctantly , would take this step to avoid involvement in the May 20 race . But even if he did , the law permits i , 000 citizens to enter him by petition , not subject to withdrawal . Two groups are already pledged to collect the i , 000 names to put Stevenson 's name on the ballot . Another group has announced that it has already obtained the signatures required to enter Sen. Wayne Morse as a favorite son . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Presidential candidacy in writing to Secretary of State Howell Appling ? but who nevertheless will be on the primary ballot by petition ? has suggested to Mr. Appling that he include the names of Senators Humphrey , Kennedy , Johnson and Symington , Adlai Stevenson , plus Governors Brown , Meyner and Williams . Morse is stumping the state against Humphrey and Kennedy because of their votes for the final version Of the Landrum-Griffin bill ? which only Morse and the late Senator Langer ( R , N.D. ) voted against . Both Kennedy and Humphrey have established active MAN LIM la campaign organizations in the state . Kennedy 's forces are headed by a highly-respected associate of Congresswoman Edith Green of Portland whom Humphrey wanted as his leader . Sen. Richard Neuberger has declared his support for Mr. Stevenson . By May 20 , when this primary occurs , winning Oregon 's 17 convention votes may seem a matter of life or death to Humphrey , Kennedy and Stevenson . A loss would probably eliminate Stevenson as a compromise choice . Primary victories have always been Humphrey 's only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support he had hoped for will go to Lyndon Johnson , Kennedy must place heavier reliance than before on proving his popularity at the polls . Kennedy 's forces make no secret of the fact that they consider Stevenson Kennedy 's strongest rival . One of his spokesmen has gone so far as to say to Congressional Quarterly that a loss to Stevenson in Oregon would end Kennedy 's chances . The betting in Oregon today is that the Presidential primary will be a close race ? between Morse and Stevenson . Northern Segregationists Deerfield , Illinois , has a new thought on what to do when school integration comes : set aside the Constitution and the Supreme Court by unofficial ballot . When residents of that plush Chicago suburb expressed alarm that the builders of a new subdivision were planning to offer io or 12 of 51 new homes for sale to Negroes , the chief of the project , Morris Mil-gram , president of Modern Community Developers , Princeton , N.J. , assured home owners that his company 's experience in the East had proved that " the sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural background will not change property values . " But the North Shore Residents Association immediately mobilized 200 volunteers to take a house-to-house poll over the weekend asking , " Do you favor or oppose the Floral Park subdivision ? " Ballots showed 3,507 opposed ; 464 , for ; and 56 with no opinion . The results have been laid before the Deerfield Village Board ? which had granted Mr. Milgram a construction permit without knowing that his project was interracial . Having heard the people , the board is n't sure what it can do next . The Rev. Russell Meltzer of the North Shore Unitarian Church is one of several ministers making it hard for the town officials to find an evasive way out . " Whatever the results of the poll , we are not voting on civil rights and the legality of the Constitution , " he reminded his congregation the Sunday following the poll-taking . " That already has been settled . Since Deerfield lies within the boundaries of the Continental United States , it is required to operate under the laws , including the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US Code : All citizens of the US shall have the same right in every state and territory as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit , purchase , lease , sell , hold and convoy real and personal property . " Mr. Milgram says that the opposition to the development has not changed his plans in the slightest . The vice president of his construction company , John W. Hunt , a member of Adlai Stevenson 's law firm , adds that , " The poll that will interest me most will be the poll I hope the opponents will take five years from today . By that time our development will have been occupied for years and they will have had time to discover what fine new neighbors they have and that nothing has happened to depreciate property values . " Words from the Swiss The majority of the UN General Assembly is angry with the French for not living up to their moral obligation not to do in the Sahara what the British , the Americans and the Russians have done in the South Seas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department , the Defense Department , 14 . Western powers and assorted commentators are annoyed with the French for not living up to their NATO treaty obligations . Well , when big powers have a grievance it gets into the newspapers . When a very small power is peeved it may not be noticed . A case in point is the complaint of the Swiss Foreign Minister , Max Petitpierre , that the US is continuing to violate its log-year-old treaty ; of friendship with Switzerland by inducting Swiss zens into the American armed forces . The treaty of 185 explicitly committed both governments to refrain fro recruiting each other 's citizens for military service . There have been two cases , one during the Korean War and one after , in which US courts have upheld our government 's right to draft Swiss nationals , though the number of such eligible draftees is minute . Only about a dozen cases have come to the attention of the State Department ; there are only about 15,000 Swiss permanently resident in this country , of whom no more than zoo would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break off diplomatic relations . Indeed , the Swiss will not even appeal the matter to the International Court of Justice at The Hague , for it fears that if it does so , " the United States would denounce the treaty and Switzerland would auto matically lose all other advantages deriving from it . " Still , it is a pity . The least we can do to repay the kind attention of all those Swiss inkeepers in all those ski resorts is to treat our treaty and M. Petitpierre with the friendly respect they deserve . Student Loyalty The right-wing National Review misses few opportunities to cry out against government interference , but when the Presidents of Harvard and Yale suggest that the federal government is interfering , and improperly so , with higher education by requiring students seeking a federal loan to file a loyalty affidavit , the National Review is appalled . Yet what practical or moral good is served by demanding that a student swear that he " does not believe in , and is not a member of and does not support any organization that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Government by force or violence or by any illegal or unconstitutional methods " ? As President Griswold of Yale said in an article in The New York Times Magazine last week , such affidavits are inherently futile as safeguards against disloyalty or as a means of inculcating loyalty , as well as being in Alexander Hamilton 's words , " a subversion of one great principle of social security , to wit : That every man shall be presumed innocent until he is proved guilty . " A bill to delete the affidavit requirement from the National Defense Education Act will again be introduced in the Senate by John Kennedy and Joseph Clark and has a reasonable chance of being approved , for the initiative of Kennedy ( Harvard ' 40 ) and Clark ( Harvard 34 ) has the support not only of colleges and universitie but of two influential former college presidents wh could assure the amendment 's adoption ? Secretary Flemming and Mr. Eisenhower .                     