@@242124

For 140 years the British had patiently and profitably toted the white man 's burden at Asia 's steaming crossroads . They built an uninhabited , swampy island into the Commonwealth 's second largest port , complete with a stodgy Victorian city of velvet-lawned suburbs and restricted clubs , surrounded by a noisy Chinese city of more than a million . They governed well ; free schools raised the literacy rate to 60% , thriving commerce made the Straits dollar the Swiss franc of the Orient and gave Singapore a per capita income of $400 a year , highest in all Asia . <P> Last week in London an all-party Singapore delegation and Colonial Secretary Alan Lennox-Boyd etched out the profile of the new autonomous state of Singapore that will replace the old crown colony before next March . Britain would retain responsibility for defense and external relations , including the right to garrison the island 's huge fortress-hub of all Her Majesty 's armed-forces activities from the Persian Gulf to Bering Strait . All internal administration would fall to an elected 51-member legislative assembly , a Malayan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stumbling block was Lennox-Boyd 's insistence on a special clause forbidding anyone 's holding office who has been detained for subversive activities . Chief Minister Lim Yew Hock accepted the clause under protest , though he privately knows it is designed to hinder his opponents . In the first election next fall , the well-organized leftish People 's Action Party is expected to replace Lim Yew Hock 's Labor Front in power . One of the P.A.P . leaders , Lim Chin Siong , is still in prison for his part in the 1956 riots , but British officials professed to feel assured that P.A.P . is already purging itself of Communists . Besides , the British retain emergency powers to suspend Singapore 's constitution in case the new government proves unable to carry out its responsibilities . As one British official put it : " H.M.G. has no intention of allowing Singapore to go Communist . "                     