@@235032

An undiscovered collection of Picasso paintings is big news in the art world . Last year a solid tip that such a collection did exist was given to pretty , U.S.-born Rosamond Bernier , onetime Paris Vogue staffer and now co-editor ( with her French husband ) of a new , ambitious art review , L'Oeil ( circ. 30,000 ) . Address of the collection : 48 Paseo de Gracia , Barcelona . The owner : Picasso 's younger sister , Maria Dolores de Vilato . Editor Bernier , who eight years ago charmed Picasso into letting her get the first pictures of his Antibes paintings , headed straight for Barcelona . The pictures of the early Picassos and the family apartment , published last week in L'Oeil , add up to some unexpectedly offbeat and unknown Picasso art , plus a fascinating introduction to the bohemian Barcelona branch of the Picasso family . " Come at 11 . " Telephoning for an appointment at the Barcelona apartment , Editor Bernier got a surprising answer : " Come at 11 tonight . " Once inside , she found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The lights burn out all the time here , " Picasso 's niece Lolita explained . Added Nephew Juanin : " And the fuses always blow up . " In the semidarkness , Rosamond Bernier saw a room cluttered with ancient furniture , presided over by Picasso 's smiling sister , Doa Lola , wrapped in a sheet held together with safety pins , and flanked by two more Picasso nephews , both doctors . " Mama suffers from rheumatism and ca n't sleep . None of us goes to bed before 6. " the family explained , then plunged into the evening 's entertainment . Doctor Pablin began plucking out a lively flamenco on his guitar . Lolita sat down at the piano . In no time Juanin began a heel-stomping dance ; Doctor Jaime handed around glasses of sweet Malaga wine while keeping time with a multicolored duster ( a present from Uncle Pablo ) ; Doa Lola swayed happily to the rhythm , urging the dancers on with shouts of " Ole ! " To show off the Picasso pictures , the family cheerfully struck matches to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day at 6 p.m. for a daylight look ( the family sleeps all morning , siestas in the afternoon ) , Rosamond Bernier found a treasure trove of Picassos , most of them stacked dustily against the medical cabinets used by Dr. Pablin to keep plaster casts of his patients ' deformed feet . Cherished but neglected , one Picasso canvas had a hole punched in it . In all , there were some 20 oils and sketches done by young Pablo at the age of 13 or 14-sure-stroked , somber portraits of Picasso 's family , of Doa Lola dressed in a borrowed Communion dress , of Picasso 's father , a painstaking , academic artist who specialized in paintings of birds . " That 's Spain . " But what especially caught Rosamond Bernier 's eye was the collection of nine oils painted by Picasso during a 1917 visit to Barcelona . It was an event the family is not likely to forget . Uncle Pablo rode into town with the Diaghilev Ballet Russe , promptly abducted Ballet Dancer Olga Koklova ( whom he later married ) , set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holiday mood , Picasso began turning out canvases in a bewildering variety of styles : a balcony view of Barcelona 's Christopher Columbus column ; a painting of a Spanish dancer lush enough to hang in a bullfighter 's dressing room . Well into his cubist period at the time ,                     