@@492623

ADVENTURES OF THE MINI ) 24. 4 f What You Should Know About Physics T o understand our twentieth-century world and the changes which are shaping our lives , every intelligent man and woman should enjoy a cultural familiarity with the basic principles of modern physics . This obligation should not be confused with the precise and detailed knowledge needed by the technical student or the working scientist . For the layman , it is only necessary that he should appreciate the thoughts that are basic to physics and the kind of concepts that are used to understand it and that he be familiar with the general principles to which these concepts lead . I should like to justify my opening statement . The most important benefit from such a cultural familiarity is the introduction which the principles of physics constitute to the philosophical revolution which is gradually permeating our culture  --  to a new pattern of thought which rephrases man 's relationship with the universe around him . A second valuable consequence is the opportunity of observing the creativescientific mind at work  --  an adventure worth the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society . And , lastly , an acquaintance with these principles provides a measure of understanding of the procedures , the gadgetry  --  from synthetics and television to spaceships  --  and the limitations of modern scientific research . This article is an attempt to explain the kinds of factual order which scientists have achieved in the three centuries since Galileo , the world 's first experimental physicist . I will not attempt to describe the facts involved , as many of them are too technical for a discussion of this nature . I shall try to illustrate the basic principles by examples , by classifying them and by showing the relationship between the principles and the theories which incorporate them . As working theories in physics are framed in mathematical terms , this effort will involve translation and interpretation , with all their attendant hazards . CONTINUED ON PAGE 100 ( Continued from Page 41 ) The principles and theories of physics arc stated in terms of concepts . These concepts arc the real heart of physics . Though some of these concepts may now seem obvious , it is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of creative thought . The history of physics shows that all progress is . dissolubly tied to these conceptual discoveries . Without them , research flounders . With them , our knowledge expands at an explosive rate . Consider the history of the single concept of force . Until the time of Galileo , in the latter half of the sixteenth century , force was thought to be something that maintained the motion of a body . By an act of genius , Galileo reversed this concept . Instead of asking what preserves motion and calling that force , he asked what changes motion . This something that changed the motion of a body he called true force . His concept later became the basis for Newton 's dynamics and thus the foundation for all progress in physics until the early part of this century . To appreciate the daring that Galileo 's conception demanded , it should be remembered that until eighteen months ago , when the first Sputnik was put in orbit , all objects which man set in motion stopped moving almost immediately unless something was done to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because there is always some sort of frictional force which kills motion unless it is offset by some other driving force . Galileo 's conceptual feat was to question the apparently obvious and decide that true force is not motion itself , but what changes motion . To illustrate some of the other basic principles of physics , I will first examine two which are related  --  the conservation of electric charge and the conservation of energy . I will then consider three theories of light , to show how more sophisticated theories can complement simpler theories without replacing them . The related principles of indeterminacy and probability will be considered , with some observations on their dramatic effect on contemporary philosophical thought . This will be followed by an example of how one concept , called entropy , has been formulated in two different ways to give us two theories which are apparently different , but actually equivalent . Finally , I will discuss a unique principle  --  that of atomicity , or natural units . The concept of conservation demands a prefatory note . It is curious that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to do things , but discoveries that there are some things which ca n't be done . These apparently negative affirmations are sometimes called principles of impotence . Two examples are 11 ) that it is impossible to construct a perpetual-motion machine and ( 2 ) that nothing can go faster than light . These principles of impotence have a strong attraction for the physicist . Their appeal is partly aesthetic , for , in appearance at least , they have the grandeur of simplicity . An even greater appeal may stem from man 's innate desire for security and permanence  --  for in most cases a principle of impotence asserts that i something is unchanging , that it can not be created or destroyed . This , in the language of physics , means that it is conserved . CONSERVATION OF ELECTRIC CHARGE To Benjamin Franklin , more than anyone else , physics owes the idea of the conservation of electric charge . The early experiments with electricity generated by friction were both intriguing and bewildering to the experimenters . They discovered that a glass tube that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which might later be repelled by the same tube . Moreover , these effects could sometimes be transmuted a certain distance over strings or wires . The true nature of the forces causing these effects , however , eluded the early experimenters . Franklin was the first to state clearly that rubbing the glass tube transfers something present in all bodies from one to another , so that one body acquired that part of the " something " given up by the other body . From this arose the concept of positive and negative charges of electricity , equal in quantity and opposite in charge . In essence , this implies the idea of something which is unchanging in quantity  --  something , that is , which is conserved . Thus , if positive electricity is created in one place , an equal , negative charge , or quantity , must occur elsewhere . This establishes a kind of double-entry system in nature 's accounts ; charge can be transposed , but can be neither created nor destroyed . Franklin 's concept of conservation is one of the few early principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit the revolution of thought introduced by the relativity and the quantum theories . This principle , which explained the simplicities of what happened to the glass tube , is equally useful in accounting for the electrical complexities of nuclear physics . Electrons and protons are atomic particles which carry a natural unit of charge . The electron is very light , with a charge that is by convention negative ; the proton , 1838 times as massive as the electron , carries an equal , positive charge . Further . even when we create electrons out of space and energy , this charge is still conserved . When we make an " ordinary " electron with its negative charge , it brings with it a companion electron of positive charge . This positive electron does not last long in ordinary matter  --  perhaps a billionth of a second  --  but when it disappears it takes with it an ordinary electron with a negative charge , so that there is no net loss or gain in the matter of charge . Thus nature enforces one of the great principles of physics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of energy was the great creation of nineteenth-century physics , its origins can be found in an earlier century . Galileo hypothesized an experiment which proved that a marble rolling down one slope and then up another could never reach a point higher than its original elevation . Under ideal conditions , Galileo showed , however , that the marble would reach a height equal to its original elevation This is what we now think of as conservation of energy in its simplest form . The energy of position which the marble possesses  --  because of its elevation  --  is transformed into energy of motion as it rolls down , and then back to energy of pailtion as the marble rolls up the opposite slope . The nineteenth-century physicists proved that there were many other forms of energy besides those of motion and position . There is. for example , electrical energy  --  which can be turned into a form of energy we call heat . Energy in any April 4 , 1959 form observes all the requirements of the conservation principle and can , indeed , be changed to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a target , the heat released through the impact will be equivalent to the energy of motion of the bullet . During the present century our concept of the conservation of energy was expanded immeasurably when Einstein postulated that mass is a form of energy . ( Mass , in this context , should be thought DT as a measure of inertia , which is a body 's fundamental resistance to any change in its motion . ) Einstein proved that a system of bodies loses mass when it loses energy and , conversely , gains mass when it gains energy . To oversimplify , this is somewhat like saying that the faster a body travels , the bigger it gets . In everyday life this effect is unobservable because of the relatively small velocities involved . In nuclear physics this principle is of great importance ; by using its corollary we can tell , from the masses of atoms , what energy they can yield . Actually , a very small amount of mass corresponds to a great amount of energy  --  less than one twenty-eighth of an ounce of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LIGHT Let us now consider the three theories of light , which introduce the paradox that scientific principles can be something other than either true or false . They can be true , in other words , to a degree . The ray theory of light says that light goes in straight lines called rays . These rays , however , can be reflected by a mirror or refracted at a transparent surface such as water . The Greeks knew about the laws of reflection ; the laws of refraction were established early in the seventeenth century . The wave theory of light , conceived by Huygens of The Hague late in the seventeenth century , says that light is a wave motion in some sort of ether . This ether , at first thought to be an elastic substance which permeated all matter , later came to be considered as something which acted electromagnetically . The wave theory was placed on a firm mathematical basis early in the nineteenth century and until re cently was accepted by physicists as the principle which best explained the properties of tight . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ X rays and of various types of radiation from hot solid bodies forced on physicists a new set of ideas called the quantum theory , The quantum theory supposes that the action of one body on another occurs , not smoothly and uniformly , but by discontinuous steps . Light is emit led and absorbed in discrete packets  --  the energy of each packet being determined by the wave length , or color , of the light . In considering the properties of light the quantum theory combines this new concept with elements of the ray and the wave concepts and certain revolutionary assumptions of quantum mechanics which introduce the element of indeterminacy into man 's conception of the universe . It would be logical to suppose that the ray theory would have been replaced by the more accurate wave theory , and this , in turn , by the more sophisticated quantum theory . Such , however , has not been the case . Not only has the ray theory survived in teaching ; it has continued to be the basis for the design of most optical instruments . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in most cases , to the same practical results , and the ray theory is easier to handle mathematically by the man who wants , for example , to design a new camera lens . When necessary , the wave theory can be employed to correct a design made through use of the ray theory , The quantum theory of light , in turn , is used in relatively few optical problems  --  one case being the design of photoelectric cells . In designing the shapes of lenses and mirrors , the quantum theory gives the same results as the wave theory . The interesting point here is that we have three theories of light , each with a different conceptional basis . Each theory gives us a different explanation of light . Yet , in a sense , all these theories arc valid , and all continue to be used . The reason for this seemingly unnecessary triplication is that the theories form a group of progressively improving accuracy but diminishing convenience . The less sophisticated theories survive because of their convenience . ' 1 ' 111 . S A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; ice cube trays and chest . Does this mean that physicists are insincere in their pursuit of truth and prefer convenience to accuracy ? This may sometimes be true , but the moral implication is unjust . No existing theory in physics is completely true in the sense that it can correctly answer every possible question relating to its content . When nothing is completely accurate , it seems legitimate to weigh degrees of accuracy against degrees of convenience . INDETERMINACY Some thirty years ago a German physicist , Werner Heisenberg . discovered a principle of impotence of a new type . Instead of saying what one can not do , the principle of indeterminacy states what one can not knoll . This principle derives from the fact that physics deals with observations and that the act of observation may alter what is observed . In many cases , particularly where the objects under scrutiny are large , this observational effect can be unimportant . An example of this situation is Newton 's theory of gravitation , which predicted how the planets would move around the sun . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this phenomenon ; light , the medium for observation , does exert force , but the force of sunlight on a planet is negligible compared with the force of gravitation . We face a different situation with atoms and their particles , such as electrons . In this case the " push " given by light is all-important . The argument here involves two stages . The first is that we can not sec the electron unless it gets a push corresponding to at least one quantum of light . One quantum is the smallest measure of light that can produce an effect , and if the light does not affect the electron , the electron wilt not affect the light and will remain invisible . Though one quantum of light is enough to disturb an electron , it gives us but a limited amount of information . We would like to know , for example , whether electrons in an atom are moving or at rest . This demands that we observe an electron at successive moments  --  to sec if it has moved . But if the quantum of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how can we tell whether the change of position seen in the next observation is the result of natural motion or the result of the push by the light which enabled us to make the first observation ? To answer this question we must allow for the push of the first quantum of light . In order to do this we obviously must know the force and direction of that initial push . This introduces the second stage of the argument ; the quantum theory says the push is random  --  so you can never allow for it . From this reasoning it is apparent that the motion of electrons  --  and this is just one example of the application of the principle of indeterminacy  --  is essentially unknowable . The problem here is not one of perfecting the design of microscopes . The impossibility of knowing , in this ease , is inherent in the nature of light . The perceptive reader will have recognized that Heiscnberg 's indeterminacy principle introduces a revolutionary philosophical concept which affects the corpus of western culture . Newton 's world , which provided the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beginning of this century , was an ordered world of cause and effect , of strict determinism . Every sparrow 's fall was ordained ; the limits of knowing lay within man himself . It was this rocky , mechanistic barrier of logic that gradually alienated man 's spiritual and intellectual compulsions . Indeterminacy , in implementing the quantum theory , has now introduced the element of chance , of potentiality , of the unknowable , into the most precise of man 's investigations of the universe . The results of this change in our thinking are unforeseeable . PROBABILITY AND ENTROPY The impossibility of complete knowledge is closely related to the probability element which occurs in some of the physical laws that depend upon the quantum theory . As with the profits of Monte Carlo and the actuarial statistics of insurance companies , probability turns into a virtual certainty when enough independent events are considered . In nuclear physics , since the quanta of action are small , all actions concerned with more than a few atoms involve large numbers of quanta . Despite this , the element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain  --  it is only probable in some degree . ( Cindt/oiled en , Page 104 ) ( Cominued from Page 102 ) The probability clement also plays a part in other branches of physics . One of these is the kinetic , or motion , theory of gases . Gas is composed of molecules  --  each , in turn , composed of a few atoms  --  which move about in the space occupied by the gas , colliding with one another and with the walls of the containing vessel . Normally these molecules travel many times their length between collisions . The collisions exert force on the walls of the containing vessel . This force is the pressure of the gas . Though the kinetic theory of gases explains many of the properties of gases under various conditions , it has one special characteristic which bears upon our consideration of probability . It is a theory of chaos  --  the probability of chaos , if you like . The measure of this probability is a quantity called entropy . The kinetic theory assumes that the molecules move at random in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be going one way as another and is just as likely to be in any particular region of the containing vessel as in any other of equal size . What is odd is that precisely this assumption of chaos , as measured in terms of entropy , leads to exact mathematical conclusions concerning the pressure of the gas on the walls of the containing vessel and the proportion of the molecules having different speeds . ( The kinetic theory also assumes that the conservation of energy is obeyed in the molecular collisions . ) The average kinetic energy of the molecules turns out to be proportional to the temperature of the gas . The ideal chaos , if one may use such a phrase , is the most probable state of the gas . After the molecules in the gas have made a few collisions  --  actually , they will make many billions a second  --  they will have lost all " memory " of their former state , even if it happened to be an ordered one . The process I have just described may be compared to shuffling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranged in suits they will soon cease to be so , but if they arc in a random distribution it is extremely unlikely that the shuffling will sort them into suits . There would , however , be nothing contrary to nature in such an event . Perhaps , in the history of cards , such an orderly rearrangement of the fifty-two cards has occurred a few times . In even a small quantity of gas , on the other hand , there are millions of millions of molecules to be sorted , and the probabilities become even more overwhelming . The chance of any measurable quantity of gas departing for long from a random state is wholly negligible . The behavior of gas is thus governed by its strong tendency to take up the most probable , which means the most random , arrangement . The measure of this probability is the entropy of the gas . Considerations of probability and entropy in the arrangement of the molecules of gas turn out to be closely related to similar concepts derived , by different methods , from the study of steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the energy produced by a steam engine can be wholly converted into heat  --  through the friction of a brake , for example  --  the heat supplied to the engine can not be wholly converted into energy . Even in an " ideal " engine , with no friction , only a definite fraction of the heat given to the steam in the boiler can be transformed into usable mechanical energy . This fraction , which measures the efficiency of the " ideal " engine , depends solely upon a pair of temperatures  --  the temperature of the boiler and the temperature at which the steam is either condensed or rejecter into the surrounding air . The governing principle here is Rudolf Clausius ' second law of thermodynamics , which states that heat of itself can not pass from a colder to a hotter body . From this principle , combined with the conservation of energy , one can prove by pure logic that the efficiency of the engine is never WO per cent and calculate what it will be for any particular pair of temperatures . From Clausius ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is possible to prove that when heat is transferred from one body of a system to another , the entropy of the system increases . Thus , when the hot , fast molecules at one end of a steam-filled tube exchange position and energy with the slow , cold ones at the other end  --  as they would  --  we find that the entropy of the steam increases . This is equivalent to saying the state of the molecules becomes more probable , more random one . Thus from two different approaches  --  from the kinetic theory of gases and from thermodynamic theory  --  we have evolved a reasonable understanding of probability and the quantitative uses of the measure we call entropy . Interestingly , while entropy is a hypothesized quantity , it is very useful in the mathematics of physics , for we know that when entropy increases . the available energy of a system decreases . What may appear to be pure theory has many practical applications  --  considerations of probability and entropy bear strongly , for example , on the present attempt to make energy by nuclear reactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that physical theories are , basically , ways of calculating facts experience and putting these facts in or- der so that Line can predict what will happen in the future and design devices to bring about the effect one warns . Some physical theories transcend this function in that they have the power to suggest new discoveries . These fruitful concepts seem to come to life and to apply more widely than anticipated , in the way that characters of a novel sometimes take charge and insist on behaving quite differently than the novelist intended . An outstanding example of this evolutionary process is the theory of atoms . As late as the end of last century the purists in the philosophy of science maintained that the concept of atoms was an unjustifiable one . Following a tradition as old as the ancient Greeks , atoms were reinvented by John Dalton in 1803 to account for the laws that express the proportions by weight in which elements combine to form chemical compounds . The purists , who took the view that nothing not directly observed should enter a scientific theory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight , only these proportional weights  --  called " combining weights " ? should be considered , to the exclusion of atoms . Fortunately , the more experimentally minded physicists continued to think of atoms . They found that the " atoms , " contrary to the Greek view , had parts  --  electrons , protons and neutrons . Atoms arc now as real to the physicist as grains of wheat to the farmer . He knows their arrangement in many thousands of substances ; in many experiments they can be counted individually , and their paths , when they go fast enough , can be traced on photographic plates and in gases . It has recently become possible actually to see in an electron microscope the rows in which atoms are arranged in crystals . The existence of natural units , of which atoms are one example , seems to be themost fundamental of all physical discoveries . At the basis of physics are electrons , protons , neutrons and quanta , not to speak or the strange particles which Oppenheimer discussed in an earlier article of this series ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , JULY , 1958 ) . All these are units by nature . One can not have two and one third electrons ! Further , they build patterns which themselves have unitary properties . For instance , six protons and six neutrons form the nucleus of carbon , which gathers to itself six electrons to form a normal carbon atom . More rarely there are seven or even eight neutrons instead of six to form a carbon isotope , but never six and a half . Carbon atoms , with those or hydrogen , oxygen and nitrogen , are the units that build up a vast variety of molecules , Though various , these molecules arc chemical entities which can be separated out and purified . Here we have two stages or patterns based on integers , for each molecule consists of integral numbers of the various kinds of atoms which compose it  --  just as each atom consists of integral units of its particles . Carrying this classification a step further , we can envision the cell as a unit of organic structure which parallels the unit atoms and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn , cells form individual organisms , or parts of organisms , such as the leaves of a tree . There are a vast number of almost identical leaves on an oak tree , each composed of a vast number of cells , and the oak tree itself will be one of a species containing a vast number of individuals . This principle of unit numbers , or atomicity , is different in kind from the principles of impotence we have considered . For one thing , it seems more fundamental to the nature of matter . It links in a common frame the billions of nebulae , each with their billions of stars , with the electrons and the atoms , with the cells of our bodies and with the individuals of our own and other species of living creatures . It recalls the saying of the mathematician , Leopold Kronecker , " God made the integers and man made all the rest . " The universe thus seems to be a place where a vast number of a few kinds of units form patterns based on whole numbers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale which ranges from the minute to the cosmic . These changes are the events which the physicist tries to pre-diet . When the scale is small , he can only assign probabilities of action . On a larger scale , when many units are concerned , these probabilities become virtual certainties by the operation of the statistics of larger numbers . Even in such cases , however , we are dealing in principle only with the highly probable . The rigid determinism to which all physical happenings were once held accountable is no longer tenable . In its place there now stand the shadow of probability and the shade of what is perhaps never to be known . But , as the nineteenth-century physicist , James Clerk Maxwell , observed , " It is a universal condition of the enjoyable that the mind must believe in the existence of a law and yet have a mystery to move in. "                     